-- Apple, Ben & Jerry’s, Georgia Code: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-31T11:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/apple-ben-jerry-s-georgia-code-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
issued a final rejection of a patent at issue in the dispute
between  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co., according to a
July 28 court filing.  Patent 7,844,915, which covers Apple’s pinch-to-expand
technology, is one of more than 25 that the Cupertino,
California-based company has claimed are infringed by mobile
phones made by  South Korea ’s Samsung. The infringement suit was
filed in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , in April 2011.  Counsel for Samsung informed the court in a July 28 filing,
to which the patent office’s 61-page rejection notice was
appended.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 5:11-cv-01846-LHK, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ben & Jerry’s Ends Dispute With Adult Film Company Over Titles  A seller of adult films with titles and packaging based on
Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc. ice cream flavors will quit using
those marks in its films, according to a July 29 court filing.  Ben & Jerry’s, a unit of London-based  Unilever NV (UNA) , sued
Rodax Distributors Inc., which does business as Caballero Video,
in federal court in  New York  September 2012, claiming the DVDs
and packaging violated its trademarks.  The packaging featured images of naked men and women
against backgrounds that copied design elements of Ben & Jerry’s
ice cream containers such as grazing cows and fluffy white
clouds, the company said in its complaint.  The ice cream company objected to Caballero’s “Ben &
Cherry’s” series of 10 DVDs with titles including “Peanut
Butter D-Cups” and “Boston Cream Thigh.”  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  issued a temporary
restraining order against Caballero in September, shortly after
the case was filed. The order required Caballero to recall the
DVDs and to destroy all products, labels and marketing materials
that infringe on Ben & Jerry’s trademarks.  In the July 29 consent judgment, Caballero agreed to quit
using the infringing titles for its products and not to
challenge the ice cream company’s ownership of its intellectual
property. No financial terms are mentioned in the filing.  The case is Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc. v. Rodax
Distributors Inc., 12-cv-6734, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  New Zealand Parliament Apologizes to Reporter in Spy Leak Probe  New Zealand ’s Speaker of Parliament apologized to a
journalist whose phone records were provided to an inquiry
investigating how she obtained a leaked report on the nation’s
spy agency.  “This is completely unacceptable and I have personally
apologized to the journalist concerned,” Speaker  David Carter 
said in a statement yesterday. “This private information should
not have been released, and could be seen to attack the freedom
of the press.”  It’s the latest twist in a saga sparked by revelations that
the Government Security and Communications Bureau had illegally
spied on Kim Dotcom, founder of the cloud-storage service
Megaupload.com that the U.S. shut down on copyright infringement
charges.  Peter Dunne resigned as revenue minister last month after
failing to adequately respond to an inquiry into how an external
review of the GSCB’s spying activities was leaked to the
Dominion Post newspaper.  Dunne was identified as having had frequent contact with
the journalist who got the report, including 86 e-mail exchanges
in the two weeks prior to the leak.  “I don’t believe the release of information about a
journalist or their records is appropriate,” Prime Minister
John Key said in parliament yesterday.  Key’s government has introduced legislation that will allow
the GCSB to carry out domestic spying on New Zealanders under
certain circumstances, prompting protests from political
opponents and peace groups.  Earlier yesterday, a group called Anonymous New Zealand
hacked into 14 of the governing  National Party ’s websites,
including Key’s, protesting what the group described as
“despicable” legislation.  New Zealand’s Defense Force yesterday denied spying on a
journalist while he was working for U.S. news organization
McClatchy Co. in  Afghanistan , following allegations in the
Sunday Star-Times newspaper.  AP Settles Meltwater Copyright Dispute, Promises Joint Products  The  Associated Press  and Meltwater U.S. Holdings Inc.
settled a copyright infringement lawsuit, according to a July 29
court filing.  AP sued Meltwater in federal court in Manhattan in February
2012, accusing the company of infringing copyrights by copying
its news articles and delivering electronically to paying
customers “substantial infringing excerpts” from AP and other
publishers’ work.  San Francisco’s  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a digital-rights organization, filed a friend-of-the-court brief in
January on behalf of Meltwater. EFF said AP was asking the court
to accept “a woefully cramped view of fair use.”  The  Computer & Communications Industry Association , a
Washington-based trade group of technology companies, filed a
friend-of-the court brief in January favoring neither party.  The CCIA said its interest was related to “the potential
consequences that this case may have on the fundamental nature
of the Internet as a tool for research and knowledge.”  According to the July 29 filing, all claims in the case
were to be dismissed and parties were to pay their own legal
fees.  AP and San Francisco-based Meltwater said in a joint
statement that they agreed “to develop new and innovative
products based on AP’s world class content and Meltwater’s deep
technical expertise in online media analytics.”  The nature of the products wasn’t disclosed.  The case is the Associated Press v. Meltwater U.S. Holdings
Inc., 12-cv-01087, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Public.Resource.Org Confronts Georgia After Sheet Metal Accord  Public.Resource.Org ran afoul of the state of  Georgia  for
publishing its statutes just weeks after settling a dispute over
the posting of a sheet-metal group’s industry standards online.  After the sheet-metal association sent a notice under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act demanding that the standards be
taken down,  Public.Resource.Org , aided by the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, sued in federal court in  San Francisco 
seeking a declaration that it hadn’t infringed the association’s
copyrights.  In a July 8 filing, a settlement was spelled out. The Sheet
Metal & Air Conditioning Contractors’ National Association Inc.
agreed not to sue over the standards’ publication, and
Sebastopol, California-based Public.Resource.Org said it
wouldn’t sue the association for two years.  On July 25, Public.Resource.Org got a  letter  from the
chairman of the Code Revision Commission of the Georgia
Legislature. The chairman said the group’s publication of the
Official Code of Georgia Annotated infringed copyright and
demanding its removal from the website.  The state said that while it’s not claiming copyright to
the code’s text or numbering, the annotations are protected.
Georgia gave Public.Resource.Org 10 days to remove the text. If
it doesn’t comply, the state will add a claim of willful
infringement, according to the letter.  Public.Resource.Org  responded  yesterday, declining to
remove the code. The organization rejected the distinction
between the text of the law and additional materials, “as both
are integral part and parcel of the only Official Code of
Georgia Annotated, such material constituting the official law
as published by the state.”  The group said that Oregon had asserted copyrights to its
Revised Statutes, demanding a license for their publication, but
after a public hearing the state “unanimously waived any
assertion of copyright.”  Public.Resource.Org said its publication of the Georgia
laws “should be encouraged, not threatened.”  The organization’s founder, Carl Malamud, said he would be
happy to come to Georgia to discuss the issue with lawmakers.  The sheet metal case is Public.Resource.org v. Sheet Metal
and Air Conditioning Contractors’ National Association Inc.,
3:13-cv-00815-SC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  MIT Report Faults Neutrality Toward Swartz in Downloading Case  The  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , while
maintaining a “neutral” stance on the prosecution of Internet
activist Aaron Swartz, failed to live up to its commitment to
the free exchange of ideas, a report found.  MIT didn’t take into account that Swartz was a “well-known
contributor to Internet technology,” according to yesterday’s
report, led by Professor Hal Abelson. Swartz killed himself in
January while awaiting trial on charges he broke into the
school’s network to download millions of research articles.  The university, which prides itself on promoting openness,
and the U.S. Justice Department have faced criticism for their
roles in pursuing Swartz, considered a hero by many in the
movement to make information available for free. The law used to
prosecute him was “poorly drafted” when “applied to modern
computing,” according to the report.  “MIT’s position may have been prudent, but it did not duly
take into account the wider background of information policy
against which the prosecution played out and in which MIT people
have traditionally been passionate leaders,” the report said.  While the report presents an opportunity to “learn and
lead” on questions of open access,  intellectual property  and
ethics, it also dispels myths about the case, L. Rafael Reif,
MIT’s president, said yesterday in a letter on the school’s
website.  Two days after Swartz’s suicide, Reif asked Abelson, a
computer-science professor and an advocate of maintaining free
access to software, to lead the review.  In a blog posting, Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard Law School
professor and Internet activist, faulted MIT’s position of
neutrality, saying it intervened in an earlier case, involving
an MIT student, and it could have told prosecutors that Swartz
was authorized to have access to the research under the school’s
open-access policies.  “We as a community failed to live up to the high standards
that MIT has set for itself in the past,” Abelson told
reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 