-- Taqa Reports Second-Quarter Loss as Oil and Power Sales Slide
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-07-31T06:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/taqa-reports-second-quarter-loss-as-oil-and-power-sales-slide.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the
state-controlled utility, reported a second-quarter loss as
sales fell because of a cut in U.K. oil output and production
halts at two power plants.  The company, known as Taqa,  lost  172 million dirhams ($46.8
million) in the period, compared with a 447 million-dirham
profit a year earlier, it said in a  statement  today to the Abu
Dhabi stock market. Sales declined 3.1 percent to 5.86 million
dirhams. The utility is 75 percent owned by the government of
Abu Dhabi, the largest sheikhdom in the United Arab Emirates.  Taqa has stakes in businesses generating power and
producing oil and natural gas in the Middle East, North Sea,
 India  and North America. Last year, it expanded by adding oil-field operations in northern  Iraq  and buying U.K. crude deposits
from  BP Plc. (BP/)   “The loss was characterized by some short-term operational
issues, and the worst is behind us,” Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Kersley said today on a conference call. “We forecast a
positive outcome for the full year.”  Taqa fell as much as 3.1 percent after the earnings
announcement, the biggest decline in trading since June 3. The
shares were at 1.26 dirhams, down 2.3 percent, at 10:25 a.m. in
Abu Dhabi.  Production is expected to start at the Iraqi field in 2015,
while repair work reduced flows at a North Sea oil platform
after a leak at the facility, the company said. Taqa said this
month it plans to resume output after a shutdown at the North
Sea Cormorant Alpha platform, which pumps 10,000 barrels a day
of crude. Power plants that stopped producing in the quarter
have resumed, Kersley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  