-- Arab Bank Faces January Trial Over Israel Terror Attacks
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-31T22:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/arab-bank-faces-january-trial-over-israel-terror-attacks.html
Arab Bank Plc,  Jordan ’s largest
bank, will go to trial Jan. 13 over claims it supported
terrorist attacks in  Israel , potentially putting the bank on the
hook for hundreds of millions of dollars in damages.  A date for what is expected to be the first U.S. trial in a
terrorism financing case against a bank was set by U.S. District
Judge Brian Cogan in  Brooklyn  federal court, according to an
entry posted today in the docket.  Jurors in the trial, anticipated to take two months, will
be asked to find whether the bank bears responsibility for 24
attacks that injured or killed hundreds of people. Damages would
be addressed separately by the court.  “We’re very pleased that there’s finally a light at the
end of the tunnel and a horizon for something we’ve long
desired, which is for the plaintiffs to have their day in
court,” Gary Osen, a lawyer for some of the plaintiffs, said
today in a phone interview.  In cases that have been litigated for almost a decade,
victims allege that the Amman-based bank “knowingly and
purposefully supported” foreign terrorist organizations from
1995 to 2004, including affiliates of Hamas, and helped provide
payments to the families of  suicide bombers .  Customer Records  The bank, which disputes the allegations, contends that it
will be placed at an unfair disadvantage in the trial because of
sanctions issued over its failure to provide customer records.
As part of the sanctions, imposed by U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon, jurors will be told that they can consider the banks’
refusal to turn over the records as a sign that it did business
with terrorists.  Arab Bank claims it’s forbidden from providing the records
under laws of Jordan, Lebanon and the Palestinian territories.
It has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review rulings over the
sanctions. The Union of Arab Banks and Kingdom of Jordan filed
briefs in support of the bank.  During a status conference yesterday, Cogan said that he
wouldn’t revisit the sanctions order. Cogan was assigned the
case earlier this month after it was previously overseen by
Gershon, according to the docket, which didn’t give an
explanation.  “That’s what the bank has brought upon itself by not
complying with Judge Gershon’s orders,” Cogan told an attorney
for the bank, Shand Stephens.  Vital Role  The bank plays a vital role in promoting economic
development in the  Middle East  and has been a leader in efforts
to implement programs countering the financing of terrorism in
the region, Bob Chlopak, a spokesman for the bank with Chlopak
Leonard Schechter & Associates in  Washington , said in a
statement.  “The bank remains confident that the transactions at issue
in these cases were routine and lawful, and the extensive
evidentiary record will demonstrate at trial that it did not
cause or contribute to the violence described by plaintiffs,”
Chlopak said in the statement.  The case is Linde v. Arab Bank Plc, 04-cv-02799, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 