-- Marriott Cuts Profit Forecast as Demand Weakens Overseas
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-08-01T20:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/marriott-profit-climbs-as-north-america-demand-increases.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, cut its full-year
profit forecast after reporting second-quarter results that were
in line with analysts’ estimates.  The company expects earnings per share for the third
quarter of 42 cents to 46 cents, less than the 49-cent average
of 29 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Marriott
projected full-year earnings of $1.92 to $2.03 a share, which
would miss both the $2.04 that analysts are estimating and the
company’s own previous guidance of $1.93 to $2.08.  Slowing demand from business groups and U.S. government
cutbacks in travel spending weighed on Bethesda, Maryland-based
Marriott’s second-quarter earnings, while weakening hotel use
abroad may hamper results for the rest of the year, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Arne Sorenson .  “Looking at group business, we remain encouraged in terms
of long-term bookings, but short-term group business weakened in
the U.S. as the quarter progressed,” Sorenson said on a
conference call with investors. “Our large convention hotels
and our hotels in Washington and Boston were particularly
impacted as group demand weakened.”  The company is “still experiencing a lingering effect from
the recession” and is taking a “more conservative view” of
demand trends for Asia and the Middle East, Sorensen said.  Revpar Growth  Second-quarter earnings of 57 cents a share matched the
average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income rose to $179 million from $143 million, or 42 cents, a
year earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement.  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, climbed 5.3 percent from a year earlier
at company-operated hotels in  North America . Worldwide, revpar
increased 4.7 percent, according to the statement.  Marriott in May projected second-quarter earnings of 55
cents to 59 cents a share and said it expected revpar to
increase 5 percent to 7 percent in North America, 2 percent to 4
percent outside North America and 4 percent to 6 percent
worldwide.  “International revenue growth has been quite tepid,”
Nikhil Bhalla, an analyst at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  in Arlington, Virginia,
said after the earnings were announced. “Softening demand in
Europe and Asia will weigh on them for the remainder of the
year.”  Total revenue rose to $3.26 billion in the second quarter
from $2.78 billion a year earlier.  Starwood, Hyatt  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, last week said second-quarter
earnings climbed 12 percent, helped by cost cuts and sales of
vacation units at the company’s  South Florida  resort.  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H) , the chain controlled by the Pritzker family,
yesterday said its second-quarter profit almost tripled as
demand climbed at its U.S. properties.  Marriott rose 0.2 percent to $41.58 in  New York  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  