-- Asia Stocks Decline Before Fed, Paring Monthly Increase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-31T10:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/asian-stocks-fall-ahead-of-fed-paring-monthly-gain.html
Asian  stocks  dropped, with the
regional benchmark index paring its first monthly advance since
April, before U.S. economic growth data and the conclusion of a
Federal Reserve policy meeting.  HTC Corp., Taiwan’s biggest smartphone maker, tumbled 6.7
percent after forecasting an eighth consecutive drop in
quarterly sales. GungHo Online Entertainment Inc., which climbed
10-fold this year through yesterday, slumped 13 percent in  Tokyo 
as more than five shares fell for each that rose on the Topix
index. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. jumped 6.7 percent in Hong
Kong, pacing gains among Chinese developers, after the
government endorsed development of the  property market .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.8 percent to 132.74
as of 7:41 p.m. in Tokyo. More than two shares fell for each
that rose on the measure, which is heading for a 1.7 percent
advance this month.  “The market will pore through every word” in the Fed’s
statement,’’ Bob Van Munster, head of Australian equities at
Tyndall Investment Management Ltd. in Sydney, which oversees
about $21 billion, said by telephone. “The overall message is
we are coming to an end of quantitative easing but we are going
to manage it according to the data that comes out.”  The Fed will probably maintain key  interest rates  at 0.25
percent in its announcement today, which will be watched by
investors for clues to the timing of reductions in monetary
stimulus. The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England  review
policy tomorrow.  Regional Gauges  Japan ’s  Topix index  and the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average both closed 1.5 percent lower. The  Japanese yen  gained
as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar today. A stronger
currency reduces the value of overseas sales for the nation’s
exporters when repatriated.  Japan’s  Topix index  climbed 32 percent this year amid
optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through reforms
while the  Bank of Japan  continues record stimulus to beat
deflation. The gauge traded at 1.2 times book value, compared
with 2.5 for the S&P 500 and 1.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Taiwan’s Taiex index dropped 0.7 percent. The nation’s
economy expanded faster than economists estimated in the second
quarter, even as a slowdown in  China  damps the outlook for the
island’s exports.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex 30 index was little changed after
five straight days of declines, the longest streak since April.  South Korea’s Kospi index slipped 0.2 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index both fell 0.3
percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.1 percent.  China Rally  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2 percent, its second
day of advance. China’s ruling Politburo pledged to stabilize
growth while pressing on with economic reforms after exports
fell by the most since the global financial crisis and
manufacturing and investment cooled.  The Asia-Pacific gauge lost 7.3 percent through yesterday
from this year’s high on May 20 amid signs China’s economic
slowdown is deepening and on concern the Fed will start tapering
monetary stimulus. Shares on the gauge traded at 13 times
estimated earnings as of yesterday, compared with 15.3 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.5 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Eight of the 10 industries on the measure have advanced
this month, led by material producers as well as phone and
energy companies. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 miner,
has contributed most to the index’s gain.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
China’s biggest Internet company, surged 16 percent to a record
in July.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  added 0.1 percent today ahead
of a report economists forecast will show annualized growth
slowed in the second quarter to 1 percent from 1.8 percent. The
gauge rose less than 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday as
investors analyzed corporate earnings and awaited results from
the Fed’s two-day meeting.  HTC sank 6.7 percent to NT$159.50 in Taipei, the lowest
close since November 2005. Revenue will be as much as NT$60
billion ($2 billion) in the three months ending September, the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement yesterday.
That missed the NT$72.7 billion average of 21 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  GungHo (3765) , maker of the mobile games for Apple Inc. iPhones,
slumped 13 percent to 80,000 yen in Tokyo, extending its two-day
loss to 25 percent. The company, the best-performing company on
the MSCI World Index of developed-market shares this year,
reported sales and operating profit on July 29 that were below
expectations, according to Macquarie Group Ltd., which yesterday
kept its underperform  rating  on the stock and reduced its share-price forecast to 57,000 yen from 70,000 yen.  Earnings Performance  Of the 227 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
posted results since July 1 and for which estimates are
available, 51 percent exceeded analyst estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. More than 100 members on the gauge
are scheduled to report earnings this week, including Sony Corp.
and billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd.  China Cosco Holdings Co., the nation’s biggest shipping
company, dropped 4.5 percent to HK$3.20 in Hong Kong after
saying it expects to post a first-half loss.  Chinese developers advanced. China will seek “stable and
healthy” development of the property market, the government
said on its website after a meeting led by President  Xi Jinping 
yesterday. It is the first time this year that the government
didn’t mention further tightening of the property market,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG and Orient Finance Holdings
(H.K.) Ltd.  Guangzhou R&F Properties jumped 6.7 percent to HK$12.06.
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest mainland
developer traded in Hong Kong, gained 1.6 percent to HK$22.35 in
Hong Kong. China Resources Land Ltd., a state-owned homebuilder,
increased 3.4 percent to HK$21.30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  