-- MasterCard Profit Beats Estimates as Card Spending Increases
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-31T16:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/mastercard-profit-tops-estimates-as-consumer-card-spending-jumps.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
U.S. payments network, reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates as spending on credit and debit cards rose. The shares
climbed.  Second-quarter net income increased 21 percent to $848
million, or $6.96 a share, from $700 million, or $5.55, a year
earlier, the Purchase, New York-based firm said today in a
statement. The  average estimate  of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for earnings of $6.29 a share.  Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  is repurchasing shares
and boosting MasterCard’s dividend as consumers shift from cash
to electronic payments. The company is targeting  emerging
markets  for growth to counter sluggish spending in Europe and
the U.S.  “We continue to execute on our global strategy and
navigate through what we all know is a somewhat uncertain
economic environment,” Banga, 53, said on a conference call
with analysts.  MasterCard rose 2.7 percent to $614.74 at 11:24 a.m. in  New
York , the fourth-best  performer  on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index. The shares have advanced 25
percent this year, outpacing the 10 percent gain of the 70-company index.  Revenue Climbs  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest payments network, has climbed 23
percent since Dec. 31. The  Foster City , California-based company
last week posted a profit for the three months ended June 30 of
$1.23 billion, or $1.88 a share.  Discover Financial Services (DFS) 
reported net income for the same period of $602 million, or
$1.20 a share. Discover, operator of the fourth-biggest U.S.
bank-card network, has gained 29 percent this year.  MasterCard’s revenue increased 15 percent to $2.1 billion
in the quarter, compared with a $2 billion average estimate iin
a survey of analysts by Bloomberg. Tien-tsin Huang, an analyst
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Moshe Orenbuch at Credit Suisse
Group AG both predicted about $1.98 billion.  Worldwide spending on MasterCard- and Maestro-branded cards
climbed 12 percent to $734 billion, the company said. Processed
transactions jumped 11 percent to 9.5 billion, according to the
statement.  Operating expenses increased 2.6 percent to $868 million
from a year earlier, the company said. Huang had estimated $875
million while Orenbuch had predicted $874 million.  European Spending  Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said revenue
should increase at a compound annual rate of 11 percent to 14
percent between this year and 2015 and that earnings per share
will climb by at least 20 percent in that period.  Spending on cards in the U.S. increased 6.7 percent to $263
billion in the quarter amid “some stabilization in the
employment levels,” Banga told analysts. Payrolls rose by
195,000 workers in June for the second month in a row, exceeding
the estimate projected by economists in a Bloomberg survey and
indicating the  U.S. economy  is poised for faster growth.  “Our own U.S. business reflected these improving trends,”
Banga said.  In Europe, spending by card customers increased 11 percent
to $206 billion, the firm said. MasterCard won a card-issuing
deal in the quarter with  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the biggest Danish
lender. Banga said on the call that he expects 50 percent growth
in the Baltic and Nordic countries over the next five years.  ‘Heavily Reliant’  “Outside of the U.K., many Europeans are still heavily
reliant on cash,” Hund-Mejean said in a telephone interview.
“And No. 2 is we’re winning market share. Those are the two
drivers for us in Europe.”  While spending in  Latin America  climbed 20 percent to $49
billion in the quarter, Banga said he was watching the  Mexican (MXGCTOT) 
and  Brazilian (BZGDYOY%)  economies “very carefully.” In Brazil,
MasterCard’s second-biggest market after the U.S., economists
have cut their economic growth forecasts for this year and next
as inflation weakens consumption.  “That’s really concerning,” Hund-Mejean said. “The
Brazilian government were hoping that they’d be getting back to
a more normalized growth rate of 4 percent to 5 percent and
they’re a far cry from that.”  Card spending by customers in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East
and Africa jumped 19 percent to $184 billion, the firm said.
MasterCard will continue to target emerging markets for growth,
even amid slowdowns across developing economies, Hund-Mejean
said.  “It will help countries in the emerging-market arena if
they could lessen their dependence on cash economy and really go
to electronic forms of payment,” Hund-Mejean said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  