-- AstraZeneca Eyes Anemia Drug as Next Blockbuster
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-31T11:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/astrazeneca-eyes-anemia-drug-as-next-blockbuster.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  is eyeing the anemia
drug it licensed from FibroGen Inc. as its next blockbuster to
help fight erosion of revenue from its best-selling drugs whose
patents expire over the next three years.  AstraZeneca will pay closely held FibroGen $350 million up
front and as much as $465 million in future payments tied to
development goals for the compound called FG-4592, the London-based drugmaker said in a statement today. The companies will
test the treatment for anemia in patients with chronic kidney
disease and end-stage renal disease in pivotal clinical trials
in the U.S. and China. If successful, they will file for market
approval in China in 2015 and the U.S. in 2017.  The deal comes as the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker tries
to license or acquire treatments to boost its pipeline as its
main products face generic competition. The company has said it
expects profit to decline “significantly” more than revenue
this year.  “The market opportunity in  China  alone is very
significant,” Christoph Pittius, vice president of business
development in cardiovascular and metabolic disease, said in a
phone interview.  Patients with chronic kidney disease can develop anemia, a
condition where there are too few red blood cells, because they
have a low supply of erythropoietin, a hormone made by healthy
kidneys to signal red blood cell production, according to the
 National Kidney Foundation .  Produce Cells  The current standard of care is a combination of iron
supplements and injectable erythropoiesis-stimulating agents,
which tell the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells and
decrease the need for blood transfusions. The  U.S. Food and Drug
Administration  has said the agents carry the risk of causing
cardiovascular events such as heart attacks and strokes.  The FibroGen drug is a small molecule inhibitor of the
hypoxia-inducible factor which signals the body’s cellular
“oxygen-sensing” system to help produce red blood cells. For
example, when a person is at high altitude, where oxygen levels
are low, the body reacts by producing more red blood cells.  China has an estimated 125 million chronic  kidney disease 
patients, which is about five times as many as in the U.S., the
company said. The FibroGen drug already has priority review
status in China, which “played an important role in this
deal,” Pittius said. The anemia drug is a good fit with the
company’s cardiovascular portfolio and AstraZeneca may test the
treatment for other anemia-related illnesses, he said.  AstraZeneca has said it expects to file for three marketing
approvals of drugs in its pipeline by 2016. The U.K. drugmaker
will also pay FibroGen royalties in the “low” 20 percentage
range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  