-- Laura Tyson Says Yellen Would Bring Continuity as Fed Leader
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-31T21:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/laura-tyson-says-yellen-would-bring-continuity-as-fed-chairman.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is an “ideal candidate” to lead the central bank partly
because she would bring continuity as policy makers wind down
their record monetary easing, said  Laura Tyson , who has advised
presidents  Barack Obama  and Bill Clinton on the economy.  “On experience and policy she has sterling credentials,”
Tyson, an economics professor at the University of California at
Berkeley, said today on Bloomberg Television’s Street Smart with
 Trish Regan  and  Adam Johnson . Tyson said there are “good names
out there,” including former Fed Vice Chairman Alan Blinder, a
Princeton University economist.  Yellen and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “have worked very
well together,” Tyson said. “They see the economy in very
comparable ways. I think their macroeconomic policy positions
are really quite comparable.”  Yellen, the No. 2 Fed official since 2010 and a former
economics professor at Berkeley, would be the central bank’s
first female leader in its 100-year history. That should be a
factor as Obama weighs replacements for Bernanke, said Tyson,
who in 1993 became the first female Chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration.
Yellen in 1997 became the second woman to lead the panel.  “Gender diversity should be a consideration in making
decisions, but this is a decision about excellence and
experience,” Tyson said. “It’s hard to imagine someone who
would have a resume that prepared them most completely to be the
next head of the Fed.”  Obama in a meeting with lawmakers today named Yellen as a
potential nominee to lead the Fed, along with former Treasury
Secretary  Larry Summers  and Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn. He
told House Democrats he hadn’t decided whom to appoint.  Tyson, a professor at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business,
is a member of Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. She
also served as Clinton’s National Economic Adviser.  Bernanke’s second term as Fed chairman ends in January.
Obama said in a television interview last month that Bernanke
has been at the Fed “longer than he wanted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  