-- Aussie Tumbles to Least in Almost 3 Years Amid RBA Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-31T12:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/aussie-approaches-least-in-almost-3-years-amid-rba-rate-cut-bets.html
The Australian dollar declined to
its lowest level in almost three years, as speculation the
central bank will cut borrowing costs next week curbed demand
for the currency.  One-year government yields fell to a record as traders’
expectations for interest-rate reductions over the next year
climbed to the most in 12 weeks. Reserve Bank Governor Glenn
Stevens said yesterday the inflation outlook provided room for
policy easing. The Aussie extended a decline with the  New
Zealand dollar  after reports showed U.S. companies boosted
employment in July and the world’s biggest economy expanded more
than analysts estimated in the second quarter.  Stevens’s comments “really left the door open for more
easing, and those dovish signs give us more confidence in our
view that the RBA will cut rates once again,” said Janu Chan, a
Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “The Aussie will
weaken from here,” said Chan, who sees the currency at 89 cents
by year-end.  The Aussie fell 1.1 percent to 89.64 U.S. cents as of 1:37
p.m. London time, after earlier dropping to 89.43 cents, the
weakest level since September 2010. It’s set for a 1.9 percent
drop this month, the most after the Brazilian real among 16
major peers, in the longest string of losses since November
2008.  Australia ’s  one-year bond yield  declined to an all-time low
2.25 percent, before trading at 2.28 percent. The rate on
government debt due in two years touched 2.3 percent, the least
in a year, while the three-year sovereign note yield reached
2.52 percent, the lowest since June 11.  Expected Cut  Traders see a 92 percent chance of the RBA will  lower  the
cash rate by 25 basis points to a record-low 2.5 percent at a
meeting on Aug. 6, up from 75 percent odds seen a week ago,
according to swaps data tracked by Bloomberg.  National Australia Bank Ltd. said it’s expecting two 25-basis-point reductions to the cash rate including a cut next
week, sending the benchmark to 2.25 percent by Dec. 31. The bank
previously predicted a 2.5 percent rate at year-end.  “Yesterday Glenn Stevens provided a much more sober and
realistic outlook, suggesting that the economy cannot rely on
housing and consumption to plug the growth hole,”  Alan Oster ,
NAB’s Melbourne-based chief economist, wrote in a report today.  Stevens and his board will probably decrease rates by 56
basis points over the next 12 months, the biggest expected
reduction since May 7, according to a Credit Suisse Group  index 
based on swaps. That’s the largest cut seen among 10 developed-nation central banks tracked by the lender.  Manufacturing Contraction  A gauge of  manufacturing  in China, Australia’s biggest
trading partner and  New Zealand ’s second-largest export
destination, probably fell to 49.8 in July from 50.1 in June,
according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before
tomorrow’s report. If confirmed, that would be the first reading
below 50, the dividing line between expansion and contraction,
since September.  The Australian dollar “has taken the brunt of this change
in sentiment with respect to  China ,” Nick Verdi, a Singapore-based currency strategist at Barclays Plc, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “In China, the government there and the
central bank don’t really seem to be keen to support growth.
They are comfortable with a lower trajectory.”  The Aussie dropped 12 percent in the past three months, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its New Zealand
counterpart had the second-biggest slide, falling 4.8 percent.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar fell 0.5 percent to 79.48 U.S.
cents after falling 1.2 percent in the previous two days. The
nation’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates that is sensitive to interest-rate expectations,
rose three basis points to 3.35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  