-- Australia Corruption Probe Says Ex-Ministers Be Charged
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-31T04:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/australia-corruption-probe-says-ex-ministers-be-charged.html
Two former New South  Wales  state
ministers, accused of corruption in the awarding of coal
licenses, should be criminally charged, an inquiry said.  The  Independent Commission Against Corruption  today
recommended to the public prosecutor that former Labor party
mining minister Ian Macdonald and his predecessor Eddie Obeid be
charged with conspiracy to defraud after Macdonald awarded a
coal-exploration license covering Obeid’s land. Both men had
denied any wrongdoing in their testimony.  The inquiry heard that Obeid’s family stood to make more
than A$100 million ($90 million) from inside information on the
coal-exploration licenses, while one lawyer said the corruption
was of a scale not seen since the early 1800s when the so-called
Rum Corps regiment controlled the former prison colony’s
economy. The investigation has caused a backlash against the
 Labor party  in  Australia ’s most-populous state, where Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  must shore up support if he is to win
elections due by Nov. 30.  “This issue has damaged Labor’s brand in New South Wales
and therefore its election prospects federally,” said David
Burchell, a professor of humanities and political analyst at the
University of Western Sydney. “There’s no kind of light show
that Rudd can perform that can magically make the party’s image
problem in the state go away quickly.”  Zero Tolerance  Rudd told reporters today that he had been “disgusted by
what I have seen before ICAC,” adding “anyone responsible for
corrupt behavior should face the full force of the law.”  Rudd, who challenged and defeated  Julia Gillard  on June 26
to reclaim the federal Labor leadership, intervened in the
running of the New South Wales branch of the party, saying on
July 4 that there will be zero tolerance of corruption.  The commission regarded evidence Obeid gave on some
important issues as “deliberately untrue,” Commissioner David
Ipp wrote in the report. “The commission regarded his repeated
attempts to distance himself from the Obeid family business as
deliberately false.”  The license was granted to Cascade Coal Pty. in 2008,
according to the inquiry. Five investors in the company should
be charged with fraud, the commission recommended.  Coal Exploration  Macdonald, then Minister for Primary Industries, opened a
number of areas in the state for coal exploration and issued
licenses, according to transcripts from the inquiry. Among them
was the Mount Penny Exploration license, which covered an area
located on top of a farm that had been purchased by a trust
controlled by Obeid’s family, Geoffrey Watson, the lawyer
assisting the commissioner, told the inquiry.  “The practical effect of Mr. Macdonald’s decision has been
to confer massive cascading profits upon Mr. Obeid and his
family,” Watson said.  The value of the family farm quadrupled, giving the Obeids
a profit of more than A$13 million, Watson said, as well as a
profit of A$1 million to A$4 million Obeid would have made from
taking part in the purchase of adjacent properties. In addition
the Obeids bought a stake in Cascade, which they agreed to sell
in 2010 for A$60 million.  “They outlaid A$200,000 to recover A$60 million,” Watson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  