-- Australia to Raise Tobacco Tax to Narrow Budget Shortfall
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-01T07:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/australia-to-raise-tobacco-excise-to-narrow-budget-shortfall.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
will increase taxes on tobacco to raise an extra A$5.3 billion
($4.7 billion) as he seeks to offset a revenue shortfall and
boost the government’s economic credibility before elections.  The government will introduce a staged 12.5 percent rise in
the excise from Dec. 1 to help return the budget to surplus by
2016-17 and combat smoking-related cancer, Treasurer  Chris Bowen 
said in a statement today. The move will increase the price of
cigarettes, which sell for about A$20 in a packet of 25 now, to
about A$1 per stick.  “We know that increasing excise is the single most
effective way for government to reduce premature death and
disease due to smoking,” Bowen said. He is expected to provide
updated budget figures in a statement tomorrow as Rudd prepares
to announce the date for a ballot due by the end of November.  Rudd, who is trailing in polls to  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition, is building a policy platform for his  Labor
party  before heading to an election. Under predecessor  Julia Gillard ’s leadership,  Australia  became the first country to
require cigarettes to be sold in uniform packages with no
company logos, in the same font and with graphic photographs of
victims of smoking-related diseases.  Tobacco-related diseases cost Australia more than A$31
billion annually and take up more than 750,000 hospital beds a
year, Bowen said.  Easy Targets  “The government needs more revenue to reach its surplus
target and smokers are the easiest target,” said  Nick Economou ,
a political analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “Labor
clearly wants to project itself as a party that’s responsible in
government. Who can argue against a proposal that’s couched as
an attack against smoking?”  Bowen is preparing a budget update as declining tax revenue
and lower export prices threaten the government’s projections of
a return to balance in 2015-16. An underlying cash deficit for
the 12 months to June 30, 2014, was projected at A$18 billion in
the last budget released May 14.  The government will also propose a new levy on banks to
provide insurance in case future bailouts are needed, the
Australian Financial Review reported today, without saying where
it got the information.  Bank stocks declined, with  Commonwealth Bank of Australia 
falling 1.5 percent and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  dropping
1.6 percent at the close of trading in Sydney.  Labor Support  Along with trying to prevent asylum seekers entering
Australia by boat, Rudd, 55, has announced plans to scrap the
world’s highest carbon price and changed Labor’s rules for
selecting its leader since defeating Gillard in a June 26
leadership ballot. He needs to boost Labor’s reputation as
economic managers after the government backed away from a pledge
in December to return the budget to surplus in the last
financial year.  Support for Labor fell for the first time since he ousted
Gillard, according to a Newspoll published in The Australian
July 23. After rising to its highest level on a two-party
preferred measure in almost nine months in a poll two weeks
before, Labor fell two percentage points as the coalition took a
52 percent to 48 percent lead.  Newspoll surveyed 1,141 people and the poll had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. The two-party
preferred measure is designed to gauge which party is most
likely to form government under the country’s preferential
voting system.  ‘Nearest Solution’  The government’s announcement of a higher tobacco excise
was triggered by economic concerns and was “not about health,”
Opposition Treasurer  Joe Hockey  said.  “It’s Kevin Rudd running out of taxpayers’ money and just
going for the nearest solution,” Hockey said in an Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio interview today.  While facing higher taxes,  tobacco companies  are engaged in
a global fight against government moves to curb cigarette
advertising and smoking through graphic health warnings and
elimination of branding.  New Zealand  plans to follow Australia’s
plain-packaging laws, while  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , Asia’s biggest
listed cigarette maker, is suing the Thai government over a plan
to increase the size of health warnings on packages, claiming
the move is unconstitutional.  Smokers Pay  “There are over 3 million poor old smokers out there that
will now have to pay for this government’s financial
mismanagement,”  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ’s Sydney-based
spokesman  Scott McIntyre  said today of the planned rise in
Australia’s tobacco excise. These smokers “are sure to remember
the price hike every time they pull their cigarettes out in the
lead up to the election,” he said in a phone interview.  New South Wales, Australia’s largest state, has more than
12,000 tobacco retailers, according to a  study published  by the
Cancer Institute NSW in December 2012.  “Our results strongly suggest that tobacco outlets are
concentrated in areas of higher disadvantage, and that are at
greater risk of poor health outcomes,” the study said.  Labor, traditionally the party of the working class, risked
alienating some lower-income supporters through the excise
increase, said Rob Moodie, professor of public health at the
 University of Melbourne .  Even as “Labor may take a hit in voter sentiment,” in the
long term “it’s an incredibly good move,” Moodie said in a
phone interview. “This rise will decrease consumption so in the
long run reduce the burden on the health system, it will
increase budget revenue, and it’s in the interest of smokers
themselves as it will help keep them alive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  