-- Babylon Gains Most in 6 Months on New User Boost: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-07-31T14:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/babylon-gains-most-in-6-months-on-new-user-boost-tel-aviv-mover.html
Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  gained the most in more
than six months on bets the translation software maker will see
a surge in revenue as it increases efforts to attract new
customers and further reduces dependence on  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Shares of the Or Yehuda, Israel-based company, which has
advertising revenue-sharing agreements with Google and  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO) , advanced 7.6 percent, the most since Jan. 28, to 25.8
shekels at the close in Tel Aviv. Trading in the stock was more
than triple the three-month daily average volume. The benchmark
 TA-25 Index (TA-25)  was little changed at 1,203.47.  The stock has rebounded 40 percent from a low of 18.33
shekels on March 28, when it fell on investor concern changes to
its partnership agreement with Google were slowing sales. The
company cut its dependence on the world’s largest search-engine
operator to less than 50 percent of revenue, Chief Executive
Officer Alon Carmeli said in April. The company is boosting
efforts to attract new customers, he said in a July 29 e-mailed
statement.  “Investors are seeing that the company has successfully
come through the Google crisis,” Beni Dekel, an analyst at Tel
Aviv-based  Union Bank of Israel , said today by phone. “The
announcement that it will restart user acquisitions means we are
likely to see an even greater surge in revenues going forward.”  Babylon shares have advanced 17 percent since the company
on July 29  reported a 3 percent increase  in second-quarter
revenue to 163 million shekels and a 74 percent gain in profit
to 40 million shekels.  “In the past quarter, we focused on diversifying our
income sources,” Carmeli said in the statement that day. The
second half of the year will see a “significant increase in
user acquisition cost,” he said.  The company in April signed a four-year accord with Yahoo!
as it seeks to diversify income sources. Second-quarter revenue
from that relationship more than tripled to 32 percent from 10
percent in the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  