-- Bale Is Worth $190 Million, Tottenham Tells Real: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-31T10:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bale-is-worth-190-million-tottenham-tells-real-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  The 125 Million-Pound Man?  Tottenham Hotspur has valued Gareth Bale at 125 million
pounds ($190 million) as the London club tries to fend off
interest for the Welshman from Real  Madrid , the  Sun  reported.  Tottenham chairman  Daniel Levy  rejected a bid for 81
million pounds for Bale, and isn’t interested in doing a deal
that involves any Real players.  Levy is “only interested in what’s best for Tottenham,”
the paper quoted an anonymous source as saying. “If he can’t
keep the player, which we must not forget he still wants to,
then he’s going to make Real pay a very heavy price.”  The  Daily Mail  reported Bale is “reluctant” to risk his
relationship with Tottenham fans by asking for a transfer to
 Spain .  Suarez Price  Arsenal will have to pay at least 55 million pounds for
 Luis Suarez  after the player decided he won’t ask the Premier
League to arbitrate in his contract dispute with Liverpool, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  The paper quoted an anonymous source close to Liverpool’s
American owners as saying the club is “100 percent confident”
there isn’t a requirement in his contract to sell Suarez should
a bid of more than 40 million pounds come in.  With three years left to go on his contract, Liverpool has
valued Suarez at 55 million pounds. Arsenal last week offered 40
million pounds plus one pound to see if they could sign the
Uruguayan striker.  Barton’s Everton Move?  Queens Park Rangers player  Joey Barton  is so keen to move
to Everton, he’s willing to take a 50 percent pay cut, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Barton, who returned to QPR this summer after a year at
French side Marseille, has been in touch with Everton manager
 Roberto Martinez  to see if the club is interested in him.  Barton, 30, makes 70,000 pounds a week at QPR.  ‘Too Tired’  England will never win the  World Cup  because the Premier
League season is too long and players are always “running on
empty,” former England manager  Fabio Capello  said on the
website of soccer governing body FIFA.  “They (England) are the least fresh of the competing
national sides because their league doesn’t have a break,” said
Capello, who was in charge of  England  for four years and quit
last year.  Unlike most other European countries, there is no winter
break in the Premier League.  430-Pound Man  A Celtic fan who went on a diet after he got stuck in a
turnstile at Partick Thistle’s stadium has been named Slimming
World Man of the Year 2013, the  Herald of Scotland  reported.  Thomas McIntyre, 43, weighed more than 430 pounds (195
kilos) and had a waist measuring 74 inches (1.87 meters) before
he decided to lose weight in February last year.  McIntyre now runs three times a week and takes his dog on
long walks.  “I can fit through the turnstiles when I go to the
football now so there’s no embarrassment there,” the paper
quoted him as saying. “In fact, that’s the only downside to my
 weight loss  because I have to queue with everyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  