-- Banks Stand to Lose Billions as Court Slams Fed Swipe-Fee Rule
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-07-31T22:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/banks-stand-to-lose-billions-as-court-slams-fed-swipe-fee-rule.html
Large banks face losing billions of
dollars in revenue as a result of a U.S. court ruling that
concluded the  Federal Reserve ’s 2011 limits on debit-card fees
were too high.  The decision today by U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in
Washington rejected a Fed regulation that limited swipe fees --
the money retailers pay to banks that issue payment cards -- to
21 cents per transaction, saying it violated the will of
Congress.  Leon ruled that the cap must go lower, which would cut even
deeper into the $16 billion dollars in revenue that banks such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  once
reaped from the fees. Revenues of processors like  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , who set swipe fees and are paid service charges
by the banks for processing transactions, could also drop.  For banks and card networks, “the only positive is that
appeals and other legal maneuvers could result in the current
fees remaining in place through 2014 or longer,”  Jaret Seiberg ,
a senior policy analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC’s
Washington Research Group, said in a note to clients.  Visa, the biggest U.S. bank-card network,  dropped  the most
since December 2010 after the ruling, falling as much as 10.7
percent in  New York  trading before closing down 7.5 percent at
$177.01. MasterCard, the second-biggest U.S. network, slid as
much as 5.7 percent during the session and then rebounded to
finish up 1.5 percent to $610.61.  American Express Co. (AXP)  was the
biggest loser in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The New York-based company’s shares fell 1.89 percent to close at $73.77.  ‘Not Years’  Leon said the Fed has “months, not years” to rewrite the
rule in light of his decision. He declined to stay the current
rule, which has been in place since October 2011, leaving the
21-cent cap in place.  Douglas Kantor, a lawyer with Steptoe & Johnson LLP in
Washington, which represented retailers in the case, said the
Fed may indicate whether it intends to appeal the decision at a
Aug. 14 status conference with the judge. Formally, the Fed has
30 days to decide on an appeal.  The Fed regulation came as a result of an amendment,
sponsored by Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, to
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that overhauled financial regulation.
The provision directed the Fed to limit fees to the incremental
cost of authorizing, clearing and settling a debit transaction
created when a consumer swipes a debit card.  The Durbin amendment came about after a decade-long fight
that pitted the banks against small merchants and large
retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  The
stores objected to the rising fees for debit card usages while
the banks argued they support the payment card infrastructure.  Intent ‘Disregarded’  Leon said in his opinion that the Fed “has clearly
disregarded Congress’s statutory intent by inappropriately
inflating all debit-card transaction fees by billions of
dollars.”  Joe Pavel, a Fed spokesman, said that the agency is
reviewing the decision.  Retailers promised to use the opinion to press their case
that swipe fees are too high.  Mallory Duncan , senior vice
president and general counsel of the  National Retail Federation ,
which brought the case, said opposition to swipe fees is growing
world-wide, citing a recent push by the European Union to cap
the charges.  “The rest of the world is beginning to understand that
this is a game Visa, MasterCard and the banks are playing,”
Duncan said in an interview.  Revenue Halved  Madeline Aufseeser, a senior analyst with Boston-based
consultancy Aite Group LLC, estimated that the Fed’s current
implementation of the Durbin amendment has cost banks about half
the $16 billion they once made from debit-card swipe fees each
year. They take in an estimated $40 billion from credit card
swipe fees, which are unaffected by the Fed rule, she said.  If the Fed responds to the ruling by reverting to its
original proposal of 12 cents per transaction, revenue for the
top 50 credit-card issuers who use Visa and MasterCard networks
and have assets over $10 billion would drop to $4.3 billion per
year, Aufseeser calculated.  Banks called on the Fed to head off the decision’s impact.  “We urge the Federal Reserve to pursue all legal means to
mitigate the harm this decision will cause to consumers,
community banks and all institutions that provide financial
services to local communities,”  Frank Keating , president of the
 American Bankers Association , said in an interview. “The Durbin
Amendment and the court’s interpretation will have disastrous
consequences for the institutions affected and the communities
they serve. This result must be reversed.”  Stocks of Visa, MasterCard, and  Discover Financial Services (DFS) 
fell sharply on Dec. 16, 2010 when the Fed issued its original
proposal, which would have capped fees at 12 cents per
transaction.  Proportional Fees  The Durbin amendment to Dodd-Frank specifies that swipe
fees should be “reasonable and proportional” to the
incremental cost of a transaction. A central argument the banks
made to the Fed was that since Dodd-Frank was silent on the
question of whether the caps should reflect “other costs”
incurred by card issuers, the caps should rise to reflect them.  In its final regulation, issued on June 29, 2011, the Fed
embraced the argument that fees should include these other
costs, such as customer inquiries about a specific transaction.
It established the cap at 21 cents, nearly twice its proposal,
drawing the ire of retailers, who sued the Fed in November 2011.  Leon, who was appointed to the federal bench in 2001 by
President  George W. Bush , ridiculed the Fed’s reasoning in a
sharply worded 58-page ruling.  ‘How Convenient’  Leon said that the Fed wrongly interpreted the statute on
what costs Congress directed the fees to cover. The Fed decided
the statute was silent on what other costs could be included in
the calculation, and then moved to resolve that ambiguity by
including those “other costs.”  “How convenient,” Leon wrote.  The statute and the legislative history demonstrate that
Congress intended the swipe fee caps to reflect only the costs
associated with an individual transaction, not any other costs,
Leon said.  Durbin, who has continued to push for lower swipe fees,
praised the court decision for countering the influence of bank
and card processors in the regulatory process.  “The Fed’s 2011 decision to bend to the lobbying by the
big banks and card giants cost small business and consumers tens
of billions of dollars and did not do enough to rein in the
anti-competitive, anti-consumer practices of Visa and
MasterCard,” Durbin said in an e-mailed statement.  Kantor, the attorney for the retailers, said the ruling
will rekindle the debate over swipe fees.  “For any issue related to swipe fees, there are political
as well as legal aspects,” Kantor said. “Merchants will draw
confidence from this opinion, and banks will argue against it.”  Seiberg of Washington Research Group, predicted the
political dynamic in Congress wouldn’t change.  ‘No-Win Move’  “Congress does not want to wade back into the debit
interchange fight and this court ruling does not change that
dynamic,” he wrote. “The issue forces lawmakers to pick
between bankers and retailers. That is a no-win move for a
politician.”  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  