-- Bayer Stock Rises as New Drugs Propel Revenue Increases
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-31T16:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bayer-forecast-increasingly-ambitious-as-prices-drop.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  shares rose to a record as
stronger-than-predicted demand for new drugs outweighed a drop
in plastics revenue that the German manufacturer said makes its
full-year sales forecast “ambitious.”  Revenue from products including the Xarelto blood thinner
and Eylea eye medicine “are progressing considerably better
than expected,” Leverkusen-based Bayer said in a  statement 
today. The company raised its forecast for sales from new drugs
to 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion euros) from a previous
estimate of 1 billion euros.  The MaterialScience plastics division, which makes
chemicals for products from mascara to car bumpers, posted a 2.7
percent decline in second-quarter sales, an “unexpectedly weak
development,” Bayer said. Investors were more surprised by the
strength of Xarelto and Eylea than by the plastics business’s
performance, said  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at Barclays Plc
in London.  “It was a little worse than expected, but in essence the
trend was clear” for the MaterialScience unit, Leuchten said in
a telephone interview. “So they’re focusing on the stuff they
didn’t expect, which is the new products.”  Bayer  rose  3.6 percent to 87.35 euros in Frankfurt trading
today. The shares have returned 24 percent  this year , compared
with a 19 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index. Bayer was the best stock-market performer among the
world’s 10 biggest drugmakers last year.  Forecast Revision  Group sales will probably increase 4 percent to 5 percent
this year, adjusted for currencies,  acquisitions  and
divestments, Bayer reiterated today. Revenue will reach 40
billion euros to 41 billion euros, the company said, compared
with a previous forecast of about 41 billion euros. Second-quarter sales rose 1.9 percent to 10.4 billion euros, in line
with analyst estimates.  “We are seeing somewhat less demand than we had expected,
particularly in  China , for our polymer products,” Chief
Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “It’s hard to say how in the second
half of the year particularly the China demand for our products
will develop. Overall it looks probably increasingly ambitious
but we are maintaining our guidance.”  Earnings Rise  Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and special items rose 1.2 percent
from a year earlier to 2.2 billion euros, Bayer said today. That
beat the 2.16 billion-euro  estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The MaterialScience unit’s earnings on that basis fell 29
percent. Bayer scaled back its April forecast for the plastics
unit, saying profit won’t quite reach the prior year’s figure
instead of an earlier prediction of a “slight increase.”  The woes at MaterialScience are fueling speculation the
division will be sold, said Andrew Baum, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in  London .  “Longer term, we believe the much-speculated separation of
the MaterialScience group is a high probability event,” Baum
wrote in a note today.  Speculation about a sale started after Dekkers was named
CEO in 2009. He has said he sees no pressing need for such a
transaction.  “MaterialScience is a more cyclical business, where we
know you can have very, very good years but then weaker years as
a result of economic cyclicality,” he said today. “That
doesn’t make it a bad business, it just makes it a different
 business  than the other two.”  Pharmaceutical Growth  Revenue at Bayer’s health-care unit climbed 3.8 percent to
4.8 billion euros. Bayer said it expects pharmaceutical sales to
increase by a high single-digit percentage compared with a
previous forecast for mid-single-digit percentage growth.  The crop chemicals division boosted sales by 5.1 percent to
2.39 billion euros as growth in Latin America,  Africa  and the
Middle East helped counter the effect of a late start to the
growing season and declining acreages in North America. Bayer
repeated its forecast for the division of high-single-digit
sales growth, excluding the effect of currencies, acquisitions
and divestments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  