-- Belaruskali to Expand Brazil Potash Sales After Uralkali Split
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-31T21:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/belaruskali-to-expand-brazil-potash-sales-after-uralkali-split.html
Belarus’s state-controlled
fertilizer producer is planning to expand potash exports to
 Brazil  after a former partner scrapped export controls of the
fertilizer-making ingredient.  Belaruskali plans to build ports in northeastern Brazil to
supply growing demand for fertilizer, Director General Valery
Kiriyenko said in an interview today. The Minsk-based company
already sends as much as 20 percent of its output to Brazil and
expects the country to increase purchases as farming activity
grows, he said.  “We are in Brazil looking for business, looking to assist
one of the biggest customers we have,” Kiriyenko said by phone
from Sao Luis, Maranhao. “Our main plan is to deliver high-quality products to the Brazilian market,” he said through a
translator.  OAO Uralkali, the potash producer that suspended the
venture controlling almost half of global exports, forced
Belaruskali to approach its main customers, Kiriyenko said. He
met with Energy Minister Edison Lobao yesterday to discuss port
projects and is negotiating a partnership with Sao Paulo-based
Sertrading to import and distribute its products in Brazil, he
said.  Brazil imports more than 90 percent of its potash needs and
75 percent of its nitrogen-based fertilizer supplies, according
to industry association ANDA. The country is expected to become
the world’s biggest soybean producer and exporter this crop
season, surpassing the USA, and is the third-largest corn grower
and the biggest coffee producer.  “Brazil has big plans to increase agriculture, it will
cause a higher production of fertilizers,” Kiriyenko said.  The potash price war has sent shares tumbling. Uralkali
fell 23 percent in the past two days after announcing the end of
export controls. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. slumped 8.5
percent today and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  lost 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  