-- Berthold Beitz, Krupp Chief Who Hid Jews From Nazis, Dies at 99
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/berthold-beitz-krupp-chief-who-hid-jews-from-nazis-dies-at-99.html
Berthold Beitz, the German
industrialist who rescued Jews from the Nazis during World War
II and helped rebuild Fried Krupp GmbH, a predecessor of the
country’s biggest steelmaker, has died. He was 99.  He died on July 30, a spokesman for Essen, Germany-based 
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  said yesterday in a telephone interview. No 
further details were given in a company  statement . ThyssenKrupp 
was formed in 1999 by the merger of Thyssen AG and Fried. Krupp 
AG Hoesch-Krupp.  In 1942, as the manager of Karpaten-Oel AG in Boryslaw,
Poland, a town now part of Ukraine, Beitz hid Jews in his home
and saved 250 men and women from a train destined for the Belzec
death camp by claiming them as workers, according to the  website 
of  Israel ’s Yad Vashem, a Jerusalem-based Holocaust research and
education center.  “We watched from morning to evening as close as you can
get what was happening to the Jews in Boryslaw,” Yad Vashem
quotes Beitz as saying after the war. “When you see a woman
with her child in her arms being shot, and you yourself have a
child, then your response is bound to be different.”  After the war, in 1953, Krupp owner  Alfried Krupp von
Bohlen und Halbach  appointed Beitz chief executive officer of
the engineering company and former arms maker. They revived its
steel base and traveled outside  Germany  to enter foreign markets
for building industrial plants, using Beitz’s reputation to win
orders from the eastern bloc, according to ThyssenKrupp’s
 website .  Jewish Reparations  Krupp became the first German company to pay reparations to
Jewish concentration-camp slave laborers, Joachim Kaeppner, a
Beitz biographer, said in a November 2011 publication for
Krupp’s 200th anniversary.  In 1958, Krupp employed 105,200 workers and was Germany’s
biggest company based on sales, according to ThyssenKrupp’s
website, which doesn’t specify the sales figure. At the end of
2011, ThyssenKrupp had 171,312 employees in 80 countries,
according to a quarterly report.  “We have lost an outstanding figure who played a major
role in shaping the company,” Ulrich Lehner, chairman of
ThyssenKrupp’s supervisory board, said in the statement.
“Berthold Beitz experienced the highs and lows of Germany’s
recent history. During World War II, together with his wife, he
set an impressive example of courage and humanity.”  Early Years  Berthold Beitz was born on Sept. 26, 1913, in the German
town of Zemmin. He trained as a banker, following in his
father’s footsteps, and started his career in 1937 as the deputy
branch manager of a lender in the northern German town of
Demmin, according to the  website  of Munzinger Archiv GmbH, a
Ravensburg, Germany-based archive company.  In 1939, Beitz went to work for the German unit of  Royal
Dutch Shell  in Hamburg and was excused from military service
when World War II broke out.  After the war, he was awarded  Poland ’s highest civil order
and was the first West German businessman to be invited to the
country on an official visit, according to Munzinger.  In 1963, West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer asked Beitz
to become ambassador to Moscow, as he enjoyed a good
relationship with communist leaders and invited East Germany’s
Erich Honecker on annual hunting trips, according to a report on
ARD television. Beitz declined to take the job, the German
broadcaster said in a  report  on the history of Germans and Poles
on its website.  Honorary Chairman  Beitz was an honorary chairman of ThyssenKrupp’s
supervisory board and chairman of the board of trustees for the
Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, which held 25.3
percent of the company as of September 2012. The foundation
manages the Krupp family fortune and sponsors sports and culture
as well as reconciliation projects with eastern Europe and
 Russia .  Beitz was a member of the International Olympic Committee
from 1972 to 1988, according to the Olympic Movement’s  website ,
which lists sailing, shooting and rowing as sports he practiced.  In 1973, Yad Vashem named him to its Righteous Among the
Nations, honoring non-Jews who risked their lives to save Jews
during the Holocaust.  “From the bottom of my heart, I am proud to have helped
all these Jews escape the death trains,” Beitz told Marek
Halter in an interview for “Stories of Deliverance,” Halter’s
book. “But, truthfully, how could I have lived if I had not
done it?”  Beitz and his wife, Else, had three daughters, Barbara,
Susanne and Bettina.  In 2009, his grandsons Robert Ziff, Dirk Ziff and Daniel
Ziff -- whose father, William Ziff, was an heir to and longtime
CEO of the Ziff-Davis magazine publishing company who married
Barbara Beitz before divorcing -- established the Berthold Beitz
professor in human rights and international affairs at Harvard
University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. The position
was created to “honor the life and legacy” of Beitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  