-- Billionaire Ambani Bucks Loan Slump as Rupee Drops
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i ,   P a u l i n a   D u r a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-08-01T05:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/billionaire-ambani-bucks-loan-slump-as-rupee-drops.html
Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance
Industries Ltd. is seeking $1.75 billion in overseas loans even
as the rupee’s plunge to a record sends foreign-currency
borrowings by Indian companies to a three-year low.  The Mumbai-based energy explorer plans to borrow by mid-August to refinance debt and fund capital expenditure, said two
people familiar with the matter. Local companies raised $230
million abroad in July, the least since April 2010 and 84
percent less than June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Syndicated loans in dollars, euros and yen in  Asia  excluding
 Japan  fell 21 percent to $16.4 billion.  Reliance, which generates 65 percent of its revenue abroad,
will lock in borrowing costs before the U.S. Federal Reserve
starts paring stimulus. Companies that earn mostly in rupees
have hesitated as the currency plunged to an all-time low of
61.2125 per dollar on July 8 after global funds fled  emerging
markets  on signs the central bank will taper its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases as early as this year.  “The currency is the major concern for companies, and
 Reliance’s (RIL)  dollars earnings help hedge most of that risk,” said
Chokkalingam G., the chief investment officer at Centrum Wealth
Management Ltd. in Mumbai, which manages about $310 million in
assets, including Reliance shares. “Companies that don’t earn
as many dollars are under tremendous stress to service their
debt. Reliance’s balance sheet helps it buck the trend.”  Refinancing, Expansion  Reliance’s facility may be drawn in U.S. and Singapore
dollars, euro and Japanese yen, and proceeds will help to
refinance $1.2 billion of multicurrency loans signed in 2008,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the details
are private. Some $550 million of new money denominated in U.S.
dollars will be raised for capital expenditure.  Tushar Pania, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Reliance,
declined to comment on the company’s financing plans yesterday.  The explorer and oil refiner plans to spend 1.5 trillion
rupees ($25 billion) over the next three years to expand
businesses ranging from natural gas to petrochemicals and
telecommunications, Ambani told shareholders in June. The
company  borrowed  about $5.4 billion overseas via bonds and
syndicated loans in 2012, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  ‘Lurking Fear’  “Reliance Industries’  credit profile  is fairly strong at a
local currency rating of BBB/positive and foreign currency
rating of BBB-/stable, and the company currently has a fairly
low cost of financing,” Fitch Ratings Ltd. analyst Tahera
Kachwalla said yesterday. “This $1.75 billion debt deal won’t
materially impact its credit profile, given the company’s debt
of over $19 billion as well as its strong cash balance of around
$15 billion as at the end of March.”  State-owned Indian Railway Finance Corp., a unit of Asia’s
oldest train network, is yet to borrow $500 million approved by
its board in May. Housing & Urban Development Corp. said on July
9 it put a $150 million loan from the  Asian Development Bank  on
hold, while JSW Steel Ltd. scrapped its borrowing plans as U.S.
currency debt becomes more expensive to service.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest mobile-phone operator,
said yesterday finance costs, including currency exchange
fluctuations, increased 58 percent to 11.7 billion rupees last
quarter from a year earlier.  “Companies need to factor in extreme volatility in the
 currency markets  and a lurking fear that U.S. interest rates
will rise,” Rajiv Datt, the New Delhi-based managing director
Indian Railway Finance said in a telephone interview. “There is
uncertainty at the moment.”  Biggest Risk  The rupee declined 0.5 percent to 60.6550 per dollar as of
10:43 a.m. in Mumbai. The currency had closed 0.2 percent higher
at 60.36 per dollar yesterday, recovering from the day’s low of
61.2025, after Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said the
government has decided on steps to attract investment from
India’s diaspora, and issuing foreign-currency sovereign bonds
remains an option. The currency has declined 9.3 percent in
2013, the worst performer in Asia after the Japanese yen.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which on July 15 sought to buoy
the currency by creating a cash crunch, said this week the
measures such as increases in some borrowing costs will be
reversed once the rupee stabilizes.  The central bank kept the benchmark repurchase rate at 7.25
percent on July 30 and said its recent liquidity-tightening
measures aimed at curbing exchange-rate volatility “will be
rolled back in a calibrated manner.” The rupee fell after the
RBI cut its gross domestic product growth forecast for the year
through March 2014 to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent, and said
India’s current-account deficit remains the biggest risk to
Asia’s No. 3 economy.  ‘A Slowdown’  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on July 15 capped banks’ access
to cash under the liquidity adjustment facility, increased the
daily balance requirement for cash reserves and raised two
 interest rates . The measures, left unchanged this week, contrast
with 25 basis-point cuts in the benchmark rate in January, March
and May each to spur the slowest economic growth in a decade.  Syndicated foreign-currency loans have fallen 67 percent to
$8.9 billion in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Rupee-denominated loans rose to 1.5 trillion rupees in the same
period, from 1.4 trillion rupees a year earlier, the data show.  “We are in the midst of a slowdown,” Parthasarathi Mukherjee, the Mumbai-based president for large corporates at
Axis Bank Ltd., said in a July 30 telephone interview. “Some
companies may defer external commercial borrowings. The rupee’s
fall may affect their expansion plans.”  Interest Margins  Average interest margins for loans from India in the so-called G3 currencies signed in June were about 325 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate, compared with about
465 basis points for debt borrowed in May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds
denominated in rupees has climbed 102 basis points, or 1.2
percentage point, to 8.13 percent from a 44-month low reached
May 24. The rate on the 7.16 percent notes maturing in May 2023
declined seven basis points today to 8.14 percent.  Credit risk has increased. The cost of insuring government-controlled  State Bank  of India’s debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps has climbed 34 basis
points this year to 259 as of July 31, according to data
provider CMA. Contracts that protect Reliance’s debt rose 18 to
242.5 in the same period.  “Concerns around the  exchange rate  are far from over, and
that’s keeping borrowers away from the market,” K.R. Kamath,
New Delhi-based chairman of state-owned Punjab National Bank
said in a July 30 interview. “Uncertainty in global markets has
unnerved lenders. The loan market will remain suppressed in the
short term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  