-- BlackRock Starts Retirement Indexes in Retail Asset Push
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-31T16:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/blackrock-starts-retirement-indexes-in-retail-asset-push.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , seeking a bigger
share in U.S. mutual funds, unveiled a series of indexes and
funds to attract more retirement savers.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, is starting
10 indexes that will let investors approaching retirement
calculate how much their savings will equal in annual income
when they turn 65. The New York-based firm filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to offer five investment-grade bond mutual funds that will be linked to the indexes,
which adjust for variables including  interest rates , inflation
and assumptions about lifespans.  Led by Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, BlackRock
last year started a five-year branding campaign and reorganized
its leadership to help improve fund performance as it seeks to
expand its retail business. The firm has less than a 2 percent
market share in open-end mutual funds, compared with 11 percent
for Boston-based  Fidelity Investments  and 12 percent for
 American Funds , run by Capital Group Cos. in  Los Angeles ,
according to data from  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “Over the next five years, I believe the delta for
BlackRock will continue to be in retail and our mutual-fund
platforms,” Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, said at an
analyst conference May 30.  IRAs, 401(k)s  Americans held an estimated  $5.7 trillion  in individual
retirement accounts, known as IRAs, and $3.8 trillion in 401(k)
plans as of March 31, according to the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute , a trade group for the mutual-fund
industry. More than half of workers say they have less than
$25,000 in savings and investments, excluding their home and
defined-benefit pension plans, according to a 2013 survey by the
Washington-based Employee Benefit Research Institute.  Managing money for individuals is a lucrative business. It
represented about 11 percent of BlackRock’s $3.86 trillion
assets under management as of June 30, while accounting for 33
percent of long-term asset base fees.  The firm anticipates “huge demand” for the indexes and
funds because of the number of savers seeking to secure income
following market uncertainty and volatility, BlackRock President
 Robert Kapito  said today in an interview.  Trailing Fidelity  BlackRock was the sixth-largest manager of mutual-fund
assets in 401(k)-type plans as of 2011, behind firms such as
Fidelity and Vanguard Group Inc., according to Boston-based
research firm Cerulli Associates. That ranking excludes assets
BlackRock manages in 401(k)s through collective trusts and
separately managed accounts, usually used by employers with at
least $250 million in plan assets, said Kevin Chisholm,
associate director at Cerulli.  BlackRock has taken a number of steps in the past to
attract more retirement money. In 2007, it opened nine funds for
retirement-plan sponsors. In 2010, it started a push to sell its
iShares exchange-traded funds through  retirement plans  with $50
million or less.  The new indexes are designed for use by people starting at
age 55 and investors select the one that corresponds to the year
they’ll turn 65 and expect to need retirement income. They tell
savers how much $1 in the future will cost today and that figure
fluctuates daily, according to Chip Castille, head of
BlackRock’s U.S. and  Canada  defined contribution group.  Asset-management firms such as  Putnam Investments  have
developed lifetime income calculators or evaluations on websites
for customers. Fidelity and Vanguard have partnered with
insurers to offer customers annuity options to help them turn
their retirement savings into payments.  “This is the beginning of what should be a very powerful
set of tools, indices and funds that allow people to take
action,” Castille said in an interview.  The new products are aimed at investment advisers and could
also be used by insurance companies as a bond component of
variable annuities, as well as by 401(k) plan sponsors as part
of target-date funds, Castille said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  