-- BNP Says Deleveraging at an End as Deutsche Bank Prepares Cuts
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-31T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bnp-says-deleveraging-at-an-end-as-deutsche-bank-prepares-cuts.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, said it already meets more stringent global standards on
leverage and doesn’t plan further asset cuts, a day after
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  announced plans to shrink.  “Deleveraging has been done,” Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, BNP
Paribas’s chief executive officer, told journalists in Paris
yesterday after reporting second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. He ruled out a new asset-cutting program.
BNP Paribas shares  climbed  to a two-year high in Paris.  “They appear to have done a pretty good job,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 20 billion pounds ($30.4
billion) at Rathbone Brothers Plc in  London  and holds BNP
shares. “You would expect the stock price to reflect that.”  Europe’s banks have been cutting risky assets and building
up capital to meet tougher rules from regulators seeking to
avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded rescues of 2008. Global
supervisors are paying increasing attention to banks’ equity as
a proportion of total assets, known as the leverage ratio,
because it excludes risk-weightings that can vary between banks.  BNP Paribas’s leverage ratio was 3.4 percent under fully
applied Basel III rules at the end of June, above the 3 percent
level proposed by global regulators for the start of 2018, the
bank said yesterday. While providing its leverage ratio for the
first time, BNP still considers risk-weighted measures “more
appropriate,” Bonnafe said.  Expansion Plans  The bank’s common equity Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel
III standards rose to 10.4 percent of assets weighted according
to risk at the end of June from 10 percent three months earlier,
the bank said.  BNP doesn’t need “anything else” to boost solvency as
“the normal accumulation of capital will keep improving things
progressively,” Chief Operating Officer Philippe Bordenave said
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  BNP Paribas’s assets amounted to about 1.86 trillion euros
($2.5 trillion) at the end of June, down from 2.24 trillion
euros three years earlier, figures from the Paris-based company
show. The firm first reduced its balance sheet following the
purchase of Fortis units in 2009, and made further cuts over the
past two years, mostly by shrinking the corporate and investment
bank, said Bonnafe, 52.  With its slimming completed, the lender plans an expansion
in  Germany  and Asia. It intends to increase staff by 500 people
across its businesses in Germany, where it employs about 3,500,
and to boost revenue there by 8 percent annually to reach 1.5
billion euros by 2016, it said yesterday. Last week, BNP
acquired for an undisclosed price a unit of Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank AG that settles securities transactions and
administers funds.  Deutsche, Barclays  The French bank said in February it plans to hire about
1,300 people over three years at its corporate- and investment-banking and investment-solutions businesses in the Asia-Pacific
region. The firm, which currently employs about 8,000 people in
those activities in the region, foresees annual revenue growth
of 12 percent through 2016 in Asia.  Deutsche Bank of Frankfurt and London-based Barclays
pledged this week to further reduce their balance sheets to
increase capital ratios and trim leverage.  Germany’s largest bank said July 30 it will cut its balance
sheet by 250 billion euros, while Barclays, the No. 2 U.K. bank
by assets, announced plans to reduce leverage by raising 5.8
billion pounds in a rights offer, cutting as much as 80 billion
pounds of assets and selling 2 billion pounds of loss-absorbing
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 