-- BNP Paribas Quarterly Net Falls 4.7% on Loan Provisions
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-31T07:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bnp-paribas-quarterly-net-falls-4-7-as-loan-provisions-rise.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , the largest French
bank, said second-quarter profit fell 4.7 percent as  Europe ’s
economic slump led to an increase in loan-loss provisions.  Net income  declined  to 1.76 billion euros ($2.3 billion)
from 1.85 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank
said in a statement today. Earnings compare with the 1.62
billion-euro average  estimate  of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue slid 1.8 percent to 9.92 billion euros, while
operating expenses declined 0.7 percent.  BNP Paribas, headed by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, is expanding in  Germany  and Asia while the economic
downturn in its main European markets weighs on growth. While
provisions for doubtful loans jumped 30 percent to 1.1 billion
euros, the bank also boosted capital and said its  leverage ratio 
-- or equity as a proportion of total assets -- was above the
threshold set by global regulators.  “Despite an historic economic crisis, the house is in
order,” said Cyril Meilland, a Paris-based analyst at Kepler
Cheuvreux who recommends buying BNP Paribas shares. The leverage
ratio level is “quite impressive,” he said.  BNP Paribas fell 0.8 percent to 47.48 euros by 9:39 a.m. in
 Paris trading , trimming the gain this year to 11 percent.
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s No. 2 bank, which  publishes 
earnings tomorrow, rose 6.3 percent this year.  Leverage Ratio  BNP Paribas’s leverage ratio was 3.4 percent at the end of
June, above the 3 percent level proposed by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  the start of 2018, the bank said. BNP’s
common equity Tier 1 ratio under fully-applied Basel III
standards rose to 10.4 percent at the end of June from 10
percent three months earlier.  The French bank has “a rock-solid balance sheet, combining
very high solvency and considerable liquidity reserves,”
Bonnafe, 52, said in the statement.  The bank doesn’t need to take any additional steps to
increase solvency, as “the normal accumulation of capital will
keep improving things progressively,” Chief Operating Officer
Philippe Bordenave said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  BNP Paribas plans to increase the workforce by 500 people
across its businesses in Germany, where it employs about 3,500,
to reach annual revenue of 1.5 billion euros by 2016, it said
today. Last week, BNP acquired for an undisclosed price a unit
of Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG that settles securities
transactions and administers funds.  Asia Expansion  The French bank said in February it plans to hire about
1,300 people over three years at its corporate- and investment-banking and investment-solutions businesses in the Asia-Pacific
region. The firm, which currently employs about 8,000 people in
those activities in the region, foresees annual revenue growth
of 12 percent through 2016 in  Asia .  Pretax profit at BNP’s French retail-banking unit fell 2.2
percent to 536 million euros, the bank said. That beat the 479
million-euro average estimate of five analysts. Pretax profit at
its Belgian branch network fell 2.4 percent to 161 million euros
and pretax earnings at the Rome-based unit, BNL, fell 41 percent
to 75 million euros as the country faces its longest recession
in at least two decades.  Investment Bank  Pretax earnings at BNP Paribas’s corporate and investment
bank fell 39 percent to 497 million euros, missing analysts’
estimate of 688 million euros. BNP’s capital-markets revenues
rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier as its equity-and-advisory
sales jumped 23 percent “due in particular to the rise in
transaction volumes and the good performance of structured
products,” the bank said. Fixed-income trading revenue declined
4.3 percent as “the rates business was affected by the
considerable volatility at the end of the quarter,” BNP said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley reported a
cumulative 24 percent gain in revenue at their investment banks
from the year-earlier quarter, excluding own debt valuations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  President  Francois Hollande ’s government is prodding banks
to lend more to help France emerge from a recession, while
cutting them some slack on other fronts. French banks were
spared a split of lucrative investment-banking activities as
lawmakers passed a bill this month to segregate proprietary
trading, the first such move in Europe. Also, new French
regulations are giving the lenders a liquidity boost of 30
billion euros by letting them keep additional client deposits in
tax-free accounts on the their balance sheets.  French Lending  Loans at BNP’s French retail-banking unit declined 2.7
percent in the quarter while lending to small- and medium-sized
firms rose 1.8 percent, the bank said.  France’s three largest banks cumulatively shrank risk-weighted assets by 128 billion euros last year to comply with
international capital and liquidity requirements, while also
cutting thousands of investment-banking jobs.  Some regulators are questioning the weightings banks use to
determine their risk and capital levels and are embracing the
leverage ratio. U.S. and some European banks, after years of
building equity, may continue hoarding profits instead of
boosting dividends as they face stricter capital rules.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
said yesterday it plans to raise 5.8 billion pounds ($8.8
billion) in a rights offering to bolster capital. Deutsche Bank
AG, Germany’s largest bank, will cut assets by 250 billion euros
“over time” to help reduce its leverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 