-- BNP Paribas Climbs to Two-Year High on Leverage, Capital Ratios
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-31T15:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bnp-paribas-climbs-to-two-year-high-on-leverage-capital-ratios.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, reached a two-year high in Paris trading after saying it
complies with international standards on leverage and doesn’t
plan further asset reductions.  The bank  climbed  as much as 2 percent to 48.81 euros, its
 highest  since July 22, 2011, and closed up 1.6 percent at 48.64
euros. The stock has  gained  14 percent this year, valuing the
company at 60.5 billion euros ($80 billion), the highest among
banks in continental  Europe .  “They appear to have done a pretty good job,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 20 billion pounds ($30.4
billion) at Rathbone Brothers Plc in  London  and holds BNP
Paribas shares. “You would expect the stock price to reflect
that.”  BNP Paribas’s leverage ratio -- the proportion of its
common equity to  total assets  -- was 3.4 percent under fully-applied Basel III rules, above the 3 percent level proposed by
global regulators for the start of 2018, the bank said today.
BNP Paribas said it’s finished shrinking assets a day after
Deutsche Bank AG of  Frankfurt  and Barclays Plc pledged to
further reduce their balance sheets.  “Deleveraging has been done,” Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, BNP
Paribas’s chief executive officer, told journalists in Paris,
ruling out any new asset-cutting program. The French bank first
reduced its balance sheet following the purchase of Fortis units
in 2009, and made further cuts over the past two years, mostly
by shrinking risk-weighted assets at the corporate and
investment bank, said Bonnafe, 52.  Capital Accumulation  BNP Paribas’s assets amounted to about 1.86 trillion euros
at the end of June, down from 2.24 trillion euros three years
earlier, figures from the Paris-based company show.  The bank doesn’t need “anything else” to boost solvency
as “the normal accumulation of capital will keep improving
things progressively,” Chief Operating Officer Philippe Bordenave said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  BNP’s common equity Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel III
standards rose to 10.4 percent of assets weighted according to
risk at the end of June from 10 percent three months earlier,
the bank said.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest bank, said yesterday it
will shrink its balance sheet by 250 billion euros, joining
London-based Barclays in seeking to comply with stricter capital
and leverage rules.  Barclays, Deutsche  Deutsche Bank’s common equity Tier 1 capital accounted for
2.3 percent of its adjusted balance sheet under European
leverage standards, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
figures the Frankfurt-based bank published yesterday.  Barclays, (BARC)  the No. 2 U.K. bank by assets, said yesterday it
will reduce leverage by raising 5.8 billion pounds in a rights
offer, cutting as much as 80 billion pounds of assets and
selling 2 billion pounds of loss-absorbing securities.  Regulators are increasingly questioning the risk weightings
banks apply to their assets, which are typically set by the
lenders’ own models, and calling for inclusion of the broader
measure of equity to total assets that ignores risk.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which sets
global banking standards, is taking a closer look at risk
weightings after finding wide variations in a study of 32
lenders,  Stefan Ingves , the group’s chairman, said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 