-- BOE Facilitated Nazi Sale of Plundered Czech Gold Before WWII
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-31T08:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/boe-facilitated-nazi-sale-of-plundered-czech-gold-before-wwii.html
The Bank of England facilitated the
transfer of gold to  Germany  plundered from  Czechoslovakia 
shortly before the outbreak of World War II, according to an
archived history of the U.K. central bank.  The  document  posted online by the central bank shows it
received a request from the  Bank for International Settlements 
on March 21, 1939, to transfer 5.6 million pounds of gold from
its “No. 2” account to its “No. 17” account.  “The bank -- although it was no business of theirs -- were
fairly sure that the No. 2 account was a Czech National Bank
Account and they believed, although they were not sure at the
time, that No. 17 account was a Reichsbank” account, according
to the document.  The central bank’s historians said it could not have turned
down the request as “it is clear from the (general) immunity
granted to the BIS” that no government “could have taken any
action” unless they were prepared to violate peacetime
treaties.  The gold in No. 17 was “disposed of” over the following
10 days, with about 4 million pounds going to Belgium,
Netherlands and  London , the history said. Germany invaded  Poland 
less than six months later and Britain subsequently declared war
on Germany.  “At the outbreak of war and for some time afterwards the
Czech gold incident still rankled,” the historians wrote.
“Outside the bank and the government, the bank’s position has
probably never been thoroughly appreciated and their action at
the time was widely misunderstood.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  