-- Brazil Ethanol Prices to Surge as Shortfall Looms, Analyst Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-31T16:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/brazil-ethanol-prices-to-surge-as-shortfall-looms-analyst-says.html
Fuel prices at the pump in  Brazil 
may spike starting at the end of the year as sugar-cane mills
struggle to meet demand for ethanol that’s blended with
gasoline, according to Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Mills may have less than 1 billion liters (264 million
gallons) of stockpiled anhydrous ethanol in December when
producers begin to shut down for the inter-harvest season, from
2.3 billion liters at the start of the year, Morsy said in an
interview today. Gasoline in Brazil uses a 25 percent blend of
anhydrous ethanol.  Many vehicles in Brazil can run on either either pure,
hydrous ethanol or the gasoline-anhydrous combination. More
drivers have opted for the blend this year, raising concerns of
a looming shortfall as the industry goes into the inter-harvest
season.  “You want to go into the inter-harvest period with a
healthy inventory,” Morsy said. “In the first half of the
year, consumption of gasoline was high and this has to decrease
so there’s less pressure on producers to provide anhydrous
ethanol.”  Ethanol has about 70 percent of the energy of gasoline, and
drivers of flex-fuel cars in Brazil typically buy gasoline when
prices at the pump for pure ethanol are more than 70 percent of
gas prices, Morsy said. That was the case in January, March,
April and May, fuel regulator Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas
Natural e Biocombustiveis said on its website, spurring demand
for the gas-anhydrous blend.  Brazilian cane growers have the capacity to produce 37
billion liters of ethanol a year, and to process 11 billion
liters of that into anhydrous ethanol to blend with gasoline,
Morsy said.  A poor cane harvest in the 2010-2011 season drove up  prices 
for anhydrous ethanol to a peak of 2.38 reais a liter in April
of that year from 1.206 reais at the start of the year. Gasoline
prices at the pump increased 11 percent over the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  