-- BRE Properties Gets $4.6 Billion Investor Buyout Offer
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-07-31T21:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bre-properties-gets-4-6-billion-investor-buyout-offer.html
BRE Properties Inc. (BRE) , a San
Francisco-based apartment landlord, rose to a two-month high
after Land & Buildings said it and an investor group offered to
buy the company for about $4.6 billion.  Land & Buildings, an investment firm focused on real estate
securities, is part of a consortium that made an offer of $60 a
share last month, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based company said
in a statement today. Land & Buildings asked the real estate
investment trust to form a committee to consider a sale.  “We strongly disagree with management’s response that they
believe it is better to remain independent rather than pursue a
sale,” Land & Buildings Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Litt
said in a letter to BRE. “The company’s consistent
underperformance and persistent discount to net asset value is
best resolved through strategic alternatives.”  BRE rose 2.7 percent to $53.06 at the close of  New York 
trading, the highest since May 21. In intraday trading, the
shares climbed to the highest since October 2007. The takeover
offer represents a 16 percent premium to BRE’s closing share
price of $51.67 yesterday. The REIT, with a market value of
about $4 billion, has 77.1 million shares outstanding, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Land & Buildings operates an investment fund with less
than $200 million in total assets under management, which has
neither the capital capacity nor demonstrated transaction
experience to execute an acquisition of BRE,” the REIT said
today in a statement. BRE said it hasn’t received a response to
a request for information on Land & Buildings’ funding sources,
and the “proposal received today does not evidence a viable
opportunity for the company to consider.”  Moore Meeting  Litt said he met with BRE Chief Executive Officer Constance Moore in March to discuss buying the company in the mid-$50
range and was told he would need to start negotiations at $60 a
share. After assembling a consortium of investors, Litt went
back to Moore in June with an offer of $60 per share, to which
he never received a response, he said. Litt will disclose his
partners, a group of “core, traditional investors,” as soon as
a formal process begins, he said.  “Our offer is legitimate, and the company should take it
seriously,” Litt said in a telephone interview. “We think it’s
the optimal way for shareholders to maximize the value of the
company as the current management team has been unable to do
over the past 10 years.”  Land & Buildings owns 169,686 BRE shares, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company most recently sold 55,900
shares, in the first quarter. Before he founded Land & Buildings
in 2008, Litt was a managing director and real estate analyst at
Citigroup Inc.  Underperfoming Peers  BRE is underperforming its peers in the apartment sector
this year, Rod Petrik, a Baltimore-based REIT analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said today in a research note on the company’s
second-quarter earnings, announced yesterday.  “This can be attributed to the company’s relatively large
development pipeline, that investors perceive could deliver
subpar yields and be dilutive near term,” he said.  BRE has four projects under construction for $724 million,
with $292.5 million remaining to be funded, according to Stifel.  BRE management must start meeting and exceeding the growth
of its peers in the multifamily sector soon or sell the company
in order to retain shareholder confidence, said  Richard Anderson , a REIT analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York. He
cut his rating on BRE to underperform at the end of last year
based on his assumption the company was a takeover target.  ‘Play Well’  “These are superstar players, but the question is, do they
play well together?” Anderson said in a phone interview, adding
that some investments by the company have failed. The problems
“individually aren’t the end of the world, but collectively it
makes people wonder if this management team is working in the
cohesive fashion that shareholders are paying them to work in.”  Second-quarter funds from operations, a measure of  cash
flow  used by REITs, rose to $48.9 million, or 63 cents a share,
from $45.8 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier, BRE said
yesterday.  Analysts have previously speculated about a combination of
BRE and  Palo Alto , California-based  Essex Property Trust Inc. (ESS) ,
said Jeffrey Langbaum, a Bloomberg Industries analyst. BRE has
historically traded at a discount to Essex, its most comparable
peer, Langbaum said today in a note.  BRE “will consider any legitimate proposals it receives,”
Moore said on an earnings conference call today. While BRE has a
strategy for remaining independent, “that is not to say that
the door is bolted shut” for consideration of an offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  