-- Buffett Fan Douglass Best in Australia on Magellan Global
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-01T06:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/buffett-fan-douglass-best-in-australia-on-magellan-global.html
When Hamish Douglass’s first child
was born in 1999, he wrote to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman
 Warren Buffett  to tell him that he had bought shares of the
company to give to his son when he turned 21.  “I became fascinated with this whole school of thought
about Buffett and investing,” said Douglass, who with Chris Mackay went on to start  Magellan Financial Group Ltd. (MFG) , a Sydney-based fund manager whose assets have  tripled  to A$15 billion
($14 billion) in the past 12 months.  Like Buffett, Douglass eschews the trappings of success --
he drives a low-end Nissan truck -- and has focused instead on
delivering returns with bets on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM)  The company’s flagship Magellan Global Fund beat all 109
global equity funds available in Australia with more than $100
million in assets over the past three years through June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Assets rose to A$3.6
billion from A$1.3 billion a year earlier, the biggest gain
among peers, according to data from Morningstar Inc.  The fund’s success has helped drive a  fivefold increase  in
shares of Magellan Financial Group in the past year on the
Australian stock exchange. The stock is the  best performer  in
the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  Index this year. It closed 1.6 percent
lower at A$11.41 in Sydney.  The firm brought in A$6.2 billion of domestic and offshore
institutional money in the 12 months through June. Magellan’s
appeal is a view on global companies from the other side of the
world compared with fund managers in New York and London,
according to Sydney-based Nicholas McGarrigle, an analyst at  Ord
Minnett  Ltd., which has a buy recommendation on the stock.  “They have a fresh perspective on global markets,” he
said. “They’re continuing to win money at a pretty rapid
pace.”  Laptops, Tablets  The global fund invests in companies with an average market
value of at least $100 billion. In the year to June 30, it held
25 stocks with an average market capitalization of $119 billion,
according to the fund’s  annual investor report  released July 11.
The top 10 holdings made up 51 percent of the fund.  Recent investments include allocating about 4 percent of
the global fund to Microsoft in January at a price of $27 to $28
a share. The stock touched a high of $36.43 on July 16 and was
the best performer among the  30 members  of the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  in the second quarter.  “We had a view that you were going to see a convergence
between tablets and laptops, and with that convergence they
would start to pick up market share through Windows 8,”
Douglass said in the interview at the firm’s seventh-floor
offices in Sydney’s center.  Microsoft, Oracle  Microsoft was the global fund’s largest single holding at
6.6 percent on June 30 and one of the top three contributors to
its 39.7 percent return in the previous 12 months, according to
the investor report. The top two contributors on an absolute
basis were  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which made up 6.2 percent of the fund,
and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  with 5.3 percent.  The biggest detractor was  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , according to the
report. Magellan in the second quarter took a large position in
the software maker, which Douglass said is better placed to
weather the development of cloud computing than many expect.  Macro Cycle  The fund also has positions in Lowe’s,  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  on expectations of a recovery in U.S. housing
starts. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  house values  in 20 U.S.
cities climbed 12.2 percent in May from a year earlier, the
biggest 12-month gain since March 2006, a report showed this
week.  Magellan also manages a global infrastructure fund and on
July 1 started a long-only fund that will invest in eight to 12
stocks globally with the ability to hold as much as 50 percent
in cash.  “The macro-cycle calls we’re making -- most people would
say you don’t need a lot of IQ for them,” Douglass said. “What
you need to have is a time period that is different, you need to
be there before the market.”  In 2007, Magellan invested about 6 percent of the global
fund in Yum on the expectation that the U.S. company’s China
business would grow rapidly. In North America at the time,
investors were focused on the poor performance of Yum’s KFC
outlets, Douglass said.  “Because we probably have a greater proximity and probably
spend more time in China than a fund manager based in New York,
we were incredibly focused on China,” Douglass said. “Whatever
happened in KFC in North America was going to become completely
irrelevant.”  Consumer Stocks  Multinational consumer companies exposed to  emerging
markets , such as Yum,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , remain the largest single investment strategy in the
Magellan Global Fund, he said. Their focus on emerging markets
allows their revenue to increase faster than global economic
growth, he said.  At the end of June, that investment strategy made up 21
percent of the global fund, down from 48 percent two years
earlier, as these stocks became fully valued, Douglass said.  Douglass, 44, and Mackay, 50, met in 1989 at Schroders
Australia Ltd., where Douglass landed a job after graduating
with a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of New South
Wales in Sydney. Both were  investment banking  advisers.  Mackay dumped a pile of Berkshire annual reports on
Douglass’s desk in his first week. “Chris was very interested
in Buffett and investing and I was a bright-eyed university
graduate who wanted to learn,” Douglass said.  Berskshire Groupies  Mackay attends most Berkshire annual meetings, including
the most recent one in May, while Douglass has been to at least
five -- the last one three years ago, he said.  The two rose through the ranks of investment banking in
Australia. Mackay became chairman of UBS AG’S local unit and
Douglass was named co-head of global banking for Australia and
 New Zealand  at Deutsche Bank AG at the age of 35. In 2006, they
formed Magellan Financial Group, securing the backing of
billionaire  James Packer . The company started trading on the
stock exchange the same year.  Both Douglass and Mackay had private share portfolios
during their investment-banking careers. “We had a natural
affinity where Chris and I really liked investing and had a
common thought process,” said Douglass, who at Deutsche Bank
advised BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest miner, on its
A$9.2 billion purchase of WMC Resources Ltd. in 2005.  “We were going to be in control of our own destiny and
whatever happened we were going to be accountable,” he said.  Packer still  owns  9 percent through his investment company
Cavalane Holdings Pty, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Douglass and Mackay each have about a 12 percent stake in
Magellan, Douglass said.  Magellan Global Fund is not affiliated with the Fidelity
Magellan Fund, which is run by Fidelity Investments of Boston.  International Drive  Magellan Global Fund outperformed its benchmark, the MSCI
World Net Total Return Index in Australian dollar terms,  by an
average 10 percentage points  each year since its inception in
July 2007.  In 2011, Magellan struck an agreement with Chicago-based
Frontier Partners to distribute its global funds. It also hired
Zarina Kalapesi from Orbis Investment Advisory Ltd. to head its
institutional client business with a focus on the U.K.  The marketing drive resulted in St. James’s Place Unit
Trust Group Ltd., the U.K.’s biggest dealer group, putting 2
billion pounds ($3 billion) with Magellan, according to a
regulatory filing Feb. 22. Magellan’s clients also include U.S.
state-based pension plans, a Fortune 50 U.S. West Coast company,
family offices and endowments, and a large state-based pension
manager in Australia, said Douglass, who declined to name them
because of confidentiality agreements.  Three out of the four Australian-based  equity analysts  that
cover Magellan Financial Group have buy recommendations on the
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is more upside in it given the momentum that
they’re building with institutional investors offshore and the
run-rate of retail inflows domestically,” said Ord Minnett’s
McGarrigle.  ‘Swimming Naked’  It hasn’t all been plain sailing. The global credit crunch
around the time of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
2008 was the fund manager’s most difficult period, Douglass
said. In the 12 months to June 2009, funds under management rose
by only A$57 million to A$393 million and Magellan Financial
Group recorded a statutory net loss of A$12.4 million, according
to company filings.  “We had few funds under management at that stage, had
built quite a large staff and we didn’t know how long this thing
was going to last,” he said.  The global fund returned 7.1 percent in the 12 months to
2009, outperforming the MSCI World Index by 23.4 percentage
points, according to a report on Magellan’s website. The fund
lost 17.2 percent in the previous year, less than a 21 percent
drop in the benchmark index.  “As Buffett says, you don’t know who is swimming naked
until the tide goes out,” said Douglass. “It enabled us to
have a substantially differentiated investment performance
during that period.”  Broader Strategies  Magellan needs to consider offering more strategies as it
grows, said Russell Gill, a Sydney-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “The investment market thematic has run in their favor
over the last couple of years given the weighting toward higher-quality, blue-chip names,” Gill said. “They need to broaden
the number of investment strategies given the global equities
strategy is very concentrated.”  Old Cars  Douglas is married with four children and his family lives
on a farm one-and-a-half hours drive from Sydney. “I try not to
have a lot of trappings of money around our kids and our life. I
do this because I love what I’m doing.”  “I like really cheap cars and old ones -- I mean old ones,
not collectors’ ones,” he said. “I have an old Nissan Navara
truck, which I have never washed.”  Buffett, the third-richest man in the world with a net
worth of $59 billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , a daily ranking of the wealthiest people, has earned an
annual salary of $100,000 for the more than 25 years. He has
pledged most of his wealth to charity.  Buffett’s track record of generating shareholder returns
through stock picks and acquisitions has made him a cult figure
for investors. Book value has climbed more than 5,800-fold per
share since he took control of Berkshire in the 1960s.  Like 82-year-old Buffett, “nothing would give me a greater
privilege than that I would still be working at age 80 at
Magellan,” Douglass said. “But I’m in a public company, it
could be the board kicks me out well before that happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  