-- Bulgarian Parliament Passes Budget Revision in Final Vote
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-07-31T14:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/bulgarian-parliament-passes-budget-revision-in-final-vote.html
Bulgaria ’s parliament, surrounded by
sunbathing protesters demanding the resignation of Prime
Minister Plamen Oresharski, passed this year’s budget revision
in a final vote to increase spending on social benefits.  The revision widens the deficit to 2 percent of economic
output from a previous 1.3 percent, cuts the economic growth
forecast to 1 percent from 1.9 percent and raises the debt sale
limit to 1 billion lev ($678 million), Yordan Tsonev, head of
the assembly’s budget and finance committee, said in the capital
Sofia today. It will help cover increased spending on social
benefits, reimbursement of value-added tax receipts and payment
for public services to companies.  “The  budget deficit  shouldn’t become a purpose in
itself,” Tsonev told lawmakers. “It is part of our anti-crisis
policy, which will help avoid recession and boost the fiscal
reserve by the end of the year.”  Bulgarian political leaders are struggling to maintain
public confidence as voters are increasingly aggressive about
their dissatisfaction with what they see as a corrupt political
system in the European Union’s poorest member. Oresharski came
to power May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out his
predecessor, Boyko Borissov, and led to snap elections.  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 rose one basis point to 2.306 percent at 3:50 p.m. in Sofia
today. The cost of insuring the country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell two basis
points to 116.  Sunbathing Protesters  President Rossen Plevneliev, who said on July 5 a new vote
may be needed, is considering whether to impose a veto on the
budget revision on the grounds that the government has scope to
increase revenue collection, he said in an interview with BTV
private television in Sofia today.  About a hundred protesters blocked traffic in front of
parliament today demanding the Cabinet’s resignation and
chanting slogans “Mafia out!” Some wore bathing suits and lay
on towels spread on the pavement, while their children frolicked
in inflated pools. The protesters mocked the lawmakers, who
voted to take their summer recess between Aug. 5 and Aug. 31.  Borissov, the leader of the opposition Gerb party, told
lawmakers they should keep working to pass a new election law
and hold an early vote together with European Parliament
elections in May 2014. Setting a date for early elections would
demobilize the administration and turn the government
effectively into an interim Cabinet, Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev said on July 27.  Security Boss  The latest round of protests began with the June 14
appointment of media executive Delyan Peevski as head of the
State Agency for National Security. Nationwide demonstrations
forced Peevski, who also has interests in tobacco, banking and
telecommunications companies, to back off from the appointment.  The protests have since escalated into daily anti-government marches that turned violent for the first time July
23, when dozens of rock-throwing demonstrators and several
policemen were injured as security forces escorted 120
lawmakers, ministers and journalists out of the assembly
following a 10-hour siege.  Oresharski, backed by the Socialists and the Movement for
Rights and Freedoms, which represents ethnic Turks, has said he
won’t resign because doing so would further destabilize the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  