-- Burger Costs Rising With Beef Supply at 21-Year Low
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-01T19:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/burger-costs-rising-with-beef-supply-at-21-year-low-commodities.html
U.S. beef production is plunging to a
21-year low after surging feed costs spurred ranchers to cut
herds, signaling record prices for consumers and higher costs
for buyers from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to Ruth’s Chris Steak House.  Production in the U.S. will decline 4.9 percent to 10.93
million metric tons in 2014, retreating for a fourth year, the
government says. The herd on July 1 was the smallest for that
date since at least 1973, according to the average of four
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The most-active cattle
futures will rise 6.8 percent to $1.33 a pound next year, a
level last seen in February, the median of nine forecasts shows.  Ranchers still haven’t recovered from last year’s drought
that sent grain costs to a record and spurred them to slaughter
more cattle. While feed costs are now slumping as U.S. farms
prepare to reap the biggest corn crop ever, it takes more than
two years to raise enough animals to expand supply. Retail
ground-beef prices in June were up 13 percent from a year
earlier and near a record set in January.  “The drought has really affected the cow herd,” said
Tucker Hughes, a 65-year-old rancher in Stanford,  Montana , who
predicted the number of animals he retains for breeding may drop
as much as 20 percent over the next two years. “Some people had
to downsize their herds. When you get these droughts, you have
to reduce your numbers.”  Cattle Rebound  Traders are anticipating that this year’s 5.9 percent drop
in futures to $1.245 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
will reverse. Their prediction would take prices close to the
record of $1.35175 reached Jan. 11. Futures averaged about
$1.2489 since the start of January, heading for the highest-ever
annual level.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities fell 18 percent this year, and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities rose 10 percent. Treasuries lost 2.6
percent, the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index shows.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, probably
will pay 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent more for beef this year,
according to  Jack Russo , a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. That’s more than the forecast 1.5 percent to 2.5
percent increase in total commodity costs that Chief Financial
Officer Peter Bensen predicted on a July 22  conference  call.  While the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company will consider
charging more for food, competition and price-sensitive
consumers mean “we have less pricing power in 2013 versus a
year ago,” Bensen said.  Higher Prices  Wholesale beef  prices dropped 12 percent since reaching a
record $2.1137 a pound on May 23, as the acceleration in
slaughtering boosted supply, government data show. Prices
probably will exceed that peak next year, said  Ron Plain , a
livestock economist at the  University of Missouri  in Columbia.  Global meat prices rose 2.1 percent in June, the most in
nine months, while the overall cost of food dropped 0.9 percent
to the lowest since February, United Nations data show. Retail
ground beef averaged $3.382 a pound in June, the second-most
ever behind the record of $3.407 in January, Bureau of Labor
Statistics data show. Prices will top the record next year, said
 Steve Meyer , president of Paragon Economics in Adel,  Iowa . The
government estimates consumers will pay as much as 3.5 percent
more for beef in 2014.  Beef costs for  Ruth’s Hospitality Group Inc. (RUTH) , the Heathrow,
Florida-based steakhouse owner, climbed 17 percent over two
years, Chief Financial Officer Arne Haak said during a
presentation on June 25. The restaurant raised its prices in
February. Next year and 2015 will still be tough because of the
lack of supply, Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Donnell said
in a presentation June 18.  Slowing Demand  Higher prices are curbing demand, with U.S. beef shipments
tracked by the government down 2 percent this year through May.
The dollar’s rally to a three-year high in July is also eroding
the appeal of U.S. exports and China and  Russia  are restricting
meat with ractopamine, a feed additive that some U.S. producers
use to increase lean muscle.  Cheaper feed and the easing drought conditions in most
places may encourage ranchers to expand. Corn futures on the
Chicago Board of Trade are now 44 percent lower than the record
reached in August. The USDA rated 44 percent of pasture and
rangeland in good or excellent  condition  in the week ended July
28, compared with 17 percent a year earlier.  “There’s an awful lot of people wanting to expand,” said
Steve Foglesong, 56, who raises 9,000 head of cattle and farms
1,800 acres of corn and soybeans about 65 miles southwest of
Peoria,  Illinois . “The market signals are kind of there.”  Bullish Signal  An expansion would initially be bullish for prices because
cows would be retained for breeding rather than slaughtered,
said Chris Hurt, a professor of agricultural economics at  Purdue
University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana .  It takes about 30 months to boost beef production,
according to CattleFax, an industry researcher in Centennial,
 Colorado . Calves have a nine-month gestation and take about 20
months to reach slaughter weight. Cattle in the U.S. are raised
from birth on pastures for about a year, when they weigh 500
pounds to 800 pounds, and then are sold to feedlots. The animals
then consume mostly corn until they are 1,200 pounds to 1,350
pounds and are sold to slaughtering plants.  Returns have varied across the supply chain. A feedlot that
put a 750-pound steer on a corn-based diet for about five months
and then sold it at 1,300 pounds for slaughter lost $148 a head
on average in 2012 and as much as $306 in July, based on cash
prices, said Lee Schulz, a livestock economist at  Iowa State
University  in Ames.  Tight Supply  While calf producers made money, many culled herds because
the drought parched pastures, Schulz said. About 67 percent of
 Texas , the largest cattle-producing state, remained in “severe
drought” on July 23, up from 33 percent a year earlier,
according to the  U.S. Drought Monitor .  Corn surged 68 percent in less than two months last year,
reaching an all-time high of $8.49 a bushel in August. Ranchers
responded by sending more animals for slaughter, including cows
normally held for breeding.  “You’ve got some years of pretty tight beef supplies,”
said John Nalivka, a former U.S. Department of Agriculture
economist and the president of commodity researcher Sterling
Marketing Inc. in  Vale ,  Oregon . “If herd building starts, then
you will really tighten the supply even more.”  The number of domestic cattle reached 89.3 million on Jan.
1, the lowest since 1952, according to the USDA. The herd
usually expands by midyear, after calves are born in the spring.
It reached 96.24 million head on July, 1.6 percent less than a
year earlier, according to the average of four analyst
estimates.  Speculator Holdings  Hedge funds  and other large speculators got increasingly
bullish on cattle in the past four months, raising their  bets  on
higher prices almost 20-fold since March 8, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show.  At Bill Donald’s ranch near Melville, Montana, range
conditions are “much improved.” The third-generation owner of
Cayuse Livestock Co. said he expects to return to normal
capacity after reducing his grazing his herd by 15 percent
because of the dry pastures.  “As we expand the herd, we will not be sending as many
heifers into the feedlot chain,” said Donald, who has about
1,500 cows and buys another 2,000 to 3,000 cattle a year. “It
will tighten supplies, and that will keep pressure on prices to
go upward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  