-- Canada’s Moore Says Telecom Policy Boosts Competition
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-07-31T21:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/canada-s-moore-says-telecom-policy-aims-to-competition.html
Canadian Industry Minister  James Moore  said there’s been no change in his government’s policy of
seeking to bolster competition in the country’s wireless phone
market.  In a  statement  posted on his website, Moore said the
government’s policy has been “clear,” and “liberalized”
investment in the industry has meant lower prices for consumers.  Moore, who was appointed by Prime Minister Stephen Harper
July 15, has been facing pressure to alter policies that may
ease the market entry of U.S. wireless firms such as Verizon
Communications Inc. Moore met with senior Canadian mobile-phone
executives July 29 in Ottawa to discuss the matter, according to
a person familiar with the meetings.  “We want all regions of Canada to benefit from competitive
market forces, which is why more progress must be made,” Moore
said in the statement. “We will continue to stay the course by
ensuring Canadians benefit from a competitive telecommunications
industry.”  Investors have punished the shares of the three largest
wireless providers, partly due to speculation that U.S. carrier
Verizon may enter into  Canada ’s market. New York-based Verizon
said June 18 that it is interested in acquiring Canadian
carriers such as Wind Mobile.  Policy Decisions  In a July 25 statement, BCE said the government’s decision
to block Canada’s largest phone companies from buying smaller
domestic competitors will allow Verizon to acquire those
businesses at “cut-rate prices,” echoing concerns of Rogers
Communications Inc. and  Telus (T)  Corp.  Other policies that will unfairly benefit Verizon include
the decision to reserve airwaves for new entrants and rules that
force incumbents to offer their networks for use by competitors,
BCE said.  In an interview with the Toronto Star published July 26,
Rogers’ vice-president for regulatory affairs said Canadian
government officials traveled to  New York  in a bid to lure
Verizon to Canada’s phone market.  Moore’s predecessor, Christian Paradis, had said he would
seek to establish a fourth major operator in all the regions of
the country, prompting him in June to block Telus’s purchase of
smaller rival Mobilicity.  “Our government’s telecommunications policy was not
created overnight,” Moore said in the statement today. “Our
policy has been clear and remains unchanged.”  BCE’s  stock  closed today down 41 cents, or almost 1
percent, at C$42.55 in Toronto, extending to 12 percent its
decline since it touched a 2013 peak on May 22. Telus fell 59
cents, or 1.9 percent, to C$31.21 today, and is down 17 percent
since May 22.  Rogers (RCI/B)  shares have lost 22 percent since its year-to-date top April 10, and closed today at C$41.04, a drop of 85
cents, or 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  