-- Canadian Natural Resources Plans to Check Wells Following Leaks
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-07-31T20:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/canadian-natural-resources-plans-to-check-wells-following-leaks.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  said
it’s taking steps to improve the safety of its Primrose oil-sands project in Alberta after a series of spills.  The Primrose project began to leak more than 6,000 barrels
of oil-sands bitumen emulsion starting in May and is still
leaking at a slow pace. Regulators have said the area’s geology
may have contributed to another four years ago. Canadian Natural
said the recent leaks came from failures at four older well
bores that had been abandoned, and that it can prevent others by
testing wells on the site and fixing weaknesses.  Primrose produced 109,000 barrels a day during the first
quarter, 16 percent of total production for Calgary-based
Canadian Natural, which is  Canada ’s third-largest energy company
by market capitalization. Primrose was among the company’s
highest-return projects, according to Canadian Natural’s May 3
first-quarter earnings release.  “What we’re going to do is go back and look at the wells
in the vicinity of these leakages,” Canadian Natural President
 Steve Laut  said in a phone interview. “If we see any
imperfections we are going to go back and try to remediate those
wells. And if we can’t, then when we do steam through those
areas, we are going to change our steaming practices to ensure
we prevent these kinds of events.”  Steam Injection  Primrose is a  steam-injection  oil-sands project, which
means that hot water steam is injected underground at high-pressure to separate the thick, tarry bitumen oil from sand so
it can be pumped to the surface.  The company said it believes it will achieve its 2013
guidance of 100,000 to 107,000 barrels a day for steaming
operations including Primrose, although it expects modified
steaming strategies will reduce its 2014 guidance by about
10,000 barrels a day.  Production from steam-injection projects made up the
majority of  Alberta ’s 1.9 million barrels a day of oil-sands
production for the first time last year, the Alberta Energy
Resources Conservation Board said in a May 8 report.  Canadian Natural also blamed the 2009 leak at Primrose on
well-bore failure. In a  report  on that spill released in
January, the ERCB said “a contributing factor in the release
may have been geological weaknesses in combination with stresses
induced by high-pressure steam injection.”  Cara Tobin, a spokeswoman for the Alberta Energy Regulator,
the successor agency to the ERCB, said in a phone interview that
regulators are still investigating the cause of this year’s
spills.  Shale Thickness  Laut said that the thickness of the Upper Colorado Shale
caprock at Primrose prevents any leaks of either pressurized
steam or bitumen from the project. But if there’s a leak from a
well-bore failure, bitumen can seep to the surface through
natural vertical fractures in the Colorado caprock.  The leaks at Primrose were caused by the high-pressure
steam and bitumen emission seeping to the surface over several
weeks through those natural fractures, Laut said.  The leaks in the most recent incident came from two well-bore failures in May and two in June, according to the Alberta
Energy Regulator. Laut said the rate of the leaking has declined
as Primrose has depressurized, and is now down to less than 20
barrels a day in total from all four leak sites, being collected
as it reaches the surface. The company has most of the spill
cleaned up, with about 6,300 barrels of bitumen emulsion
gathered so far, Laut said.  In a release, Canadian Natural said there have been very
few incidents in more than 30 years of using steam-injection
production at Primrose, and that future incidents can be avoided
by repairing potential well-bore failures and changing steaming
methods around well bores that can’t be fixed.  Canadian Natural shares rose 17 cents to close at C$31.83
($30.97) on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  