-- Canadian Dollar Gains After Data Boost Case for Tighter Policy
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-31T21:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/canadian-dollar-weakens-as-economic-growth-trails-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar gained against
the majority of its peers after signs of a recovery in the U.S.
added to speculation the Bank of  Canada  will consider tightening
monetary policy before the end of next year.  U.S. reports showing companies boosted payrolls in July by
the most this year and an economy that grew more than projected
in the second quarter may prompt the Canadian central bank to
move up the timetable for higher rates, compared with a forecast
in the fourth quarter of 2014. The currency extended gains
Federal Reserve said today it will maintain its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases amid persistently low inflation that
could hamper economic expansion.  “The Canadian recovery is still on track and does depend
on how the  U.S. economy  unfolds,” said  David Tulk , chief macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD securities unit in
Toronto. “If the U.S. is looking objectively stronger, that
does help to get the Bank of Canada thinking about rate hikes,
but that’s a long way off.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, added 0.3 percent to C$1.0277 at
5 p.m. in Toronto after earlier climbing to C$1.0212, the
strongest since June 19. One loonie buys 97.31 U.S. cents.  Bonds Decline  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing
yields down six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.45
percent, after reaching 2.59 percent earlier in the day. The 1.5
percent security maturing June 2023 climbed 51 cents to C$91.75.  Canada’s key rate has been unchanged at 1 percent since
September 2010, where it is forecast to remain until the fourth
quarter of next year. The central bank raised its economic
growth forecast for this year to 1.8 percent from an April
prediction of 1.5 percent in its July 17 monetary policy report.  The  Federal Reserve  said persistently low inflation could
hamper the U.S. economic expansion. “The committee recognizes
that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could
pose risks to economic performance, but it anticipates that
inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium
term,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the conclusion
of its two-day meeting in  Washington .  Half of the 54 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  from
July 18-22 expect the Fed to start reducing monthly bond
purchases that had depressed borrowing costs worldwide in
September.  The Canadian dollar dropped earlier after a report showed
the economy expanded by a slower-than-predicted 0.2 percent in
May. Economists had predicted 0.3 percent growth, according to a
Bloomberg survey with 20 responses. The  Bank of Canada   expects 
annualized growth of 1.8 percent in the second quarter.  Potash Exports  Saskatchewan’s economy may grow half as quickly as
projected after OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash
producer, broke up a cartel that controlled 43 percent of world
exports, Royal Bank of Canada said in a note yesterday.  A “double digit” decline in potash production from the
Canadian province could reduce Saskatchewan’s gross domestic
product by 1 percentage point in 2013,  Paul Ferley , assistant
chief economist at Royal Bank, said in a report. Stalled
construction in the industry may shave another 0.5 percentage
points from growth, which Royal Bank had estimated at 2.9
percent this year, he said.  Potash represents almost 20 percent of Saskatchewan
exports,  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at
GMP Securities LLC in  New York , said in a note today that also
forecast growth could shrink as much as 1 percentage point.  The Canadian dollar closed at A$1.0832, the highest point
versus its Australian counterpart in three years on concern
 China  may tolerate a slower pace of expansion than officials
previously indicated. China releases its monthly manufacturing
PMI results at 9 p.m. New York time.  “We’re trying to get a sense of how quickly China can
manage some of its recent weakness,” Toronto-Dominion’s Tulk
said. “More structurally policymakers are trying to avoid
inflationary risks they’ve had in recent years.”  The loonie has risen 0.9 percent in the past month against
nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  lost 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  