-- Canada’s Economy Expands in May as Retail Offsets Oil
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 7 3 9 6 8 ]   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   [ ]
-- 2013-07-31T17:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/canada-s-economy-expands-in-may-as-retail-offsets-oil.html
Canada ’s  gross domestic product  grew
for a fifth straight month in May, as resilient  consumer
spending  offset declining output by oil and gas producers.  Canada’s  economy  expanded 0.2 percent to an annualized
C$1.58 trillion ($1.53 trillion), Statistics Canada said today
in Ottawa, after a 0.1 percent gain in April. Economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg had forecast a 0.3 percent increase, the
median of 20 responses.  The gain marks the longest string of monthly expansions
since 2010, signaling a further revival from a  slump  in the
second half of last year. Still, weaker output by the nation’s
oil and gas producers, coupled with the impact of flooding in
 Alberta , a construction strike last month and recent concerns
about the global market for potash, suggests the economy will
struggle to match its 2.5 percent first-quarter gain, economists
said.  “The resource sector, which had been doing much of the
heavy lifting over the last two or three quarters, may have run
its course,”  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice president of
economics in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0287 per  U.S.
dollar  at 1:14 p.m. in Toronto. Canadian bonds fell, with the
yield on the benchmark two-year government note rising 1 basis
points to 1.19 percent.  Oil and Gas  Canada’s economy probably grew by an annualized 1.6 percent
in the second quarter, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyedby  Bloomberg News  earlier this month.
Estimates for the third quarter and fourth quarter are for 2
percent and 2.2 percent growth, respectively. Last year, the
nation’s quarterly annualized growth averaged 1 percent.  Oil and gas producers saw a 2.2 percent drop in output in
May, the agency said, led by a 7.4 percent decline from the
nation’s oil sands.  Oil and gas, which was also down 2.7 percent in April for
the largest two-month decline in two years, had risen at an
average monthly pace of 1.3 percent between October and March as
producers ramped up  shipments  to the U.S., taking advantage of
new pipeline capacity and rebounding from temporary maintenance
shutdowns that curbed output last year.  Statistics Canada  today
cited maintenance activities for the decline in May.  Lower sales by oil and gas-related businesses offset a rise
in manufacturing output, leading to a 0.3 percent drop in goods-related production. Factory output rose 0.3 percent during the
month.  Wholesale Trade  The gain in May was led by higher sales at retailing
businesses, which recorded a 1.8 percent increase during the
month, the biggest since November 2010. A 1.4 percent increase
in  wholesale trade  was the largest gain for that industry since
July 2011. Those two industries led a 0.5 percent increase in
services-related output, the statistics agency said.  From a year earlier, the economy grew 1.6 percent in May,
Statistics Canada said.  “This is indeed a positive sign, showing that Canada’s
economy is on the right track,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in an e-mailed statement.  A potential headwind to future economic growth may come
from the nation’s potash production, after  Russia ’s OAO
Uralkali, the biggest supplier of the commodity, said yesterday
it decided to end production restrictions that underpinned
global prices.  Falling potash volumes may have a “meaningful” impact on
Canada’s output, CIBC economist  Avery Shenfeld  said in a note
yesterday. Saskatchewan’s economy may grow half as quickly this
year as previously projected as a result, Royal Bank of Canada
economist  Paul Ferley  said in a separate report.  Third quarter results will “trade off a drop in potash
activity against the trend climb expected in oil output,”
Shenfeld said in a report today.  Potash was the fastest growing sector of the economy in the
first five months of this year, expanding 31 percent, according
to data released today by the statistics agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  