-- Carbon Drops to Two-Week Low as Weak Power Price Saps Demand
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-07-31T12:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/carbon-drops-to-two-week-low-as-weak-power-price-saps-demand.html
European Union carbon permits for
December dropped the most in three weeks as record-low power
prices in Germany reduced demand for emission allowances.  The benchmark carbon contract fell as much as 4 percent to
4.12 euros ($5.49) a metric ton on ICE Futures Europe exchange,
and traded at 4.13 euros at 12:47 p.m. in  London . The contract
is heading for its first monthly decline since April after
dropping 1.7 percent this month.  Solar and wind generation in Germany jumped 80 percent over
the past three years, flooding the grid with cheap, emission-free power as the region’s sluggish economic expansion curbs
electricity use. Carbon permits can track power prices, which
include the cost of emissions allowances.  “We forecast negative power demand across Europe, on a
combination of lackluster economic growth, ongoing de-industrialization and energy efficiency,” Patrick Hummel, an
analyst at UBS AG in Zurich, said today in an e-mailed note.  Carbon permits fell yesterday for the first time in twelve
days, reversing some of this month’s gains stemming from the
prospect of a reduced supply of allowances in August. The EU,
 Germany  and the U.K. are cutting auction volumes by 56 percent
next month compared with July to reflect reduced trading in
Europe’s traditional summer holiday season.  Europe’s carbon trading system imposes emissions caps on
about 12,000 power plants and factories, which must surrender
tradable allowances to cover their discharges of carbon dioxide
or pay fines.  German 2014 electricity declined as much as 1.1 percent to
36.55 euros a megawatt-hour, the lowest since the contract began
trading in January 2010, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  