-- Carnival’s Princess Told to End Ban on Cruiser Over $585
-- B y   B e r n a r d   K o h n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-07-31T16:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/carnival-s-princess-told-to-end-ban-on-cruiser-over-585.html
A unit of  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the
world’s largest cruise operator, was ordered to drop a lifetime
ban imposed on one of its top customers as retribution for a
dispute over a $585 art-buying fee.  A Federal Maritime Commission judge  ordered  Princess Cruise
Lines Ltd. to end its blacklisting of Lisa Cornell, of Weston,
 Florida . Administrative Law Judge Clay G. Guthridge found the
company violated U.S. law by banning Cornell, a top-tier member
of Princess’s loyalty program, for reasons other than safety or
security.  “Princess has not articulated any legitimate
transportation-related factors that would support its refusal to
allow Lisa Cornell to sail on its cruise ships,” Guthridge
wrote in a 74-page decision.  Cornell and her lawyer husband, Ware, lost their bid for
$33,000 in legal fees and other costs.  The case is an unusual one for a U.S. regulator that has
limited authority over cruise lines and usually is asked to
resolve matters involving cargo contracts. The four
commissioners have 30 days to review the judge’s decision, while
the couple and company both can challenge it as well.  Rachel Dickon, assistant secretary of the commission, and
Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman for Carnival, had no immediate
comments.  The dispute traced to a 2007 cruise on which Lisa Cornell
bought two lithographs from a Carnival-owned art dealer and made
arrangements to have them shipped home.  ‘Bait-and-Switch’  Believing she’d been “bait-and-switched,” or sent works
different from those she bought, Cornell canceled the sale. She
sued after the Carnival unit kept 15 percent of the price, a
term it said was disclosed in the purchase agreement and that
the Cornells said violated an advertised money-back guarantee.  After the sides settled in June 2010, Lisa Cornell tried to
book a cruise on Princess, only to find she was blocked from
using the company’s website, according to the complaint.  Carnival and its units, in commission filings, didn’t
dispute the Cornells’ assertion that a company lawyer familiar
with the settlement negotiations issued a “do-not-book” order
-- something more commonly done with people who have disrupted
cruises or posed known security risks.  According to commission filings, the lawyer said the ban
was justified because Lisa Cornell was a “proven and documented
vexatious litigant” who refused to abide by contracts, made
“extortionate” demands and would use future cruises to look
for more grounds to sue the company.  Freed from the ban, the Cornells want to book a 14-day
cruise on Princess from  Montreal  to Florida in October,
according to the judge’s order.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bernard Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  