-- Carney Seen Enforcing QE Truce as Guidance Kicks In: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-01T08:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/carney-seen-enforcing-qe-truce-as-guidance-kicks-in-u-k-credit.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
will probably oversee another stimulus pause at his second
policy meeting as he trains officials’ focus on providing
forward guidance to cement the economic recovery.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will hold its
target for  quantitative easing  at 375 billion pounds ($571
billion) and the benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent today,
according to the median estimate in two Bloomberg News surveys.
The panel’s vote for no change last month was unanimous, ending
an eight-month stretch of split decisions.  Carney will present the MPC’s review of steering policy
expectations next week after saying in July that changes in bets
on future interest rates were “not warranted,” which helped
lower 10-year gilt yields about 20 basis points from a June 24
high. With the  economy strengthening , that may add to the case
for holding stimulus and focusing on giving companies and
households certainty about rates to encourage spending.  “The domestic and external risks to the recovery are
receding, and no more QE is required,” said  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Bank NV in London. “If you can give people
assurance that there won’t be a sudden hike in the cost of
borrowing, that may help the recovery along.”  Guidance Steps  Carney’s first policy decision on July 4 marked the 319-year-old central bank’s first steps into guidance, with the MPC
issuing a statement that investors’ expectations of when the BOE
would begin rate increases were premature.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged the
same day to keep rates low for an “extended period.” The ECB
will announce its latest policy decision at 1:45 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , when it will keep its  key rate  at a record low 0.5
percent, according to all but one of 63 economists in a survey.  The MPC’s statement responded to a jump in bond yields
sparked by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s June 19
comments on the timing for unwinding QE in the U.S. The increase
represented an “unwelcome tightening in monetary conditions”
that could scupper the recovery, the BOE said.  The Fed said yesterday after a meeting of policy makers
that persistently low inflation could hamper the economic
expansion and pledged to keep buying $85 billion in bonds every
month.  Yields Decline  The yield on the 10-year gilt was 2.301 percent as of 9:36
a.m. London time. It rose to 2.59 percent on June 24, the
highest since 2011. The premium investors charge to hold U.K.
debt over German bunds was at 69.7 basis points, down from 74
basis points two weeks ago.  Carney joined the BOE from the  Bank of Canada , where he
introduced forward guidance in 2009, and now must fulfill a
directive from Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to
assess introducing the strategy in the U.K. He’ll present the
bank’s analysis on Aug. 7 along with new economic forecasts.  The BOE said in the minutes of its July meeting that the
findings will have an “important bearing” on today’s decision,
though any announcement on guidance or thresholds will be made
next week. The minutes also showed  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles 
dropped their call for more QE in favor of a “mixed strategy.”  “We could well see another unanimous decision for no
additional stimulus,” said Simon Wells, an economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London and a former BOE official. “Some members
see forward guidance as being about reinforcing the recovery
that’s underway, and their job now is not to kill it off.”  Recovery Momentum  Since the July decision, reports have shown the recovery
gained traction. The economy expanded 0.6 percent in the second
quarter after growing 0.3 percent in the first three months of
the year, and  unemployment claims  fell at the fastest pace in
three years in June. A report today showed  manufacturing growth 
accelerated to the fastest in 28 months in July.  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, this
week increased the higher end of its full-year profit target by
10 million pounds to 675 million pounds as it sold more summer
items at full price.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the maker of
Nurofen painkillers, said on July 29 that sales growth this year
will be at the higher end of its forecast range.  Still, credit data show that lending remains weak,
suggesting further measures are needed to complement the BOE’s
Funding for Lending Scheme.  Mortgage approvals  dropped in June
and business lending fell 1.3 billion pounds,  Forward guidance should bolster consumer borrowing “by
providing reassurance that interest rates will stay low for a
prolonged period,” Martin Beck, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a research note. “But with
memories scarred by recent experience, and banks seeking to
rebuild capital, the expansion in credit looks set to remain
modest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  