-- Celltrion Jumps to Record on AstraZeneca Takeover Bid Report
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-07-31T10:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/celltrion-jumps-to-record-high-on-astrazeneca-bid-speculation.html
Celltrion Inc. (068270)  jumped to a record in
Seoul trading on speculation the South Korean maker of
biological drugs may be bought by  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   Celltrion shares rose by the daily limit of 15 percent to
65,400 won, the highest since the stock began trading in 2005,
and giving the company a market value of 6.6 trillion won ($5.9
billion). Executives at Incheon-based Celltrion have contacted
various global companies about a possible sale since April and
are in talks with the U.K. drugmaker, Seoul-based Financial News
reported today, citing investment bankers it didn’t name.  Celltrion Chairman Seo Jung Jin plans to sell his stake in
Celltrion and two affiliates to a “multinational”
pharmaceutical company, the drugmaker said in an e-mailed
statement in April, without giving further details.  AstraZeneca doesn’t comment on market speculation,
spokeswoman Ayesha Bharmal said by phone in  London  today.
Celltrion spokesman Kim Joon Seok also declined to comment on
the Financial News report.  AstraZeneca has been scouting small to mid-sized
acquisitions as its best-selling drugs face generic competition.
Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said he would pursue deals
of $3 billion to $4 billion and would consider larger ones if
they were a good fit. Celltrion was one of two companies to win
European backing in June to sell the first copies of  Johnson &
Johnson’s (JNJ)  Remicade, a $6 billion therapy for arthritis.  AstraZeneca is looking to add products in the core areas of
respiratory, inflammation and autoimmune diseases,
cardiovascular and metabolic illnesses, and cancer. It announced
today that it would pay as much as $815 million plus possible
royalties to license an anemia drug from FibroGen Inc. The
companies will test the treatment in patients with chronic
 kidney disease  and end-stage renal disease in late-phase trials
in the U.S. and  China .  AstraZeneca is also preparing a bid for  Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , which would give it cancer medicines
including blood cancer treatment Kyprolis, two people familiar
with the matter said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  