-- Chemical-Board Probe Delays May Harm U.S. Prevention Role
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/chemical-safety-board-urged-by-watchdog-to-speed-probes.html
Probes of incidents such as fires and
explosions at plants and refineries by federal officials take
too long, putting the  U.S. Chemical Safety Board ’s mission to
prevent accidents at risk, a U.S.  government watchdog  said.  The agency, an independent panel that examines such
accidents and issues recommendations for companies and
regulators, has a case backlog “without documented plans for
resolution,” according to a report released yesterday by the
agency’s inspector general.  “By completing more timely investigations, CSB can better
fulfill its mission” and “help reduce the occurrence of
similar incidents,” said the report by the Office of Inspector
General for the Environmental Protection Agency, which acts as
the watchdog for the three-member chemical board.  The safety of chemical plants, refineries and fertilizer
factories has become a priority in  Washington  following several
deadly mishaps, including the April fire and explosion at a
fertilizer depot in West,  Texas , that killed 14 people.  The board examines industrial accidents and recommends
preventive steps for regulators, such as the Environmental
Protection Agency and Labor Department, as well as companies,
states and local authorities. The Washington-based agency lacks
the authority to force regulators or companies to make
recommended changes.  While the board agrees that “it is desirable to complete
reports more quickly,” in a response to the report it said the
watchdog “has largely missed the mark in its analysis,
overlooking the significant impact of resource constraints and
demands from Congress and other stakeholders for large-scale
investigations,” like that of the 2010  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico.  The continuing  Deepwater Horizon investigation  is the
“largest and most comprehensive ever” by the board, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  