-- Chicago Index Increases in Sign Manufacturing Is Stabilizing
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-07-31T13:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/chicago-index-climbed-in-july-in-sign-manufacturing-stabilizing.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded in July, adding to signs that a recovery in
manufacturing will support economic growth through the second
half of the year.  The MNI Chicago Report’s  business barometer  increased to
52.3 from 51.6 in June. A reading above 50 signals expansion.
The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for 54.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the
economy, is picking up steam after cuts in federal  government
spending  and higher taxes weighed on activity earlier this year.
Factory stabilization, supported by purchases such as vehicles
and housing, indicates producers are seeing improved demand
after a softer second quarter.  “You’re seeing more domestic demand, and the economy is
still definitely in a general recovery,”  Scott Brown , chief
economist for Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , said before the report. “Typically you get a lot of
little things adding small amounts, and that’s positive.”  Estimates (CHPMINDX)  in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 52 to 56. The
index averaged 54.6 in 2012 and 62.8 in 2011.  Other reports today showed the economy picked up in the
second quarter and companies hired more workers than forecast
this month.  Growth Accelerates  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.7 percent annualized
rate after a 1.1 percent gain the prior quarter, Commerce
Department figures showed. The median forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1 percent advance for last
quarter.  Consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy,
climbed 1.8 percent after increasing 2.3 percent.  Companies boosted payrolls in July by the most this year as
employers grew more optimistic demand will pick up in the second
half of the year, another report showed. The 200,000 increase in
employment was more than projected and followed a revised
198,000 gain in June that was higher than initially estimated,
according to data from the ADP Research Institute in Roseland,
 New Jersey . The median forecast of 40 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a July advance of 180,000.  Today’s Chicago report showed the  employment  gauge
decreased to 56.6 from 57.8 in the month before. The production
measure eased to 53.6 from 57.  The index of new orders declined to 53.9 from 54.6 in June,
while the gauge measuring  order backlog  climbed to 42.9 from
38.4.  Regional Measures  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
reports for an early read on the national manufacturing outlook.
The Chicago group includes goods producers and service providers
with operations in the U.S. and abroad, making the gauge a
measure of overall growth, the group has said.  Data earlier this month showed manufacturing in the  New
York  and Philadelphia regions expanded more than forecast in
July, while industrial production climbed in June. A separate
report last week showed the backlog of durable goods orders to
factories jumped 2.1 percent last month, the most since the end
of 2007.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  for
July, due tomorrow, will probably show a second month of
expansion, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gaining Confidence  Factories are getting help from rising  consumer confidence ,
which is bolstering household demand for manufactured products
as Americans’ views of their finances and job market improve.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index  climbed  to a more than
five-year high this month, presaging the six-year high by the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment. The Conference Board’s Consumer Confidence declined
this month, tempered by growing concern over higher borrowing
costs and gasoline prices, a report showed yesterday.  General Motors Co. (GM)  posted adjusted second-quarter earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates as “a healthy dose of pent-up
demand” helped support its launch of the Chevrolet Silverado
and GMC Sierra models, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said
on a July 25 conference call.  GM outsold Toyota Motor Corp. for the first time in six
quarters during the period ended June, highlighting the
resurgence of U.S. automakers. The 2.48 million vehicles that
Toyota and its subsidiaries sold during the quarter, based on
monthly figures reported this month, was shy of the 2.49 million
that Detroit-based GM disclosed earlier this month.  Automakers that typically would be closing shop this month
for annual retooling are either shortening or canceling the
shutdowns because of increased demand. Cars and light trucks
sold at a 15.9 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate in
June, the strongest since November 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  