-- Chinese Banks May See Profit Decline on Crackdown, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-07-31T09:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/chinese-banks-may-see-profit-decline-on-crackdown-jpmorgan-says.html
Chinese banks’ profits may decline
in the next three years as a government crackdown on industrial
overcapacity slows lending and sours loans, said JPMorgan
Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd.  Credit growth may slow to the mid-teens over the next 18
months, from the 20 percent to 25 percent gains in recent years,
Josh Klaczek, head of Asia financial services, told reporters in
Hong Kong today. Klaczek didn’t specify which bank could see
earnings drop.  Premier  Li Keqiang  has pledged to curb overcapacity, which
the government blames for driving down prices of goods, eroding
company profits and generating pollution.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) ,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,
Agricultural  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , and Bank of China Ltd. were
among the world’s five most profitable lenders last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Growth and profits would be increasingly challenged,”
Klaczek said. “Given the pressures we are seeing right now in
terms of asset quality, in terms of slower revenue growth versus
rising costs, and then on top of that potential interest rate
liberalization, that’s a recipe for earnings falling.”  China this month eliminated the lower limit on lending
rates offered by the nation’s financial institutions as Li seeks
to expand the role of markets in the economy,  Social Financing  The nine mainland banks trading in Hong Kong have been
reporting consecutive annual profit growth since 2009 as the
nation’s stimulus program created a $2.7 trillion credit boom.  Total social financing , which includes bank loans, bond and
equity sales, as well as shadow banking, was 1.04 trillion  yuan 
($170 billion) in June, 13 percent less than the previous month,
data from the People’s Bank of China show. That compared with a
56 percent gain in January, when credit increased by 2.5
trillion yuan.  Monthly social financing may be about 1 trillion yuan for
the rest of 2013, Klaczek said.  Bad loans climbed by 33.6 billion yuan in the three months
ended March 31, a sixth straight quarter it increased, data from
the China Banking Regulatory Commission show.  “China two years ago had way more capital than everyone
else,” Klaczek said. “I no longer think it’s a case of
overcapitalized. I think they are actually just at the line.”  The expansion of non-performing loans will depress profit
and curb the ability of banks to increase dividends, Klaczek
said. If more loans sour, lenders may need to raise capital, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  