-- China’s 58.com Listings Website Said to Plan U.S. IPO This Year
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   F o x   H u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-31T15:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/china-s-58-com-listings-website-said-to-plan-u-s-ipo-this-year.html
58.com , a Chinese local classified-ad website, plans to seek at least $100 million in an initial
public offering in the U.S. this year, said people familiar with
the matter.  The company is working with Credit Suisse Group AG and
Morgan Stanley, said two of the people, who asked not to be
named because the process is private. Beijing-based 58.com may
also be working with additional banks, one person said.  58.com would become only the second mainland China-based
company to complete a U.S. IPO this year and the fourth to do so
since the end of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Slowing
economic growth in Asia and increased concern among U.S.
investors over accounting and auditing standards at Chinese
companies stemmed the flow of offerings from that country, which
peaked in 2010, when 41 such offerings in the U.S. raised $4.1
billion, the data show.  Most recently, Chinese companies completing U.S. IPOs have
made money for investors.  YY Inc. (YY) , a Guangzhou-based social-networking site, raised $94.2 million last year including an
over-allotment option, and has more than tripled in trading.
 LightInTheBox Holding Co. (LITB) , an online retailer based in Beijing,
raised $90.7 million in June including an over-allotment and had
gained more than 75 percent in trading through yesterday.  Calls to 58.com offices seeking comment during business
hours today weren’t returned. Spokesmen for Credit Suisse and
Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  