-- China Swap Rates Drop a 2nd Day as PBOC Signals Cash Injection
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-31T02:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/china-swap-rates-drop-a-2nd-day-as-pboc-signals-cash-injection.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
fell for a second day after the central bank signaled it may
inject more cash into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China asked banks to submit orders for
14-day reverse-repurchase agreements this morning as well as for
28-day repurchase contracts, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. The authority added 17
billion yuan ($2.8 billion) to the system yesterday at a yield
of 4.4 percent using seven-day reverse repos, the first time it
conducted such operations since February.  “The message is still a positive sign that the PBOC would
like to ease the tight liquidity situation,” said Rees Kam, a
strategist at SJS Markets Ltd., a Hong Kong-based financial
services company that specializes in fixed income. “Rates are
likely to stabilize.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.99 percent as of 10:30 a.m.
in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contract rose two basis points this month.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of the availability of
cash in the banking system, dropped four basis points to 4.96
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It fell 120 basis points this
month after reaching a record 12.45 percent on June 20.  A total of 85 billion  yuan  of central bank bills will
mature this week, compared with zero last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The central bank also gauged demand for 91-day
securities tomorrow, according to the trader.  Authorities will maintain steady second-half expansion amid
“extremely complicated domestic and international conditions,”
the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday after a
meeting led by President Xi Jinping. China will keep a prudent
monetary policy and a proactive fiscal stance, Xinhua said. The
government is targeting 7.5 percent growth this year, a goal
that could be under threat after expansion slowed for a second
quarter in the three months through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  