-- China Fracking Quake-Prone Province Shows Zeal for Gas
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-08-01T13:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/china-fracking-quake-prone-province-shows-zeal-for-gas.html
China  won’t let earthquakes hinder
its quest for energy.  Companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and China National
Petroleum Corp. are starting to drill for gas and oil in shale
rock in Sichuan, the nation’s most seismically active province,
a process geologists say raises the risk of triggering quakes.  “For the Sichuan basin, earthquakes are a problem for
shale gas and shale oil production because of the tectonic
conditions,” said Shu Jiang, a professor at the University of
Utah’s Energy & Geoscience Institute in  Salt Lake City . “The
siting of the wells could cause some artificial earthquakes.”  China’s shale gas reserves may be almost double those of
the U.S., where unlocking the commodity slashed energy costs,
reduced imports and raised the prospect of energy independence.  The U.S. shale boom may add as much as $690 billion a year
to GDP and create 1.7 million jobs by 2020, according to a  study 
by McKinsey & Co. For China, emulating the U.S. would provide
greater  energy security  and help curtail dependence on burning
coal that blankets cities in smog.  “Once they crack the code on shale, they’ll want to push
aggressively on it,” said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., referring to geological and regulatory
issues surrounding development.  Heavily Faulted  A key step in producing shale gas is hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, where millions of gallons of pressurized water,
chemicals and sand are injected underground to shatter rock and
release trapped gas. Afterward, some of the liquids return to
the surface and often are disposed of in underground wells.  Disposal of waste fluid has been linked to quakes in the
U.S. and China.  Sichuan lies at the crossroads of some of the earth’s most
active  fault lines .  “The Sichuan basin is at the edge of the biggest
continental collision in the world,  India  smashing into  Asia ,”
said Julio Friedmann, chief energy technologist at the Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory and former research scientist at
Exxon Mobil Corp. “That’s stressing the continental crust.”  More than 2,700 quakes of varying magnitude were recorded
around an underground injection well in Zigong, Sichuan, during
a three-and-a-half year study by the Earthquake Administration
Bureaux of Sichuan, Hebei and Zigong Municipality.  “With the beginning of increased water-pressure injection,
seismic activity around the test well showed a significant
increase,” researchers led by Zhang Zhiwei wrote in a 2012
 paper .  Fracking was linked to minor earthquakes near Blackpool,
 England . The U.K. placed a moratorium on the process for 18
months to assess the well. Drilling resumed in December.  Since 2000, a flurry of mostly small, yet unusual temblors
were recorded in the central part of the U.S., prompting the
Department of the Interior to commission a study of the events
in  Oklahoma ,  Texas ,  Colorado ,  Ohio  and  Arkansas .  Wastewater Wells  The investigation by the  U.S. Geological Survey  did not
suggest that fracking was causing the increase in quakes, though
noted: “USGS scientists have  found , however, that at some
locations the increase in seismicity coincides with the
injection of wastewater in deep disposal wells.”  While most induced temblors are not strong enough to be
felt on the surface, a 5.7-magnitude  earthquake  linked to a
disposal well in November 2011 in Oklahoma knocked down 14 homes
and injured two people. Sichuan is almost eight times more
densely populated than Oklahoma.  A 2008 earthquake in Wenchuan, Sichuan, the most powerful
in China in more than a decade, killed 69,227 people, including
5,335 schoolchildren, after thousands of classrooms crumbled.
China is home to three of the 10 deadliest earthquakes of all
time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.  Shale drilling is under way in  California , also a
seismically active region. Since the beginning of 2008, the
state had 19 quakes with a magnitude of 5 or greater, according
to the USGS. Sichuan had 59, according to the  China Earthquake
Networks Center.   Induced Earthquakes  “Anytime you’re going into an area that’s more heavily
faulted, the risk is higher that you could cause induced
earthquakes,” said Briana Mordick, a staff scientist at the
Natural Resource Defense Council and former geologist at
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  “Sichuan is definitely a concern.”  Mordick said calculating seismic risk from tectonic stress
is not simple.  Southwest China, which includes Sichuan, and the Upper
Yangzi area account for 40 percent of the country’s shale gas
reserves, according to the Ministry of Land and Resources. China
aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of shale gas by 2015
and as much as 100 billion cubic meters by 2020, from zero
output this year. Current  regulations  don’t require earthquake
surveys as part of the standard environmental impact assessment.  The Ministry, which regulates the oil and gas industry,
didn’t respond to calls and faxes seeking clarity on rules
governing seismic studies before drilling.  Pre-Drill Analysis  “We do detailed structural analysis as routine part of our
pre-drill evaluation,” Shi Jiangtao, a Shell spokesman in
Beijing, said in an e-mail. “This means that we evaluate the
geology by using seismic, surface geology, nearby well data,
etc.”  Shell, which plans to invest $1 billion a year in China’s
shale gas industry, declined to comment directly on earthquake
hazards in Sichuan. China National Petroleum, Shell’s  partner ,
didn’t respond to an e-mailed list of questions. China
Petrochemical Corp., which is also drilling in the area, didn’t
respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  