-- China Developers Rise on Policy Easing Hopes: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-31T08:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/china-developers-rise-on-policy-easing-hopes-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developers’ stocks rose the
most in a week after the government’s ruling Politburo endorsed
the development of the  property market .  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index advanced 2.1
percent at the close of trading, the biggest gain among five
industry groups on the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  China
Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed developer on mainland exchanges,
climbed 2.8 percent to 9.52  yuan  in Shenzhen.  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048) , the second largest, added 3.2 percent to 10.19 yuan.  China will seek “stable and healthy” development of the
property market, the government said on its website after a
meeting led by President  Xi Jinping  yesterday. It is the first
time this year that the government didn’t mention further
tightening of the property market, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG and Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd.  “Investors have been watching the direction of the
government policy after the new leadership came to power,” Jack Gong, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Orient Finance,
said. “Yesterday’s statement sent out a clear signal that it
will head to an easing direction in the second half of the year.
It may also be a move by the government to help developers amid
the credit crunch and boost the economy.”  Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year
campaign to cool  home prices , ordering the central bank to raise
down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains and telling local governments with the
biggest price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits.  A slowdown in economic growth for a second quarter means
the government can’t afford to crack down on the property market
further, Gong said.  In  Hong Kong , eight out of the 10 best performers on the
MSCI China Index were Chinese developers.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest state-owned developer, rose to the
highest in almost two months, adding 1.6 percent to HK$22.35,
while Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. jumped by the most in three
weeks, advancing 6.7 percent to HK$12.06.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  