-- China Air Pollution Triple WHO Recommended Levels in First Half
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-31T07:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/china-air-pollution-triple-who-recommended-levels-in-first-half.html
Air pollution in  China ’s largest
cities, as measured by the concentration of fine particulates
that pose the greatest health risk, was three-times worse in the
first half of the year than levels advised by the  World Health
Organization .  The average concentration of PM2.5 particulates in 74
cities monitored by China’s Ministry of Environmental Protection
was 76 micrograms per cubic meter in the first six months, the
agency said in a  statement  today. That compares with the WHO’s
recommendation of no higher than 25 for day-long exposure.  Seven of the 10 cities with the worst air pollution were in
the northern province of Hebei, the ministry said. Hebei is
China’s biggest steel producing region.  Air quality  in the
provincial capital of Shijiazhuang failed to meet government
standards on 90 percent of days in the first half, it said. The
PM2.5 standard for cities is 35 micrograms, the report said.  China has sought to reduce pollution by curbing the burning
of coal, limiting vehicle traffic and closing some factories as
part of efforts to ease public anger about dirty air and water.
Pollution is the top reason for social unrest in China, Chen
Jiping, a former leading member of the Communist Party’s
Committee of Political and Legislative Affairs, said in March.  Air quality in Beijing, which is surrounded by Hebei, was
worse than government standards on more than 60 percent of days
in the first half, according to the ministry. Beijing was not
among the 10 most polluted cities, which included Xi’an, Jinan,
Zhengzhou, Tangshan and Shijiazhuang.  In Guangdong province’s  Pearl River Delta , which is
neighbors  Hong Kong , air quality met standards on almost 80
percent of days in the first half, according to the ministry.
Shanghai met standards on 65.2 percent of days and had no days
rated as “heavily polluted,” it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  