-- Christie Calls Paul ‘Juvenile’ for ‘Bacon King’ Remark
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/christie-calls-paul-s-public-comments-on-him-juvenile-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
described U.S. Senator Rand Paul as “juvenile” for calling him
“the king of bacon” and declined the Kentucky Republican’s
invite to  Washington  to settle their differences over a beer.  “I’m not offended by Senator Paul calling me names,”
Christie said during his “Ask the Governor” show broadcast by
Townsquare Media LLC’s WKXW-FM radio station in Ewing yesterday.
“I think it’s juvenile, but I’m not offended by it.”  The day before on CNN, Paul, 50, said Christie was “the
king of bacon” who is using the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to
further a “gimme, gimme, gimme” agenda for federal spending.  Christie last week referred to Paul, a possible rival in
the 2016 Republican presidential primaries, as a subscriber to
“dangerous” political ideas that value individual liberties
over government power and national security. Earlier today, Paul
said on a  Fox News  show that he and the governor should “patch
things up” over a beer.  “I’m running for re-election in New Jersey,” said
Christie, who is 50 years old. “I really don’t have time for
that at the moment. I’ve got work to do here.”  The governor’s bid for a second term in November has
benefitted from New Jersey voter-approval ratings that rose to
records following his response to  Hurricane Sandy . However, he
has drawn criticism from some national Republicans for praising
President  Barack Obama ’s help after the October storm and for
scolding party colleagues in Congress for aid delays.  Critical Comments  Christie set off a back-and-forth with Paul on July 25
during a roundtable discussion with Republican governors in
which he criticized those politicians who place civil liberties
above efforts to protect the nation from another attack.  “I just want us to be really cautious of this strain of
libertarianism that is going through both parties right now and
making big headlines,” Christie said during the event in Aspen,
 Colorado . “I think it is a very dangerous thought.”  Paul, Christie said, was among “any number of people who
engage in” the libertarian debates over such issues as the U.S.
National Security Agency’s tracking of Americans’ international
telephone calls and e-mails sent abroad.  Divisions have split Democrats and Republicans alike in
Washington over such issues as  privacy rights  that conflict with
anti-terrorism measures. Christie is at odds with some in his
party, including Paul, who have accused the Obama administration
of trampling civil liberties in the name of  homeland security .  ‘Without Warrants’  “Christie worries about the dangers of freedom,” Paul
said on the Twitter Inc. website. “I worry about the danger of
losing that freedom. Spying without warrants is
unconstitutional.”  U.S. lawmakers angry about domestic telephone record-collection lost an effort July 24 to curtail funding for the
intelligence-gathering tools revealed by fugitive U.S. security
contractor Edward Snowden. On a 205-217 vote, the  House of
Representatives  rejected an amendment from Republican Justin Amash, a congressman from   Michigan , that would have limited the
NSA’s ability to collect telephone records.  Christie, a former federal prosecutor who lives in the  New
York  City suburb of Mendham Township, has spoken about friends
of his four children who lost parents in the Sept. 11 terrorist
attack on the World Trade Center. He’s also recounted his
anxiety over the whereabouts that day of his wife, Mary Pat Christie, a bond trader who was two blocks from where the
hijacked aircraft struck and couldn’t contact her family to tell
them she was safe until many hours later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  