-- Colombia’s Richest Man Saves Bank Debt From Junk Ignominy
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-07-31T17:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/colombia-s-richest-man-saves-bank-debt-from-junk-ignominy.html
Billionaire  Luis Carlos Sarmiento  Angulo’s plan to pump capital into  Banco de Bogota SA (BOGOTA)  is helping
to stave off a credit downgrade after  Colombia ’s second-biggest
lender agreed to pay $901 million for two takeovers in a month.  The bank’s $500 million of subordinated bonds due 2023 have
returned 1.7 percent in July, the most among South American non-government-owned bank bonds with triple-B ratings and similar
maturities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
almost five times the average gain for the 11 bank bonds and
compares with a 1.6 percent loss during the period for the 2021
notes from  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , Colombia’s biggest bank.  While Banco de Bogota’s bonds still yield 5.6 percent,
closer to the level of a junk-rated security than to their own
 investment grade  of Baa3, Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
their status because of the bank’s plan to raise $500 million of
capital. The bank’s parent company,  Grupo Aval Acciones Y
Valores (AVAL)  SA, which is  controlled  by Sarmiento Angulo, announced
the capital raise on July 24.  “The market believes in Aval’s capacity to capitalize the
bank, and then to get its own funds to pay for it,” Jennifer Stubbert, a fixed-income trader at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s Miami
brokerage unit, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“When there’s that type of control, then investors aren’t
concerned about the implementation, because they don’t have to
deal with opposition.”  ‘Available Resources’  Banco de Bogota said June 26 that it agreed to buy
Guatemala’s Grupo Financiero Reformador for $411 million. The
bank said it would pay for the deal with “available
resources.”  Aval announced July 19 that Banco de Bogota would buy Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A.’s Panama unit for $490 million.  A few days afterward, Bogota-based Aval said it would
propose to raise $500 million to support the Panama transaction
through a share offering. In a separate e-mail at the time, Aval
said it intends to participate in the offering along with
minority holders. The acquisition is expected to close by year-end.  Aval owned 66.5 percent of Banco de Bogota’s shares as of
July 22, with Sarmiento Angulo owning another 9.6 percent,
according to a regulatory U.S. filing. Sarmiento Angulo, 80,
owns 95 percent of the voting shares of Aval. He’s Colombia’s
richest person with a net worth of $17.4 billion, based on the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  ‘Low Levels’  In May, Aval said it’s considering an equity offering in
the U.S. to raise money to capitalize its banking subsidiaries,
principally Banco de Bogota.  Aval and Banco de Bogota press officials didn’t reply to e-mails seeking comment. Sarmiento Angulo didn’t respond to an
interview request sent to his office.  Without the extra equity at Banco de Bogota,  capital ratios 
once the Panama deal closes “would be reduced from already low
levels,” Moody’s said in a July 26 statement. “Any delay or
failure to capitalize Banco de Bogota” could lead to negative
rating actions, according to the statement.  A cut would have brought Banco de Bogota’s subordinated
bonds to junk grade from the current Baa3, which is the lowest
investment grade, Felipe Carvallo, an analyst at Moody’s, said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Yield Spread  Banco Santander SA analysts Boris Molina and Luis Guzman
estimated in a June 18 report that Banco de Bogota had a core
Tier 1 capital ratio -- a measure of how well capitalized a bank
is -- of 4.1 percent at the end of 2012. That’s “below the 4.5
percent minimum capital ratio and far below the 7 percent
level” under international banking standards that’s supposed to
trigger dividend restrictions, executive pay cuts or mandatory
capital increases, they wrote.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped two
basis points to 175 basis points at 1:52 p.m. in  New York ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Colombia’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
rose one basis points to 135 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The country’s peso weakened 0.2 percent
to 1,894.94 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  