-- Commodity-Linked Structured Note Sales Slump to Nine-Year Low
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-07-31T10:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/commodity-linked-structured-note-sales-slump-to-nine-year-low.html
Banks are selling the least
structured notes tied to commodities in nine years as investors
shun the securities amid a slowdown in  China ’s economy and the
prospect of the U.S. Federal Reserve winding down stimulus.  Global issuance in the first half of the year fell to about
$2 billion, 41 percent lower than the same period of 2012 and
the least since 2004 with securities linked to oil and gold
among the biggest losers, according to a report from Barclays
Plc. In the U.S., banks sold $689.6 million of the securities in
the same period, the lowest since at least 2010, and have added
$70.9 million this month through July 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Demand for commodity structures is definitely subdued
this year,” Richard Couzens, London-based head of investor
solutions product origination at Barclays Plc, said in a
telephone interview. “All eyes have been on what the Fed will
do, the state of the Chinese growth story and geopolitical
tensions in  Egypt  and elsewhere, all of which have driven demand
across commodity sectors to varying degrees.”  The value of commodity assets under management dropped by
$63 billion in the second quarter, mainly because of investors
withdrawing money from gold holdings such as exchange-traded
funds, Barclays said. Banks have sold $144.8 million of U.S.
structured notes tied to gold this year, down from $424.5
million during the same period last year, as the metal’s price
fell 21 percent to $1,331.8 an ounce at 08.30 a.m. in  London .  Gold Risks  Gold and silver face the greatest risk of declines among
commodities after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central
bank may start trimming bond purchases later this year,
according to Barclays.  Bernanke rattled markets on May 22 by telling Congress that
the Fed may reduce the pace of its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds if the economy showed
sustained improvement. On July 17 he assuaged investor concern
that the central bank would yank stimulus measures, saying that
the Fed plans to maintain a “high degree” of monetary
accommodation.  While most commodity-tied notes have fallen out of favor,
demand for securities linked to West Texas Intermediate crude
oil has risen in the past month, Couzens said, after it climbed
to an almost 17-month high on an intraday basis earlier in July.  Barclays sold $24.1 million of one-year notes tied to the
benchmark on July 17, the largest offering linked to oil since
September, Bloomberg data show. Offerings of oil-linked notes
total $151.9 million this year compared with $416.3 million in
the same period of 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Oil Futures  A pricing condition for WTI futures whereby short-term
contracts are more expensive than longer-dated equivalents,
known as “backwardation,” has helped push up issuance in July,
Couzens said. Backwardation is more pronounced for WTI than for
Brent crude, allowing banks to create higher coupons on
securities tied to that type of oil, said Jerome Gaudry, the
London-based head of commodity structuring at Natixis SA.  Base metals, including copper, will suffer falling demand,
Barclays said, as China’s economy grew 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the first
three months. The London-based bank is the only issuer to sell a
structured note in the U.S. tied to copper this year, raising
$800,000, Bloomberg data show.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities from
corn to natural gas has fallen 2 percent this year to 632.7.  “Many investors typically invest in what they read about
in the newspapers, which means gold and oil,” said Ingo Ramming, London-based co-head of commodity solutions at
Commerzbank AG. “The developments in gold this year have had a
big impact on issuance and investor demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  