-- Congress Votes to End Fixed Interest for Student Loans
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/congress-votes-to-end-fixed-interest-for-student-loans.html
The  U.S. Congress  gave final approval
yesterday to a bill that pegs interest on government-sponsored
student borrowing to a market-based rate, ensuring that almost 9
million undergraduates will pay 3.86 percent on their next loan.  The Republican-run House of Representatives voted 392-31 to
accept changes made by the Democratic-led Senate to a measure
that it first passed in May. That clears the bill, H.R. 1911,
for the signature of President  Barack Obama , who backs the
compromise. In his budget proposal this year, Obama called for
linking Stafford and PLUS loan rates to the government’s
borrowing costs.  Enactment of the legislation will provide certainty to
students who rely on government loans and to lenders such as  SLM
Corp. (SLM) , popularly known as  Sallie Mae , and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “Sallie and other private lenders can know where federal
loan rates are going to be and therefore plan accordingly,”
said Michael Tarkan, a Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
analyst in  Washington . “The competition from the private side
will go up against the federal PLUS Loan market.”  The new rates, pegged to 10-year Treasury note  yields , will
be retroactive to July 1 -- the day that interest costs for
subsidized Stafford loans doubled to 6.8 percent from 3.4
percent, rising to the rate for unsubsidized loans.  Loan Subsidies  The government pays the interest on subsidized loans while
students are in school. Those loans are disbursed based on
financial need, while unsubsidized loans have no income
requirement. Students take out new loans for each academic year.  Senate Democrats  had resisted proposals by both  House
Republicans  and Obama to tie student borrowing costs to
Treasuries, which fluctuate. Previously, rates had been set by
lawmakers.  The legislative impasse prevented Congress from averting
the previously scheduled July 1 doubling of rates for about 7
million low-income students who use subsidized Stafford loans.  Republicans had highlighted the division between Obama and
Senate Democrats, with leaders of the House majority repeatedly
calling on the Senate to pass a measure meeting the president’s
call for  interest rates  to reflect government borrowing costs.  The breakthrough came on July 18, when a bipartisan group
of eight senators agreed to a compromise that the Senate passed,
81-18, on July 24. Republican negotiators led by Tennessee
Senator  Lamar Alexander , a former U.S. education secretary,
agreed to a demand by Democrats that rates for undergraduate
loans be capped at 8.25 percent.  PLUS Loans  Costs for about 1.5 million graduate students who take out
Stafford loans will be capped at 9.5 percent. The rate limit on
PLUS loans for more than 1 million graduate students and parents
of undergraduates will be 10.5 percent.  Stafford loans restrict the amount that can be borrowed,
while PLUS loans don’t.  “It’s about time that bipartisanship on this issue won the
day,” said Republican Representative Virginia Foxx of  North
Carolina , who leads the higher-education panel of the Education
and Workforce Committee.  House Republicans “warmly welcomed” Obama’s proposal for
market-based rates and passed legislation “well before” the
July 1 deadline, Foxx said during debate on the bill. Senate
Democrats instead “chose infighting” over bipartisanship, she
said. Republicans blamed Senate Democrats for allowing rates to
double on subsidized loans.  Early Action  “The House acted early, long before the deadline,”
Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California Republican, told
reporters. “The Senate went through a lot of different
movements,” he said.  California Representative  George Miller , the top Democrat
on the education panel, said during the debate yesterday that
the compromise produced by the Senate is a “vast improvement”
over the original House bill and was worth the wait.  “This bill saves $25 billion for those students over the
next five years” compared with the initial House measure,
Miller said. The earlier version called for rates to vary on
loans after they had been made.  A leading Democratic opponent of variable rates, Rhode
Island Senator  Jack Reed , argued that the bill marked a
“fundamental shift” in how Congress dealt with  student loans .
Under the bill, he said, students in college now will benefit
from lower interest that may be financed by students who won’t
start college for four or five years, should rates rise.  Program History  When the direct student loan program began in 1992, 91-day
Treasury bills determined subsidized Stafford loan rates. A
decade later, a four-year transition began to a fixed rate of
6.8 percent for Stafford loans, which started in July 2006.  In 2007, Congress cut the interest in steps to 3.4 percent
for subsidized Stafford loans. That rate was to end on July 1,
2012, and jump to 6.8 percent. Responding to Obama’s election-year call to keep borrowing costs low for financially needy
students, Congress extended the lower rate for another year.  When that rate doubled July 1, it put all Stafford loans at
a fixed cost of 6.8 percent. The increase put pressure on
lawmakers to act ahead of a five-week recess set to begin at the
end of this week, so that students returning to college this
month wouldn’t see their expenses climb.  Democrats Blamed  Under the measure passed yesterday, all undergraduate
Stafford borrowers will pay 2.05 percentage points more than the
10-year Treasury note yield set at the last auction before June.  That figure was set at 1.81 percent on May 15. So the rate
for undergraduate Stafford loans for the coming school year will
be 3.86 percent.  Stafford loans for graduate students will be 3.6 percentage
points more than the 10-year Treasury yield, or 5.41 percent for
the 2013-2014 academic year, under the legislation. PLUS loans
will be marked up 4.6 percentage points to 6.41 percent.  The original House bill would have forced borrowers to pay
a variable interest rate on the total amount owed, capped at 8.5
percent. The measure that passed fixes each year’s loan, letting
students lock in their costs.  “Like the 30-year mortgage, once you take out the loan,
you know what your rate is going to be so you can plan on it,”
House Minority Whip  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, told
reporters July 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net . 