-- Cox Asks Court to End Trust for Billionaire Anne Chambers
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-08-01T18:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/cox-asks-court-to-end-trust-for-billionaire-anne-chambers.html
The chairman of Cox Enterprises Inc.,
owner the third-largest U.S. cable operator, asked a judge to
dissolve a 1941 trust for Anne Cox Chambers, his billionaire
aunt and the company’s biggest shareholder, to free the money
for relatives and charities.  The trust, started by Chambers’s father, Ohio Governor
James M. Cox, the Democratic presidential nominee in 1920, holds
almost 175 million shares in closely held Cox Enterprises,
according to a July 30 filing in state court in Atlanta by  James Cox  Kennedy, the company chairman.  Chambers, 93, owns 49 percent of Cox Enterprises, which
publishes the Atlanta Journal Constitution and runs dozens of TV
and radio stations through its Cox Media Group unit. She has an
estimated net worth of $8.1 billion and is the world’s 147th
richest person, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The filing is related solely to the Cox family’s goal of
maintaining family ownership and control of Cox Enterprises,” a
company spokesman, Bob Jimenez, said yesterday by e-mail. He
declined to say how the move would affirm family control.  The proposal has been agreed upon by all of the parties
involved and isn’t a legal dispute with Chambers, Kennedy’s
lawyer,  James Spratt , said yesterday in a phone interview. He
and Jimenez declined to provide Chambers’s contact information
or name her lawyer or law firm.  Charities’ Share  The petition was filed in court because the terms of the
72-year-old trust say only a judge can dissolve it. The proposal
would give about 8 million shares to charities, with the rest
distributed to the family.  Chambers “has no further need of financial support from
the trust, as evidenced by her decision to give away 100 percent
of her income interest in the trust to charities,” according to
the filing.  Under the terms of the trust, the contract will be
dissolved when Chambers dies. The family wants to break the
trust sooner since she and her descendants no longer need it,
according to the petition.  “Governor Cox’s intent to have the trust support Mrs.
Chambers financially during her life has already been
fulfilled,” according to the filing.  Chambers gives her income from the trust to 32 charities.  Proceeds Split  Proceeds from dissolving the contract would be split among
her descendants, as well as organizations including the
Community Foundation for Greater Atlanta, the Atlanta Botanical
Garden, the Whitney Museum of American Art and the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art in  New York , according to the filing.  Other charities that stand to benefit are the Atlanta
Humane Society, the Atlanta Historical Society, Bard College,
 Emory University  and the Museum of  Modern Art , Kennedy said in
the petition.  Chambers’s descendants transferred portions of their
interests in the trust to Cox Enterprises through  Georgia  state
courts on several occasions from 1987 to 2009, giving the
company about a 25 percent stake in the trust’s remaining
interest, according to the filing.  The trust holds shares in Atlanta Journal Co., a
predecessor to Cox Enterprises, according to the filing.  James Cox founded Cox Enterprises when he bought the Dayton
Evening News of  Ohio  in 1898. His son, James Jr., bought radio
and television stations.  In the 1960s, Cox became one of the first companies to
invest in cable TV, buying systems in Pennsylvania, California
and Oregon, according to Hoover’s Inc.  The case is Kennedy v. Chambers, 2013CV234409, Superior
Court of Fulton County, State of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 