-- Crude Caps Biggest Monthly Gain Since August
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-07-31T19:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/crude-heads-for-best-month-since-august-on-u-s-gdp.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed, capping the biggest monthly gain since August, as
inventories at a major hub dropped to a 15-month low and the
 U.S. economy  grew more than projected in the second quarter.  Prices advanced 1.9 percent after the government said
supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York
futures, slid 4.3 percent last week. They were at a record in
January. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.7 percent annualized
rate in a Commerce Department report. Futures extended gains in
the last half hour of regular trading as the  Federal Reserve 
said it would maintain monthly bond purchases.  “If we continue to see Cushing supplies drop, it could
signify the end of the bottleneck there,” said Julius Walker,
global energy markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New
York. “It could signal that Cushing is being structurally
drained, which would be supportive of WTI, although I don’t
think we’re there yet.”  WTI for September delivery rose $1.95 to settle at $105.03
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 8.8 percent for
the month. The volume of all futures traded was 3 percent below
the 100-day average at 3:42 p.m.  Brent for September settlement advanced 79 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $107.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It increased 5.4 percent in
July. Volume was 4 percent below the 100-day average.  WTI-Brent  The European benchmark’s premium to WTI shrank to $2.67
from $3.83 yesterday. The gap has narrowed from more than $23
earlier this year as improved pipeline networks and the use of
rail links eased a North American supply glut created by rising
production of crude from shale formations.  Cushing  inventories  dropped 1.9 million barrels last week
to 42.1 million, the least since April 2012, according to the
Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm. Supplies decreased 7.53 million barrels  this
month , the most in nine years of data.  Overall U.S.  stockpiles  unexpectedly increased 431,000
barrels last week to 364.6 million, the EIA said. Stockpiles
tumbled 29.9 million in the four weeks ended July 19, the
biggest such decline since 1982.  Second-quarter GDP grew faster than the 1 percent pace
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Commerce
Department also issued comprehensive revisions with today’s
report that showed the recovery from the worst U.S. recession in
the post-World War II era has been stronger than previously
estimated.  GDP Growth  “The GDP report is significantly better than expectations
and it reinforces the concept of modest growth in the U.S.
economy,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The economic
picture in the medium and long term looks more supportive for
 oil prices .”  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country,
accounted for about a fifth of global demand in 2012, according
to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “The GDP is surprisingly good and it should be supportive
for energy demand,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at
the Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Fed Statement  Prices extended gains after the Fed said it will continue
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The central bank
offered no new details on possible tapering of the quantitative
easing policy after a two-day policy meeting at which the
central bank also kept  interest rates  unchanged.  “It shows they are not in a rush to end the QE program,”
Schenker said. “It should be bullish for crude.”  OPEC  crude output dropped for a second month in July, led
by the biggest plunge in Libyan production since the 2011 war
that overthrew  Muammar Qaddafi , a Bloomberg survey showed.  Output in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries slipped 245,000 barrels, or 0.8 percent, to an average
30.662 million barrels a day this month from a revised 30.907
million in June, according to the survey of  oil companies ,
producers and analysts.  Libya , holder of  Africa ’s biggest crude reserves, has
closed all oil terminals except Zawiya amid labor protests, Oil
Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said at a press briefing today in
Tripoli. The closures will reduce exports by some 1.1 million
barrels a day from yesterday’s level of 1.425 million, he said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.6 percent, compared with 22.1 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 539,789
contracts as of 3:42 p.m. It totaled 546,596 contracts
yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  