-- Cyprus Meets Aid Terms Even as Risks Substantial: Troika
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-07-31T14:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/cyprus-meets-aid-terms-even-as-risks-substantial-troika.html
Cyprus is complying with the terms
of its bailout program even as risks remain substantial and the
short-term economic outlook continues to be difficult, the
country’s international creditors said.  The key short-term risks to a 10 billion-euro ($13.2
billion) bailout from the euro area and the International
Monetary Fund relate to macroeconomic uncertainty and the
magnitude of the country’s recession, Delia Velculescu, the
IMF’s mission chief for Cyprus, told reporters in a conference
call today, following the completion of the first review of the
country’s adherence to its adjustment program.  The “overall assessment is that Cyprus’s program is on
track,” the so-called troika of the European Central Bank, 
European Commission and International Monetary Fund said earlier
in a  statement  posted on the ECB’s website. “All the fiscal 
targets have been met as a result of significant fiscal 
consolidation measures underway and prudent budget execution. 
The authorities have taken decisive steps to stabilize the 
financial sector and have already been relaxing deposit 
restrictions and capital controls.”  Cyprus secured the bailout in March in return for measures
including a tax on bank deposits of more than 100,000 euros.
Those concessions were demanded by creditors in a bid to shrink
the country’s banking sector and have led to the Mediterranean
island needing to impose capital controls as it wound down its
second-biggest lender.  Deposit Levy  Bank of Cyprus  exited resolution after the central bank
finalized the terms of a deposit levy at 47.5 percent yesterday.
That is 10 percentage points more than what was originally taken
from uninsured deposits at Cyprus’s biggest lender in April as
part of Cyprus’s loan deal.  Recent indicators support the program’s forecasts for a
cumulative contraction in economic growth of around 13 percent
in 2013 and 2014, according to the troika. The economy is
expected to recover modestly from 2015, driven by non-financial
services, it said.  Other risks to the implementation of the program include
the application of capital controls and refocusing Cyprus’s
business model on factors other than financial services,
Velculescu said.  While the first troika review was “positive,” major
challenges still lie ahead for Cyprus, Cypriot Finance Minister
Haris Georgiades told reporters in Nicosia today. The government
will intensify reforms, include “serious” fiscal measures in
the next state budget and is determined to ensure fiscal
viability, he said.  Euro-area finance ministers and the IMF are expected to
discuss Cyprus’s first review in September and approval would
see the disbursement of 1.5 billion euros by the European
Stability Mechanism and around 86 million euros by the IMF,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  