-- Czech Secret Service Warns Against Escalation of Ethnic Violence
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-07-31T15:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/czech-secret-service-warns-against-escalation-of-ethnic-violence.html
The threat of violence between  Czech
Republic ’s ethnic white majority and its minority Roma
population is increasing and could become a threat to national
security if not quickly addressed, the secret service said.  Anti-Roma sentiment among “ordinary citizens” has been
fanned by chronically unsolved petty crimes and public
disturbances in areas with large concentrations of Roma and
tensions are rising in several regions, the BIS said in a report
on its website yesterday.  “Anti-Roma sentiment in parts of the general population
could become a bigger threat to national security than the more
extremist but smaller and relatively well documented extreme-right groups,” BIS said in the report.  Czech police have clashed with demonstrators in a wave of
anti-Roma protests that began in May when they said a group of
Roma attacked a middle-aged couple in the northern town of
Duchcov. A month later a playground scuffle deteriorated into a
full-scale battle between the Roma and white parents in the
southern city of Ceske Budejovice. Far-right organizations have
held weekly marches that have attracting hundreds of people.  The clashes coincided with the collapse of the government
of former Prime Minister Petr Necas in a bribery and illegal
spying scandal. The popularity of his former ruling Civic
Democrat Party was also undercut by voter anger over persistent
corruption scandals and austerity measures that contributed to
the country’s longest recession in almost two decades.  A “frustrated” majority may react to even small
incidents, BIS said.  “It is necessary to start resolutely solving inter-ethnic
problems, pragmatically and without emotion,” it said.
“Otherwise in the long-term perspective there is a threat of
gradual escalation and growing skepticism among part of the
public towards the democratic principles of the Czech
Republic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 