-- Czech Central Bank Keeps Rates at Zero for Sixth Meeting
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-08-01T15:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/czech-central-bankers-to-weigh-koruna-sales-with-rates-at-zero.html
The Czech central bank’s chances of
selling koruna for the first time in more than a decade are
rising as opposing policy makers are softening their resistance,
Governor Miroslav Singer said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in Prague left its  main  interest
rate unchanged for a sixth meeting at what it calls a
“technical zero” of 0.05 percent, almost half a point below
the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark. The seven-member board
voted for the first time today on whether to start koruna sales,
Singer told reporters today. The vote failed and Singer declined
to disclose details of the ballot.  Zero rates have prompted central bankers to debate whether
the first currency interventions since 2002 are needed to battle
the longest Czech recession on record, which pushed  inflation (CZCPYOY) 
below the bank’s target. Rate setters are now balancing the risk
of slowing price growth against signs the economy is approaching
a rebound.  “The probability of starting currency interventions to
further ease monetary policy is increasing, even compared with
our previous meeting,” Singer said. “I think I can safely say
that even some members opposing interventions are clearly
shifting their views towards a higher probability that
interventions will take place.”  The  koruna  has weakened 5.5 percent since Sept. 17, a day
before Singer first signaled the bank may sell the currency. It
traded 0.1 percent weaker at 25.969 per euro as of 4:47 p.m. in
Prague.  Untested Ground  The central bank is on untested ground with rates at zero
and inflation running below its target as the $196 billion
 economy  contracted for six consecutive quarters through March.
The koruna has moved to the center of policy deliberations as
its depreciation helps boost the competitiveness of exports and
makes imports more expensive.  Singer signaled his preference for more monetary easing
last week as risks that inflation will undershoot the bank’s
goal eclipse signs of an economic revival. The bank would keep
zero  interest rates  “in the long-term” even if monetary
conditions were “relatively more relaxed,” he said in a July
23 interview.  While some indicators are showing signs that the Czech
economy is starting to bottom out, the “qualitative picture”
hasn’t changed much since the central bank’s last policy meeting
in June, according to Singer.  Lower Forecast  The central bank’s new forecast, released today, assumes a
decline in market interest rates to zero and doesn’t see a
notable increase before 2015, it said. The bank lowered its 2013
gross domestic product estimate to a 1.5 percent contraction
from a 0.5 percent decline.  “The forecast, with the existence of zero-bound monetary-policy rates, points to the need of relaxing monetary policy
through other tools,” the bank said in a statement today.  Retail (CZRSYOY)  sales unexpectedly increased for a second month in
June, and a gauge of Czech manufacturing performance rose for a
third month. Even as the economic slump deepened in the first
quarter, GDP data showed that  consumer spending  rebounded.  The HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index, a gauge of
manufacturing performance, rose for a fourth month in July to 52
from 51 in June, a report compiled by Markit, a financial-information company, showed today.  Inflation accelerated in June more than the central bank
had forecast, to 1.6 percent from 1.3 percent in the previous
month.  Price growth relevant to monetary policy and adjusted for
the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, quickened to
0.9 percent from a year earlier after 0.6 percent in May,
staying below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent
tolerance band.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  