-- DBS Faces Five-Year Lag in Indonesia as Danamon Bid Ends
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-08-01T09:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/dbs-drops-6-5-billion-danamon-bid-after-failing-to-win-control.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  Chief
Executive Officer Piyush Gupta, pulling his $6.5 billion bid for
PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia , said his ambitions in Southeast
Asia’s largest economy may be set back by about five years.  “I’m very bullish on Indonesia,” where DBS’s profit has
tripled in the past three years, Gupta said at a press briefing
in Singapore, a day after saying an agreement to acquire the
nation’s sixth-largest lender from a Temasek Holdings Pte unit
will lapse. “With the Danamon thing off the table, we will
redouble our organic efforts in Indonesia.”  Gupta’s decision to abandon what would have been Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank takeover helped ease investors’ concern that
he may pay too much for a minority stake and led to a 2.6
percent jump in DBS shares while Danamon headed for the biggest
decline in 4 1/2 years. DBS also posted 10 percent growth in
second-quarter profit as it seeks to expand  outside Singapore ,
which has the slimmest loan margins in the region.  “DBS missed out on a value-creation opportunity,” Kevin Kwek, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Singapore ,
said in a note to clients. The bank “will have to build up a
presence in Indonesia the longer and harder way.”  It may take Singapore-based DBS about five more years to
expand its own operations in Indonesia to match Danamon’s $400
million in profit, Gupta told reporters today.  Ownership Rules  DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest bank, had offered on April 2,
2012, to buy 99 percent of Danamon -- including a 67 percent
stake from Temasek’s Fullerton Financial Holdings -- for 66.4
trillion rupiah ($6.5 billion). The proposed acquisition was
hobbled after Indonesia implemented new bank ownership rules a
year ago that limited DBS to buying a 40 percent stake.  DBS said today that  second-quarter net income  climbed to
S$887 million ($697 million), led by fees and commissions and
trading income. That compared with the S$883 million average of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rival  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  also reported higher profit
for the quarter today. Southeast Asia’s third-largest lender by
assets said net income jumped 10 percent to S$783 million as
lending rose and fee and commission income gained. Earnings beat
the S$700 million average of seven analysts’ estimates.  Regional Revenue  When DBS made the Danamon bid almost 16 months ago, it said
that 2011 revenue from South and Southeast Asia would have
increased to 27 percent from 7 percent with Danamon, while its
reliance on Singapore would have declined to 49 percent from 62
percent.  The lender had sought a controlling stake in Danamon as
part of a strategy to expand in markets outside Singapore and
Hong Kong, which jointly accounted for 83 percent of its  profit 
in 2012. Average net interest margins for banks in its home
market are 1.82 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
based on the latest company filings, lagging behind lenders in
the rest of Southeast Asia. In Hong Kong, the measure is even
lower at 1.66 percent, the data show.  In contrast, Indonesian lenders are the most profitable in
the world’s 20 biggest economies, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Banks with a market value of at least $5 billion boast an
average net interest margin of 6.6 percent, the data show.  Shrinking Margin  DBS’s net interest margin shrank to 1.62 percent last
quarter from 1.72 percent a year earlier, today’s earnings
report showed. That’s the 15th straight year-on-year decline.  “Indonesia was supposed to give them a leg up in terms of
growth,” said Julian Chua, a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at
Nomura Advisory Services Sdn, who recommends investors buy DBS
shares. “There may not be that many willing sellers of such a
sizable bank.”  Shares of DBS rose 2.6 percent, the most in almost three
months, to S$17.14 at 3:04 p.m. in Singapore trading. The stock
has gained 16 percent this year.  DBS, which spent less than S$10 million pursuing the
acquisition, will now focus on expanding organically in
Indonesia instead of seeking other bank stakes, said Gupta, 53.  “I don’t really have a compulsion to do any acquisition,”
he said. “We have the opportunity to do a lot more,
particularly pushing a lot more technology into the country that
we’ve not been able to do in the last couple of years.”  DBS Indonesia  DBS’s Indonesia unit, with 43 branches at the end of last
year, had 41.8 trillion rupiah of assets, accounting for less
than 1 percent of the total in the country’s banking system,
according to Bank Indonesia data. Danamon had almost four times
DBS’s assets, at 155.8 trillion rupiah, company filings show.  Profit at DBS Indonesia has grown at a compounded annual
rate of 65 percent over the past three years and revenue has
expanded 20 percent, Gupta said. Last month, DBS invested S$100
million of capital into the unit and moved staff to a new
building, he said.  The group’s net fees and commissions from businesses
including stock broking, investment banking and wealth
management climbed 26 percent in the three months ended June
from a year earlier to S$477 million, DBS said today. Net
trading income more than doubled to S$336 million, and net
interest income rose 4 percent to S$1.38 billion. Allowances for
credit and other losses more than doubled to S$245 million.  Danamon Falls  Shares of Danamon fell 13 percent, on pace for the steepest
drop since January 2009, to 4,500 rupiah in Jakarta today. The
lender’s share price target was cut by 70 percent to 2,100
rupiah by HSBC Holdings Plc analysts led by Kar Weng Loo. DBS’s
proposed offer price would have been a 35 percent premium over
its closing price of 5,200 rupiah yesterday.  Indonesia had been using the proposed cash-and-stock
transaction to negotiate for more access for its banks -- led by
PT Bank Mandiri, PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia and PT Bank Negara
Indonesia -- in Singapore. Bank Indonesia introduced new rules
on July 13, 2012, limiting ownership in local banks by rivals to
40 percent.  DBS is reluctant to buy minority stakes because of the
capital costs associated with the new international banking
standards knows as Basel III, Gupta reiterated at the briefing
today. Those rules requiring lenders to deduct the value of
minority investments from  Tier 1 capital  make such deals
“punitive,” he said.  “We are very open to foreign investment coming to
Indonesia,” Peter Jacobs, director of communications at Bank
Indonesia, said in a Bloomberg TV interview with  Susan Li  today.
“But in certain areas, especially on the banking sector, I
think we need to be very prudent because this area is very
sensitive.”  Access Talks  The Monetary Authority of Singapore will continue to work
with Bank Indonesia to “explore further access by our
respective financial institutions into each other’s markets,” a
spokesman for the regulator said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The decision on whether to proceed with the Danamon
purchase had to be made by DBS’s board, managers and
shareholders, MAS said.  Danamon doesn’t expect “any impact” on its operations
from the lapse of the purchase agreement, CEO Henry Ho said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  DBS had proposed acquiring the 67.4 percent stake in
Danamon held by Fullerton Financial by allowing it to swap its
Danamon holdings into DBS shares. The exchange was to be at a
price of 7,000 rupiah for each Danamon share and called for DBS
to issue 439 million new shares to the Temasek unit at S$14.07
apiece, increasing the stake held in DBS by Singapore’s state-owned investment company to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent.  Following that transaction, DBS would have made a tender
offer for any remaining Danamon stock at 7,000 rupiah a share,
taking its  holding in the Indonesian bank  to 99 percent.  Fullerton Financial “will continue to be invested in
 Danamon, (BDMN) ” the Temasek unit said in a statement yesterday. “FFH
remains committed to working with all stakeholders in Indonesia
to grow and strengthen Danamon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  