-- Deepwater Wins First Auction for U.S. Offshore Wind Lease
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-08-01T00:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/deepwater-wind-wins-auction-for-first-offshore-wind-lease.html
Deepwater Wind LLC won the first
auction for offshore wind-energy development in U.S. federal
waters, agreeing to pay $3.8 million to lease two blocks off
 Massachusetts  and Rhode Island.  The closely held company, which is backed by the hedge fund
D.E. Shaw & Co., plans to put 200 turbines in the water with
total capacity of 1,000 megawatts, according to a statement
yesterday. Construction could begin in 2017, and power
production in 2018, the Providence, Rhode Island-based company
said.  The U.S. Interior Department said in the next nine months,
the government will offer leases for areas off Virginia,
 Maryland ,  New Jersey  and Massachusetts.  “This is a major step in standing up offshore wind
generation in this country,” Tommy Beaudreau, director of
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , said yesterday during a
conference call with reporters.  The  Wind Energy Area  covers 164,750 acres about 9.2
nautical miles south of the  Rhode Island  coast, and could lead
to the generation of enough power for 1 million homes, according
to the Interior Department.  Deepwater Wind won separate auctions for two blocks,
topping two other bidders. It received special consideration
because it already has a joint-development agreement with the
state of Rhode Island, and will also pay a $500,000 annual rent
until the wind farm is operating, according to the U.S. agency.  Long Island  The project may cost as much as $5 billion, including about
$1 billion for transmission systems to deliver power to shore,
Deepwater Chief Executive Officer Jeff Grybowski said yesterday
by phone. He plans to market the project’s electricity to
potential buyers in  Long Island , Rhode Island, Massachusetts and
Connecticut.  “We’re hoping that this year and next year we can start
putting the power purchase agreements together,” Grybowski
said. The project will likely be built in phases with 200
megawatts to 400 megawatts of generating capacity, he said.
“It’s unlikely we would try to sell the power all at once.”  Deepwater hasn’t selected a wind turbine vendor and plans
to use “at least 6-megawatt turbines, and possibly larger,”
Grybowski said.  The U.S. previously awarded leases to Cape Wind Associates
LLC and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  for offshore projects near Massachusetts
and Delaware deemed non-competitive by Interior.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  