-- Deutsche Bank Unit Sells Printemps Stores to Qatari Buyers
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-07-31T14:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/deutsche-bank-unit-sells-printemps-stores-to-qatari-investors.html
A  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  investment fund
and Borletti Group sold French department store owner Printemps
to a group of unidentified  Qatari investors  in a deal said to be
valued at about 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion).  The transaction’s value includes 600 million euros of debt,
said a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
named because the information is private. Deutsche Asset and
Wealth Management held 70 percent of Printemps and Luxembourg-based Borletti owned the rest, according to a statement today
from the Frankfurt-based bank.  The agreement ends months of speculation over the owner of
five French department stores, including its flagship on
Boulevard Haussmann in Paris. Deutsche Bank said in Februrary it
was in exclusive talks to sell its holding in Printemps to a
group of Qatari investors and Borletti. At the time, competitor
Galleries Lafayette also expressed interest.  “Printemps was a traditional department store with private
labels and we’ve turned it into a luxury brand store,” Gianluca
Muzzi, head of  Europe  excluding  Germany  at Deutsche Asset and
 Wealth Management  said in a phone interview. The owner sold
shops in undesirable locations and used the proceeds to upgrade
its prime sites, he said.  The Deutsche Bank unit and Borletti bought the property in
2006 for 1.08 billion euros, according to a statement at the
time from PPR SA, the seller.  Deutsche Bank’s announcement that it was in exclusive talks
followed Borletti’s statement that it wasn’t interested in
divesting its share. In April, Borletti chairman Maurizio
Borletti told Les Echo that Qatari investors had agreed to buy
Printemps for 1.6 billion euros including 550 million euros of
debt.  Dalian Wanda Group Corp. was also interested in Printemps,
Senior Vice President Hu Zhanghong told French newspaper  Les
Echos  in December.  Printemps owns stores in Paris, Parly, Deauville, Lille and
Strasbourg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  