-- Diageo Sees ‘Soft Spots’ in Emerging Markets as Growth Slows
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-31T09:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/diageo-sales-tops-analysts-estimates-boosted-by-higher-prices.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, said today it sees some “soft spots” in  emerging
markets  and reported full-year sales growth at a slower pace
than last year and its mid-term goal.  Trading in Brazil was “relatively soft” in the year ended
June 30 and could continue to be weak in the first half of this
fiscal year, Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said today
on a conference call. The distiller also reported slower growth
in its Asia Pacific region, where government anti-extravagance
measures are restraining sales in  China .  The Johnnie Walker maker has been expanding in developing
markets as it seeks to generate half its  revenue  from faster-growing economies to offset stagnant growth in  Europe . It bought
cachaca brand Ypioca last year in Brazil and this year expanded
in India with the purchase of a stake in United Spirits, and
consolidated control over a maker of Chinese baijiu liquor.  “Diageo’s move to medium-term organic sales guidance of 6
percent famously set light to the shares in August 2011,”
 Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec in London, wrote today.
“Two years in, chronic weakness in Southern Europe and trouble
spots in  Korea , Brazil and elsewhere are contriving to impede
recovery.” This “all adds up to a difficult debut for new
Chief Executive Officer Ivan Menezes.”  Medium-Term Targets  The company is “on track” to meet its medium-term
guidance, Menezes said  today in a statement , reporting his first
results since taking the reins from  Paul Walsh  this month after
Walsh stepped down as leader of the distiller for 13 years.  In 2011, Diageo said it would target organic sales growth
of an average 6 percent in the “medium term” as well as
seeking to widen its operating margin by 2 percentage points
over three years. The announcement sent shares up as much as 8.5
percent on the day.  Group organic sales rose 5 percent in the year through
June, the London-based maker of Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie
Walker Scotch whisky said in today’s statement. The median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a 4.7
percent increase. Organic measures exclude the effects of
acquisitions and currency fluctuation. Sales rose 6 percent in
the same period a year earlier.  Diageo  shares  were up 0.7 percent at 2,004 pence as of
10:13 a.m. in London, bringing the advance to 12 percent this
year. The stock climbed as much as 1.8 percent and fell as much
as 3.5 percent earlier in the day.  China Policy  Organic sales in Asia Pacific edged up 3 percent in the
year, a slower pace than the 4 percent reported in the first
nine months. Government-led crackdowns on extravagant spending
and gifting in China are stinting sales of premium drinks,
Mahlan said, and political tensions between South Korea and
North Korea cut travel retail sales.  Operating profit excluding some items totalled 3.53 billion
pounds ($5.38 billion), compared with a 3.48 billion-pound
median estimate. Diageo’s margin, a measure of profitability,
rose 0.8 of a percentage point this year.  “We see the organic margin delivery as very achievable,”
 Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote today in a
note. “But it’s somewhat more challenging to get a 6 percent
compound annual growth rate sales increase.”  U.S. Growth  Sales increased 5 percent and operating profit excluding
some items rose 9 percent in  North America , the company’s
biggest region, aided by sales of Crown Royal and Bulleit
bourbon in the U.S. That helped offset a 4 percent sales decline
in Western Europe, where there was a 7 percent slump in profit
caused by tough economic conditions in southern Europe and
Ireland.  Emerging markets sales now total 42 percent of the
company’s business, Diageo said, and grew 11 percent in the
year. Sales grew 10 percent in  Africa , Eastern Europe and  Turkey 
and 15 percent in  Latin America  and the Caribbean. Revenue in
Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil climbed 1 percent, the smallest
advance in the Latin America region.  Some consumer-goods companies have warned of a deceleration
in emerging market economic growth.  Unilever (UNA)  reported quarterly
sales last week that missed estimates and said growth is slowing
in economies such as India and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  