-- Dollar Declines as Fed Maintains Pace of Bond Buying Program
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-31T21:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/dollar-little-changed-as-fed-maintains-bond-buying-program.html
The dollar declined for the first
time in three days after the  Federal Reserve  maintained its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases and said that persistently low
inflation could hamper the U.S. economic expansion.  The greenback had gained earlier versus the euro and yen as
reports showed companies boosted payrolls in July by the most
this year and the  U.S. economy  grew more than projected in the
second quarter. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month a
reduction in the central bank’s bond-buying program would depend
on the economy’s performance. The Australian dollar fell to its
weakest level in almost three years on speculation the country’s
central bank will cut interest rates.  “They came across as more cognizant that inflation could
be lower than anticipated, which would be a risk to the
economy,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “While it is
dovish, I don’t think it necessarily changes expectations for
tapering.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,025.74 at 5 p.m. in New York. It decreased 1.4 percent in
July. The U.S. currency dropped 0.3 percent at $1.3302 per euro.
The greenback weakened 0.2 percent to 97.88 per yen after
touching 98.59.  The euro gained 2.2 percent to the greenback in July, while
the yen has appreciated 1.3 percent.  New Zealand ’s dollar has
led all major gainers with a 3.2 percent increase and the
Norwegian krone has climbed 3 percent, the second-most.  Brazil ’s
real was the biggest loser, with a 2 percent decline.  Krone, Aussie  Norway’s krone rose versus all but one of its most-traded
peers as the country’s  unemployment rate  unexpectedly dropped in
May, damping speculation the central bank will cut  interest
rates  in September. The currency appreciated 0.8 percent to
5.8924 per dollar after reaching 5.8776. It increased 0.5
percent to 7.8381 per euro.  South Africa ’s rand declined versus most of its 16 most-traded peers even as the country’s trade gap narrowed for a
second month in June. The  deficit  fell to 7.7 billion rand ($775
million) from 11 billion rand in May, the Pretoria-based South
African Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement today.  The currency weakened 0.8 percent to 9.8768 per dollar. The
rand was little changed versus the dollar in July.  Tapering Prospects  “The committee recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back
toward its objective over the medium term,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said today at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting in  Washington .  The Fed will probably wait until September to reduce the
monthly purchases by $20 billion to a total of $65 billion,
according to half of the 54 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  from July 18-22.  “The tone of the FOMC statement was on the dovish side,”
 Dean Maki , the New York-based chief U.S. economist for Barclays
Plc and a former Fed economist, wrote today in a client note.
“We view the substantive changes as mainly aimed at separating
the decision to taper the pace of asset purchases from that of
implementing the first rate hike, rather than signaling that
tapering has become less likely.”  U.S. Data  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.7 percent annualized rate, after
a 1.1 percent gain the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed. The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 1 percent advance.  Companies in the U.S. boosted payrolls in July by the most
this year as employers grew more optimistic demand will pick up
in the second half of the year. The 200,000 increase in
employment was more than projected and followed a revised
198,000 gain in June that was higher than initially estimated,
according to data today from the ADP Research Institute in
Roseland,  New Jersey . The median forecast of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a July advance of 180,000.  “The better-than-expected nature of the data is considered
taper-positive,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said by phone
from Washington, before the FOMC statement.  Bond Buying  The central bank said its bond purchases will remain
divided between $45 billion a month of  Treasury securities  and
$40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities. The Fed also
will continue reinvesting securities as they mature.  The Fed repeated the pledge it has used since September
that it will continue the purchases until the U.S. labor market
outlook has improved substantially.  The dollar had strengthened 4.6 percent this year, the
second-most behind the euro’s 5.6 percent increase, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The Australian dollar led all decliners with
an 11 percent drop, while the yen fell 8.5 percent, the second-most.  The Australian dollar declined to its weakest level in
almost three years as speculation the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
will cut borrowing costs next week curbed demand for the
currency. Governor Glenn Stevens said yesterday the inflation
outlook provided room for additional policy easing.  Stevens’s comments “really left the door open for more
easing, and those dovish signs give us more confidence in our
view that the RBA will cut rates once again,” said Janu Chan,
an economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The Aussie
will weaken from here,” said Chan, who sees the currency at 89
cents by year-end.  The Aussie declined 0.9 percent to 89.82 U.S. cents after
dropping to 89.36 cents, the weakest level since September 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  