-- Yen Falls on Bond Flows, China-Fueled Stock Gains; Pound Slides
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-08-01T06:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/dollar-holds-losses-after-fed-flags-inflation-risk-aussie-falls.html
The yen fell against all of its 16
major peers as a report showed Japanese investors sent funds
into foreign bonds for a fourth week and as Asian shares climbed
on better-than-forecast Chinese manufacturing data.  The Japanese currency headed for its biggest loss in a week
against the  U.S. dollar . The pound slid to the weakest in more
than four months versus the euro before policy decisions by the
 Bank of England  and the  European Central Bank . Australia’s
dollar reached the lowest in almost three years on bets the
 Reserve Bank  will cut interest rates next week.  “The yen is being sold as stock gains boost risk
appetite,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at Gaitame.com
Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The net buying of foreign
bonds by Japanese investors certainly doesn’t help the yen
either.”  The yen fell 0.6 percent to 98.45 per dollar as of 7:21
a.m. in  London  from yesterday, when it touched 97.59, the
strongest since June 27. It slid 0.4 percent to 130.71 per euro.
The dollar advanced 0.2 percent to $1.3273 per euro, after
yesterday touching $1.3345, the weakest since June 19.  Sterling slipped 0.1 percent to 87.53 pence per euro, after
earlier reaching 87.70, the least since March 12. It fell 0.3
percent to $1.5164.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 0.9 percent,
rebounding from a 1.2 percent decline yesterday.  Japan ’s Topix
index gained 2.1 percent, bouncing back from a 1.5 percent
decline in the previous session.  Bond Buying  Japanese investors purchased 233.2 billion yen ($2.4
billion) in overseas bonds and notes in the seven days ended
July 26, according to figures released today by the Ministry of
Finance in Tokyo.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda in April unveiled a
plan to buy more than 7 trillion yen of Japanese debt a month to
spur the economy and end deflation. He has said the policy would
compel domestic investors to  rebalance their portfolios  by
purchasing foreign bonds and other assets.  In  Europe , the Frankfurt-based ECB will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 0.5 percent today, according to all
but one of more than 60 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We do not expect the ECB to become more dovish on
monetary policy as soon as this week,”  Manuel Oliveri , a
London-based foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank, wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients. “Euro downside may stay limited for the time being.”  BOE Meeting  The BOE will keep its bond-purchase program at 375 billion
pounds ($568 billion) and its key rate at a record low 0.5
percent, separate surveys showed.  At the previous meeting of the BOE’s Monetary Policy
Committee, officials signaled that they would keep interest
rates at a record low for longer than investors had been
betting. The analysis of providing forward guidance to be
published in the Inflation Report on Aug. 7 will include an
assessment of intermediate thresholds.  “The BOE is likely to stay on hold until the August
inflation report,” Gaitame’s Gervaise said. “The market is
looking closely for clues on ECB’s stance on additional
easing.”  Australia’s dollar sank as traders ramped up bets for
Reserve Bank interest rate cuts. It traded 0.2 percent lower at
89.61 U.S. cents after touching 89.27, the lowest since
September 2010.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 93 percent chance Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn
Stevens  and his board will lower the overnight cash rate target
by 25 basis points to 2.5 percent next week.  China PMI  The Aussie pared losses after a report showed manufacturing
strengthened in  China , the South Pacific nation’s biggest
trading partner.  The  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  was at 50.3 in July, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compared with the
49.8 median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg survey and
June’s 50.1 level. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  A separate PMI reading from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was 47.7 for July, matching the median economists’
estimate.  “People are waiting for that number which tells us China
is collapsing,”  Stephen Green , head of Greater China research
at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The market is sort of poised to just respond to
anything that’s really, really, really negative and just sell
everything. And as soon as you get something that’s mildly OK,
then the market buys that.”  FOMC Statement  The  Dollar Index  fell to a six-week low yesterday after the
 Federal Open Market Committee  kept its monthly purchases of
Treasuries and mortgage securities unchanged at $85 billion,
while warning that persistently low inflation could hamper the
recovery. It repeated a pledge to continue stimulus until the
U.S. labor market outlook has improved substantially.  “The FOMC statement was a bit more dovish given that they
mentioned some downside risks from inflation,” said Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in  New
York . “But where we go from here will depend on the jobs
numbers, and of course the inflation data.”  The gauge, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.5 percent to 81.871 from yesterday,
when it fell to as low as 81.407, a level unseen since June 20.  U.S. employers probably added 185,000 jobs in July,
following a 195,000 gain in June, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg poll ahead of Labor
Department data due on Aug. 2. The  jobless rate  probably fell to
7.5 percent from 7.6 percent.  Half of the 54 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  last
month said the Fed may curb its monthly purchases to a total of
$65 billion at its Sept. 17-18 meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  