-- DP World Says First-Half Throughput Declines on Europe, Asia
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-07-31T06:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/dp-world-says-first-half-throughput-declines-on-europe-asia.html
DP World Ltd., (DPW)  the world’s third-biggest ports operator, said first-half throughput declined amid
slower container traffic in  Europe  and the Asia Pacific region.  Volumes fell 5.8 percent to 26.6 million twenty-foot
equivalent units across its group of container terminals because
of “challenging market conditions,” it said in a statement to
Nasdaq Dubai today. When adjusted for changes across the
portfolio, like-for-like container volumes fell 2.1 percent.  “We maintain expectations of like-for-like container
throughput in line with 2012 with our portfolio positioned
toward the faster growing  emerging markets  and stable origin and
destination cargo,” DP World Group Chief Executive Mohammed Sharaf said in the statement.  In 2012, DP World handled 56.1 million TEU. In the second
half, it will begin operating Embraport, the largest Brazilian
private multi-modal port terminal. Embraport is being built
adjacent to Porto de Santos, Brazil’s biggest container
terminal. It’s also invested in The London Gateway, a deep-sea
container port in the U.K. with a capacity of 3.5 million TEU
per year, which is scheduled to open in the fourth quarter.  DP World recorded lower volumes in the Indian Subcontinent,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  in the first half, according to the
statement. Traffic in the Americas and Australia increased 2.7
percent on a like-for-like basis.  “We remain confident about the long-term outlook of our
industry and continue to invest to meet the future capacity
requirements of our customers,” DP World Chairman Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  