-- Dubai Property Buyers From Subcontinent to U.K. Lead Deal Surge
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-07-31T10:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/dubai-property-buyers-from-subcontinent-to-u-k-lead-deal-surge.html
Indians, Pakistanis and Britons were
the biggest foreign buyers of Dubai property in the first half,
leading a jump in investment by foreigners outside the Arab
world, the emirate’s Land Department said.  Property sales totaled 53 billion dirhams ($14.4 billion)
in the period, the government agency said without providing a
year-earlier figure. Spending increased among all the regions
described in the report, including a rise of 73 percent to 32
billion dirhams among buyers outside the Gulf region and the
rest of the  Middle East .  Dubai’s  property market , which suffered one of the world’s
worst real estate crashes in 2008, is rebounding after almost
three years of standstill. The report indicates that the Arab
Spring revolutions in countries such as  Egypt , Syria, Yemen,
Tunisia and Libya haven’t significantly changed the mix of
investors in a property market long dominated by the U.K., India
and  Pakistan .  Spending by Arab buyers outside of the six Gulf Cooperation
Council countries jumped by 111 percent to 5 billion dirhams,
the most of any category, the data showed. Citizens of the
United Arab Emirates, which includes Dubai, and the GCC invested
16 billion dirhams, a 57 percent increase.  Among non-Arab foreigners, Indians bought 8 billion dirhams
worth of real estate followed by Britons with 4 billion dirhams
and Pakistanis with 3 billion dirhams, the report showed. U.A.E.
citizens led Gulf investors with 12 billion dirhams spent on
2,765 transactions. Saudis were the second-biggest GCC buyers
with 2 billion dirhams and  Kuwait  came in third with 360 million
dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  