-- DuPont Gains Control of Africa's Pannar Seed After Delay
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-31T11:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/dupont-gains-control-of-africa-s-pannar-seed-after-delay.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the world’s second-largest seed company, completed its purchase of a stake in
closely held Pannar Seed Ltd., overcoming an almost three-year
delay to gain control of  Africa ’s largest producer.  DuPont’s Pioneer unit acquired 80 percent of Greytown,
South Africa-based Pannar, Paul E. Schickler, Pioneer’s
president said in a phone interview. Terms weren’t disclosed.
The transaction, announced Sept. 15, 2010, required antitrust
approvals in about a dozen countries, including South Africa,
which initially rejected the takeover, Schickler said.  DuPont, based in Wilmington, Delaware, is expanding its
seed business as part of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Ellen Kullman ’s focus on food, energy and safety. Combining
Pioneer’s high-yielding corn with Pannar’s subtropical, disease-resistant hybrids will help increase yields on the 86 million
acres available for corn production in Africa, Schickler said.  “This is about lifting the productivity levels of sub-Saharan farmers,” Schickler said in the interview. “Combining
our research capabilities will deliver those better products
faster than either of us could do on our own.”  Corn yields average about 2 tons per hectare in Africa,
compared with 7 tons in Brazil and 10 tons in the U.S.,
Schickler said. Better seed, fertilization, weed control and
other farming improvements may boost yields on the continent to
as much as 6 tons a hectare, he said.  Pannar, established in 1958, sells seed directly to farmers
in nine African countries, including  South Africa , and sells
through third parties elsewhere in Africa and in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Argentina . The company doesn’t disclose sales or
earnings.  African Farms  South Africa, with $350 million in annual seed sales, has
the most advanced farms in sub-Saharan Africa, Schickler said.
Tanzania and Mozambique are starting to develop commercial farms
to supply feed for dairy and livestock operations, he said. More
than half of South African corn is genetically modified to
tolerate herbicides and control insects, he said.  Many African farmers are “small holders,” with just an
acre or two to feed their family, who will benefit from improved
seeds, Schickler said. Pannar will spend 20 million rand ($2
million) to help boost small-holder production, part of a
commitment to South Africa’s antitrust regulators, he said.  Pannar also will spend 62 million rand by 2017 to create a
technology hub in Delmas, South Africa, similar to seed-breeding
research networks that DuPont established in Brazil,  India  and
China, the companies said in a statement today.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  is
the world’s biggest seed company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  