-- The Public-Private Surveillance Partnership
-- B y   B r u c e   S c h n e i e r
-- 2013-07-31T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/the-public-private-surveillance-partnership.html
Imagine the government passed a law
requiring all citizens to carry a tracking device. Such a law
would immediately be found unconstitutional. Yet we all carry
mobile phones.  If the National Security Agency required us to notify it
whenever we made a new friend, the nation would rebel. Yet we
notify  Facebook Inc. (FB)  If the Federal Bureau of Investigation
demanded copies of all our conversations and correspondence, it
would be laughed at. Yet we provide copies of our e-mail to
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  or whoever our mail host is; we
provide copies of our text messages to  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Corp. (S) ; and we provide copies of other
conversations to Twitter Inc., Facebook,  LinkedIn (LNKD)  Corp. or
whatever other site is hosting them.  The primary business model of the Internet is built on mass
surveillance, and our government’s intelligence-gathering
agencies have become addicted to that data. Understanding how we
got here is critical to understanding how we undo the damage.  Computers and networks inherently produce data, and our
constant interactions with them allow corporations to collect an
 enormous amount  of intensely personal data about us as we go
about our daily lives. Sometimes we produce this data
inadvertently simply by using our phones, credit cards,
computers and other devices. Sometimes we give corporations this
data directly on Google, Facebook, Apple Inc.’s iCloud and so on
in exchange for whatever free or cheap service we receive from
the Internet in return.  The NSA is also in the business of spying on everyone, and
it has realized it’s far easier to collect all the  data  from
these corporations rather than from us directly. In some cases,
the NSA asks for this data nicely. In other cases, it makes use
of  subtle threats  or  overt pressure . If that doesn’t work, it
uses tools like  national security letters .  The Partnership  The result is a corporate-government surveillance
partnership, one that allows both the government and
corporations to get away with things they  couldn’t otherwise .  There are two types of laws in the U.S., each designed to
constrain a different type of power: constitutional law, which
places limitations on government, and regulatory law, which
constrains corporations. Historically, these two areas have
largely remained separate, but today each group has learned how
to use the other’s laws to bypass their own restrictions. The
government uses corporations to get around its limits, and
corporations use the government to get around their limits.  This partnership  manifests  itself in various ways. The
government uses corporations to circumvent its prohibitions
against  eavesdropping domestically  on its citizens. Corporations
rely on the government to ensure that they have unfettered use
of the data they collect.  Here’s an example: It would be reasonable for our
government to debate the circumstances under which corporations
can collect and use our data, and to provide for protections
against misuse. But if the government is using that very data
for its own surveillance purposes, it has an incentive to oppose
any laws to limit data collection. And because corporations see
no need to give consumers any choice in this matter -- because
it would only reduce their profits -- the market isn’t going to
protect consumers, either.  Our elected officials are often supported, endorsed and
funded by these corporations as well, setting up an incestuous
relationship between corporations, lawmakers and the
intelligence community.  The losers are us, the people, who are left with no one to
stand up for our interests. Our elected government, which is
supposed to be responsible to us,  is not . And corporations,
which in a market economy are supposed to be responsive to our
needs, are not. What we have now is  death to privacy  -- and
that’s very dangerous to democracy and liberty.  Challenging Power  The simple answer is to blame consumers, who shouldn’t use
mobile phones, credit cards, banks or the Internet if they don’t
want to be tracked. But that argument deliberately ignores the
reality of today’s world. Everything we do involves computers,
even if we’re not using them directly. And by their nature,
computers produce tracking data. We can’t go back to a world
where we don’t use computers, the Internet or social networking.
We have no choice but to share our personal information with
these corporations, because that’s how our world works today.  Curbing the  power  of the corporate-private surveillance
partnership requires limitations on both what corporations can
do with the data we choose to give them and restrictions on how
and when the government can demand access to that data. Because
both of these changes go against the interests of corporations
and the government, we have to demand them as citizens and
voters. We can lobby our government to operate more
transparently -- disclosing the opinions of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court would be a  good start  -- and
hold our lawmakers accountable when it doesn’t. But it’s not
going to be easy. There are strong interests doing their best to
ensure that the steady stream of data keeps flowing.  ( Bruce Schneier  is a computer security technologist. He is
the author of several books, including his  latest , “Liars and
Outliers: Enabling the Trust Society Needs to Thrive.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Bruce Schneier at  schneier@schneier.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 