-- East Germany’s Oil Rush Seen Yielding $27 Billion Windfall
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-07-31T13:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/east-german-oil-rush-may-yield-27-billion-windfall-cep-says.html
Oil production in eastern  Germany 
may provide the region with a 20.3 billion-euro ($27 billion)
windfall during the next 25 years, according to a company with
drilling concessions there.  “This is one of the biggest onshore oil complexes in
 Europe ,” Thomas Schroeter, managing director of Berlin-based
 Central European Petroleum GmbH , said in an interview. “It’s
not the  Persian Gulf  but it’s a big deal for Europe.”  Two-thirds of the windfall would come from Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania state, where  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
election district is located, and the rest from Brandenburg’s
Lower Lusatia region. Both are among Germany’s poorest states.  Brandenburg expects to approve oil production by 2017, Ralf
Christoffers, the state’s economy minister, said today in an
interview in Potsdam. Central European Petroleum, or CEP, may
begin pumping “small” amounts of oil that year before
increasing production, Schroeter said.  CEP, which says it has spent 80 million euros searching for
oil in Germany, is using new drilling techniques to breathe life
into an industry exploited in the East Bloc era. Oil production
in eastern Germany dates back to the 1960s when the  Soviet Union 
ordered its communist satellite to search for hydrocarbons.  Brandenburg Reserves  Lower Lusatia, about 100 kilometers (60 miles) southeast of
Berlin, may have as many as 740 million barrels of oil in place
in CEP concessions, the company said today at a press conference
in Potsdam. The area’s projected 6.8 billion-euro windfall, or
proceeds from drilling rigs, operating costs, royalties and
taxes, is based on an extraction rate of 15 percent.  “Oil has been produced in Brandenburg for the last 50
years,” Schroeter said. “We know oil is here -- it’s not about
finding oil.”  In Brandenburg and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, CEP has
eight exploration licenses covering more than 3.6 million acres,
according to company data reported last month.  While Brandenburg expects to approve production within
about four years, no timetable for a decision has been given by
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. Merkel’s spokesman last month
declined to comment when asked if the chancellor backs oil
output in her district. Merkel, who also has a weekend home in
Brandenburg, is running for a third term in Sept. 22 elections.  Striking Oil  CEP, a German-Canadian venture backed by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., has drilled four test wells and found oil in all of
them, according to Schroeter, a 56-year-old geologist who has
worked on oil projects in  Texas ,  Libya ,  Kuwait  and  Venezuela .
The crude -- light, sweet and low-sulfur -- is extractable by
conventional means and not by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
according to the company.  The windfall in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania would amount
to 13.5 billion euros, according to CEP. Its best-case scenario
of about 500 million euros a year represents about 7 percent of
the northeastern state’s budget.  The state’s seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was 10.8
percent in June and Brandenburg had 9.5 percent unemployment,
compared with a national rate of 6.6 percent, according to
Federal Labor Agency  data .  Roland Leithaeuser, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs AG in
 Frankfurt , said that the bank is an investor in CEP, declining
to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  