-- ECF Asks Vietnam to Look Into Coffee Tax Dodge Before Next Crop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-31T14:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ecf-asks-vietnam-to-look-into-coffee-tax-dodge-before-next-crop.html
The European Coffee Federation,
representing companies including Volcafe Ltd. and Louis Dreyfus
Commodities Suisse SA, asked authorities in  Vietnam  to look into
a coffee tax dodge before next season.  The Rijswijk, Netherlands-based group wrote on July 26 to
authorities including the office of Vietnam’s prime minister,
the ministry of finance and the Department of Agriculture and
 Rural Development , Roel Vaessen, the ECF’s secretary general,
said on a media call today. Dodging of value-added tax is
reducing supplies of sustainable and certified beans, he said.  “This is an awareness exercise, we now have to wait for
the feedback from Vietnam,” said Vaessen. “One of the reasons
to really try to make an effort to get this out was indeed to
get this awareness in place before next season.”  The number of violators who buy and sell receipts to obtain
value-added tax in coffee trading is “on increasing trend,”
the finance ministry said on its website on July 15. Some
companies are dodging tax, causing unfair competition for
legitimate traders in buying coffee in  Dak Lak , the local tax
department said on its website on June 19. Dak Lak is the
biggest-growing province in the world’s leading producer of the
robusta coffee variety used in espresso.  “The effects of the application of the VAT system mean
that coffee is finding its way to the market in a rather more
informal, undocumented, uncontrolled manner and the identity of
the coffee in terms of sustainability is lost,” Vaessen said.
“Quite a few roasters and their suppliers and traders have made
considerable commitments to purchase sustainably produced coffee
and that’s a serious issue.”  Gevalia, Kenco  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ)  says all beans used in its
European coffee brands will meet standards set by certifying
bodies such as Rainforest Alliance and 4C by 2015, according to
the company’s  website . The company is the maker of brands such
as Gevalia, Kenco and Grand-Mere.  Vietnam said this month it will intensify measures to
prevent tax dodging, according to the  finance ministry . Deputy
Finance Minister Do Hoang Anh Tuan urged tighter collaboration
among provincial authorities to prevent tax dodging practices in
coffee trading.  “We’ve noticed these steps and we encourage them and hope
they produce the desired results,” Vaessen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  