-- Economic Expansion in U.S. Has Been Stronger, More Irregular
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2013-07-31T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/economic-expansion-in-u-s-has-been-stronger-more-irregular.html
The recovery from the worst U.S.
recession in the post-World War II era has been stronger than
previously estimated. It’s also been more uneven.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.3 percent
annualized rate from the end of economic slump in mid 2009
through last year, compared with the 2.1 percent pace previously
reported, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington . The update also recast gross domestic
product to include spending on things such as entertainment and
research and development, adding $526 billion to the value of
goods and services produced in 2012.  “Intellectual property has become increasingly important
in the last few years,” Brent Moulton, associate director for
national economic accounts at the Commerce Department’s  Bureau
of Economic Analysis , told reporters this week. “Despite the
conceptual changes, we have not rewritten economic history.”  The comprehensive revision to GDP comes as Federal Reserve
officials, who wrap up a two-day meeting today, try to assess
the strength of the economy in order to plot the course of
monetary policy.  Some of the strongest periods in the economic rebound are
even firmer, and some of the weaker are more negative, including
one quarter of contraction in early 2011 of a magnitude that is
rare to find outside of recessions.  Today’s report also showed the world’s largest economy grew
at a 1.7 percent annualized rate from April through June
following a 1.1 percent gain in the first three months of the
year. The first-quarter’s reading was revised down from a
previously reported 1.8 percent advance.  2012 Revision  For all of 2012, GDP was revised to show a 2.8 percent
increase compared with a prior estimate of 2.2 percent. The
boost was concentrated in the first quarter, which now shows a
3.7 percent gain rather than 2 percent. The subsequent three
periods were all revised down, culminating in a fourth-quarter
gain of 0.1 percent that confirmed growth stalled as federal
military spending slumped and company stockpiling slowed.  The revisions and latest readings failed to solve the
disconnect between an improving job market and an economy in the
doldrums.  Payrolls climbed by 202,000 a month on average from January
through June, up from 180,000 in the second half of 2012,
according to the Labor Department. Such gains are typically
linked with GDP increasing close to 3 percent, about double what
the government data showed today, say economists at UniCredit
Group and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  While GDP grew at an unrevised 1.8 percent in 2011, the
quarterly breakdown was a mirror image of 2012.  2011 Revision  The year ended on a stronger note than previously
estimated, with the economy growing at a 4.9 percent pace in the
fourth quarter of 2011, the strongest for the expansion so far.
By contrast, GDP contracted at a 1.3 percent annualized rate in
the first three months of the year rather than the previously
estimated 0.1 percent increase as  consumer spending  showed a
smaller advance and inventory gains slackened. The rate of
decline was worse than any quarter during the 2001 recession.  Just as the expansion has been a bit stronger, the economic
slump that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 was
less severe. From peak to trough, GDP shrank 4.3 percent
compared with the 4.7 percent drop previously on the books. It
still marks the worst contraction since quarterly tallies began
in 1948.  Today’s update also included the most significant
reclassification of the components of GDP since 1999, when
spending on computer software was first included in business
investment rather than an expense. The addition of research and
development, some forms of entertainment, transfer fees related
to home sales and a new treatment of pensions boosted the level
of GDP by about the size of  Pennsylvania ’s economy.  More GDP  While increasing the size of the nation’s economy, the
expanded components of GDP had little influence on the quarterly
percentage changes in growth, economists at the BEA said this
week. These comprehensive revisions happen about every five
years and affect the data as far back as 1929. The average gain
in GDP over the past eight decades was revised up by 0.1
percentage point to 3.3 percent.  The changes in growth derived from broader, and more
complete, annual surveys of economic activity added another
$33.8 billion to the level of GDP in 2012 to make the economy
$559.8 billion larger at $16.2 trillion.  The new treatment of pensions, which will be counted as
they are accrued rather than as they are paid out, added $12.6
billion to GDP in 2012 and boosted the  saving rate  as the
benefit increased personal income. The rate averaged 4.7 percent
from 2002 through 2012, a percentage point higher than
previously estimated.  The revisions had little influence on inflation, with the
GDP price index rising 1.6 percent each year on average from
2009 through 2012, compared with the 1.8 percent increase
previously on the books. The Fed’s  preferred price  measure tied
to consumer spending patterns averaged gains of 2 percent, the
same as before the update.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  