-- Egypt Authorities Prepare to Break Up Pro-Mursi Sit-Ins
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-08-01T12:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/egypt-threatens-action-against-sit-ins-as-islamist-chief-charged.html
Egypt ’s government urged supporters
of ousted President Mohamed Mursi to end weeks of sit-ins and
promised safe passage to those who comply, hours after the
cabinet authorized police to take action.  The appeal signaled a crackdown may be imminent against
thousands of demonstrators, led by Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood
backers, who have occupied two main Cairo squares demanding his
reinstatement. The protests have often turned deadly, with
dozens, most of them Mursi loyalists, killed in clashes with
security forces in the past week.  The  Interior Ministry  that oversees the nation’s police
called on demonstrators to “resort to reason, prioritize the
interests of the homeland, heed public interest and swiftly
leave for everyone’s safety,” according to a statement read on
state television today. “This comes with a complete pledge of a
safe exit and full protection to all those who respond to the
call.”  A move to break up the protests may fan the violence that
has spread since the military deposed the democratically elected
Mursi on July 3. Dozens of his supporters were killed in clashes
with security forces in Cairo last weekend, in what the
Islamists say is a repeat of the heavy-handed tactics of ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak .  The Brotherhood criticized the cabinet’s move, and called
for new rallies tomorrow to support the Islamist who was elected
in June 2012.  “Our peacefulness is stronger than their bullets, and the
coalition holds the coup and the putschists fully responsible
for any act of violence or murder,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  