-- EHealth Wins Approval to Sell Obamacare Health Plans
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-31T20:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ehealth-wins-agreement-to-sell-obamacare-health-insurance-plans.html
Online health insurance broker
 EHealth Inc. (EHTH)  won permission from the U.S. government to enroll
customers for subsidized plans offered under the federal health-care law. The shares gained the most in almost seven years.  EHealth will be able to tap into a government computer
system allowing the company to determine whether people shopping
for plans at its website are eligible for tax subsidies for
their health insurance, the  Mountain View , California company
said today in a statement. The information will enable EHealth
to offer customers subsidized plans available in their state.  The company has been lobbying the federal government for
the agreement, as well as urging similar permission from 14
states that are building their own marketplaces called exchanges
to sell insurance to people who don’t get it at work. The
exchanges open Oct. 1.  “When there are choices in the marketplace, more presence
in the marketplace of various options, it’s likely you’re going
to get more enrollment,” EHealth Chief Executive Officer Gary Lauer said in a telephone interview. “At the end of the day,
the Affordable Care Act succeeds or fails solely based on
enrollment.”  EHealth shares gained 28 percent to $30.74 at the close in
 New York , the biggest single-day increase since October 2006.  Slow Action  Lauer has publicly complained that the governments have
dragged their feet in reaching an accord with his company. He
hasn’t yet reached a similar agreement with any of the states,
EHealth said in its statement.  “The states that have elected for various reasons not to
erect their own exchanges, 36 of them, ironically may end up
having more enrollment choices and more enrollment as a percent
of population” because of the federal government’s agreement
with EHealth and other brokers, Lauer said.  The Obama administration is seeking to enroll about 7
million people next year through the federal and state
exchanges, and needs at least 2.6 million of them to be
relatively healthy for the insurance system to be viable.  The federal government should sign more agreements like
EHealth’s to boost enrollment in exchange plans,  Les Funtleyder ,
health-care strategist at New York-based investment firm
Poliwogg, said in an e-mail. “The EHealth deal is a breath of
sanity that has come to Obamacare,” he said.  Growing Market  About 18 million people buy health insurance for themselves
today and the health law should eventually add 25 million to 32
million Americans to that market, Lauer said.  “The market, my gosh, doubles to two-and-a-half times its
size,” he said in a telephone interview. “Just based on that
alone, and being able to help subsidized individuals, is an
opportunity for us.”  It won’t cost the government or customers anything extra
when people enroll through EHealth, Lauer said in a May 14
conference call with reporters. The company will instead collect
a commission from insurance companies such as  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)  when it enrolls people in their plans.  EHealth collects about 7 percent of monthly premiums as
commission for the plans it sells now, Lauer said. Carriers will
probably negotiate a lower commission for plans sold in
government exchanges because “the risk is a little bit more
unknown,” he said.  Under the agreement with the government, EHealth must offer
customers any plan available on the federal exchanges,
regardless of whether it has a commission agreement with the
carrier.  “I’m happy to enroll someone if we don’t get a commission
for it,” Lauer said.  The company has to sign an additional agreement
“encompassing the federal requirements for agents and brokers”
with the agency managing the Affordable Care Act, the U.S.
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, before it can begin
enrolling people in subsidized plans. Lauer called that
agreement “perfunctory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  