-- Bank of Israel Governor-Designate Says Growth Is Priority
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-08-01T11:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/leiderman-chosen-to-succeed-fischer-as-bank-of-israel-governor.html
Bank of Israel Governor nominee
Leonardo Leiderman swiftly signaled that stimulating the economy
was his top priority, suggesting he plans to chart a policy that
will focus on growth and not just price stability.  In an interview published today in the Yediot Aharonot
newspaper, Leiderman said he would quickly put his own stamp on
the central bank, asking for “100 days of grace” to prove
himself.  “We have to rev up the engines of growth much higher,”
Leiderman was quoted as saying, without giving details. “We
have to primarily work on expanding exports and increasing
investments in the economy.”  Leiderman, chief economist at Israel’s largest lender,  Bank
Hapoalim (POLI)  Ltd., and a former research director at the central
bank, was appointed yesterday to succeed Stanley Fischer, after
former Governor Jacob Frenkel withdrew his candidacy on July 29.
As governor, Leiderman would have to steer among shoals
including slowing growth, a roaring shekel, sluggish global
demand for the exports that drive Israel’s economy and climbing
housing prices.  Markets responded positively to the appointment. The shekel
was up 0.1 percent at 3.5606 per dollar at 10:04 a.m. in Tel
Aviv, bringing its year-to-date gain to 4.9 percent, the largest
advance among 31 major currencies Bloomberg tracks.  Following Fischer  Leiderman’s comments to Yediot indicated he would toe the
line Fischer took when he expanded the bank’s traditional role
of controlling inflation to include a focus on employment and
growth, as does the Federal Reserve. During his eight years
leading the bank, Fischer bought billions of dollars and
calibrated interest rates to spur output.  Zvi Eckstein, a former deputy governor, said he expected
Leiderman to follow Fischer’s lead.  “Professor Fischer left behind a very, very strong
infrastructure for the bank’s operational direction,” Eckstein
told  Israel  Radio today, referring to Fischer’s intervention
policy. “I imagine Professor Leo Leiderman will continue this
policy in the interest of price and financial stability.”  The Bank of Israel left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent at the end of July, after lowering it
gradually from 3.25 percent since 2011 in an effort to spur
growth in the export-driven economy. The bank, under Fischer,
also announced in May that it would buy more than $2 billion by
the end of the year, citing the shekel’s appreciation and the
downward revision in global growth forecasts.  ‘Belonged to Consensus’  Yakir Plessner, who served as a deputy governor in the
1980s, described Leiderman as someone who “always belonged to
the consensus.”  “The problem is, in senior positions of this type, it
doesn’t hurt when important people think outside the box and go
against the stream,” he told Israel Radio. “It means they have
an open mind.”  Leiderman’s nomination must be approved by a panel that
vets senior civil appointments and the cabinet. Frenkel’s
nomination stumbled during the vetting process when the Haaretz
newspaper dug up a 2006 incident where Frenkel had been briefly
detained in Hong Kong for allegedly leaving an airport shop with
an item that had not been paid for.  Frenkel said the incident was a misunderstanding that was
fully clarified without further consequence. He said he no
longer wanted the job after being subjected to an “avalanche of
abuse.”  Lapid and Netanyahu said Frenkel would have been an
excellent governor. They expressed regret over his withdrawal
and concern that the incident could deter people from public
service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  