-- Meister Says Europe Should Brace for More Years of Merkel
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-01T08:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/meister-says-europe-should-brace-for-more-years-of-merkel-policy.html
Europe’s leaders should brace for
four more years of unbending German policies to fight Europe’s
debt crisis as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  leads the polls seven
weeks before elections, one of her senior party allies said.  If re-elected, Merkel will stick to her position that
neither government nor bank debt can be mutualized as long as
risk takers are free to make others pay for their own mistakes,
Michael Meister, deputy chairman of Merkel’s Christian Union
caucus in parliament, said in a July 31 telephone interview.  “The German position is clearly stated” by Merkel and
lawmakers and “none of its guiding principles will change after
the election date,” Meister said. “The apologists in other
countries should be prepared to deal with four more years of
this German policy.”  The European Union is “in the waiting room” until the
German vote on Sept. 22, Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat
said in a July 15 interview, suggesting that some of Merkel’s
counterparts are hoping for more flexible crisis-fighting steps
by the chancellor once bailout-skeptic voters have gone to the
polls.  Greece  will probably need more money and debt relief in
order to meet the objectives of its bailout program, according
to a July 31 International Monetary Fund staff report. Most of
Greece’s debt is now held by Europeans and the IMF after
investors took part in the biggest debt restructuring in history
last year.  Latest Poll  Merkel maintained her lead in a weekly Forsa poll published
yesterday, with her Christian Democratic Union-led bloc holding
at 41 percent support and her Free Democratic Party coalition
partner unchanged at 5 percent. The main opposition  Social
Democrats  held at 22 percent and their Green party allies gained
a point to 13 percent. All opposition parties had 43 percent
combined. Forsa polled 2,501 voters on July 22-26. The results
had a margin of error of as much as 2.5 percentage points.  “As chancellor,  Angela Merkel  has and will in the coming
years always oppose Europe becoming a transfer union,” Deputy
Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter said July 29 in a speech to
CDU party members in the town of Espelkamp. “Rather, she wants
and will stand for a transformational Europe.”  Merkel’s coalition rejects European Commission proposals
for a banking union -- supported by a majority of EU countries -
- due to concern they may force German taxpayers to pick up the
bill for failed banking supervision elsewhere in the region.  Schaeuble Resistance  A July 26 Die Welt newspaper report suggested that Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is looking for ways, including legal
action, to derail EU financial-services chief  Michel Barnier ’s
proposal that includes a single fund to wind down troubled
banks.  “We will quite simply not agree to such arrangements.
Period,” Meister said. “We as parliament have given our German
federal government the power of attorney on the issue of
transferring responsibility for banking supervision to the
European level. We can take this back at any time.”  Those calling for greater risk-sharing at  Germany ’s expense
should also keep in mind that the country’s Karlsruhe-based
 Federal Constitutional Court  is scrutinizing all proposals
“concocted in Brussels or elsewhere in Europe,” Meister said.
The government and Merkel’s coalition won’t risk backing
anything that might later be defeated in court, he said.  Greece Pressure  Merkel also won’t ease pressure on Greece, a country that’s
kept alive by the smallest possible installments of aid that are
linked to compliance with an adjustment program that requires
job cuts and the sale of state-owned companies.  The target for Greek debt is to fall to 124 percent of
gross domestic product in 2020, from a peak the IMF now sees at
176 percent of GDP this year. Euro governments last November
agreed to review the need for additional aid for Greece before
the second program expires in 2014.  “In light of the results of the evaluations that have
already been agreed in Greece’s second program, one can consider
whether there are other technical options to give Greece
relief,” Meister said. Tweaking loan maturities and costs
“doesn’t mean that there’s a haircut” on Greek debt.  Europe ’s governments should seek agreement on the
introduction of orderly state insolvency procedures in the EU
over the longer term, also as a measure to calm financial
markets, Meister said.  “One has to deal with the question of what to do in a case
that can’t be solved by means of an aid program,” he said.
“Independent of current programs, wouldn’t it make sense to
have such a procedure?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  