-- EA Loses Bid to End Athletes’ Suit Over Use of Likenesses
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-31T18:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/electronic-arts-must-face-ex-athletes-claims-over-likeness-use.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  lost a bid to
block lawsuits for profiting from using college athletes’
likenesses free without their permission as a federal appeals
court said the conduct isn’t protected by the First Amendment.  A three-judge panel did hand the company a victory in a
related case by upholding the dismissal of a lawsuit by National
Football League player Jim Brown over the use of his likeness in
EA’s “Madden NFL.”  In a 2-1 ruling today in a case brought in 2009 by former
Arizona State University quarterback  Sam Keller , the court said
EA wasn’t protected against Keller’s suit because its “NCAA
Football” games, which use athletes’ height, weight, hair color
and skin tone, though not their names, “literally creates
Keller in the very setting in which he has achieved renown.”  Electronic Arts argued that the constitutional guarantee of
free speech means it doesn’t need permission to use the images
of former National Collegiate Athletic Association players if
its games contain enough other creative elements to make it more
than just a depiction of a celebrity. Movie studios and
newspaper publishers filed briefs in support of EA’s argument.  The appeals court panel said there weren’t enough elements
to transform the images into anything other than Keller.  “Keller is represented as ‘what he was: the starting
quarterback for  Arizona  State’ and  Nebraska , and ‘the game’s
setting is identical to where the public found [Keller] during
his collegiate career: on the football field,’ Judge Jay Bybee
wrote, upholding a decision by a judge in Oakland,  California .  Players’ Accusations  Former student basketball and football players allege that
Electronic Arts and the NCAA, the governing body of most U.S.
intercollegiate sports, conspired to use their likenesses in
video games without their permission and without paying them,
violating antitrust law and their rights of publicity.  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland is
considering whether to certify the lawsuits as class actions, or
group, lawsuits, enabling thousands of current and former NCAA
athletes to seek millions of dollars.  In a separate opinion, the appeals court upheld the
dismissal of former National Football League player  Jim Brown ’s
lawsuit alleging unauthorized use of his likeness in EA’s
“Madden NFL.”  “Brown’s likeness was artistically relevant to the games,
and there were no alleged facts to support the claims that
Electronic Arts explicitly misled consumers as to Brown’s
involvement with the games,” a unanimous court panel ruled.  Protected Use  Brown, a former  Cleveland Browns  running back, accused the
company of false endorsement based on unauthorized use of his
likeness in “Madden NFL.” U.S. District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper in  Los Angeles  agreed with Electronic Arts that its
alleged use of Brown’s likeness was protected by the First
Amendment.  “We are pleased with the outcome regarding Jim Brown’s
likeness, but equally disappointed with the ruling against First
Amendment protection,” John Reseburg, a spokesman for  Redwood
City , California-based Electronic Arts, said in an e-mail. The
company will seek further review of the decision, he said.  Ronald Katz, an attorney for Brown, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment about the ruling.  The cases are Keller v. Electronic Arts, 10-15387, and
Brown v Electronic Arts, 09-56675,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Ninth Circuit, ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 