-- Telefonica Unveils Faster U.K. Wireless Plan to Challenge EE
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-01T07:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/telefonica-unveils-u-k-high-speed-wireless-plan-to-challenge-ee.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 will introduce
faster, fourth-generation wireless services in the U.K. at the
end of this month, becoming EE’s first challenger.  The subscriptions will be available in London, Leeds and
Bradford on Aug. 29, followed by 10 additional cities by the end
of the year, O2 said in a statement.  Already behind their counterparts in Germany,  Sweden  and
the U.S., carriers in the U.K. are rushing to build 4G networks,
which command a higher price for services and let customers
stream video and television shows on tablets and mobile phones.
EE, a venture of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Orange SA (ORA) , has had a
nine-month headstart, winning about 700,000 4G customers.  O2 said its 4G plans will start at 26 pounds ($40) a month.
EE’s cheapest 2-year plan for contract customers also costs 26
pounds a month and comes with a free smartphone and 500
megabytes of data. EE’s so-called SIM-only plans, which don’t
include devices, start at 21 pounds a month. O2 didn’t give
additional details for its price plans.  “Over half of our customers say they use more data than
two years ago and even more use Wi-Fi wherever they go, to
always stay connected,” O2 Chief Executive Officer Ronan Dunne
said in the statement.  Clearing Airwaves  Ofcom, the U.K. telecommunications regulator, yesterday
said it had finished clearing the airwaves in the 800 megahertz
frequency band used by O2, removing interfering signals like
digital TV channels and wireless microphones. As part of the
license rules, Telefonica must reach 98 percent of indoor
coverage in the U.K. by 2017.  EE received regulatory approval in 2012 to use its licenses
in the 1,800 megahertz band of spectrum, which was already clear
for use, allowing it to offer 4G ahead of Telefonica and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , its two biggest competitors.  The U.K. government raised 2.34 billion pounds from five
bidders for the spectrum in February. Newbury, England-based
Vodafone bought the most, spending 790.8 million pounds, and has
said it will offer 4G service by the end of the summer.
Telefonica spent 550 million pounds. Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s 3
unit and  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  also paid for licenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  