-- Emerging Stocks Slump for Sixth Day After Fed Statement
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-31T22:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/emerging-stocks-fall-for-sixth-day-paring-july-gain-before-fed.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
sixth straight day, trimming the steepest monthly gain since
January, as the Federal Reserve refrained from indicating when
it will reduce the pace of its bond buying program.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 0.6 percent to
947.55, capping the longest slide since April. Homebuilders PDG
Realty SA and Gafisa SA paces losses in Brazil’s Ibovespa, while
the real rebounded from a four-year low. Turkish shares led
losses among major emerging-market indexes as banks tumbled.
Desarrolladora Homex SAB surged 32 percent in  Mexico  after a
government minister pledged support for developers.  The Fed repeated the pledge it has used since September
that it will continue the purchases until the U.S. labor market
outlook has improved substantially. The benchmark measure for
emerging markets has slumped 9.6 percent since May 22, when the
U.S. central bank first signaled its asset-buying program could
be cut if the economy showed sustained improvement. The iShares
MSCI Emerging Markets ETF, which briefly  erased losses  after the
Fed’s statement, dropped 0.6 percent to $39.01.  “I don’t know if this is sufficient to turn them around,”Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING
Investment Management which oversees $180 billion, said by
phone. “The emerging markets have done very poorly since the
Fed has started talked talking about tapering. There wasn’t that
much of a change.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 0.8 percent this
month, led by energy shares, while stocks of consumer-staple and
financial companies retreated. The MSCI World Index of developed
markets has jumped 5.2 percent for the month.  Options Prices  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.2 percent today to 23.26.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa dropped a third day as PDG and Gafisa
declined at least 6.1 percent. The measure pared this month’s
gain to 1.6 percent. The real appreciated 0.3 percent, erasing
earlier losses.  Mexico’s IPC index  gained 1.5 percent as Homex
surged from a record low.  Russian equities pared their advance for the month as OAO
Uralkali slumped after HSBC Holdings Plc and Credit Suisse Group
AG cut the the largest potash producer to sell and its chief
executive officer reiterated a plan to increase volumes.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index gauge
slumped as  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  retreated
at least 2.8 percent. Benchmark gauges in  Poland ,  Hungary  and
the Czech Republic advanced.  China Vanke  China’s stocks rose, capping  gains  for the benchmark index
this month, as real-estate developers, cement companies and
household-appliance makers rallied on speculation the government
may loosen property curbs.  China Vanke Co. (200002)  and Poly Real Estate
Group Co. drove a gauge of developers to the biggest rally among
industry groups.  Malaysian stocks fell the most in almost seven weeks, the
ringgit slumped and bonds extended losses after Fitch Ratings
cut the nation’s credit outlook, citing rising debt levels and a
lack of budgetary reform.  Celltrion Inc. jumped to a record in  Seoul  on bets the
South Korean maker of biological drugs may be bought by
AstraZeneca Plc. Celltrion spokesman Kim Joon Seok declined to
comment, while AstraZeneca’s spokeswoman Ayesha Bharmal said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.03 percentage point to 323 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  