-- Employment Costs in U.S. Rose Above Forecast in Second Quarter
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-31T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/employment-costs-in-u-s-rose-above-forecast-in-second-quarter.html
Employment expenses in the U.S. grew
faster than forecast in the second quarter as private industry
spent more on wages.  The employment cost index climbed 0.5 percent, the Labor
Department said today in  Washington . The increase was more than
the 0.4 percent median estimate of 42 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  An improving job market may be prompting private employers
to pay more, increasing costs. Faster  wage growth  may encourage
households to increase their consumption, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  “The labor market is improving, it’s improving very
slowly,” Kevin Harris chief economist at Informa Global Markets
in  New York , said before the report. “That would be the driver
in an increase in employment costs. But you would expect those
costs to go up slowly.”  The index measures companies’ costs of wages, benefits and
employer-paid taxes such as  Social Security  and Medicare.
Projections ranged from an increase of 0.3 percent to 0.8
percent.  For private-sector employees, wages climbed 0.6 percent,
after a 0.5 percent gain in the first quarter. State and local
government workers’ pay rose 0.2 percent.  Private Industry  The Labor Department said before today’s report that it
corrected the first quarter’s employment cost index to 0.5
percent from 0.3 percent after it discovered errors in benefits
data for private industry. The second-quarter rise matches the
first quarter’s.  Overall wages climbed 0.4 percent last quarter after a 0.5
percent increase in the previous three months, today’s report
showed. Benefit costs advanced 0.4 percent on a quarterly basis,
less than the 0.6 percent gain in the three months ended in
March.  Year over year, benefit expenses increased 2.2 percent.  Employment costs rose 0.9 percent per quarter on average in
the five years before the recession began in December 2007.  The Labor Department is forecast to report a 185,000
increase in payrolls on August 2, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey, after a gain of 195,000 in each
of the past two months. With slow growth and few signs of
inflation, Federal Reserve policy makers have room to continue
their policy of injecting money into financial markets. Their
decision is scheduled to be announced at 2 p.m. today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  