-- Japan Utilities Limit Losses on Higher Rates, Fuel Cost Cuts
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-08-01T06:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/tepco-has-first-quarter-profit-after-getting-government-funds.html
Japan’s nuclear utilities narrowed
losses after raising power prices, a nascent sign of recovery in
an industry trying to show regulators their reactors are safe.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the operator of the wrecked
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear reactor, posted a smaller operating
loss in the fiscal first quarter, as did  Kansai Electric Power
Co. (9503)  The two companies, which serve 42.3 million people in Japan,
cut operating losses by a combined 198.03 billion yen ($2.03
billion), according to earnings statements yesterday.  The improved results came as the companies offset the
effect of the weaker yen on import prices by tapping cheaper
energy sources, while acknowledging some of their nuclear fleets
would have to be restored for their businesses to recover.  “There’s no other way for us to become profitable,” Naomi Hirose, Tokyo Electric’s president, said at a press conference
yesterday. “We recognize that will be difficult, though.”  Tepco, as  Tokyo  Electric is commonly known, raised
household rates by about 8.5 percent in September 2012. Kansai
Electric raised its rates 9.75 percent starting May 1.  The utilities gained government approval for the rate
increases by saying they were necessary to cope with rising fuel
bills. Fuel costs for Japan’s 10 regional utilities rose 2.7
percent to 1.7 trillion yen in the quarter, the companies said.  Rate Increases  The government is set to approve rate increases of 8
percent to 9 percent for three utilities, the Nikkei newspaper
reported today. Economy, Trade and Industry Minister Toshimitsu
Motegi and Masako Mori, the minister of state for consumer
affairs, will agree on the increases later today, with the
measure taking effect on Sept. 1.  The rate hikes, along with reactor restarts, will be
necessary if utilities are to stop losing money, said Yuji Nishiyama, an analyst with JP Morgan Securities Japan Co.  “They are still in the red and their shareholder equity is
still eroding,” Nishiyama said. “They’re not out of the woods
yet.”  Tepco  shares  ended today’s session up 48 yen, or 8 percent,
at 647 yen, while Kansai Electric shares rose 27 yen, or 2.3
percent, to close at 1,227 yen. All but one of the 17 members of
the Topix Electric Power & Gas Index gained.  Tepco pared fuel expenses by about 100 billion yen by
buying coal-fired electricity from  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506)  and
generating power at two new coal plants of its own, Hirose said.  Yen Weakening  The moves helped Tepco limit the increase of its total fuel
costs to 11.7 billion yen, despite the depreciated yen that has
driven up import prices, Hirose said. The company’s  636.3
billion yen fuel bill for the period was still the company’s
record high for a first quarter, Hirose said.  That’s largely due to the depreciation of Japan’s currency,
which has boosted the cost of importing the oil, gas and coal
that has replaced atomic power, he said. Japan’s currency traded
at an average of 98.76 yen to the dollar in the April-to-June
period, up 23 percent from 80.09 yen a year earlier.  Kansai Electric, meanwhile, limited the increase in its
fuel bill to 1 percent, partly through the resumption of two
reactors at its Ohi nuclear plant, which enabled  Japan ’s second-biggest utility to use less fossil fuel.  The utility, Japan’s most dependent on nuclear, was without
any atomic power from Feb. 21, 2012, when the No. 3 reactor at
its Takahama plant was idled for safety checks, until July 5 of
that year, when the No. 3 unit at the Ohi plant began generating
electricity again.  Reactor Checks  The Ohi No. 3 unit, along with the plant’s No. 4 unit,
which restarted July 18, are currently the only operating
reactors in Japan. The country’s remaining 48 functioning
reactors remain shuttered for safety checks after the March 11,
2011 earthquake and subsequent tsunami caused meltdowns at the
Fukushima plant.  Kansai Electric will today submit an application to halt
its Ohi No. 3 reactor from Sept. 2 for regular checks,
broadcaster NHK reported, without saying where it got the
information. The utility plans to stop the Ohi No. 4 reactor for
regular checks from Sept. 15, the broadcaster reported.  Japan’s Nuclear Regulation Authority began accepting
applications on July 8 for the safety checks that must be
completed before restarts can occur. The regulator said last
week that reactors operated by  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508) ,
 Shikoku Electric Power Co. (9507)  and  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  were
eligible for inspections.  Applications  Hirose said the company wanted to apply as soon as possible
for safety checks at Tokyo Electric’s Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant
in Niigata prefecture, 220 kilometers (137 miles) northwest of
Tokyo. While acknowledging it may be difficult to persuade
Niigata’s anti-nuclear governor, Hirose said the restart was
necessary to make his company profitable again.  “Our priority is to meet the governor and win an
understanding for a safety review application,” he said.  The following table shows the reported operating profits
and operating losses of Japan’s nine nuclear plant operators for
the three months ended June 30, 2013 and June 30, 2012, in
addition to their forecasts for this financial year. Figures are
in billions of yen.  
Sources: Hokkaido Electric, Tohoku Electric, Tokyo Electric,
Chubu Electric, Hokuriku Electric, Kansai Electric, Chugoku
Electric, Shikoku Electric, Kyushu Electric.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  