-- Soros Said to Have Taken Stake in Herbalife
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2013-07-31T21:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/herbalife-rises-after-cnbc-reports-soros-has-taken-stake.html
Billionaire investor George Soros
has taken a stake in  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  that’s less than 5 percent
of its outstanding shares, said a person with knowledge of the
purchases.  The person, who asked not to be identified because the
purchases haven’t been publicly disclosed, didn’t say over what
period of time the investor’s  Soros Fund Management  LLC bought
the shares. The shares climbed 9.1 percent to $65.50 at the
close in New York, the biggest gain since May 20, after CNBC
reported the stake earlier. The Cayman Islands-based company’s
stock has almost doubled this year.  Herbalife already is the focus of a battle between hedge
fund managers  Bill Ackman  and  Carl Icahn . Ackman has sold
Herbalife shares short and said the company is an illegal
pyramid scheme that should be shut down, allegations the company
has repeatedly denied. Icahn bought Herbalife shares after
Ackman made his accusations and now is the company’s largest
individual investor, with a 16 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Soros Fund Management didn’t own any Herbalife shares as of
March 31, according to a U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission
filing. Soros doesn’t personally manage the money in the firm,
which is run by Chief Investment Officer Scott Bessent.  Icahn said in an interview that while he doesn’t know if
Soros has taken a stake, he hopes he has.  “It would be great if someone of  George Soros ’s
credibility would be a large stockholder,” Icahn said. “As
I’ve said in the past, Herbalife is a company with great
potential.”  The Herbalife gain may further squeeze Ackman, who said
today he took a stake in  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)   Ackman Loss  Based on Herbalife’s closing share price today, Ackman has
lost about $338 million on his bet. The estimated loss assumes
Ackman put on the short position at a price of $48.58, the
average between May last year, when he first shorted the stock
and Dec. 18, the day before he disclosed his short position of
more than 20 million shares.  Ackman hasn’t provided details of his position. He said in
a statement yesterday that he still is short the company.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP has amassed
a 9.8 percent stake in Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air
Products & Chemicals, signaling that he plans to push for change
at the industrial-gas producer.  The hedge-fund firm’s stake cost about $2.05 billion and is
now valued at about $2.2 billion, Ackman, 47, said today in an
e-mail. Air Products, which had a market value of $22.1 billion
as of yesterday, is the previously unidentified target described
by Ackman in a July 8 letter to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  