-- Merkel Spared Cabinet Overhaul as Minister Parries Drone Charges
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-31T12:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/merkel-spared-cabinet-overhaul-as-minister-parries-drone-charges.html
German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere deflected responsibility for a failed drone project as
the opposition renewed calls on him to resign.  Less than two months before elections, de Maiziere today
told a parliamentary investigative committee examining a cost
explosion tied to the  Euro Hawk  spy drone that problems with the
project had been presented to him as “solvable” before he made
the decision to cancel it in May. He scrapped it after costs
associated with airspace certification reached almost 600
million euros ($796 million).  De Maiziere, former chief of staff of  Chancellor Angela Merkel , is being attacked by the opposition for failing to
identify the rising drone costs earlier and accused of lying to
parliament about when he knew what. Merkel has repeatedly stood
behind the defense chief.  “A minister is always responsible for everything that
happens in his domain and the responsibility can’t simply be
shared,” Rainer Arnold, the lead  Social Democrat  on the
parliament’s defense committee, told broadcaster N-TV today. “A
defense minister can’t remain without trust. He should recognize
that and do the troops a favor.”  De Maiziere said he “regretted” not being “clearer” in
a June 5 defense committee hearing that he had received reports
of cost issues, though they were portrayed as manageable.  The Euro Hawk is a modified version of the Global Hawk
unmanned aircraft used by the U.S. Air Force, with  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co (EAD)  providing the sensor payload
after teaming up with  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in 2000.  German elections are set for Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  