-- MetLife Profit Falls 78% to $502 Million on Derivatives
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-31T21:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/metlife-profit-falls-78-percent-to-502-million-on-derivatives.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said profit fell 78 percent as rising  interest rates 
cut the value of the company’s derivatives.  Second-quarter  net income  dropped to $502 million from $2.3
billion a  year earlier , New York-based MetLife said today in a
statement. Operating earnings, which exclude some investment
results, were $1.44 a share, beating the $1.33  average estimate 
of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  MetLife, led by Chief Executive Officer Steve Kandarian,
uses  hedges  to cushion fluctuations in stocks, bonds and
currencies on an investment portfolio with more than $350
billion of bonds backing future payouts to customers. The yield
on the  10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  rose 0.64 percentage point to 2.49
percent in the quarter.  “As the change in interest rates flows through income
statements and balance sheets, we’re seeing the first impacts,”
Cathy Seifert, an equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s Capital
IQ, said by phone before the insurer posted results.  MetLife has  advanced  47 percent this year to close at
$48.42 today.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the No. 2 U.S. life
insurer, is up 48 percent this year. Kandarian’s company gained
8 cents in extended trading at 4:38 p.m. in New York. MetLife
released its statement after the close of regular trading.  Rising bond yields may help MetLife increase investment
income, Seifert said. Rates rose after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that some of the central bank’s
stimulus could end in 2014. The Fed lowered its benchmark rate
and has pursued three rounds of bond buying to jump-start U.S.
growth after the 2008 financial crisis.  Bond Declines  Net derivative losses were $1.1 billion, fueled by rising
interest rates, foreign currency changes, and MetLife’s credit
spreads, the insurer said today. Net derivative gains a year
earlier were $1.4 billion, driven by falling interest rates.  Book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$52.85 per share as of June 30 from $57.03 three months earlier,
as net unrealized gains on bonds narrowed. The measure of gains
on the bond portfolio, which isn’t included in net income, fell
to $20.9 billion at the end of the second quarter from  $31.8
billion  on March 31.  Net investment income fell 2.2 percent to $5.1 billion.
Variable investments, which include private equity and hedge
funds, added $312 million before taxes, compared with $371
million a year earlier.  Cost Cuts  Operating profit for the Americas, MetLife’s largest region
climbed 18 percent to $1.3 billion, led by results in the U.S.
MetLife said “disciplined expense management” added to profit.
The insurer cuts its adviser force by a third in the 15 months
ended in May and is moving some jobs to  North Carolina .  Kandarian, 61, is retreating from some life insurance
coverage and reducing sales of variable annuities after low
rates weighed on profits. The company is seeking to expand in
lines of business that are less capital intensive, such as
accident-and-health coverage.  In  Asia , operating profit jumped 18 percent to $330
million. Some of the increase was fueled by fees as
policyholders gave up fixed annuities in  Japan .  Profit fell 7 percent to $125 million in  Latin America , as
MetLife incurred costs to expand the business. Operating
earnings dropped 13 percent to $68 million in the  Europe , Middle
East and Africa region after MetLife recorded a writedown tied
to proposed pension reforms in  Poland .  U.S. Oversight  The insurer is targeting return on  equity  of at least 12
percent by 2016, compared with an operating ROE of about 11
percent last year. To help reach that goal, MetLife is seeking
to cut about $600 million of expenses, mostly in the U.S.  In April, MetLife lifted its dividend for the first time
since 2007 after selling deposits to end its status as a bank-holding company overseen by the Fed. The company said this month
that U.S. regulators reached the final stage of a process to
determine whether it poses a potential risk to the financial
system. MetLife has opposed the designation, which would subject
the company to Fed oversight. Global regulators deemed the
company systemically important this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  