-- Euro-Region Unemployment Unchanged as Economy Improves
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-07-31T11:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/euro-region-unemployment-unchanged-as-economy-improves.html
The euro-area  unemployment rate 
remained unchanged in June amid increasing signs the economy is
emerging from its longest-ever recession.  The jobless rate in the economy of the 17 nations using the
euro held at 12.1 percent last month, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That matches the
highest on record after May unemployment was revised down to
that figure from an initially reported 12.2 percent. Euro-area
inflation held steady at 1.6 percent in July after accelerating
for two months, a separate report showed.  Europe  is showing signs of a  nascent recovery  after
manufacturing output unexpectedly expanded in July for the first
time in two years and business confidence improved for a third
month. The economy, which has contracted for a record six
quarters, probably stagnated in the three months through June
and will grow again this quarter, economists predict.  “Experience suggests that even as the economy is returning
to growth, it takes another six to nine months for unemployment
to turn around,” said  Sarah Hewin , head of European research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London . “I wouldn’t be surprised for
unemployment to stay high and rise until next year even though
activity picks up.”  Youth Unemployment  Joblessness will rise to 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter
and average 12.3 percent next year, according to a Bloomberg
monthly survey of economists. Youth unemployment in the euro
area rose to 23.9 percent in June and topped 56 percent in
 Spain , which also had the highest overall jobless rate at 26.3
percent, today’s data showed. In Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, the overall rate remained at 5.4 percent in June.  “The unemployment figures remain  horrendously high ,”
Dennis Abbott, a spokesman for the European Commission, told
reporters in Brussels. “It’s not something that’s going to be
improved overnight.”  Europe faces the risk of prolonged economic  stagnation 
unless policy makers encourage domestic spending, the U.S.
Treasury Department’s top international official,  Lael Brainard ,
said on July 15. The  International Monetary Fund  this month cut
its global growth projections and said monetary stimulus should
continue until the recovery is well established.  European car sales fell to a two-decade low in June as
unemployment hurt demand at  Fiat SpA (FIAT)  and  PSA Peugeot Citroen. (UG) 
Michelin & Cie, Europe’s largest tiremaker, said on June 10 that
it would end production of heavy-truck tires at a factory in
Joue-les-Tours, southwest of Paris, by the end of 2015. About
730 of the plant’s 930 employees will lose their jobs.  Two Years  Still, the total number of people out of work across the
euro area declined in June for the first time in more than two
years, today’s report showed. The number of job-seekers dropped
to 19.3 million, down 24,000 from the previous month, the first
decrease since April 2011.  The  European Central Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent since May and President
 Mario Draghi  committed this month to keep borrowing costs low
for an extended period amid low inflation, a subdued economic
outlook and “weaker and weaker” credit flows. Policy makers
hold their monthly rate-setting meeting tomorrow in Frankfurt.  Lending to the private sector declined the most on record
in June, the ECB said on July 25. While banks loosened credit
standards for loans to consumers for the first time since the
end of 2007, they continued to tighten policy for companies in
the second quarter, according to the ECB’s Bank Lending Survey.  The ECB predicted in June the economy will contract 0.6
percent this year before growing 1.1 percent next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  