-- Euro-Area Inflation Holds at 1.6%, Providing ECB Some Leeway
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-07-31T10:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/euro-area-july-inflation-holds-at-1-6-as-recession-lingers.html
Euro-area inflation held steady in
July after accelerating for two months, adding leeway for the
European Central Bank to loosen monetary policy as the 17-nation
currency bloc struggles to pull out of a record-long recession.  The annual  inflation rate  was 1.6 percent, the same as in
June, the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said
today. That’s in line with the  median  of 42 economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. It’s the sixth straight
month that the rate has been less than the ECB’s 2 percent
ceiling.  “For the ECB, there is no major risk of inflation, but
there’s also limited risk of deflation,” said Christian Schulz,
senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “There’s economic
adjustment going on in the euro zone as southern Europe is
pricing itself into the market and becoming more competitive
while  Germany  is enjoying the fruits of previous reforms and
maybe spending a little more, driving up prices.”  The ECB’s Governing Council will keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at a  record low  0.5 percent when it meets in Frankfurt
tomorrow, according to the median of 63 economist estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. While the euro area has been mired in a
recession for six quarters, some signs of a turnaround are
emerging, including a return to expansion in manufacturing
output and improved economic confidence in July.  Economic Outlook  After the central bank’s last policy meeting on July 4, ECB
President Mario Draghi pledged to keep interest rates low for an
extended period amid low inflation, a subdued economic outlook
and weak credit flows. The ECB in June predicted the economy
will contract 0.6 percent this year before growing 1.1 percent
in 2014. Consumer prices are seen rising 1.4 percent this year,
according to the ECB’s forecasts.  Euro-area unemployment held at 12.1 percent in June after
May’s figure was revised lower to that level from 12.2 percent
estimated initially, a separate report showed today. The number
of people out of work fell to 19.3 million in June, down 24,000
from the previous month.  The euro was higher against the U.S. dollar after the data,
trading at $1.3270 at 12:25 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent on
the day. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was 0.2 percent higher at
299.90.  Energy prices increased 1.1 percent in July after a 1.2
percent gain a month earlier, today’s report showed. Prices of
food, alcohol and tobacco rose 3.5 percent, compared with 3.2
percent in June; while the cost of services increased 1.4
percent in the latest month.  Higher Prices  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Europe’s largest cigarette
maker, said today that first-half operating profit rose 4
percent as higher prices offset falling consumption. Belgium-based  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer,
reported quarterly profit growth that topped estimates on
higher-priced beer in the U.S.  Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian automaker that controls Chrysler
Group LLC, said yesterday that it expects car sales to fall to
about 1.3 million this year. Strong U.S. sales helped the Turin-based company post a better-than-expected second-quarter profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  