-- Eutelsat to Acquire Satelites Mexicanos for $831 Million
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-31T18:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/eutelsat-to-buy-satelites-mexicanos-in-1-14-billion-transaction.html
Eutelsat Communications SA (ETL)  agreed to
acquire Satelites Mexicanos SA for $831 million to expand in the
faster-growing Latin American satellite market.  Eutelsat plans to finance the takeover using a bridge loan,
and assume net debt of $311 million, Paris-based Eutelsat said
today. It expects privately held Satmex, as the  Mexico  City-based satellite company is known, will add to per-share earnings
starting in the 12 months ending June 30, 2015.  Demand for satellite services in  Latin America  is growing
at an annual rate of more than 7 percent between 2011 and 2016,
Eutelsat said, citing statistics from Euroconsult. Satmex, the
operator of three satellites that cover 90 percent of the
population of the Americas, in 2011 emerged from  bankruptcy
protection  for the second time in five years.  “Six years ago, Satmex was a very different company and in
a very difficult situation. It was in disarray,” Eutelsat Chief
Executive Officer Michel de Rosen told analysts on a conference
call. “It has now become a vibrant company, growing fast and
with even more growth ahead of itself.”  Eutelsat was attracted in part by a Mexican law passed this
year to open up the pay-television market to more competition,
benefiting satellite operators, said a person familiar with the
situation who asked not to be named because the details are
private.  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the nation’s biggest pay-TV
company, is already a Satmex customer, as is billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, which is seeking to enter the pay-TV
market in Mexico.  Forecast ‘Disappoints’  Eutelsat  shares  fell 6.2 percent to close at 21.02 euros in
Paris. The company yesterday forecast sales growth or more than
2.5 percent for 2013 to 2014 and an average growth rate of more
than 5 percent for the following two years through June 30,
2016.  Carl Murdock-Smith, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said the guidance “disappoints,” adding analysts’
estimates will probably be cut.  Revenue rose 5.1 percent to 1.28 billion euros ($1.7
billion) in the 12 months through June, while earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization increased 4
percent to 995 million euros, Eutelsat said.  “There is a slowdown in the trend of demand,” de Rosen
said. “We believe that some regions, some applications are more
promising, more dynamic, more vibrant than others, which is why
we want to be where there is maximum growth and potential
profitability.”  Last year, Satmex’s FSS business had adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $89.1
million on revenue of $111.8 million.  The transaction, subject to government and regulatory
approvals, will probably be completed by the end of this year,
the companies said.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP is advising Eutelsat, while
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are Satmex’s
advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  