-- Evonik Said to Be Among Suitors for Patch Maker Lohmann
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-31T17:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/evonik-said-to-be-among-suitors-for-patch-maker-lohmann.html
Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , a German
chemicals maker that listed shares in April, is among the
companies considering a bid for nicotine-patch maker  LTS Lohmann
Therapie-Systeme AG , valued at more than 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion), according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Evonik is in talks with Morgan Stanley, which is preparing
the sale process for the German maker of plasters that deliver
drugs through the skin, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because details of the auction are private.  LTS Lohmann, co-owned by  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  SAP AG (SAP)  co-founder
Dietmar Hopp and German investment company BWK, has also
attracted interest from private equity firms including EQT
Partners AB, Nordic Capital and BC Partners Ltd., the people
said.  After years of disposals, Evonik’s Chief Executive Officer
 Klaus Engel  is trying to take the company into new higher-margin
areas and expand its nutrition and health portfolio. The Essen-based company scaled back plans for an initial public offering,
listing 14 percent of its shares largely through a private
placement in April.  The sale process for LTS Lohmann is in the initial stages,
the people said. The Andernach, Germany-based company employs
more than 1,000 people and  describes  itself as the global leader
in the development and manufacturing of transdermal systems and
oral thin films. Its patches are also used to deliver drugs
against Parkinson’s and Restless-Legs-Syndrome.  Evonik, BC Partners and Morgan Stanley declined to comment.
An official at EQT couldn’t immediately comment and
representatives for LTS Lohmann and  Nordic Capital  couldn’t be
reached.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  