-- Hewlett-Packard Says Ex-SEC Counsel Advising on Autonomy
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-31T04:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hewlett-packard-says-ex-sec-counsel-advising-on-autonomy.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said it has
hired a former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission general
counsel and interviewed 25 people in a company investigation of
alleged fraud at its Autonomy unit.  Ralph Ferrara, a partner at Proskauer Rose LLP and ex-general counsel at the SEC, is leading a probe by a three-member
committee of independent directors investigating shareholder
allegations that Hewlett-Packard ignored warnings about
accounting irregularities and failed to vet its finances before
acquiring the British software maker, the company’s lawyers said
in filings yesterday in federal court in San Francisco.  Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal computer maker, faces
shareholder lawsuits stemming from its Nov. 20 announcement that
it was taking an $8.8 billion writedown on the value of
Autonomy, which it agreed to buy for $10.3 billion in 2011.
Hewlett-Packard alleges it was a victim of fraud and that
Autonomy overstated its revenue, growth and prospects.
Autonomy’s ex-chief executive officer, Michael Lynch, has denied
HP’s claims and said the company botched the acquisition.  HP’s board committee has conducted preliminary interviews
of 25 “key individuals” and reviewed documents, and its
lawyers have retained accounting experts in the investigation,
company lawyer Marc Wolinsky said in a filing requesting that
the so-called derivative shareholder lawsuit be put on hold
until Jan. 10.  HP directors Ralph Whitworth, Gary Reiner and Robert Bennett are members of the investigative committee, according to
the filing.  Former Employees  Current and former HP and Autonomy employees in the U.S.
and the U.K. are also expected to be interviewed, Wolinsky said.
Putting the lawsuit on hold would give the committee time to
complete its work and make a recommendation to the board about
whether to file its own lawsuit. The investors in the lawsuit
are suing HP and Autonomy executives on behalf of the company.  A stay is also justified to allow regulators to complete
their investigations, Wolinsky said. The U.S. Justice
Department, the SEC and the U.K. Serious Fraud Office have all
opened investigations related to Autonomy, he said.  “These investigations may result in the commencement of
civil or criminal proceedings against some of the witnesses or
defendants in civil litigation currently pending in this
court,” he said in the filing.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment on the filing.  The case is In Re Hewlett-Packard Co. Shareholder
Derivative Litigation, 12-06003, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  