-- Ex-Australia Cricket Coach Arthur Reaches Settlement Over Firing
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-31T11:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ex-australia-cricket-coach-arthur-reaches-settlement-over-firing.html
Former  Australia  national team coach
Mickey Arthur has reached a “confidential” settlement with
Cricket Australia over his firing last month.  “Both Mickey and CA agree that it is unfortunate that the
dispute was not settled prior to the issuing of legal
proceedings,” the two sides said in a joint statement. “Both
parties agree that a resolution now is in the interests of the
Australian cricket team and cricket generally in Australia.”  The 45-year-old Arthur, who had two years to run on his
contract, was fired June 24 and replaced with Darren Lehmann 16
days before the start of the Ashes series in  England .  He filed proceedings with the Fair Work Commission in
Sydney three weeks ago for being “sacked and scapegoated,” and
was seeking as much as A$4 million ($3.6 million) in
compensation, claiming discrimination because he was South
African and “didn’t understand the Australian way,” Channel
Seven reported July 16, citing the confidential filings.  “For me this was never solely about the money,” Arthur
said today in televised comments to reporters. ‘I just wanted to
be treated fairly and with dignity. With this fair reasonable
deal, we can now get on with our lives.”  Arthur was replaced because of Australia’s “struggles both
on and off the field” during this year’s tour of  India  and the
Champions Trophy tournament, Cricket Australia said at the time
of his dismissal. He was ultimately responsible for the team’s
failure to improve its discipline, consistency of behavior and
accountability for performance, it added.  Discipline Breaches  Arthur was hired as Australia’s first overseas-born coach
in November 2011 and led the team to 10 wins, six losses and
three draws in 19 Tests. His tenure was marked by discipline
breaches in the squad, the latest being batsman  David Warner ’s
suspension last month for punching England’s Joe Root in a bar.  England has won the first two games in the best-of-five
Ashes series, with the third Test starting tomorrow at Old
Trafford in Manchester. Australia in 1936-37 is the only team in
the 131-year history of the Ashes to have come back from a 2-0
deficit to win a series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 