-- Ex-Galleon Trader Drimal’s Wife Gets Access to Wiretaps
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-31T17:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ex-galleon-trader-drimal-s-wife-gets-access-to-wiretaps.html
The wife of former Galleon Group LLC
trader Craig Drimal won access to federal wiretap recordings
after she sued the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  over its
monitoring of calls between the couple.  Arlene Villamia-Drimal filed suit in federal court in  New
Haven , Connecticut, last year against 16 current and former FBI
agents who worked on the Galleon investigation, alleging that
from  November 2007 to January 2008, the agents “wrongfully
intercepted” more than 180 confidential and privileged marital
calls. On June 6, the federal judge presiding over the case
declined to dismiss the suit.  In order to defend the case, federal prosecutors in
Connecticut who represented the agents told U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan in  New York , who presided over Drimal’s
criminal case, needed access to the court-authorized wiretaps,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Julian Moore said in his request.  “We would respectfully propose that this court order
disclosure of those materials to the civil defendants and their
attorneys, solely for use in the  Connecticut  civil litigation,”
Moore wrote.  ‘Personal Nature’  Sullivan yesterday signed a request granting Drimal’s wife
access to the wiretaps for the purposes of her suit. The order
was made public today.  Prior to trial, Drimal made a bid to suppress the wiretaps,
arguing that the government listened in on “scores” of phone
calls with his wife which he said were “of a particularly
intimate and personal nature.”  Drimal’s lawyer argued that rather than “minimize” the
recordings and halt the wiretaps, the agents had continued to
listen. After a hearing on the matter in 2011, Sullivan denied
the request although he said he was “deeply troubled” by the
FBI’s failure to stop listening to unrelated, intimate phone
calls.  Drimal, who pleaded guilty to  insider trading , was
sentenced to 5 1/2 years in prison. He has appealed his
conviction. John R. Williams, a lawyer representing Drimal’s
wife, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left at his
office seeking comment about the case.  The cases are U.S. v. Goffer 10-CR-56, U.S. District Court
(Southern District of New York); Villamia-Drimal v. Makol et al,
12-cv-717, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  