-- Mexico Peso Falls as Fed Concern Outweighs Local Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-31T15:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/mexico-peso-falls-as-fed-concern-outweighs-local-growth-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso fell as mounting
concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus
outweighed speculation that lawmakers in the Latin American
country will pass legislation to boost economic growth.  The peso slumped 0.7 percent, the worst performance among
six major Latin American currencies, to 12.8498 per dollar at
10:23 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The decline pared this month’s advance to 0.6
percent.  The peso slumped along with most of its emerging-market
peers before the Fed announces monetary policy later today. A
report earlier showed the  U.S. economy  grew more than projected
in the second quarter. Speculation that the U.S. central bank
may trim its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases has fueled a
slump in Mexican securities even as the Latin American country’s
government signals progress toward changes in the nation’s
energy and tax laws intended to boost growth.  Speculation that “the Fed will reduce stimulus is what’s
affecting the market more than the positive sentiment regarding
Mexico passing reforms,” Agustin Villarreal, fixed-income and
foreign exchange director at Grupo Financiero Invex SA in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “At the end of the day
it’s a global environment more than a Mexico-specific
situation.”  The yield on Mexican government peso bonds maturing in 2024
jumped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.07
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has
risen 26 basis points this month, headed for a third straight
monthly increase.  U.S. GDP  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.7 percent annualized rate, after
a 1.1 percent gain the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1 percent advance
for last quarter. Companies increased payrolls in July by the
most this year a separate report from the ADP Research
Institute.  The peso pared losses today after Senator Salvador Vega, an
opposition leader on the Energy Committee, said in a telephone
interview that his  National Action Party  will present an energy
overhaul proposal today that would open the door for selling
shares in state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos . President Enrique Pena Nieto has pledged to pass legislative changes to open the
nation’s state-owned oil monopoly to more private investment and
boost tax collection.  Pena Nieto said in an interview in  London  last month that
his administration will send bills to overhaul energy and tax
policies in September and that the so-called Pact for Mexico
alliance between the nation’s three leading political parties
will assure approval by Congress to end the government’s
monopoly on oil production before year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  