-- F&C Asset Management Gains in London After First-Half Inflows
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-07-31T10:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/f-c-asset-management-gains-in-london-after-first-half-inflows.html
F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , the
investment firm controlled by hedge-fund manager  Edward Bramson ,
rose the most in more than two months in London trading after
attracting funds from retail and professional investors.  F&C rose as much as 5.2 percent, the most since May 9, and
was up 4.35 pence to 98.85 pence at 11:16 a.m. The firm had net
inflows of 432 million pounds ($657 million) in the first-half
of 2013 from consumer and institutional investors, compared with
outflows of 742 million pounds in the year-earlier period, the
company said in a statement today.  “F&C’s interim results have exceeded our expectations,”
 Mark Williamson , an analyst at Peel Hunt LLP in London, wrote in
a note to clients today. “This is my top pick amongst the asset
managers.” Peel Hunt has a buy recommendation on the stock.  Bramson, F&C’s chairman and largest shareholder through his
hedge fund Sherborne Investors LLC, has been seeking to boost
the performance of the London-based fund manager by cutting
costs, slicing debt and refocusing on traditional strengths such
as  investment trusts  and managing fixed-income assets for
insurers.  F&C posted first-half net income of 7.5 million pounds,
compared with a loss of 6.1 million pounds a year earlier. Net
revenue rose to 126.1 million pounds from 120.3 million pounds.  “There are encouraging signs for flows in the second half
of the year,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Wilson said in
the statement. The firm is “more competitive and more
profitable and our strong  investment performance  will underpin
delivery of continued revenue growth in our consumer &
institutional business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 