-- Facebook Draws More Young Prime-Time Viewers Than Major Networks
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/facebook-draws-more-young-prime-time-viewers-than-major-networks.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the largest social-networking company, attracts more 18- to 24-year-old people
during prime-time viewing hours than any of four major
television networks, a study from Nielsen found.  Fifty percent of television and computer users in that age
group will access  Facebook  between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. on
weeknights, according to Nielsen. The four networks included in
the study, meanwhile, attracted 37 percent to 43 percent of
those people. Nielsen declined to say which networks it used for
comparison in the report, which was commissioned by Facebook.  The report is Nielsen’s first major study comparing
Facebook’s user base with TV audiences, giving advertisers a
window into the demographics of both platforms. The information
also provides Facebook with fresh ammunition as it fights to
break television’s dominance over ad budgets. The company is
planning to sell TV-style commercials on its site for as much as
$2.5 million a day, people familiar with the matter have said.  “This data really changes the way marketers view us now,”
Fred Leach, head of measurement research at Facebook, said in an
interview. “They used to think of us as a niche part of their
ad strategy, but this data establishes us as a really important
piece of giving them reach.”  During daytime hours, Facebook commands an even bigger
audience compared with the four networks, Nielsen found. The
 Menlo Park , California-based company attracted more than half of
all viewers 18 to 44. None of the networks reached more than 40
percent.  “Most people during the workday don’t have a TV in front
of them,” Leach said.  Shift Budgets  Facebook didn’t fare as well among older age groups,
especially during prime-time hours. It drew only 48 percent of
people 35 to 44. The networks had an average reach of more than
65 percent in that age group and had an even higher percentage
among older viewers.  The amount of time spent on the activity wasn’t reported,
and the study didn’t examine other social networks such as
Twitter Inc.’s microblogging service. Separately, Nielsen plans
to release data later this year measuring how people use Twitter
while watching TV.  Today’s study found significant overlap between television
viewing and checking Facebook.  “A lot of people talk about the TV shows they’re watching
while they’re on Facebook,” Leach said. That also provides
opportunities for advertisers to get their message in front of a
viewer multiple times, an ad tactic known as frequency
targeting, he said.  “It’s something a lot of marketers have asked for and now
we’re able to show them how with even better data,” Leach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at   ptam13@bloomberg.net  