-- Fairstein Ponders Spitzer, Weiner, College Rapists
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/fairstein-ponders-spitzer-weiner-college-rapists.html
Linda Fairstein’s 15th Alex Cooper
novel, “Death Angel,” features a naked woman found floating in
the Central Park lake, a terrifying rapist and a little rich
girl who disappeared from her palatial apartment.  Chief of the Sex Crimes Unit of the Manhattan D.A.’s office
for more than two decades, Fairstein now writes procedurals that
have been translated into a dozen languages and become
international bestsellers.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York  before
she set off on a book tour.  Lundborg:  Early on, Alex gets threatened in court by a
rapist. Did that ever happen to you?  Fairstein: That kind of verbal threat was not uncommon.
Robert Chambers came to court looking like an altar boy every
day -- this guy who with his bare hands had strangled someone
was always opening the door for me and if nobody was around
under his breath he’d say something nasty.  One of his friends actually threatened to burn my home down
in the country.  Lundborg: Your crazy rapist is out on a work-release
program. Is that common?  Joe Crazy  Fairstein: This happens pretty much everywhere. You call
and ask when the next parole hearing is for Joe Crazy, and you
get “Oh, we forgot to notify you -- he was doing so well, he’s
in a halfway house in Yonkers.”  Lundborg: Not always a good outcome, I expect?  Fairstein: One of the most famous serial killers in
 Manhattan  was Charles Yukl, who raped and murdered women in the
Village. He was sent away and became a model prisoner -- he was
giving piano lessons to the warden’s kid.  He got out and killed again. I mean “Hello?”  Lundborg: Is it generally accepted that rape is not a crime
of passion but of violence?  Fairstein: Most people now see it as a crime of violence,
in which the weapon is not a baseball bat. It’s the most
degrading, humiliating thing to do.  Lundborg: Everyone sees how degrading it’s intended to be,
so much so that in other cultures they kill the woman for
bringing dishonor to the family.  Legs Up  Fairstein: Correct. Here, the law says that the woman can
say no when she’s naked and has her legs up in the air -- and it
still means no.  Lundborg: What’s happening on campuses? According to
researchers at  Wayne State University , about 27 percent of
college women are raped or suffer attempted rape.  Fairstein: Before the federal regulations, every college on
the planet wanted to sweep these issues under the rug. The
administration was saying, “He’s on the football team, and if
you report this or go forward, you are ruining his career; he’s
pre-med, you are ruining his future.”  The weight was always put on the girl student to make it go
away, tamp it down. A big penalty was letting the guy take a
leave for a semester and then come back.  Lundborg: As punishment, one guy had to write a book
report.  Sexual Assault  Fairstein: Now there’s a Department of Education edict
saying every college and university has to have rules and
policies for dealing with complaints of sexual assault.  They have to be investigated on campus, there has to be a
policy for whatever kind of hearing you are going to have. There
have to be  health services , physical and mental, for the
complaining witness, and there has to be a way of enabling the
victim if she wants to go to the police.  Lundborg: Why are colleges so backward?  Fairstein: My view is that college administrators are not
equipped to deal with sex crimes -- these are tough cases for
trained prosecutors. If you are raped, that’s one of the most
serious felonies in the New York State Penal Law.  Lundborg: What do you make of the surreal political races
in  New York City , with  Eliot Spitzer  and Anthony Weiner trying
to make a comeback, saying they’re sorry.  Fairstein: I don’t know Weiner well, but I do know his wife
very well -- she’s smart, beautiful, fun. I can’t even imagine
why he did what he did. These people are just so full of
themselves they cannot see.  Lundborg: And Spitzer?  Fairstein: I knew Spitzer well since he was in the DA’s
office when I was there. I thought he would have a fall from
grace owing to his arrogance -- but if you ever told me there
was a sexual impropriety, he was just so rigid, it was the last
thing I would have thought.  So narcissistic, arrogant, sociopathic.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Kazakina
on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 