-- Fannie Mae Obtains Insurance on $5 Billion Pool of Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-31T21:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/fannie-mae-obtains-insurance-on-5-billion-pool-of-mortgages-1-.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  obtained insurance on a
pool of about $5 billion of mortgages from National Mortgage
Insurance Corp. as the government-controlled company seeks to
expand its risk-sharing with private firms.  The transaction resulted from a formal bid process to
mortgage insurers, the Emeryville, California-based unit of  NMI
Holdings Inc. (NMIHZ)  said today in an e-mailed statement. The insurer,
which began writing policies in April, said that it was selected
“based on its favorable terms and conditions, and beneficial
risk-share attributes.”  Freddie Mac, the competitor to Fannie Mae that’s also
government-controlled, sold $500 million of a new type of debt
this month to share its mortgage-default risks with bond
investors. That deal was part of an effort to gain insight into
how the private sector prices risk and to reduce taxpayers’
exposure to potential losses, Edward DeMarco, acting director of
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , said in a statement.  The FHFA, which has overseen the firms since they were
seized by the U.S. in 2008, has been directing them to raise how
much they charge to guarantee their traditional mortgage bonds
and asked each to attempt to share risk this year on $30 billion
of home loans. The risk-sharing should take a variety of forms,
according to the goals set for the firms’ executives.  While mortgage insurers’ protection on new loans mainly
covers debt guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the firms
typically offer the coverage on a loan-by-loan basis. The
insurance is usually paid for by consumers, picked by lenders,
and required for debt exceeding 80 percent of a property’s
value. The policies cover some or all of foreclosure losses.  The agreement with NMI, struck July 15, was executed to
help meet the “FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard
objective,” Washington-based Fannie Mae said in an e-mailed
statement. “The effective date of the coverage will be subject
to receipt of the applicable regulatory approvals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  