-- Swipe-Fee Rule Rejection to Help Merchants at Banks’ Cost
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-01T02:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/fed-s-debit-card-swipe-fee-limits-rejected-by-u-s-judge.html
Retailers battling banks over debit-card transaction costs may benefit from lower fees after winning
a court ruling on claims they were overcharged billions of
dollars under an unlawful rate set by the  Federal Reserve .  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  ruled
yesterday that the Fed considered data it wasn’t allowed to use
under the Dodd-Frank law in setting the cap on debit-card
transaction fees, known as swipe fees, at 21 cents, and
neglected to bolster competition in card networks.  “The board’s final rule not only fails to carry out
Congress’s intention; it effectively countermands it!” Leon
wrote in his ruling.  The decision, unless overturned on appeal, will force
regulators to revisit rules that bankers said would cost them 45
percent of their swipe-fee revenue. Lenders collected about $16
billion annually from those fees before the Fed’s regulation and
responded by cutting back on perks such as rewards programs and
free checking to soften the blow to their profits.  The Fed’s rule, in effect since October 2011, will stay in
place until the central bank drafts new regulations or interim
standards, Leon said.  ‘Too Much’  “This is clearly saying 21 cents may be too much,” said
 Nancy Bush , a founder of NAB Research LLC, a bank research firm
in  New Jersey . “You’ll have to go back to the drawing board and
figure out how much a debit-card transaction actually costs and
is there going to be some kind of premium paid to that.”  More than 38 billion debit-card transactions took place in
2009 at retailers including grocery and electronics stores, gas
stations and large chains such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , according to court documents. The Fed rule was
written after merchants successfully lobbied for a measure
pushed by Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, to limit
the power of banks and payment networks to impose fees.  Swipe, or interchange, fees are set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the biggest electronic-payment networks, which
collect the money and remit it to banks that issues the cards.  Visa, the biggest bank-card network, dropped the most since
August 2011 on the ruling.  Foster City , California-based Visa
fell as much as 11 percent in New York trading before declining
7.5 percent to $177.01 yesterday. MasterCard, the second-biggest
U.S. network, slid as much as 5.7 percent yesterday before
gaining 1.5 percent to close at $610.61.  James Issokson, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard, had no immediate comment on the ruling. Joe Pavel, a
spokesman for the Fed, said the central bank is reviewing the
decision.  Harm Banks  Frank Keating , the president of the  American Bankers
Association , said the decision “will harm banks of all sizes
and make it more difficult for institutions to serve their
customers.”  “The price controls enacted as a result of the Durbin
Amendment served one purpose -- further lining the pockets of
our nation’s big-box retailers at their own customers’
expense,” Keating said in a statement. “It was -- and still is
-- all about trying to help retailers increase profit margins
while providing no real benefit to consumers.”  Leon also agreed with the retailers’ contention the Fed
hadn’t taken adequate steps to open up competition among payment
networks that process transactions.  Network Fees  Total network fees exceeded $4.1 billion in 2009 in large
part because of a lack of competition, he said. Leon criticized
the rule for allowing a debit card to be limited to one network
choice for signature transactions and one network choice for PIN
transactions.  “Congress intended to put an end to exclusivity agreements
and increase merchants’ choice among debit-processing networks,
not restrict that choice or even preserve the status quo,” he
said.  The retailer groups, who filed their suit in November 2011,
said merchants would be “substantially harmed” by the Fed-established fees.  Yesterday’s “decision is the first step in setting these
initial wrongs right and will ensure that swipe fee reform is
done correctly,”  National Retail Federation  said in an
statement.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July 2010,
required the Fed to ensure that fees charged for debit-card
purchases were “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of
processing transactions.  Earlier Proposal  Merchants previously paid banks an average of 44 cents per
transaction. The Fed first proposed cutting the sum to 12 cents
before settling on 21 cents after bankers complained.  Yesterday’s ruling will lead to lower interchange rates for
billions of debit card transactions each year, said Durbin, who
filed a brief in the case supporting the retailers.  “The Fed’s 2011 decision to bend to the lobbying by the
big banks and card giants cost small business and consumers tens
of billions of dollars and did not do enough to rein in the
anti-competitive, anti-consumer practices of Visa and
MasterCard,” Durbin said.  In their complaint, the retailers alleged the Fed didn’t
determine the incremental costs associated with a debit
transaction and instead “invented” a category of costs not
mentioned in the statute, giving the central bank unfettered
discretion in setting the cap.  ‘No Difficulty’  Leon said he had “no difficulty” concluding Congress
intended to limit the Fed’s discretion in setting fees to the
incremental cost associated with authorization, clearing and
settlement of an electronic debit transaction.  Leon, who said the Fed rule raised costs for debit
transactions under $12, said he was inclined to give the Fed
“months, not years” to rewrite the rule.  “The starkest, most powerful evidence of how absurd this
rule was is that it resulted in a price increase,” Jeffrey Shinder, an attorney at Constantine Cannon LLP in  New York  who
filed a brief for a group of retailers including 7-Eleven Inc.
and Wendy’s Co.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  