-- FHA Solvency Legislation Advanced by Senate Banking Committee
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-31T15:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/fha-solvency-legislation-advanced-by-senate-banking-committee.html
The U.S. Senate Banking Committee
has approved legislation that would set a floor on premiums
charged by the Federal Housing Administration and require the
government mortgage insurer to hold more money in reserve.  Members voted 21-1 today to advance the measure proposed by
Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat,
and Senator Mike Crapo of Idaho, the panel’s top Republican.
Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, was the only member
to vote against the bill.  Johnson’s Senate committee is tackling the question of the
FHA’s solvency before weighing a broader overhaul of housing-finance that is likely to include replacing U.S.-owned  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  The House is pursuing a bill backed by
Representative Jeb Hensarling, the Texas Republican who leads
the Financial Services Committee, that would liquidate Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac and limit government loan guarantees.  “This bipartisan bill will provide the FHA the tools it
needs to get back on stable footing,” Johnson said of the
Senate measure approved today.  The FHA is facing a shortfall of nearly $1 billion in its
insurance fund in the current fiscal year after defaults on
loans backed during the housing bubble depleted its reserves.  The Senate bill would increase the cap on premiums the
agency charges to borrowers and require annual evaluations of
those rates. It would give the FHA more authority to go after
lenders that break its rules and more power to require them to
absorb losses on improperly underwritten loans.  The Senate bill is S.1376.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  