-- Fiat Industrial Profit Rises on U.S. Tractor Demand
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-07-31T15:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/fiat-industrial-profit-rises-on-u-s-tracter-demand.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the maker of
commercial and agriculture vehicles spun off from  Fiat SpA (F)  in
2011, said second-quarter profit rose 1 percent, boosted by
higher tractor sales in  North America   Trading profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs, advanced to 633 million euros ($841
million) from 627 million euros a year earlier, the Turin,
Italy-based company said today in a statement. Sales increased
3.1 percent to 6.83 billion euros.  Fiat Industrial faces a slumping European market. New
registrations of trucks above 3.5 tons declined 11.5 percent in
Europe in the first six months of the year, according to
industry association ACEA. Demand has shown signs of picking up,
with truckmakers including  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Daimler AG calling for
orders to pick up in the second half.  Fiat Industrial stuck to its goal of raising 2013 revenue
by 3 percent to 4 percent. The forecast was lowered in April as
the economic crisis in Europe cut demand for Iveco trucks.  The manufacturer’s shares rose 2.8 percent to 9.26 euros in
Milan trading. The stock has gained 12 percent this year,
valuing the company at 11.3 billion euros.  Fiat industrial and its  CNH Global NV (CNH)  farm-equipment
division plan to merge in a move aimed at improving growth
prospects by shifting focus to the U.S. CNH, the maker of Case
and New Holland bulldozers and tractors, is 88 percent-owned by
Fiat Industrial. Shareholders at both manufacturers approved the
deal earlier this month.  Italian Shift  The new company, which will be called CNH Industrial, will
have its primary listing on the  New York  Stock Exchange, with
the company expecting shares to be trading by the end of
September. CNH Industrial will be legally incorporated in the
Netherlands and based in the U.K. for tax purposes.  Fiat Industrial Chairman  Sergio Marchionne , who will be
president of the new company, is seeking to shift the
manufacturer away from its roots in Italy, which is in its
fourth recession since 2001.  The combination will create the world’s third-largest
capital-goods company with a product line spanning Iveco
delivery trucks, New Holland harvesters and FPT ship engines.  Both Fiat Industrial and Fiat are controlled by  Exor SpA (EXO) ,
the investment company of Italy’s Agnelli family. Exor has said
it plans to keep voting rights in CNH Industrial above 30
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  