-- Gun Sales for Sturm Ruger at Post-1990 Peak Rebut Concern
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-08-01T20:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/firearms-demand-propels-sturm-ruger-sales-to-highest-since-1990.html
Sturm, Ruger & Co. (RGR)  defied concern
that the fading debate over  gun control  would crimp demand for
firearms with its highest quarterly sales since at least 1990.  The shares advanced to a four-month high. Second-quarter
 revenue  surged 50 percent to $179.5 million, the Southport,
Connecticut-based company said yesterday. That beat the  estimate 
of $155 million from Scott Hamann, a KeyBanc Capital Markets
Inc. analyst, who rates the shares underweight.  The largest publicly traded U.S. firearms maker is seeing
“true demand” as the federal gun-control push fades, said
Randy Bateman, chief investment officer at Columbus, Ohio-based
Huntington Asset Advisors Inc., who oversees $15 billion
including Sturm Ruger shares. Its annual profit surged to a 25-year high in 2012 as buyers stocked up amid rising momentum for
new laws.  “The numbers build confidence all the way around,”
Bateman said in a phone interview yesterday. “You have a
company that’s exploding on the growth side, so you have a
pretty compelling story for a lot of investors.”  Sturm Ruger rose 3.6 percent to $52.69 at the close in New
York, the highest price since March 21. The maker of Mini 14
rifles and Redhawk revolvers has advanced 16 percent this year,
trailing the 44 percent increase for  Smith & Wesson Holding
Corp. (SWHC)   Quarterly Dividend  The  quarterly sales  were the highest in data compiled by
Bloomberg that begin in 1990. The previous peak was $155.9
million in this year’s first quarter.  “New product sales have been truly outstanding,” Michael Fifer, president and chief executive officer of Sturm Ruger,
said on a conference call. They “remain a strong driver of
demand.”  New products accounted for $102.7 million, or 31 percent of
Sturm Ruger’s firearm sales in the first half of 2013. The
company defines new products as those that have been introduced
within the past two years and include only major items, such as
the LC380 pistol and the SR45 pistol.  The Obama administration’s gun-control push after the Dec.
14 slayings of 26 people at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
 Connecticut  stoked firearm demand for Sturm Ruger, Smith &
Wesson and other manufacturers while spurring speculation that
sales eventually would be damped.  The  U.S. Senate  then rejected gun-buyer background checks
in April, and a Pew Research Center poll the following month
found that most Americans saw new laws as unlikely.  Seasonal Slowdown  “We have not seen any slowing in demand for Ruger, but
we’ve heard anecdotally that the normal seasonal slowdown has
started,” Fifer said. “We expect some of it will be a reset
from the huge surge that started in Q4.”  Sturm Ruger said second-quarter net income jumped 79
percent to $32.3 million, or $1.63 a share, from $18 million, or
91 cents, a year earlier.  The company also declared a dividend of 65 cents a share in
the second quarter, which represents about 40 percent of net
income. The payout is the highest quarterly dividend since 1988,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. It’s payable Aug. 30 to
shareholders of record as of Aug. 16, the company said in a
statement.  Sturm Ruger’s dividend yield was 5.1 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You have people that are looking for yield everywhere,”
Bateman said. “There are people that won’t like the fact that
they make firearms, but in this case, they’d have extraordinary
yields, and that’s going to attract a lot of people.”  Sturm Ruger returned $17.3 million to shareholders through
dividend payments during the first half, it said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  