-- First Solar Sees Australian Project Decision Within 12 Months
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-31T06:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/first-solar-sees-australian-project-decision-within-12-months.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , a partner in
 Australia ’s first large-scale solar project, expects a decision
to be made within 12 months to boost the size of the development.  The  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Verve Energy-owned Greenough
River project is seeking funding from the Australian government
to help expand the plant as much as fourfold to 40 megawatts,
Jack Curtis, First Solar vice president of business development
and sales for Asia-Pacific, said today in an interview in Sydney.  “I’d be very disappointed if we didn’t see some positive
traction on that in the next six to 12 months,” he said.
“We’re pretty confident that the federal government would view
that as a very likely candidate for future support since the
economic value proposition would be compelling.”  First Solar, the largest U.S. solar-panel manufacturer by
shipments, is supplying panels to the 10-megawatt  Greenough
River project  to contribute to the government’s plan to get at
least 20 percent of the country’s power from renewable energy by
2020. The project in  Western Australia  started last year.  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) ’s planned 155-megawatt solar project in New
South Wales state, which received A$166.7 million ($150 million)
in funds from the Australian Renewable Energy Agency, is also
using Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar’s modules. AGL said today
that it’s going ahead with the A$450 million project at two
sites in Australia’s most populous state.  Australia Challenge  “One of the challenges we have is that we bring a U.S.
cost frame of reference to Australia, and we realize it’s more
expensive to build in Australia, largely because the experience
just isn’t there,” Curtis said in the interview after a news
conference to announce the AGL project. “So what these projects
do is accelerate that experience, so that next time we can build
more efficiently, more cheaply.”  The Australian Renewable Energy Agency expects decisions
within six months on whether to invest in solar plants planned
by Infigen Energy and Pacific Hydro Pty, Chief Executive Officer
Ivor Frischknecht said today in a separate interview.  While Australia has the highest average solar radiation per
square meter of any continent, according to the government, some
projects picked to receive solar grants, including a venture led
by  Areva SA (AREVA)  in the state of Queensland, have failed to meet
financing deadlines and sign power-supply agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  