-- Following Bernanke Means Using Precedent of Unprecedented Policy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s   A n s t e y
-- 2013-07-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/following-bernanke-means-using-precedent-of-unprecedented-policy.html
The success of the next  Federal
Reserve  chairman, be it Janet Yellen,  Lawrence Summers  or
someone else, will depend less on their grounding in monetary
policy orthodoxy than on their readiness to reach beyond it.  That flexibility defines the leaders of the world’s
principal central banks: the Federal Reserve, the  European
Central Bank  and the Bank of Japan. All three responded to
economic shocks by casting off institutional dogma and
broadening their missions.  At the Fed, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  engineered the most
unconventional experiment in U.S. monetary-policy history using
trillions of dollars in direct bond purchases to lower long-term
 interest rates  and expanding the central bank’s role as lender
of last resort. The ECB’s  Mario Draghi  pushed the central bank’s
goals beyond narrow price stability, pledging unlimited support
to countries that sign up for fiscal restructuring. BOJ Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda set out to double Japan’s monetary base to end
two decades of stagnation.  “The unconventional policy is going to have to become
conventional,” said  Adam Posen , former Bank of England Monetary
Policy Committee member who is now president of the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington. “Central
banks are going to have to act on a wide range of assets and
directly in credit markets. It is a very different world.”  Mortgage Securities  Bernanke, 59, was the first to break the mold. At the start
of 2009, when the  U.S. economy  was contracting at a 5.3 percent
annual rate, the Fed chairman was preparing a step no one had
taken before: more than $1 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities purchases to keep credit flowing to housing markets.  In 2008, the Fed chairman had seen the financial crisis
spread beyond the banking system to financial companies and
securities markets. He opened special facilities to lend to U.S.
government bond brokers, buy the commercial paper of U.S.
corporations and banks and finance the securitized loans to
students, car buyers, small businesses and credit card
borrowers. Having cut the benchmark lending  rate  to zero by
December 2008, Bernanke turned to a new approach, expanding
direct bond purchases in 2009 to keep long-term rates low.  Rapid Response  “What was incredible to me, and still even carries weight
with me today, is the rapidity with which he and the broader Fed
architecture moved from seeing the world from a traditional lens
to the full unconventional slate of tools,” said Michael Gapen,
who was then a section chief in the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs and is now senior U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in New
York. “You are talking about a 60-day period where Bernanke
turned the institution on its head and started thinking in an
extremely unconventional world.”  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said in an
interview that taking bold action as a central bank looks easier
than it is. Central banks are creatures of legislatures, which
can be suspicious of extraordinary actions, and financial
markets can react in unexpected ways, he said.  Greenspan said there is an unspoken consensus about keeping
in the bounds of orthodox policy that is difficult for any
central banker to violate.  “If we are right, but the consensus is wrong, we are
tolerated,” Greenspan said. “If we are wrong, and the
consensus is right, we get pilloried. So there is an acute bias
to staying with short-term policy and that is what limits the
range of action.”  Riksbank Criticized  Sweden’s Riksbank, one of the pioneers of central bank
innovation as early as the 1990s with its communications and
inflation targeting regime, has lately struggled with providing
more stimulus out of concern it might inflate a credit bubble.
The 12-month inflation rate measured by a consumer price index
was below the central bank’s 2 percent target for all of 2012,
and has been negative for the last three months.  Unemployment (SWUERATE) 
over the past year has averaged about 8 percent, while the
Rikbank’s benchmark interest  rate  has fallen just a half
percentage point to 1 percent.  “I’ve never seen as much criticism against the Riksbank as
we’re seeing right now,” Robert Bergqvist, chief economist at
SEB AB in Stockholm and former head of research at the central
bank, said in an interview. “The market believes the bank will
be unsuccessful in getting inflation back to 2 percent,” he
said, referring to a survey conducted by SEB.  Bernanke approached the financial crisis by expanding the
lender-of-last-resort authority to include loans to institutions
other than banks because stabilizing financial markets would
create conditions to allow him to pursue his mandate to foster
full employment and stable prices.  Trichet’s Choice  The European Central Bank, which by statute is responsible
for pursuing low and stable inflation, faced the same sort of
choice as the fiscal crisis swept across Europe in 2010 and
began to threaten the entire euro project.  Former ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  defended the
inflation mandate, raising interest rates twice in 2011, even
while offering unlimited liquidity to banks across the region.  A more aggressive approach proved necessary as the crisis
simmered for months. Draghi, Trichet’s successor, pushed the
mission further by offering banks cash for longer than ever and
pledging unlimited bond purchases for countries signing up for
fiscal restructuring. Draghi, who took over the ECB in November
2011, is drawing fire from Germany’s Bundesbank for his
willingness to stretch the rules. He credits the bond plan with
preventing a euro breakup.  The BOJ’s Kuroda similarly abandoned the model of his
predecessor,  Masaaki Shirakawa , who had periodically expanded
asset purchases in response to a weakening in the economic
outlook or appreciation in the yen.  Deflation Escape  Kuroda, in an effort to revive credibility on price
stability and growth, on April 4 unleashed a two-year program
designed to double the monetary base, through purchases of
securities dominated by  government bonds .  “Shirakawa was convinced that deflation stemmed from weak
demand and external forces, not monetary policy, whereas Kuroda
sees monetary policy as the way to get out of deflation,” said
 Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo and a former BOJ official who’s unrelated to
the ex-governor. “It’s possible that Kuroda could ease further
if prices don’t rise, even if growth is solid -- it’s unlikely
his predecessor would’ve done that.”  Both Summers and Yellen have likewise shown a readiness to
embrace unconventional policies when confronting crises.  Mexican Crisis  Summers was undersecretary for international affairs at the
U.S. Treasury in 1994, as Mexico suffered a run on its dollar
reserves after letting its currency slide. Faced with the risk
of a Mexican default, a potential international crisis in
financial markets, and congressional reluctance to increase U.S.
aid, Summers and Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin  tapped the
Exchange Stabilization Fund, established in 1934 to promote
orderly foreign exchange markets, for a $20 billion package to
backstop Mexico.  Using the fund to backstop a foreign nation’s reserves had
immediate political costs. Pressed by Representative  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont independent who is now a U.S. senator,
Congress eventually approved a law that made any use of the fund
of more than $1 billion subject to lawmakers’ approval. Not
using it might have had even higher costs as a default by Mexico
might have spilled over into capital flight in other  emerging
markets , while also damaging U.S. growth. As it was, the
limitation amendment expired in 1997.  Default Averted  “It without a doubt stabilized the Mexican economy, local
financial markets and safeguarded deep exposures by U.S.
corporations and investors,” said Lawrence Goodman, president
for the Center for Financial Stability in New York, an
independent research organization focused on financial markets.
A default “would have had a profound impact on the U.S.
economy.”  More recently, Summers, as director of the White House
National Economic Council in 2009 and 2010, helped draft an $830
billion economic stimulus program and an unprecedented rescue of
the auto industry.  Yellen’s role in the crisis entailed devising monetary
policy for an expansion that hasn’t progressed fast enough to
bring down the  unemployment  rate, which stood at 7.6 percent
last month. She has a record of innovation as one of the
architects of the Fed’s forward guidance on the short-term
policy rate. Yellen also led the subcommittee that devised the
publication of interest rate forecasts by policy makers for the
first time in January 2012.  Yellen, Summers  “Yellen is absolutely qualified as a macroeconomist
dealing with monetary policy issues,” said  John Ryding , chief
economist at RDQ Economics in New York who has worked at the
Bank of England and the New York Fed. “But in terms of broader
issues of flexibility in financial crisis and looking at how to
get things done, I think  Larry Summers  more than has the edge
there.”  Summers’s record suggests he wouldn’t hesitate to engage
the White House, Congress or the Treasury in policies as he
needed them. Such reach, though, could be risky if it involves
the Fed in politics or credit policies that favor specific
industries.  While both Summers and Yellen are “great academic
economists,” Yellen would probably be more mindful of the Fed’s
political independence, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for
North America at BNP Paribas in New York and a former member of
the Fed board staff.  “She has been dedicated to the institution for much of her
professional life and believes deeply in the mission of the Fed
and its independence,” Coronado said.  Every crisis requires central banks to balance policy
innovation with public credibility. Too little action can create
doubts about a central bank’s power and effectiveness, while too
much action can bring raise suspicion of overreach.  “Reputation comes from being credible for a long time,”
said Michael Bordo, director of the Center for Monetary and
Financial History at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New
Jersey. “In crisis periods, the essence of central banking is
to act decisively and boldly.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
205 or  jblack25@bloomberg.net ; Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
   canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  