-- Ford to Offer Natural Gas Fuel Systems for F-150 Pickups
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-07-31T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ford-to-offer-systems-for-f-150-pickups-to-run-on-natural-gas.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, plans to begin offering compressed natural gas
fuel systems for its F-150 pickups to meet growing demand from
business fleets and attract retail buyers.  Fuel packages similar to what Ford has offered on large
commercial vehicles since 2009 will be available starting this
year with the 2014 F-150, said Kevin Koswick, head of its fleet
operations. The F-150 will be the only half-ton pickup capable
of running on compressed natural gas, or CNG, the company said
in a statement.  Ford is seeking to further bolster its F-Series pickups,
which have been the top-selling trucks in the U.S. for the past
36 years. Natural gas prices have fallen as U.S. production
surged with  horizontal drilling  and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking. Ford said the average U.S.  price for CNG  is equal to
$2.11 a gallon, compared to $3.66 for regular gasoline.  The F-150 is “probably our No. 1 request out there right
now, with people asking us” for a CNG system, Koswick said
yesterday in a briefing near Ford’s headquarters in Dearborn,
 Michigan . The F-150 will be the eighth commercial vehicle that
Ford will sell that can run on CNG.  Ford said it expects to sell more than 15,000 such vehicles
this year, up at least 29 percent from 11,623 in 2012. The
automaker started offering CNG-enabled commercial vehicles with
its E-Series vans and has since added Super Duty large pickups,
Transit Connect taxis and chassis-cab trucks that are used for
mail delivery.  Retail Market  By adding the light-duty F-150 truck to the mix, Ford may
begin drawing more retail buyers for CNG vehicles, Koswick said.  “You’re really starting to straddle into the retail
marketplace,” Koswick said. “There is demand.”  Buyers who choose the CNG-enabled 2014 F-150 will pay $315
for modifications at Ford’s factory with hardened valves,
pistons and rings that are capable of working with CNG.  Those customers would then complete the upgrades by
selecting from among six Ford-approved companies, including
 Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT) , to supply fuel tanks, lines and
injectors. The cost for the work by those companies ranges from
about $7,500 to $9,500 depending on the size of the tank, the
automaker said.  Using CNG also can result in as much as 30 percent less
emissions of  greenhouse gases , Ford said, citing U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency figures.  Corporate Customers  Customers for Ford’s CNG vehicles have included
telecommunications carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T) , delivery services
such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , and oil and
gas exploration companies such as  Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD)   States and municipalities in places such as  Oklahoma , where
natural gas production has surged, are purchasing the vehicles
and offering tax credits as incentives for their use and for
building infrastructure. In addition, operators of taxis and
shuttles at airports in Phoenix and Denver also are buying CNG-powered cars and trucks.  The advances in techniques for natural gas output are
allowing the U.S. to vie with  Russia  as the world’s largest
producer, according to the  International Energy Agency . The
increased supply has driven down prices for the fuel.  “When they really developed horizontal drilling and the
fracking process that they have right now, that changed and
separated the cost of natural gas from gasoline,” Robert
Stevens, Ford’s chief engineer for commercial trucks, told
reporters yesterday. “That was the watershed event.”  Rising energy production along with a sustained housing
recovery are fueling pickup sales this year and pacing gains for
U.S. automakers. Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC
each increased market share in 2013’s first half, the first time
all three gained in the initial six months of a year since 1993.  Ford has reported that U.S. sales of its F-Series pickups
climbed 22 percent to 367,486 this year through June.  The company’s fell rose 0.6 percent to $16.88 at the close
in  New York . Ford has surged 30 percent this year, compared with
an 18 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  