-- Forint Set for 1st Monthly Drop in 4 on Rate Cut: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-31T12:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/forint-set-for-1st-monthly-drop-in-4-on-rate-cut-budapest-mover.html
The forint headed for its first
monthly loss in four after  Hungary ’s central bank said it would
continue cutting interest rates and as the economy minister met
lenders to discuss plans to phase out foreign-currency
mortgages.  The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 299.78 per euro as of
1:07 p.m. in Budapest, depreciating for a seventh day and
bringing the decline in July to 1.6 percent. It earlier breached
the 300 per euro level for the first time since April 26 on a
closing basis. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its main rate for a
12th consecutive month on July 23 to a record 4 percent.  “The MNB has already cut rates substantially and there is
no experience with how the forint would react amid a negative
 market sentiment  with such a low  interest rate ,” Robert Csajbok, a Budapest-based trader at  ING Groep NV (INGA) , wrote in an e-mail today. The government’s plans to phase out foreign-currency
mortgages have also dented the forint’s allure, he said.  President  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said last week the central bank
may continue the easing cycle it started a year ago, until the
main rate falls to between 3 percent and 3.5 percent. Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  and head of the Hungarian Banking
Association, Mihaly Patai, met today to discuss the framework
for phasing out 570,000 foreign-currency home loans.  ‘Unjustified Uncertainty’  Talks between the government and banks will continue in the
coming weeks, the economy ministry said in a statement today.
The negotiations should be concluded in a “realistic” time
frame to avoid “unjustified uncertainty” impacting the
financial system and wider economy, the ministry said.  Nine-month forward-rate agreements, used to wager on
interest rates, have tumbled 110 basis points to 3.70 percent
since reaching a five-month high at the end of June, when
investors speculated the central bank may halt or reverse rate
cuts. That’s 25 basis points below the Budapest Interbank
Offered Rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The forint is the third-most volatile currency in the past
year among 10 peers monitored by Bloomberg in emerging Europe
and  Africa .  “Should volatility grow in the forint, then the central
bank will probably show some flexibility, but this also depends
on how much time the market gives them,” ING’s Csajbok said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  