-- Former Mizuho Credit Trading Head Plans Own Hong Kong Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-07-31T01:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/former-mizuho-credit-trading-head-plans-own-hong-kong-hedge-fund.html
Jeffrey Yap, former head of Asian
fixed-income trading at a unit of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
plans to start his own credit-focused hedge fund in Hong Kong.  Yap, who worked for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. until May,
will be joined at Ark One Ltd. by two other founding partners he
declined to identify. They plan to open the fund to investors in
mid-August, pending license approval by the city’s  Securities
and Futures Commission , he said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday.  Yap is the latest credit trader to start a fund amid record
debt sales in the region spurred by low  interest rates  and yield
premiums for risky borrowers, combined with regulatory
relaxation. Equity hedge funds still account for 71 percent of
regional industry assets, compared to 27 percent globally,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “We’re seeing the need for more diversified Asian home-grown credit hedge funds as the Asian fixed-income markets
liberalizes further,” said Yap, 37.  An Asia-based institution has committed an initial $50
million toward the fund, which will invest in public and private
credit in the region with a focus on  China , Yap said. The
institution has the option of investing another $50 million over
the first 12 months, he added, declining to identify it citing a
confidentiality agreement.  Yap plans to raise $250 million for the fund by the end of
its first year, inclusive of the money from the institution.  As much as half of the fund’s investment may be in China,
Yap said.  Dim Sum Bonds   Asian governments and companies outside of  Japan  have
raised $1.7 trillion through bond sales since the beginning of
2011, more than the previous nine years combined, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dim Sum bond sales fetched 174.3 billion  yuan  ($28.4
billion) so far this year, more than previous annual figures
since records began in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China has encouraged the sales of such yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  as part of a move to push for
international use of its currency.  Asia fixed-income  returned  13 percent last year, the third-best-performing hedge-fund strategy among nine tracked by
Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  About one-third of Ark One’s multistrategy fund’s
investments will be in private credit, such as pre-initial
public offering or asset-backed financing for companies, Yap
said.  Bond Investments  The fund will be able to invest in both hard-currency bonds
sold internationally by Asian governments, agencies and
companies and those issued in domestic markets in local
currencies, he said.  Its public bond investments will employ strategies
including long-short credit, and relative value, such as
exploiting the pricing differences between the domestic and
international bonds of the same companies.  It will also engage in convertible bond and capital
structure arbitrage, which seeks to profit from pricing gaps
between the same issuer’s convertible bond, stock, various debt
of different seniorities and maturities.  Yap, as chief investment officer, will focus on the public
bond investments. One of the two other founding partners will
oversee private-credit investments, he said.  Before joining Mizuho, the third-largest Japanese bank by
market value, Yap ran credit investment for Singapore-based
macro hedge-fund manager JL Capital Pte between 2007 and 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  