-- Fugitive Former BTA Banker Ablyazov Detained in Southern France
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v ,   I r i n a   R e z n i k   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-31T18:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/fugitive-former-bta-banker-ablyazov-detained-in-southern-france.html
Former BTA Bank Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov , who has been in hiding since last year, was detained
in southern  France , according to his son and French police.  Ablyazov, an opponent of Kazakh President  Nursultan
Nazarbayev , was arrested by armed officers today at his sister’s
house near Cannes, his son Madiyar Ablyazov said by e-mail.  The police in Aix-en-Provence, about 150 kilometers (93
miles) from Cannes, confirmed his arrest. Ablyazov is being held
in Aix-en-Provence at the request of Interpol, a spokeswoman at
the Commissariat de Police said, asking not to be identified,
citing internal regulations.  Kazakh prosecutors issued an international arrest warrant
for Ablyazov in March 2009 on suspicion of embezzlement. BTA,
the country’s biggest lender before it was taken over by
sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna four years ago, has filed
civil suits claiming the former chairman siphoned off more than
$5 billion. Ablyazov has denied the accusations, saying the
lawsuits are politically motivated.  The arrest was carried out at the request of Ukraine,
Madiyar Ablyazov and his sister Madina said in a joint
statement.  A hearing may be held as soon as tomorrow morning.  French police today checked information provided earlier
about Ablyazov with  Russia ’s  Interior Ministry , which may have
been used to find him, a press official at the ministry said
today by phone, asking not to be indentified in line with
internal policy. Russia also issued an international warrant in
2011, according to the Russian Interior Ministry.  Ablyazov, who was granted asylum in Britain two years ago,
fled the U.K. in February 2012 after being sentenced to 22
months in prison for contempt of court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  