-- Genworth Declines as Profit Misses Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-31T14:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/genworth-declines-as-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the seller
of mortgage guaranties and long-term care coverage, slumped
after second-quarter results missed analysts’ estimates.  Genworth  fell  3.9 percent to $12.84 at 10:30 a.m. in New
York, the biggest intraday tumble in more than a month. The
decline was the steepest on the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index.  Operating profit, which excludes some investment results,
was 27 cents a share, Genworth said yesterday, 2 cents below the
 average estimate  of 10 analyst surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
climbed 86 percent to $141 million, or 28 cents a share, as the
U.S. mortgage unit posted its second straight profit. Earnings
from life insurance fell amid a decline in sales and less
favorable mortality, Genworth said.  “The earnings shortfall was primarily due to elevated
claims in the  life insurance  business,” Joanne Smith, an
analyst at Scotia Capital, said in a research note today. “The
performance of Genworth’s key businesses were solid,” she said,
citing  mortgage insurance  and long-term care.  The U.S. mortgage insurance unit reported a $13 million
operating profit, its second-straight positive result amid a
recovery in the housing market. Before this year, the unit had
been unprofitable since 2007.  Genworth’s efforts to raise prices for long-term care
coverage and improving mortgage insurance results and have
helped  boost  the company’s shares 71 percent this year, making
it the best performing insurer in the  S&P 500 .  “Fundamentally, the business is really moving in a strong
forward direction,” Tom McInerney, Genworth’s chief executive
officer, said of the U.S. mortgage-guaranty unit in an
interview. “The business we’re writing today is very high
quality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  