-- Gerdau Rallies on Earnings Outlook After U.S. GDP Tops Estimates
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-07-31T16:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/gerdau-rallies-on-earnings-outlook-after-u-s-gdp-tops-estimates.html
Gerdau SA, Latin America’s biggest
steelmaker by market value, rallied on speculation second-quarter earnings were bolstered by faster-than-forecast growth
in the U.S. and a weaker Brazilian currency.  The shares  gained  2.8 percent to 14.57 reais at 12:38 p.m.
in Sao Paulo after earlier rising as much as 4.9 percent in the
biggest intraday advance since July 1. It was the best performer
on the MSCI Brazil/Materials index, which  retreated  1.2 percent.  Gerdau gets about a third of sales from North America. In
the U.S., gross domestic product rose 1.7 percent in the second
quarter, exceeding the 1 percent median estimate of 85 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The GDP reading stoked optimism about
Gerdau’s results before tomorrow’s earnings report, according to
Victor Penna, an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) .  “The American market has a lot of weight on the
performance of the steelmaker,” Penna said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “Gerdau stock’s movement is always
very linked to news about the U.S. economy.”  Gerdau will report second-quarter earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 12 percent from a year
earlier to 1.1 billion reais ($480 million), according to the
average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In the
first quarter, 2.93 billion reais of the 9.2 billion reais of
the steelmaker’s sales came from North America.  The Brazilian real’s 11 percent plunge this year may also
have helped Gerdau to improve its performance, Penna said. A
weaker real increases revenue from foreign sales in local
currency terms.  Gerdau has fallen 18 percent in 2013, while the materials
index has slumped 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  