-- German Jobless Rate Holds Near Two-Decade Low in July
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-31T11:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/german-unemployment-declined-in-july-amid-recovery.html
Germany ’s unemployment rate held
near a two-decade low, potentially buoying support for the
government before September elections, while the rate in the
euro area stayed at a record high.  The number of people out of work in Germany decreased by a
seasonally adjusted 7,000 to 2.93 million in July and the
 adjusted jobless rate  was unchanged at 6.8 percent, according to
the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency today. The rate in the
17-nation euro area was 12.1 percent in June, unchanged from a
revised figure for May, the European Union’s statistics office
said in Luxembourg.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will seek a third term as German
leader on Sept. 22 on the strength of shielding the euro-area’s
biggest economy from the worst effects of the region’s debt
crisis. Her Christian Democratic bloc has a support level of 40
percent, with the Social Democrats at 25 percent, according to a
July 28  Emnid poll . Germany’s Ifo business confidence rose for a
third month in July and  GfK SE (GFK)  said  consumer confidence  will
climb to the highest level in almost six years in August.  “We are optimistic that the condition of the labor market
will stay good in coming months and perhaps even improve,” said
 Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “The domestic
labor market is still as solid as a rock in turbulent waters.”  European Confidence  The euro was little changed at $1.3262 at 1:35 p.m. in
Frankfurt. The currency has risen 0.5 percent against the dollar
this year. Germany’s benchmark  DAX (DAX)  stock index was little
changed at 8239.29 and has gained 8.2 percent since Dec. 31.  Merkel praised Germany’s “excellent” job situation last
month as she laid out her campaign themes at a conference of
Germany’s BDI industry association in Berlin. Her drive to get
more women in the workplace will continue and specific industry
branches must be open to paying minimum wages, she said. Her
Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , has pledged to
set a national minimum wage and raise the top income-tax rate.  The nation’s economy expanded 0.1 percent in the first
quarter after a 0.7 percent contraction in the previous three
months. The Federal Statistics Office will publish its initial
estimate for the second quarter on Aug. 14.  Slowdown Warning  “Germany’s strong labor market should underpin household
spending as it reduces job insecurity and drives wage growth,”
said Christian Schulz, an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“As economic uncertainty caused by the euro crisis fades,
consumption should grow and constitute a pillar of growth.”  Some German companies are still feeling the pain from the
crisis and weakness outside the euro region.  MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s
third-largest maker of commercial vehicles, reported a 67
percent plunge in second-quarter profit yesterday, citing a
“difficult” global environment.  The Bundesbank warned last week of signs of a slowdown in
coming months after the economy grew “strongly” in the second
quarter. German retail sales unexpectedly slid by an adjusted
1.5 percent in June from the prior month, data from the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden showed today.  China , Germany’s third-biggest trading partner, had its
biggest drop in exports since 2009 in June and fixed-asset
investment cooled in the first half of the year. A preliminary
survey of purchasing managers showed the nation’s manufacturing
weakened more than estimated in July. China’s ruling Politburo
pledged to stabilize growth while pressing on with economic
reforms, the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  Jobless Forecast  “Germany as an export nation depends very much on the rest
of the world,” said Stefan Schneider, chief international
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. “As long as growth
elsewhere doesn’t speed up, Germany will only grow very
moderately.”  The euro-region’s jobless rate will increase to 12.4
percent in the fourth quarter and average 12.3 percent next
year, according to the Bloomberg monthly survey of economists.
Spain had the highest rate in June at 26.3 percent, while the
region’s youth unemployment rose to 23.9 percent from 23.8
percent, today’s data showed.  “Both European leaders and the European Central Bank know
that unemployment rates at these levels still pose a threat to
the stability of the euro zone,” said Peter Vanden Houte, an
economist at ING Bank NV in Brussels.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , Europe’s largest tiremaker, said on June 10
that it would end production of heavy-truck tires at a factory
in Joue-les-Tours, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) southwest of
Paris, by the end of 2015. About 730 of the plant’s 930
employees will lose their jobs.  Improved Data  The euro area, Germany’s biggest export market, is showing
signs that it’s emerging from its longest-ever recession. While
the jobless rate was unchanged, the number of people out of work
in June fell by 24,000 to 19.3 million, the Eurostat data
showed. That’s the first decline since April 2011.  The economy will probably grow 0.1 percent in the third
quarter after stagnating in the three months through June,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Gross domestic product
shrank for the six quarters through March.  Economic confidence in the region improved for a third
month in July to the highest level in more than a year, the
European Commission in Brussels said yesterday. Manufacturing
unexpectedly expanded in the month for the first time in two
years, according to a purchasing managers’ index by London-based
Markit Economics on July 24.  “Gradual Recovery”  ECB President Mario Draghi said this month that he expects
a “gradual recovery by the end of the year.” The central bank
predicts the 17-nation economy will shrink 0.6 percent in 2013
before growing 1.1 percent in 2014.  Euro-area inflation held steady at 1.6 percent in July
after accelerating for two months, Eurostat said today. It’s the
sixth straight month that the rate has been less than the ECB’s
2 percent ceiling, adding leeway for looser monetary policy to
help the recovery.  ECB policy makers gather in  Frankfurt  tomorrow for their
monthly policy decision. They left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent on July 4 and Draghi
said rates would stay at or below the current level for an
extended period of time.  “Germany will benefit from the euro area’s emergence from
recession,” said Alexander Koch, an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “The labor market is stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  