-- German Bund Yields Reach Three-Week High Before ECB Rate Meeting
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-07-31T16:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/german-government-bonds-little-changed-before-30-year-auction.html
Germany ’s 10-year government bond
yields rose to the highest level in three weeks amid speculation
the  European Central Bank  will refrain from signaling further
stimulus at a monthly meeting tomorrow.  Benchmark bunds  ended trading little changed even after
falling when a government report showed German unemployment
unexpectedly fell this month, damping demand for the region’s
safest securities. Germany’s borrowing costs increased as the
nation sold 1.63 billion euros ($2.16 billion) of 30-year
securities. Italian and Spanish bonds were also little changed.  “Given the way the market is trading right now, there’s no
inkling or suggestion that they are going to do something,”
said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London , referring to ECB policy
makers. “The bund is actually retreating.”  Germany’s  10-year yield  was little changed at 1.67 percent
at the 5 p.m. close of trading in London after climbing to 1.72
percent, the highest level since July 8. The price of the 1.5
percent bund maturing in May 2023 was 98.48.  The ECB’s governing council will leave its key rate
unchanged at a  record-low  0.5 percent at its meeting in
 Frankfurt , according to all except one of 63 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  German unemployment dropped by a seasonally adjusted 7,000
to 2.93 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said.
Economists predicted it would remain unchanged, according to a
 Bloomberg News  survey.  Debt Auction  The 30-year bund yield fell one basis point to 2.47 percent
after today’s debt sale.  Germany sold the securities at an  average yield  of 2.47
percent, up from a record-low 2.16 percent at a previous auction
on April 24. Investors bid for 1.6 times the amount on offer,
versus 1.5 times in April.  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent last
quarter, compared with 1.1 percent in the previous three months,
the Commerce Department said. American companies boosted
employment by 200,000 in July, the ADP Research Institute said.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
a gain of 180,000. The Labor Department will release monthly job
data on Friday.  Federal Reserve policy makers are meeting today in
 Washington . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that the
central bank could start scaling back its bond purchases in its
“next few meetings” if the U.S. employment outlook showed
sustainable improvement.  ‘Important Driver’  “The more important driver is likely to be what is coming
out of the U.S.,” said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “That will be
the main driver until we see if the payrolls continue to improve
because a lot is expected in terms of the Fed forecast to
materialize on the employment side.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  was at 4.41 percent and the rate on
similar-maturity Spanish securities was 4.65 percent.  Portuguese 10-year yields were little changed at 6.39
percent after dropping as much as 13 basis points.  The combined holdings of Portuguese debt at the nation’s
three largest publicly traded banks rose 11.5 percent to 16.15
billion euros in the second quarter from 14.49 billion euros in
the previous three months, filings from the lenders showed. The
increase came after the country returned to bond markets.  German bonds lost investors 1.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian
securities returned 2.9 percent and  Spain ’s rose 6.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  