-- Gilt Groupe CEO Seeks to Prove Flash Sales Are No Fad
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-08-01T13:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/gilt-groupe-ceo-seeks-to-prove-flash-sales-are-no-fad.html
(Corrects date of last funding round in paragraph before
‘Losing Luster’ subhead, in story published July 31.)  Gilt Groupe Inc. ’s new chief
executive officer is trying to restore the promise of the online
luxury retailer by focusing on what the company does best: deep
discounts on a deadline.  Michelle Peluso’s company is testing technology to make its
limited-time-only offers more effective, even as competitors shy
away from the tactic and venture capitalists call it a fad. At
stake are the ambitions for an initial public offering by the
company, which was once valued at $1 billion as the buzzy
standard-bearer of New York’s startup scene.  Gilt, which cut divisions and laid off employees after
sprawling into too many businesses too quickly, is already
seeing a return to faster growth under Peluso, who joined in
February from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Sales growth in the past three
quarters is up 50 percent from the previous nine-month period.
Peluso is reorganizing the business and opening up internal
statistics to employees to get them energized about flash sales
after a year of market skepticism.  “There’s still this myth out there that flash is not
exciting,” Peluso, 41, said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in midtown  Manhattan . “Flash is our core. We did
take our eye off the core last year, but we’ve refocused and the
performance of Gilt has improved quite a lot since then.”  Board members say Peluso, who replaced the company’s co-founder, Kevin Ryan, can bring the startup past $1 billion in
revenue toward sustainable profitability and an IPO. The company
had $550 million in sales last year, excluding businesses it
discontinued, compared with $450 million in 2011.  Losing Luster  While flash sales fueled Gilt’s growth, they lost their
luster as more companies tried similar models, said Brian O’Malley, a venture capitalist at Battery Ventures, which isn’t
invested in Gilt. Designer brands also have less need to rid
themselves of excess inventory as the economy improves,
diminishing Gilt’s supply of coveted items, he said.  “People are pretty negative on flash sales right now,” he
said. “Gilt has probably taken longer to become a profitable
business than any of them would have liked. It was probably the
poster child of this space, but they expanded and got faced with
some complexities they weren’t expecting.”  Some Gilt rivals are moving away from the tactic, while
others are stumbling. Fab.com Inc. stopped its flash technique
this month, choosing instead to let customers track departments
and products they like.  Rue La La  and  Lot18  laid off employees
and scaled back. Totsy, a flash site aimed at moms, liquidated
its assets this year.  Personalized Flash  Peluso’s team is working on making its flash sales better,
depending on data the 6-year-old business has gathered to
persuade its 8 million active users to spend more. The company,
which drives shoppers to its site through e-mails, started by
personalizing subject lines.  The approach under testing takes that customization to the
extreme. By using data on customers’ clothing sizes, preferred
categories, favorite brands and browsing history, Gilt is
offering special time-sensitive sales tailored to individual
customers, betting it will get a higher rate of purchases.  Peluso’s reasoning is that shopping is more exciting if it
is an event, and that sales will be more attractive if they’re
exclusive to a single person.  “The core business can be significantly bigger in the U.S.
and overall, since we’re still such a small part of the discount
luxury market,” she said. “There are parts of our business
that we should be able to grow even faster.”  More Focused  It’s a more focused growth strategy for a company that got
its start in discount designer clothing in 2007 and kept
expanding into new markets -- clothes for kids, travel packages,
food and local deals -- under Ryan, a serial entrepreneur. Some
of the new experiments were difficult to manage and invest in
alongside the main business.  Jetsetter, a travel site, was sold to  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  in
January. Gilt Taste, which dealt with perishable goods, was
wrapped into Gilt Home. Park and Bond, a full-priced men’s
clothing store, didn’t fit with the discount flash-sales
business either, and was shut down.  “For certainly the first few years of Gilt, everything we
touched seemed to work,” said Susan Lyne, a former Gilt CEO who
is now a board member and also leads  AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s media
properties. “The last few launches we did just didn’t resonate
with our customers, and we were no longer a company in hyper-growth. A marketplace accepts the idea of unprofitable companies
if they’re in hyper-growth, but we were growing 20 or 30
percent.”  Making Profits  The company has stopped losing money and expects to
generate cash from operations for the first time by the end of
this year. Peluso is boosting marketing spending to help grow
globally and on mobile, which already accounts for more than 40
percent of sales.  Her style contrasts with that of Ryan, who was “the right
person at the right time” to experiment with new businesses
because of his entrepreneurial background, said Dana Stalder, an
investor and board member. Ryan has co-founded a number of
startups, including New York-based 10gen Inc., a database
software company, and  Business Insider Inc. , a news site. He
remains chairman of Gilt while he starts new companies.  Peluso was CEO of Sabre Holdings Corp.’s online flight
reservations unit, Travelocity, which she helped modernize
starting in 2003. In 2009, the year she joined the board of
Gilt, she started working for Citigroup and became chief
marketing and Internet officer, aiming to make banking
technology more consumer-friendly. She would film people writing
their thoughts about Citigroup on boards she placed on New York
streets. Peluso also signed an agreement to sponsor Citi Bike, a
system to share bicycles in New York City.  Retouching Photos  Peluso wakes up each day 5:30 a.m. to greet her 3-year-old
and 4-year-old, who are usually already awake and playing. She
spends time with them until 7:30 a.m., when she often has an
employee to take to breakfast. At work, she sits at a different
desk each week and spends some time doing the job of a different
team, whether it’s retouching photos, paying bills or pushing
out code to the website. That gives her a better sense of how
each team could be more efficient and whether the employees have
concerns she needs to address. She leaves the office at 5 p.m.
every day to return to her family, and then signs on to work
through e-mail again from 8 p.m. until 11 p.m.  At its latest round of funding, in 2011, Gilt was valued at
about $1 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter
who asked not to be named because the information is private.
That compares with the more than $1 billion valuation of
Fab.com, a competitor in New York with $115 million in revenue
last year, and the $600 million valuation of the Fancy, which
takes in about $3 million in revenue each month. Gilt has raised
$229 million to date, and doesn’t plan to raise any more until
an IPO, Peluso said.  “Everything Michelle is doing right now certainly puts us
in a strong position to be able to IPO at the right time,” Lyne
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  