-- Glaxo to Disclose More Study Data to Qualified Scientists
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-07-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/glaxo-to-disclose-more-study-data-to-qualified-scientists.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  plans to disclose
more individual patient data from its clinical trials to
increase transparency in how it reports drug-study results.  Since May, qualified researchers can request access to
findings on individual patients whose identities are concealed
and confidentiality protected. The drugmaker will double the
number of studies to 400 available by year’s end to researchers
seeking data of approved medicines and of therapies that have
been terminated from development, Perry Nisen, senior vice
president of science and innovation at Glaxo, said in a report
published yesterday in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  The initiative is among the ways the industry is trying to
address the fact that thousands of  clinical trials  that can help
improve patient care haven’t been published, according to  Ben
Goldacre , a doctor and author of “Bad Pharma.” Enabling access
to patient information can also help improve research.  “Risks regarding data privacy and irresponsible use cannot
be totally eliminated, and it will be a challenge to accommodate
diverse expectations across the scientific and medical
community,” Nisen said in the report. “However, the
opportunity to benefit the health of individuals and the public
must outweigh these concerns.”  The  GlaxoSmithKline Clinical Study Requests  website,
introduced May 7, lists studies started from Jan. 1, 2007.
Researchers with “scientific credibility” can submit proposals
for use of the data, with a panel of external experts providing
a decision within 30 days, Nisen said. The London-based
drugmaker has said it plans over the next two years to add all
global studies back to December 2000.  EMA Draft  The European Medicines Agency last month released a draft
policy on publication of clinical trial data, a step designed to
improve transparency that affects all drugmakers seeking
permission to sell their medicines in Europe. The move has
sparked debate throughout the pharmaceutical industry.  To address concerns raised, the EMA has separated clinical
data into three categories: commercially confidential
information; open-access data that doesn’t contain patients’
personal information; and controlled-access data that will only
be granted after the requester has fulfilled a number of
requirements, including the signing of a data-sharing agreement.  Historically, each proposed increase in trial transparency
has elicited concerns, including the possible loss of
competitive or commercial advantage and the potentially negative
implications of increased public access, including the
possibility of invalid secondary analyses, said  Deborah Zarin ,
the director of  ClinicalTrials.gov , an international registry
and results reporting system for studies.  “We have to learn as much as we can from these experiments
about the benefits, risks, costs and appropriate role of
disclosing participant-level data,” she said in a comment
accompanying the report in the medical journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  