-- Glendale Punished as Hockey Deal Follows Baseball
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/glendale-punished-as-hockey-deal-follows-baseball.html
Glendale,  Arizona , which has
borrowed more than $355 million for professional sports venues,
has seen the yield penalty on its bonds jump after approving an
additional $225 million outlay to keep the  National Hockey
League ’s  Phoenix Coyotes  in town.  While Coyotes fans gathered in Glendale city council
chambers cheered the  deal  that is poised to keep the team in the
Phoenix suburb’s publicly financed arena, investors have been
less enthusiastic.  Interest rates  on some Glendale debt set a
two-year high and yield spreads swelled as much as 20 percent
after the city council on July 2 cleared a lease paying the
team’s prospective owners $15 million annually for 15 years to
manage the facility.  The deal weakens the former farming community’s credit and
detracts from its ability to serve its 232,000 residents, said
Pat Liberatore, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. The
city has already had its bond rating cut by both Moody’s and
 Standard & Poor’s  since November, and fired workers and raised
taxes to close a deficit last year.  “Without this obligation, they would certainly have less
expenditures and could focus more on core services,” San
Francisco-based Liberatore said of the annual fee. “Their
resources are competing with a sports enterprise.”  Sports Siren  As the NHL prepares to sell the team it bought out of
bankruptcy in 2009, Glendale’s financial standing may suffer
from efforts to keep the franchise. Arizona’s fifth-most-populous city, just west of Phoenix, is among localities seeing
their credit weaken as revenue from municipally backed sports
ventures fell short during the recession that ended in 2009.
Support of professional sports, especially costs associated with
the hockey arena, exacerbated the fiscal slide.  Moody’s cut Glendale’s general-obligation grade in November
to A2, its sixth-highest rank. S&P followed in December with a
cut to A-, four levels above junk.  Both companies cited the pressure on the city’s finances of
the $50 million paid to the NHL to offset the team’s losses over
the last two years and keep the Coyotes.  Attendance Challenge  Attendance  averaged about 13,900 last season, second-worst
in the league after the  New York Islanders , even though the
Coyotes reached the Western Conference finals the year before.
They missed the playoffs in 2012-13.  The franchise, which moved to the area from Winnipeg,
Manitoba, for the 1996-97 season, has never reached the Stanley
Cup finals since joining the league in 1979.  Yields on taxable Glendale Build America Bonds maturing in
July 2015 reached a two-year high July 8. The extra interest
rate investors demanded over benchmark debt swelled to 2.06
percentage points, from 1.72 percentage points two months
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tax-exempt general obligations of the city were also
penalized. Bonds maturing in July 2021 traded July 19 with a
spread of 1.69 percentage points above AAA munis, 31 percent
more than in May.  The council was looking out for the best interests of the
city, including the benefit of guaranteed events at the arena
for surrounding businesses, said Julie Frisoni, a spokeswoman
for Glendale.  “The deal that came forward they felt was the best deal
that had been brought to the city, with new revenue streams,”
she said.  ‘Financial Hole’  Few municipalities nationwide have spent more for
professional sports than Glendale, said Michael Hamilton, who
oversees $325 million of Arizona muni funds at Nuveen Asset
Management in  Portland ,  Oregon . He said he ignores when the city
issues bonds or when investors offer its debt in the secondary
market.  “They’ve really dug themselves into a financial hole
trying to save an NHL team,” Hamilton said. “We’re pessimistic
about convention centers and sports facilities contributing to
the local economy the way politicians want to portray it.
Glendale has really bet on that.”  The lease agreement is with IceArizona and its managing
partner Renaissance Sports & Entertainment, headed by George Gosbee, a Canadian businessman, and Anthony LeBlanc, a former
executive at Research In Motion Ltd., now known as BlackBerry
Ltd.  Cost Comparison  David Leibowitz  of Leibowitz Solo, a Phoenix public-relations firm representing Renaissance, said he didn’t want to
comment until the purchase of the team is official. In a June
memo to the city, Renaissance said it estimated that “the cost
to the city, if the Coyotes leave, will be significantly
higher” than under the lease agreement.  The city sought a deal with IceArizona to keep the anchor
tenant at its arena, which was financed by $155.2 million in
revenue bonds backed by sales taxes. The NHL warned that if the
council rejected the lease the team would probably relocate.
Glendale still has $140 million in debt for the arena, Moody’s
said July 8.  The arena was part of the city’s bid to become the area’s
sports and entertainment hub. It followed the selection of the
city for a stadium for the National Football League’s Arizona
Cardinals, financed by the Arizona Sports & Tourism Authority,
which has its own taxes. In 2008, Glendale turned to baseball,
issuing $200 million in debt to finance a spring-training
facility for the  Los Angeles Dodgers  and  Chicago White Sox .  Development Downdraft  As the national economy soured and Arizona’s real-estate
market collapsed, development around the hockey venue slowed and
planned development around the ballpark never happened. The city
had been counting on the increased  tax revenue  to pay its debt.  After the owner of the Coyotes sought bankruptcy court
protection, the NHL purchased the team for $140 million, with
Glendale agreeing to pay its losses to keep the franchise from
relocating.  Those payments took a toll: Last year, confronting a $32
million deficit, the city fired 49 workers and raised the sales
tax rate from 2.2 percent to 2.9 percent.  In November, the council struck a $308 million, 20-year
lease agreement with former San Jose Sharks Chief Executive
Officer Greg Jamison, only to see his deal to buy the team from
the NHL fall through. The new mayor and the city council
budgeted $6.5 million this year for arena management and
improvements to the facility.  Revenue Risk  Renaissance estimates  that the city would make more than
$7.3 million a year through its portion of ticket surcharges,
arena naming rights, parking fees, sales-tax revenue and rent on
the facility.  The company also offered to set aside money from another
surcharge, projected to bring in almost $1.3 million annually,
that the city could draw from if revenue falls short. The group
based its estimates on the average attendance at Coyotes games
for the last four years.  The city is at risk of a shortfall if revenue disappoints,
Liberatore of Moody’s said.  “I cannot shake the concern for the level of risk expected
to be borne by the city,” Richard Bowers, acting city manager
at the time, said in  a memo  to council members last month.  Mayor’s Opposition  Mayor Jerry Weiers, a Republican former state lawmaker who
took office in January, was among the votes against the deal. He
and other council members had sought an opt-out clause for the
city equivalent to the one given the new owners, who can leave
after five years or if losses reach $50 million.  IceArizona has until Aug. 5 under  the agreement  to close
its purchase of the team.  Issuers led by the Ohio Turnpike and Infrastructure
Commission are selling a combined $5.1 billion this week, down
from $5.5 billion last week and the slowest non-holiday period
since June. Offerings are tapering as yields remain close to a
two-year high.  At  2.91 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  2.6 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 112 percent. The greater the figure, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  