-- Glencore Leading in Metals Storage as Goldman, JPMorgan Cut
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-07-31T17:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/glencore-leading-in-metals-storage-as-goldman-jpmorgan-cut-1-.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc, the biggest
publicly traded raw-materials supplier, became the largest owner
of warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange as banks
pull back amid increased scrutiny by lawmakers and regulators.  Pacorini Metals, owned by Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore,
added 14 warehouses this year, taking its total to 178, or two
more than C. Steinweg Handelsveem BV, according to LME data
compiled by Bloomberg. The expansion contrasts with a drop in
listed warehouses held by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the third and fourth-largest owners.  U.S. financial regulators told a Senate hearing yesterday
they will boost scrutiny of banks’ commodities holdings and the
Federal Reserve said this month it will review a decade-old
decision to let them trade raw materials. The LME, which handles
about 80 percent of trading in industrial metals futures, is
reviewing storage rules that buyers say helped accumulate
inventory in fewer sites, distorting supply and raising prices
for consumers even as global production outpaces demand.  “I would hope regulators would take a holistic approach as
they consider LME warehouses, not solely those owned by banks,”
Nick Madden, a senior vice president and supply-chain officer at
Novelis Inc., an Atlanta-based aluminum parts maker whose
customers include The Coca-Cola Co. and Ford Motor Co., wrote in
an e-mail. “Our major concern is over the ownership of
warehouses by banks and trading companies. It creates an
imbalance in the marketplace.”  Trade Commodities  Goldman Sachs (GS) , based in New York, removed nine warehouses
from the LME system this year, taking its total to 113, bourse
data as of July 25 show. JPMorgan, which said last week it may
get out of the physical commodities business, cut 23 since the
start of January and now controls 78. The LME monitors a global
network of more than 700 depots, which vary in size.  JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, both based in New York, and
Glencore bought their storage businesses in 2010. Officials from
those companies and Steinweg, which also operate facilities
outside the LME network, declined to comment.  Glencore’s trading division is more resilient to falling
commodity prices than the company’s industrial assets in part
because it includes storage and transport, Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg said on a conference call March 5. The
company paid $209 million in cash for Pacorini.  Financing Deals  Lines to get inventory out of some LME-approved depots can
extend to months, increasing the premiums that buyers must pay
to secure immediate supplies. Detroit, New Orleans, the Dutch
port of Vlissingen, the Belgian city of Antwerp and  Malaysia ’s
Johor have the longest waits for metal, according to Barclays
Plc.  “Trading houses benefit in three ways: as a warehouse, as
provider of some financial services linked to their warehousing,
and as a producer,” said Diego Valiante, head of capital
markets at the Centre for European Policy Studies, a think-tank
in Brussels.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 13 percent this
year on the LME as stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the
exchange are near a record. The premiums added to the LME price
surged to a record 12 cents to 13 cents a pound in June, almost
double from 6.5 cents in the summer of 2010, according to data
from Austin, Texas-based researcher  Harbor Intelligence . The
surcharge fell for the first time this year in the week ending
July 19, according to the researcher.  Faster Way  Goldman Sachs said today it’s offering end-user clients a
faster way to get metal that’s in warehouses as the bank laid
out proposals to address concerns about limited supply. The bank
is contacting clients with an offer to swap their metal stuck in
queues for immediately available aluminum. It also said
consumers should be prioritized over other clients in getting
aluminum out of warehouses and called for more transparency in
the LME system.  As much as 30 percent of  copper stockpiles  tracked by the
bourse is tied up in financing deals that lock up the metal and
extend waiting times, Societe Generale SA estimates.  The proportion is as much as 80 percent in  aluminum , 60
percent in zinc and 30 percent in nickel, Societe Generale says.
Financing typically involves the purchase of metal for nearby
delivery and a forward sale to take advantage of a market in
contango, where prices rise into the future. The transactions
are being helped by record-low borrowing costs after central
banks cut interest rates to boost economic growth.  Supply Incentives  Warehousing companies, which don’t own the metal they hold,
offered incentives to attract supply, according to Societe
Generale. About 90 percent of copper stockpiles are now
concentrated in three locations, LME data show. The depots in
New Orleans, Antwerp and Johor held 22 percent of inventories a
year ago, LME data show.  Almost 2.1 million tons of aluminum is being stored in
Vlissingen, enough to supply Western Europe for about four
months. The city’s LME-tracked warehouses held 62,250 tons at
the end of 2010, LME data show. Stockpiles in  Detroit  rose to
1.47 million tons from 943,625 tons over the same period, the
LME data show.  Glencore’s Pacorini Metals has the most storage units in
Vlissingen, New Orleans and Johor, while Detroit is dominated by
Goldman’s Metro International Trade Services LLC. In Antwerp it
is NEMS, a unit of Trafigura Beheer BV, a commodities trader
operating in 56 countries, LME data show. Trafigura, based in
 Singapore , increased its LME-listed depots by three to 45 since
the start of January, ranking it fifth.  Trafigura will adjust the size of its warehousing business
in response to demand, Victoria Dix, a spokeswoman for the
company, wrote in an e-mail.  Reviewing Rules  The LME said July 1 it is reviewing rules to ease waiting
times. Warehouses with lines exceeding 100 days would have to
deliver out more metal than they take in, the bourse said in the
proposal, which will be reviewed by its board in October and
take effect April 1 if approved. The LME was bought by Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. last year for $2.2 billion.  “It doesn’t really matter whether the warehouse owners are
banks, or trading companies or they are standalone entities,”
said Craig Pirrong, a professor of finance at the University of
Houston. “The real debate should be about the warehouse rules
and whether the rules are creating artificial bottlenecks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  