-- Goldman Likes China Banks as Earnings Growth to Exceed Market
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-31T07:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/goldman-likes-china-banks-as-earnings-growth-to-exceed-market.html
Investors should buy Chinese banks
as earnings may beat projections for the MSCI China Index while
reforms to  interest rates  fail to crimp profit margins,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Chinese lenders may have high single-digit earnings growth
this year compared with Goldman Sachs’s 4 percent estimate for
companies in the MSCI China Index, Helen Zhu, the bank’s chief
China strategist said yesterday. A measure of financial
companies that accounts for 40 percent of the MSCI China has
slumped 13 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
35 percent surge by  information-technology  shares and 17 percent
rise by utilities.  Chinese listed banks may see net-income growth slowing to
around 8 percent this year, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday, citing a report released by the China
Banking Association. While the People’s Bank of  China  scrapped a
floor on borrowing costs on July 19, the central bank said the
country isn’t ready to do the same with a cap on what banks can
pay for deposits.  “We’re looking for banks’ earnings to grow faster than the
overall market-earnings growth this year,” said Zhu. Banks’
preparation for a cyclical downturn, sufficient coverage ratios
and a slower loosening of interest-rate controls for deposits
may support their earnings, she said.  Expectations that deregulation of rates would compress net
interest margins -- the difference between what banks pay for
deposits and charge for loans -- may be misplaced, Zhu said.
Lenders hadn’t previously taken advantage of leeway they had to
charge less, suggesting that even more freedom won’t translate
into lower profit, she said.  Lending Statistics  In the first quarter of 2013, about 11 percent of bank
loans were made below the benchmark rate, and about 64 percent
above it, PBOC data show. The central bank currently sets the
one-year lending rate at 6 percent, with a one-year deposit rate
of 3 percent, which banks aren’t allowed to exceed by more than
10 percent.  China’s two biggest lenders,  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. (601398)  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , reported first-quarter profit growth of 12 percent and 16 percent,
respectively, while net income at the third- and fourth- largest
banks increased 8.2 percent.  The four largest lenders, which include  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. (1288)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , traded at 5.21 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with their five-year
average of 8.24 times and MSCI China’s 11.6 times.  Goldman’s 12-month forward target for MSCI China is 59,
according to Zhu. That’s 3.5 percent higher than yesterday’s
close. The target for the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  is
10,200, a 5.5 percent increase from yesterday. Previous targets
for the indexes were 69 and 12,400.  “The key driver of the trend is not going to be beta but
it’s going to be alpha, it’s going to be looking for
structurally appealing areas and stocks that will have reform-driven upside,” Zhu said. “A lot of these potential reform
impacts are not currently reflected in the earnings consensus so
we see a lot of opportunity for earnings to be revised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Tokyo  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at  