-- Gold Trades Little Changed After Fed Releases Policy Statement
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-07-31T20:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/gold-climbs-as-investors-await-fed-statement-silver-advances.html
Gold traded little changed after the
 Federal Reserve  said it will maintain its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases while persistently low inflation could hamper the
economic expansion.  “The committee recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today at
the conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington . Gold tumbled
22 percent this year as investors lost faith in the metal as a
store of value as inflation failed to accelerated even after
policy makers printed money on an unprecedented scale.  “The gold market is stuck in the middle because there are
so many cross currents,” Tom Power, a senior commodity broker
at R.J. market O’Brien & Associates in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “On one hand maintaining stimulus is
positive, but on the other hand deflationary worries can never
be good for gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery dropped 0.1 percent to
$1,323.80 in electronic trading at 4:17 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices settled down 0.9 percent at $1,313 at the close of
regular trading.  The precious metal climbed 7.3 percent in July, the biggest
gain since January 2012. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this
month that it’s too early to decide whether to begin scaling
back debt purchases in September, after saying on June 19 that
bond buying could slow if the economy improves.  The central bank repeated the pledge it has used since
September that it will continue the purchases until the U.S.
labor market outlook has improved substantially.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  