-- Goldman Sachs Offers Aluminum to Clients Stuck in Queue
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-31T20:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/goldman-sachs-offers-aluminum-to-clients-stuck-in-queue.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  offered to
speed up delivery of aluminum to users of the metal and proposed
changes to industry rules amid claims that its warehouse unit
created shortages and drove up prices.  So far no client has accepted the bank’s offer to swap
their metal stuck in queues for immediately available aluminum,
Goldman Sachs President Gary D. Cohn, 52, said today in a CNBC
interview. Consumers should have priority over other clients in
getting aluminum out of warehouses and the London Metal Exchange
system needs more transparency, Goldman Sachs said in a
statement.  “We feel horrible for consumers if they can’t get metal,”
Cohn said. “We don’t believe that to be the fact.”  The beverage industry has complained that banks and other
warehouse owners are manipulating aluminum supplies and slowing
deliveries to drive up the price. Goldman Sachs said that while
longer queues in recent years have been a factor in the premium
of physical metal over the spot price, the waits are not driving
up the price of aluminum, which has fallen since 2006.  “It’s a recognition of a longstanding problem in the
market that needs to be solved,” said Diego Valiante, head of
capital markets at the Center for European Policy Studies in
Brussels. “Clearly there is also the understanding of the
urgency in solving this issue.”  Premiums Surge  Detroit, New Orleans, the Dutch port of Vlissingen, the
Belgian city of Antwerp and  Malaysia ’s Johor have the longest
waits for metal, according to Barclays Plc. Detroit is dominated
by Goldman Sachs’s Metro International Trade Services LLC, while
 Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s Pacorini Metals has the most storage
units in Vlissingen, New Orleans and Johor. In Antwerp, it is
NEMS, a unit of Trafigura Beheer BV.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 13 percent this
year on the LME as stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the
exchange neared a record. The premiums added to the LME price
surged to a record 12 cents to 13 cents a pound in June, almost
double the 6.5 cents in the summer of 2010, according to data
from Austin, Texas-based researcher  Harbor Intelligence . The
surcharge fell for the first time this year in the week ending
July 19, according to Harbor.  Glencore, the largest owner of LME warehouses, declined to
comment through a spokesman. Trafigura continues to offer prompt
delivery of metal to its customers, an official at the
Singapore-based commodities trader said. Henry Bath warehouses,
owned by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , don’t currently have queues,
according to a person familiar with the business who wasn’t
authorized to comment and requested anonymity.  Costs Inflated  Goldman Sachs’s offer is “great news and any pricing
manifestations due to warehousing issues will hopefully resolve
going forward,” said  Bart Chilton , a member of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. “This entire matter continues to
raise the larger issue of banks owning physical commodities,
warehousing and delivery mechanisms.”  Costs were inflated by $3 billion worldwide in the past
year because of the backup in aluminum supplies, Tim Weiner, a
global risk manager at brewer MillerCoors LLC, told a U.S.
Senate panel last week.  Goldman Sachs has secured metal directly from producers to
be able to swap with end-user clients, Cohn said. The firm has
made the offer at the LME spot price with no premium, according
to a person briefed on the talks who asked not to be named
because the offers were private.  Considered Selling  “We are consulting with the metals trade and industry on a
proposal to amend the delivery out obligations of warehouse
companies with long queues, and we encourage market users to
contact us with their views,” Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for
the LME, said in an e-mailed statement.  In February 2010, Goldman Sachs bought Romulus, Michigan-based Metro International Trade Services LLC, which as of July
11 operated 34 out of 39 storage facilities licensed by the LME
in the  Detroit  area, according to exchange data. Goldman Sachs
said in today’s statement that it isn’t involved with the daily
management of the company.  Goldman Sachs earlier this year considered selling Metro,
according to a person briefed on the discussions. The bank must
sell the company within 10 years of its purchase, it said today.  JPMorgan said last week that it plans to get out of the
business of owning and trading physical commodities ranging from
metals to oil, days after a Senate panel questioned whether
banks are abusing their ownership of raw materials to manipulate
markets.  Incentives Offered  Cohn said that while his firm will sell Metro at the
“appropriate time,” it doesn’t have plans to exit other
commodity businesses.  “Commodity hedging is a core competency and one of the
most important things we do in the firm, and our clients really
need us to be in that business,” Cohn said. “We are staying in
the commodity-hedging business.”  Low interest rates have encouraged some investors to buy
and store aluminum with the intent of selling it at a later
date, Goldman Sachs said in its statement. Warehousing
companies, which don’t own the metal they hold, offered
incentives to attract supply, according to research from Societe
Generale SA.  Many market participants have sought to move metal to non-LME warehouses, where storage rates are lower, prompting the
longer queues, Goldman Sachs said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  