-- Guggenheim Wins Approval on Sun Life Deal After Review
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-31T21:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/guggenheim-wins-approval-on-sun-life-deal-after-review.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC shareholders
won approval for a deal to buy a U.S. annuities business from
 Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  after agreeing to policyholder
protections sought by a New York regulator.  The buyers will set up a trust account with $200 million to
replenish capital at the New York unit if it falls below
required levels, according to a statement today from the state’s
Department of Financial Services. Guggenheim will also need to
get prior approval from the watchdog for “material changes” to
operations, including dividends or reinsurance transactions.  “These policyholder protections can and should serve as a
model set of guardrails for addressing the emerging trend of
private-equity firms seeking to enter the annuity business,”
DFS Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  said in the statement.  Lawsky began a probe this year into deals by private-equity
and asset-management firms to buy insurers, saying the acquirers
may make risky investments in pursuit of short-term profits.
Insurers are regulated by state overseers who make sure the
firms have enough funds to back obligations to policyholders.  Sun Life agreed in December to sell its U.S. unit for $1.35
billion as it seeks to cut risk from rising obligations and to
use the cash to expand through acquisitions. The Toronto-based
company said in June that the acquisition was being delayed
beyond the second quarter by a review from Lawsky’s office.  The transaction is expected to close by Aug. 2, Sun Life
said in a statement following the approval. The acquirer is
 Delaware  Life Holdings, whose ownership includes Guggenheim
shareholders.  ‘Constructive Fashion’  “We are pleased that the NYDFS has approved the
transaction,” Delaware said in an e-mailed statement. The
company said it looks forward to “working with the agency in
the future in the same constructive fashion as we have in the
past.”  Sun Life rose 4 cents, or 0.1 percent, to close at C$33.26
in Toronto. The shares have gained 26 percent this year, the
sixth-best performer on the 45-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Financials Index, which has advanced 6 percent. Guggenheim is a
closely-held company.  The insurer’s U.S. annuities unit had $43.6 billion in
assets under management as of March 31, according to an earnings
 statement . First quarter net income at the unit fell to $114
million from $280 million a year earlier.  The Canadian company is among benefits providers including
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  that have retreated from
offering variable annuities, an insurance product that offers
guaranteed income for retirees. Sun Life has said the
transaction will reduce volatility in earnings.  Guggenheim’s Growth  The Delaware Department of Insurance and the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority have signed off on the deal, Sun
Life said last month.  Investment firms are pursuing annuity deals to add assets,
betting they can manage the funds more skillfully.  Philip Falcone ’s publicly traded  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , which bought a
life and annuity business in 2011, and  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) ’s Athene arm, which agreed in December to buy  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s
U.S. life and annuity unit, were also being reviewed by Lawsky’s
office, a person with knowledge of the matter said in May.  Guggenheim Partners, run by Chief Executive Officer Mark Walter, has expanded from a family office with a handful of
employees into a $180 billion global asset manager through deals
including the acquisitions of Claymore Group and Rydex ETF owner
Security Benefit Corp.  Walter, who shot to prominence as the man behind the $2
billion purchase of the  Los Angeles Dodgers , has hired investing
veterans including Henry Silverman, the former chief operating
officer of Apollo, to advise on expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  