-- Micron Seeks Profit Even in Worst of Times With Elpida Deal
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-31T13:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/micron-seeks-profit-even-in-worst-of-times-with-elpida-deal.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  completed its
$2 billion acquisition of Elpida Memory Inc. today, seeking to
deliver sustainable profits in the volatile market for memory
chips used in personal computers and mobile devices.  Micron -- which has reported a net loss in five  out  of its
last 10 fiscal years -- now has enough scale in the maturing
industry to weather price swings that have eroded profits in the
past, Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan said.  “I believe that Micron, to a greater extent than ever
before, controls its own destiny,” Durcan said. “We have
enough scale, we have enough resources.”  Micron competes with  South Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  in the memory chip market, where the number of
suppliers has shrunk over time.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  have exited, while others, such as Elpida and Qimonda,
failed. The remaining manufacturers are now more focused on
profit and less on boosting production in an attempt to grab
market share from their competitors, said Betsy Van Hees, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco.  “It’s not about being king of the world, it’s about being
profitable,” said Van Hees, who  recommends  buying Micron
shares. “You have everyone very cautious about capacity
expansion plans.”  Elpida, the last Japanese maker of computer-memory chips,
sought  bankruptcy protection  last year after losses left it
unable to pay debts. Elpida won Tokyo District Court approval of
Micron’s 200 billion yen ($2 billion) offer for the company in
February, clearing the last major hurdle in the takeover.  Share Gains  The transaction closed today, the companies said in a
statement. Elpida’s assets include a fabrication plant in
Hiroshima and an ownership stake of about 65 percent in Rexchip
Electronics Corp., according to the statement.  Buying Elpida will about double Micron’s share of the
global market for DRAM, or dynamic random access memory, the
most widely used memory chips in PCs. Combined, the companies
will have 28 percent of the market, compared with 37 percent for
Samsung and SK Hynix’s 26 percent, according to numbers from IDC
Corp.  “I’m a true believer that the memory industry going
forward is going to be a much, much better industry,” Durcan
said. He sees a future for Micron when “in the worst of times
we’re still making a little bit of money. In the best of times
we’re doing very well indeed.”  The increasing cost of new factories, now above $5 billion,
also has memory chipmakers less likely to bet they will get a
return on equipping new facilities that become obsolete within
five years, said Van Hees.  Share Rally  Industry-standard memory chips are traded as commodity
items on spot markets in  Asia . Long-term contracts between
suppliers are influenced by the fluctuations in market prices.
Producers have historically failed to time the introduction of
new capacity with shifts in demand, often causing prices to
tumble below the cost of making them.  Apart from gaining market share, Elpida’s capabilities in
DRAM chips tailored for mobile phones are also important for
Micron, Durcan said. Elpida, a supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , gives
Micron new products, and the total size of the combination gives
it enough scale to service larger customers, he said.  Micron’s stock, which had almost doubled this year through
yesterday amid higher chip prices, traded at its highest price
in six years earlier this month. The shares rose 3.6 percent to
$13.05 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  Durcan, who joined Micron in 1984, took over as CEO last
year after his predecessor died in a crash in an experimental
plane. The company has amassed losses of $3.36 billion in its
last ten fiscal years.  “This business is clearly not for the faint of heart,”
Durcan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  