-- Liechtenstein Bank to Pay $23.8 Million in U.S. Tax Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-07-31T12:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/liechtenstein-bank-to-pay-23-8-million-in-u-s-tax-case.html
Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG (LLB) ,
the oldest bank in the Alpine principality, won’t be prosecuted
by the U.S. government after agreeing to pay $23.8 million and
admitting it helped American clients evade taxes.  The bank, based in Vaduz, admitted using secret accounts
from 2001 to 2011 to help clients hide as much as $341 million
from the  Internal Revenue Service . It gave the U.S. Justice
Department files on more than 200 secret accounts after
Liechtenstein amended its law last year to allow such transfers.  “LLB-Vaduz knew that certain U.S. taxpayers were
maintaining undeclared accounts at LLB-Vaduz in order to evade
their U.S. tax obligations,” the bank said in a non-prosecution
agreement released yesterday by the  Justice Department . “LLB-Vaduz knew of the high probability that other U.S. taxpayers who
held undeclared accounts” did so “for the same unlawful
purpose.”  The U.S. chose not to prosecute, citing the bank’s
“extraordinary” cooperation. The admissions and handover of
account data make LLB-Vaduz the third bank, after Switzerland’s
UBS AG and Wegelin & Co., to acknowledge wrongdoing in a five-year U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion .  LLB  rose  as much as 3.4 percent and was up 3.2 percent to
36.85 Swiss francs as of 1:40 p.m. in Zurich, valuing the bank
at 1.1 billion francs ($1.2 billion). The stock has climbed 27
percent this year, more than triple the gain in the 44-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Hide Owners  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion
and handing over data on 4,500 accounts. Last year, the U.S.
indicted Wegelin, the oldest Swiss private bank. Wegelin pleaded
guilty in January, handing over $74 million.  LLB-Vaduz admitted that it used foundations, trusts or
other legal structures to help hide the true owners of accounts
from the IRS. It held bank statements in Liechtenstein, rather
than mail them to the U.S., to avoid creating a paper trail. The
bank also kept records “in which U.S. taxpayers expressly
instructed LLB-Vaduz not to disclose their names to the IRS.”  “With this agreement, one of Liechtenstein’s most
important banks has put an era behind it,”  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. The accord
“reflects the unprecedented nature of the bank’s cooperation,
and serves as another reminder for U.S. tax cheats who
mistakenly believe that their offshore bank will never turn over
their account files to U.S. authorities.”  Undeclared Accounts  In 2008, after learning that UBS was under investigation,
LLB-Vaduz began voluntarily to take remedial steps “to stop
helping undeclared U.S. taxpayers evade U.S. income tax,”
according to the non-prosecution agreement. Those steps included
deciding in June 2008 to stop opening new accounts in the names
of entities that hid their true ownership.  The number of undeclared accounts dropped from 1,203 in
2002 to 856 in 2007 to 60 last year, according to the agreement.  A former federal tax prosecutor, Jeffrey Neiman, said the
accord will help the U.S. obtain data about tax evasion from
Switzerland. More than two years of talks between the U.S. and
Switzerland to resolve a Justice Department probe of Swiss banks
have yet to produce a settlement.  “Behind every Liechtenstein foundation is a Swiss bank
account,” Neiman said. “This will lead to more disclosures
about underlying Swiss banking activity.”  U.S. Investigation  The U.S. has investigated at least 14 Swiss financial
firms, including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
and LLB’s Swiss unit. Some of those firms are negotiating
bilaterally with the Justice Department.  The Swiss government is also working with the U.S. on
agreeing to a joint statement that will outline how other banks
that helped Americans dodge taxes can avoid the fate of Wegelin.  LLB-Vaduz’s accord requires the bank to forfeit $16.3
million, or the gross revenue it made by maintaining undeclared
accounts, and pay $7.5 million in restitution to the IRS,
representing the unpaid taxes caused by the evasion of its
clients.  The agreement applies only to the bank and not its
subsidiaries or any individuals, prosecutors said. The bank will
close its wholly owned Swiss unit, Liechtensteinische Landesbank
Switzerland Ltd. and another unit, Jura Trust AG, Bharara said.  ‘Very Pleased’  “The bank is very pleased that the inquiry concerning LLB-Vaduz has now been resolved under the terms negotiated,” said
 Benjamin Brafman , a lawyer in  New York  who represents LLB-Vaduz.  Brafman said the bank gave “extraordinary cooperation” to
the U.S. He said LLB advocated changing the law on
administrative assistance on tax matters with the U.S. to allow
information about American taxpayers to be turned over without
violating Liechtenstein bank secrecy laws.  The case is U.S. v. $15.9 Million in U.S. Currency, 13-CV-5296, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  