-- Ties With Japan Face ‘Grim Test,’ China Naval Researcher Writes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-31T05:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ties-with-japan-face-grim-test-china-naval-researcher-writes.html
Ties between  Japan  and China face a
“grim test” in the coming years amid signs that Japan is
making preparations to occupy disputed islands in the  East China
Sea , a Chinese naval researcher wrote today.  The holding of regular U.S.-Japanese military exercises,
deployment of troops to the southwest of the country and
improvements in military intelligence indicate Japan is
preparing to occupy the Diaoyu islands, Xing Guangmei, a law
researcher with the Naval Research Institute of the  People’s
Liberation Army , wrote in the China Daily  newspaper .  Japan, which administers the islands, has no official plan
to station troops there. The government has said it is prepared
to defend the uninhabited islets, known as Senkaku in Japanese,
against foreign invasion.  “Japan, of course, wants to have it both ways; it wants to
share in the dividends from China’s economic growth, while
maintaining a hardline stance in its relations with  China ,”
Xing wrote. “It is therefore extremely unlikely that there will
be any detente in bilateral relations during Abe’s term in
office. Sino-Japanese relations face a grim test in the coming
years.”  The comments come after Abe aide Isao Iijima and Vice
Foreign Minister Akitaka Saiki each visited China in quick
succession this month, amid signs of a more conciliatory tone
following a decisive victory for Abe’s party in upper house
elections. Saiki, who arrived July 29 for a two-day visit, held
a short meeting with China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported today.  Summit Possible  Iijima said after his visit that a summit meeting was
possible in the not-so-distant future, Kyodo news agency
reported July 29.  A meeting between China and Japan’s leaders is
“extraneous” and Abe’s efforts to seek a meeting are a
“show” serving political interests, China’s state-owned Global
Times newspaper said in an editorial  yesterday .  Abe, who has pledged to strengthen national security,
stepped up his rhetoric in the run-up to the July 21 election,
accusing China of trying to change the regional status quo by
force.  His victory has caused anxiety in  East Asia  as he has made
it clear he wants to revise the country’s pacifist constitution
and bolster the military, Xing wrote today. Abe will actively
leverage economic and trade cooperation with China and “get
tough” over territorial disputes in the East China Sea, Xing
said.  Relations between the two largest economies in  Asia  turned
frostier last September than any point since the normalization
of diplomatic ties in 1972, with Japan buying three islands also
claimed by China from a private Japanese owner, setting off
protests across China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  