-- IMF Staff Says Greece Needs More Money, Potential Debt Relief
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-31T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/imf-staff-says-greece-needs-more-money-potential-debt-relief.html
Greece  will probably need more money
and debt relief from European countries in order to meet the
objectives of its bailout program, according to a report by the
International Monetary Fund staff.  In a report discussed by the IMF board this week and
released today, the fund’s staff said 4.4 billion euros ($5.8
billion) of financing has yet to be identified next year under
the rescue package it finances with euro-area nations. In
addition, a December commitment by Europeans to provide further
debt relief for Greece may require agreeing to measures as early
as 2014-2015, provided Greece meets its budget targets, the IMF
staff said.  “If investors are not persuaded that the policy for
dealing with the debt problem is credible, investment and growth
will be unlikely to recover as programmed,” according to the
report. “The commitment of Greece’s European partners to
provide debt relief as needed to keep debt on the programmed
path remains, therefore, a critical part of the program.”  The IMF’s reminder to  Europe  comes as Greece’s financial
fate has become entwined with German politics, with Chancellor
Angela Merkel campaigning for a third term on the promise
 Germany  won’t write off any of the loans made to Greece since
the debt crisis broke out almost four years ago. Most of
Greece’s debt is now held by the Europeans and the IMF after
investors took part in the biggest debt restructuring in history
last year.  Under the December agreement, the target is for Greek debt
to fall to 124 percent of gross domestic product in 2020, from a
peak the fund now sees at 176 percent of GDP this year.  ‘Some Relief’  “It’s not possible to speculate right now on what the
actual amount will be, but it’s true our projection right now
implies that there will be a need for some relief in order to
get to 124 percent,”  Poul Thomsen , the IMF mission chief to
Greece, said on a conference call yesterday.  According to the report, that relief could be equivalent to
4 percent of GDP in 2014-15, based on current projections.  While budget tightening is advancing and the fund sees
Greece’s economy returning to growth next year, IMF staff
expressed worries about the “piecemeal implementation of
structural reforms” in the country. In particular, a
privatization program is behind schedule and so is progress in
liberalizing regulated professions, they said.  The fund’s board of directors earlier this week approved
the release of 1.7 billion euros under the second joint bailout
with Europe, helping replenish the country’s coffers through the
German elections in September. European creditor countries
approved disbursement of a 2.5 billion-euro tranche last week.  Financing Gap  The fund requires seeing a 12-month guarantee of Greece’s
financing to continue its own lending. While that’s the case
now, a gap will open in August 2014 and a response on how to
fill it should be identified by the time Greece’s creditors do
the next review of the program, according to the report.  “Awareness of the risks of the program going off track
seems to be increasing and one cannot but notice an undertone of
despair in staff’s repeated calls on the Greek and the euro-area
authorities to stand by their commitments,” Paulo Nogueira Batista, who represents  Brazil  and 10 other countries on the IMF
board, said in a statement prepared for the meeting. He said he
abstained on the proposed measures this week, including the
disbursement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  