-- India Said to Consider Easing Rules to Lure Retailers
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y ,   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-07-31T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/india-said-to-consider-easing-rules-luring-wal-mart-to-tesco.html
India ’s cabinet will today consider
easing some requirements for foreign retailers investing in
local supermarkets, according to two government officials
familiar with the matter.  The cabinet will consider amendments on rules covering
sourcing, infrastructure investment, and store locations,
according to the two officials, who asked not to be named as
they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  The government is loosening rules to attract global chains
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)  to its supermarket
industry. While the nation changed laws in September to allow
foreign retailers to own majority stakes in stores selling
multiple brands, no overseas companies have sought such licenses
as yet.  The government currently has restrictions on store
locations and requires foreign retailers to source some products
from small businesses. Under the new proposals, foreign-funded
outlets could be opened in any city as long as the state
government approved them, according to the two officials.  Overseas retailers are currently restricted to cities with
a population of more than one million people. Not all Indian
states allow foreign investment in retail.  Capital Investment  The cabinet amendments could also help international
retailers choose from a wider set of suppliers. Under the
proposals being studied, retailers will have to buy 30 percent
of manufactured products from small- and mid-sized local firms
with less than $2 million invested in factories and machinery,
the officials said. Current rules are stricter, defining “small
and medium” companies as those with investments of under $1
million.  The new rules could also offer more flexibility on  capital
investment . Companies will need to spend a minimum $50 million
on facilities such as warehouses, distribution networks and
refrigerated storage centers, according to the two officials.
That clarifies  existing  rules, which required half of all
investments in the first three years to be for such
infrastructure.  Foreign direct investment in supermarkets is being held
back “by some questions” and the cabinet will discuss remedial
proposals, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, told
reporters in Delhi.“I think you will find the first investments
in FDI in multi-brand retail coming after the clarifications.”
Wal-Mart and other foreign chains already have some wholesale
operations in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  