-- India Hunts for Subbarao Successor as RBI Battles Rupee Fall
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-07-31T12:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/india-seeks-new-central-bank-governor-as-subbarao-s-term-ends.html
India  has started a search for a new
central bank governor after  Duvvuri Subbarao  said he doesn’t
want to be considered for another term, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said.  Chidambaram confirmed to  Bloomberg News  a search is under
way and said at a briefing in New Delhi today that Subbarao told
him he wanted to move on. The Times of India newspaper reported
 Raghuram Rajan , chief economic adviser at the Finance Ministry,
and Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram are in contention,
without saying where it got the information.  The new governor will have to contend with a  currency
trading  near a record low, accelerating inflation and the
challenge of reviving an economy growing at the slowest pace in
a decade. The central bank left interest rates unchanged
yesterday and said increases in borrowing costs earlier this
month to stem the rupee’s slide will be reversed in a measured
way as the currency stabilizes.  “The new person will have to be adept at coordination and
that’s the biggest skill required for the job,” said N. R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at the National Institute of Public
Finance and Policy in New Delhi. “He has to handle the  Finance
Ministry  as well as the RBI” in coordinating policy to stem the
rupee’s decline, he said.  Subbarao, 63, said today in a call with analysts that it’s
difficult for the Reserve Bank to give a timetable for when it
will unwind the recent steps aimed at steadying the rupee.  Rupee Slide  The governor has led the monetary authority since 2008 and
a two-year extension given in 2011 is due to expire in September.
He was not immediately available when his office in Mumbai was
reached by telephone.  The rupee, down about 12 percent against the dollar in the
past six months, has been hurt by a record current-account
deficit and the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 60.3737 at the close in Mumbai.  Subbarao raised two rates July 15 and has capped cash
injections into the banking system and tightened lenders’
reserve ratios to curb the supply of rupees, joining nations
from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  in fighting currency weakness.  Rajan, who the Times of India said is the frontrunner for
the central bank job, said yesterday India will do whatever it
takes to stabilize the rupee and the  Reserve Bank  still has
plenty of ammunition.  Subbarao’s Tenure  In a June interview, Mayaram said India could implement
more measures to curb imports as the country seeks to narrow the
current-account gap and check the currency’s drop.  Yesterday’s monetary policy review was the last scheduled
before Subbarao’s term ends. He was appointed in September 2008
and started cutting rates the following month to calm markets
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Through April the following year, he embarked on India’s
steepest string of interest-rate cuts by lowering the reverse
repurchase rate by 275 basis points and its  repurchase rate  by
425 basis points.  As India’s  economic expansion  and a global recovery
contributed to price pressures, Subbarao responded by raising
borrowing costs in 2010. He said last year growth needed to be
sacrificed in the short term to ease inflation, and also
pressured the government to contain the fiscal deficit to reduce
price risks.  Revive Expansion  The higher rates contributed to a slowdown in  Asia ’s third-largest economy, with growth at the weakest in a decade in the
fiscal year ended March. Subbarao last year resisted calls from
Chidambaram for lower  interest rates , prompting the finance
minister to say in October the government will revive economic
expansion by itself if necessary.  The Reserve Bank reduced borrowing costs by a combined 75
basis points in January, March and May to 7.25 percent as the
government pared the  budget deficit  to tackle price pressures.
Subbarao indicated after the May 3 cut that the monetary
authority had almost no space left to ease further.  Traditionally, the prime minister selects the central bank
governor in consultation with the finance minister.  On Subbarao’s watch, the Reserve Bank has doubled the
number of scheduled monetary policy meetings each year, to eight.
It now releases minutes of a key advisory committee, and started
regular media and analyst briefings.  Economic Adviser  Subbarao, who was an economic adviser to Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  before he became the top bureaucrat in the
Finance Ministry, is a physics graduate from the Indian
Institute of Technology. He joined the civil service and was
later sent to the  World Bank , where he worked as an economist
from 1999 to 2004.  Subbarao has a masters in economics from  Ohio State
University  and was a Humphrey Fellow at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology . He also holds a doctorate in economics.  Consumer-price  inflation  accelerated to 9.87 percent in
June. Wholesale  inflation  quickened to a three-month high.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, widened to an unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product, or $87.8 billion, in the fiscal year ended
March. Gold and oil imports and subdued exports fanned the gap.  The government has decided on steps to attract investment
from India’s diaspora, Chidambaram said today, without giving
more details. He said issuing foreign-currency sovereign bonds
remains an option, adding the administration won’t rush a
decision on the issue.  He said the Finance Ministry plans to “compress non-essential imports” by raising tariffs, part of efforts to
narrow the  trade gap . The government today raised the discount
available on bank lending rates for some exporters to 3 percent
from 2 percent, seeking to make overseas sales more competitive.  Economic  growth  slowed to 5 percent last fiscal year, a
decade-low and below the 10-year average of about 8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  