-- India’s Record Outflows Deepen as Analysts See Vicious Circle
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-31T12:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/india-s-record-outflows-deepen-as-analysts-see-vicious-circle.html
India’s capital outflows deepened in
July as the central bank raised two interest rates and tightened
cash supply to boost the rupee from a record low, spurring
concern the nation’s economic slump will worsen.  Foreigners  sold  a net $2 billion of domestic debt this
month through July 30, extending the record $5.4 billion
withdrawal in June. The two-month  outflow  from stocks reached
$2.8 billion, the most since the global financial crisis in
November 2008, regulatory and exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with stock inflows of about $20
billion into  Japan , Asia’s biggest equity market, in June and
this month through July 19.  The rupee in July weakened 1.6 percent in a third month of
losses and slid to a record on July 8 amid concern that reduced
stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve will make it harder for
India to fund its current-account deficit. The nation’s central
bank increased two of its policy rates on July 15 to stem the
decline, prompting a record surge in three-month interbank
borrowing costs. Higher interest rates may hurt the economy and
cause more currency weakness, triggering a “vicious circle,”
Credit Agricole CIB analysts said in a report today.  “Selling by foreign funds would put further pressure on
the rupee,” Sampath Reddy, who manages $7 billion as chief
investment officer at Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co., said in
a phone interview today. “The days of easy global liquidity are
over as the Fed has signaled an end to its easing program.”  ‘Held Hostage’  The Reserve Bank of  India  raised the marginal standing
facility and the bank rate to 10.25 percent from 8.25 percent.
It also capped the amount banks can borrow in daily repurchase
auctions at 0.5 percent of deposits and increased the daily
balance requirement for lenders’ cash-reserve ratios to 99
percent from 70 percent.  “If the Fed were to further indicate tapering and currency
volatility persists, then these RBI measures may be in place for
longer than expected,” Suyash Choudhary, head of fixed income
at IDFC Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “We’re hostage to the external situation
right now.”  Indian government bonds sank in July, with yield on the
7.16 percent notes due May 2023 rallying 75 basis points, the
biggest monthly surge for benchmark 10-year rates since March
2009. The rate was at 8.42 percent on July 24, the highest since
May 2012. The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  slid 0.3 percent in July, extending
June’s 1.8 percent drop, which was the biggest in four months.  External Risks  The RBI held the repurchase rate at 7.25 percent yesterday,
after saying July 29 the currency has become the priority for
its policy. The central bank cut its  growth forecast  for the
economy to 5.5 percent for the year to March 2014 from 5.7
percent. The biggest risk to the economic outlook “stems from
the external sector” and a  current-account gap  that remains
above the sustainable level of 2.5 percent of GDP, it said.  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 2000. Inflows climbed to a record  $29.3 billion  in
2010, making the Sensex the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets that year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008,
during the global financial crisis, triggered the biggest  annual
slump  in the gauge of 52 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  