-- Indonesian Bonds to Extend Drop as Rupiah Slides, Schroder Says
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-31T11:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/indonesian-bonds-to-extend-drop-as-rupiah-slides-schroder-says.html
Indonesian bonds and the rupiah will
probably extend this month’s declines as accelerating inflation
spurs the central bank to raise  interest rates , according to the
nation’s biggest mutual fund manager.  The rupiah, which fell the most since February 2009 this
month, may weaken a further 3-4 percent, Michael Tjoajadi, the
chief executive officer of PT Schroder Investment Management
Indonesia, said in an interview today in Jakarta. Schroder will
wait for 10-year bond yields to rise to at least 8.4 percent,
from 7.83 percent today, before buying, he said. The central
bank will probably raise interest rates again this year as
inflation climbs to 8 percent from 5.9 percent in June, Tjoajadi
said.  Indonesia’s rupiah led declines in emerging-markets this
month as the central bank allowed the currency to slide toward
levels quoted in offshore markets. Foreign-exchange reserves
dropped below $100 billion in June for the first time in more
than two years and the country recorded trade deficits in seven
of the eight months through May. Schroder favors Indonesian
shares, Asia’s worst performers this month, after valuations
declined 14 percent from this year’s high in May.  “The problem with Indonesia is our currency,” said
Tjoajadi, who oversees 39.4 trillion rupiah ($3.83 billion) for
the Indonesian unit of  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Europe’s largest
independent money manager.  Cash Holdings  Bank Indonesia  has raised its  reference rate  75 basis
points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 6.5 percent in the last two
months to support the rupiah and combat inflation. The central
bank will probably increase the rate another 50 basis points
this year, Tjoajadi said.  Schroder currently has 10 percent to 15 percent of its
assets in cash, up from about 5 percent in March, Tjoajadi said.
The fund will probably increase bond and stock holdings by the
fourth quarter, he said.  Tjoajadi prefers the  media industry  and consumer staples
companies, including  PT Unilever Indonesia (UNVR)  and  PT Indofood
Sukses Makmur (INDF) , that can pass on higher costs to customers.  The Jakarta Composite index dropped 4.3 percent this month,
the most among 18 Asian equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The
gauge is valued at about 14 times analysts’ 12-month earnings
estimates, down from about 16 in May, the data shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  