-- Intuit Settles Antitrust Suit Over No-Hire Agreement
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-31T04:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/intuit-settles-antitrust-suit-over-pact-to-not-hire-rivals-1-.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU)  settled a lawsuit
alleging it and five other companies violated U.S. antitrust law
by agreeing with competitors not to recruit one another’s
employees.  The lawsuit is a private action on behalf of employees that
mirrors claims the companies settled with the U.S. Justice
Department in 2010. Plaintiffs lawyers have argued that more
than 160,000 employees, from engineers to sous chefs, had their
incomes held down by the companies’ agreements not to recruit
one another’s workers.  The employees and Intuit have “reached an agreement to
settle all individual and class claims” on behalf of a proposed
“technical class” identified in an October filing, plaintiffs
lawyers wrote in a letter yesterday to U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California. The two sides will present Koh with
the proposed settlement in the “near future,” according to the
letter.  Diane Carlini, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-based Intuit, confirmed the settlement and declined to comment
further.  This month, units of Walt Disney Co., the world’s largest
theme-park operator, also tentatively settled the lawsuit.
Animation studio  Pixar  and visual-effects specialist  Lucasfilm
Ltd.  told Koh they agreed to settle all claims, according to
court papers filed July 12.  Other companies named as defendants are  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Adobe Systems Inc. and Lucasfilm Ltd.  The case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation,
11-cv-02509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha  at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 