-- Investment Firms Risk Costs Surge on EU Capital Law, FCA Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-31T17:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/investment-firms-risk-costs-surge-on-eu-capital-law-fca-says.html
Small-scale broker dealers, wealth
managers and other investment companies risk a leap in their
compliance costs to meet tougher European Union capital rules
“designed more with banks in mind,” a U.K. regulator said as
it pledged to insulate the industry from unnecessary standards.  The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority said it would attempt
to use flexibility in the EU law to spare as many as 1,000 of
the 2,400 investment firms it regulates from the EU requirements
set to begin phasing in from Jan. 1, 2014.  “In relative terms, the cost for small FCA related firms
could be important,” the regulator said. According to FCA
estimates, small investment firms, defined as those with less
than 100 million pounds ($152 million) in assets, may face one-time compliance costs of as much as 20,000 pounds, with this
rising to 350,000 pounds for larger companies.  The EU measures are intended to apply standards drawn up by
global regulators to prevent a repeat of the crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The EU
legislation extends the scope of the measures -- known as Basel
III -- to also cover investment firms, which the European
Commission has said is necessary to avoid loopholes and
competitive distortions.  The FCA said it would seek views until September on its
plans for applying the EU rules, before publishing final
guidance later this year.  While investment firms are bound by the EU measures, the
28-nation bloc has said it will carry out a review of prudential
requirements for investment companies by the end of 2015.  Given this uncertainty, the FCA said it would seek for the
time being to “do the legal minimum and, where possible, not
seek to change current policy.”  “This should help firms to contain any overall increase in
costs without reducing the benefit of protection for
consumers,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  