-- Iran Wheat Imports Seen Sliding by UN Amid Increased Stockpiles
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-31T12:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/iran-wheat-imports-seen-sliding-by-un-amid-increased-stockpiles.html
Iran ’s wheat imports may drop by 67
percent this season amid ample stockpiles in the country and
increasing production, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization said.  Wheat purchases may be about 2 million metric tons,
compared with 6.1 million tons a year earlier, the Rome-based
FAO said in an online country  report  dated yesterday. Total
imports of grain, including wheat, corn and rice, may “remain
relatively high” at 9.4 million tons, according to the report.
Outlook for lower imports is “mainly due to higher carryover
stocks following large purchases in 2012.”  Still, Iran has made “large purchases” of grain in
international markets since the marketing year began April 1,
including 800,000 tons of wheat from  Russia  and the Baltic Sea
region before the Middle Eastern country’s elections in June,
the FAO said, citing reports from traders. “Iran’s state grain
buyer continues to build its strategic stocks in light of
concerns about domestic  food security ,” the FAO said.  The Central Bank of Iran allocated 70 trillion rials, equal
to about $5.7 billion under the country’s official exchange
rate, for domestic wheat purchases in June, the FAO said. The
country had purchased about 3 million tons of domestic wheat as
of the end of this month, according to the report. Recent
currency devaluations, tied to international sanctions and lower
oil exports, are raising concerns about food security in the
country, the FAO said.  Iran’s wheat harvest is almost finished and may total about
14.5 million tons, up about 5 percent from the 13.8 million tons
collected a year earlier, the FAO said. Total grain production
may be 21.85 million tons, up 3.4 percent from a year earlier,
including 3.2 million tons of barley and 2.4 million tons of
rice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  