-- Ireland Plans Ship Finance Center in Dublin’s Docklands
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-31T14:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ireland-plans-ship-finance-center-in-dublin-s-docklands.html
IDA Ireland, charged with winning
overseas investment for the country, is backing plans to develop
a shipping-finance center in Dublin, bidding to emulate the
city’s position as an international aviation leasing hub.  A company called ISSC Dublin Ltd. said in a filing to
Dublin City Council that it’s acting for an unidentified
investor planning a shipping services project that may result in
more than 3,500 hirings in the city’s docklands. In a separate
filing,  IDA Ireland  said it supports the proposals.  The shipping services center “in Dublin docklands will
become the prime location for shipping finance, leasing,
innovative debt structuring products and specialist maritime
services including securitizing and listing,” ISSC said.  Ireland established itself as an international aviation hub
with the help of a 12.5 percent corporate tax rate. Half the
world’s commercial leased aircraft is managed from Ireland,
according to the IDA. Nine of the 10 biggest leasing companies
have operations in Dublin, with more than 3,000 aircraft valued
at 83 billion euros ($110 billion) are leased from Ireland,
according to the country’s transport ministry.  Ireland could capture 5 percent of the global shipping
market, ISSC said, without giving further details.  Buy Land  ISSC may buy land in the Irish capital’s north docklands
and then develop the project in stages, starting with a 27,500
square-meter (296,000 square-foot) eight-story office building,
the company said. A further 47,000 square meters of business
space could later be developed on an adjoining site, ISSC said.  ISSC director Cormac Megannety declined to comment on the
proposals. The IDA highlighted the potential for an
international shipping services sector as a way of further
developing Dublin’s docklands, it said in an e-mailed response
to questions on its submission.  Dublin’s International Financial Services Centre,
established 26 years ago in the area, employs about 32,700
people, according to its website. IDA Ireland has also helped
bring Facebook Inc. and Google Inc. to the south docklands area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  