-- Isis Says National Payment Rollout in 2013 Will Include IPhones
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-07-31T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/isis-says-national-payment-rollout-in-2013-will-include-iphones.html
Isis, the mobile-payment venture
backed by  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , is
planning its national rollout after nine months of tests.  The service, which lets users make purchases by tapping
their phones, will work on  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhones as well as
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone and BlackBerry Ltd.’s newest
smartphones, Isis said in a statement. It will continue to work
with some devices powered by Google Inc.’s Android software.  Isis has been testing the technology at more than 4,000
locations in Austin, Texas and  Salt Lake City  and will expand
nationwide later this year. Succeeding in U.S. mobile payments
has been a challenge for dozens of startups as well as Google,
through its Wallet application, because no mainstream standard
has emerged and consumers have stuck with cash and plastic.  “What you’ll see coming from us is a vastly improved
product, a variety of new places to use it, a vastly improved
user experience,”  Ryan Hughes , chief marketing officer at New
York-based Isis, said in an interview.  By working on the iPhone, Isis is indicating that it’s
expanding beyond a technology called near-field communication
(NFC), which hasn’t taken off as expected. Global NFC-based
retail transactions will reach  $110 billion  in 2017, down from a
prior forecast of $180 billion, according to Juniper Research.
Apple, which hasn’t adopted NFC, captured 39 percent of the U.S.
smartphone market as of May, according to  ComScore Inc.   New Revenue  Carriers plan to use the Isis app to capture new forms of
revenue, such as advertising, as the pool of potential new
smartphone customers shrinks from market saturation. Wireless
revenue in the U.S. rose 3.2 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, down from 5.7 percent growth in the first three
months of 2012.  Sprint Corp. (S)  is the only of the four biggest
U.S. carriers that’s not part of the launch, Hughes said.  In its tests, Isis users tapped their phones on average
more than 10 times a month, Hughes said, declining to say how
many people participated. Two-thirds of users opted to receive
offers and messages from their favorite brands, he said.  “You’ll soon be able to walk into a store in Boise or
Tallahassee or  Chicago  and take advantage of this technology,”
said Hughes.  By helping banks and merchants promote their products,
carriers could potentially earn $316 to $538 per user per year
from the Isis wallet app, according to Richard Crone, who heads
payments consulting firm Crone Consulting LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  