-- Italy Banks Bad Loans Underline Southern Europe Malaise
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-07-31T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/italy-banks-bad-loans-underline-southern-europe-malaise.html
Italian banks  are more reluctant to
lend as a recession saddles them with mounting bad debt,
highlighting a growing malaise in southern Europe’s finance
industry.  Growing non-performing loans may mean second-quarter profit
at  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank, slides to
189 million euros ($250 million) from 470 million euros a year
ago when it reports tomorrow, according to the average estimate
of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bailed-out  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA  is expected to announce its fifth-straight quarterly loss next week.  Intesa is among banks in southern Europe reporting a drop
in earnings. At the heart of the problem is a debt crisis that
ravaged the region’s finances, forcing firms to sell assets and
pare back lending to stay afloat.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
ratings of 18 Italian banks last week, saying the economic
recession will be longer than expected. Increasing non-performing loans may hurt credit ratings in  Spain , Moody’s
Investors Service said last week.  “The spiral of less lending and higher bad-loans is
deepening and still needs time to be broken,” Jacopo Ceccatelli, a London-based partner at financial advisory firm JC
& Associati SIM, said in a telephone interview. “Until the
economy starts to recover and banks complete their balance-sheet
clean-up, I expect profitability will remain well below pre-crisis levels.”  Lending Struggle  Italy is immersed in its longest recession in more than 20
years as businesses and households struggle to repay debt and
find new credit lines. Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said
two weeks ago that banks aren’t lending enough to help boost a
recovery. In France, President  Francois Hollande ’s government is
calling for more lending to help end the recession, while in
Spain, which sought a bailout for its banking system last year,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said banks should justify
decisions to cut financing to companies.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, said yesterday that
second-quarter profit fell 4.7 percent to 1.76 billion euros,
hurt by an increase in loan loss provisions in Italy.  Non-performing loans surged 22 percent in May from the same
month of 2012 to 135.5 billion euros, according to the Italian
Banking Association. Lending by Italian banks to the private
sector dropped 3.3 percent in June from a year ago to 1.6
trillion euros, the association said in a report last month.  Banks were more reluctant to lend in the second quarter
because of the unfavorable prospects for economic activity and
higher credit risk, the Bank of Italy said last week.  Stricter Rules  Higher  capital requirements  are also forcing banks in Italy
and elsewhere to reduce risk, pare lending and set aside more
money to cover risky loans. The Spanish government should make
banks bolster their capital by issuing stock and curbing
dividends, the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Regulators are now looking at leverage in addition to
capital measures based on risk weightings, to ensure a banking
collapse that followed the 2008 financial crisis isn’t repeated.  “We are moving away from the rules of capitalism to comply
with regulators, and this is penalizing commercial banks such as
Italian banks in particular,” Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffe,
professor of business strategy at Milan’s  Bocconi University ,
said in an interview. “Balance sheets are under a form of
automatic ‘budget sequester’ which is dramatically reducing
their room for maneuver.”  The  European Central Bank , taking over supervision of the
banking industry next year from national regulators, will
conduct an “asset quality review” that may lead to further
writedowns and capital raising.  ‘Forced Actions’  The  Bank of Italy  extended asset quality inspections
started last year on eight of 20 banks to take a closer look at
their books as the recession drives up bad loans, it said
earlier this week.  The Italian central bank says lenders must boost capital by
selling non-strategic assets, curbing operating costs, dividends
and executive pay. In the fourth quarter the bank regulator
forced them to set aside additional provisions after coverage
ratios declined compared to previous years.  “Reductions in collateral values and discussions of a
European banking union are likely to cause further forced
actions,” Alberto Cordara, an analyst at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London, wrote in an e-mailed report to clients
last month.  ’Deeper Recession’  Standard & Poor’s downgraded 18 Italian banks a week ago,
including  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  and  Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA ,
citing rising economic risk.  Italian banks “are now more exposed to a deeper and longer
recession than we had previously anticipated,” the New York-based ratings company said in a statement. S&P didn’t cut
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, the country’s two biggest
lenders, which had their ratings confirmed.  S&P cut the country’s credit rating to BBB+, two steps from
junk, on July 10 because of the weakening economy and an
impaired financial system.  Banks in Italy also tend to invest cash in sovereign debt
rather than lend to industry. The lenders, which borrowed more
than 255 billion euros from the ECB’s longer-term refinancing
operations during the financial crisis, increased their holdings
of Italian sovereign debt by 31 percent in the 12 months ending
May to 395 billion euros.  Last month, the IMF cut this year’s growth outlook for the
country, saying gross domestic product will shrink 1.8 percent,
compared with its April forecast of 1.5 percent.  Gross non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending
across the industry increased to 6.9 percent in June from 5.6
percent a year earlier, according to data published by the
Italian Banking Association. That’s the highest level since 2000
and up from 3 percent in June 2008.  Mixed Results  A one-time gain of 258 million euros from a bond buyback
means UniCredit may post second-quarter profit of 349 million
euros when it reports on Aug. 6 compared with 169 million euros
a year earlier, according to the average of 21 analysts surveyed
by the bank.  Deutsche Bank AG and Keefe, Bruyette & Woods are among
brokerages that have cut their forecasts for 2013 earnings of
Italian banks. Deutsche Bank lowered its earnings-per-share
estimates for this year by an average 10 percent to factor in
lower income from lending, it said on July 17.  Analysts have reduced 2013 median earnings-per-share
estimates for Italy’s 13 biggest banks by 39 percent on average
since the beginning of this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Spain Troubles  In Spain, the impact of bad loans on banks’ balance sheets
is persisting. Non-performing loans as a percentage of total
loans climbed to 11.2 percent in May and lending shrank an
annual 13 percent.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  said profit in the second quarter
fell to 66.1 million euros from 75.4 million euros a year
earlier as lending slid 4.5 percent.  CaixaBank (CABK)  saw second-quarter profit slide to 73 million euros from 118 million euros
on charges for covering refinanced loans.  “I’m still waiting for more evidence of an inflection
point or real change of trend in Spain,”  Neil Smith , an analyst
at Bankhaus Lampe in Bielefeld,  Germany , said in a phone
interview. “There are still too many uncertainties.”  De Guindos said last week that the government must continue
to overhaul the fourth-largest economy in the euro region to
consolidate a “fragile” recovery. Four years of budget cuts
have sapped domestic demand, hindering an exit from a slump
triggered in 2008 by the end of a real-estate boom that lasted
over a decade.  Second-quarter profit at  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
biggest bank, climbed to 1.05 billion euros after charges of 1.3
billion euros on its real estate portfolio weren’t repeated. Bad
loans as a proportion of total lending rose to 5.18 percent from
4.76 percent in March as it booked 2 billion euros of loans as
“doubtful” to comply with new Bank of Spain rules, Santander
said two days ago.  -- With assistance from Dan Liefgreen and Jerrold Colten in
Milan, Chiara Vasarri in  Rome , Charles Penty in  Madrid . Editors:
Mark Bentley, Dylan Griffiths  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  