-- Lithuanian Gas Utility Dujos Renegotiating Gazprom Supply Deal
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-07-31T10:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/lithuanian-gas-utility-dujos-renegotiating-gazprom-supply-deal.html
Lithuanian gas utility Lietuvos
Dujos AB plans to extend a supply agreement with  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) 
that expires in 2015 for five years or more if the Russian
company, its partial owner, agrees to lower prices and amounts.  “We’re in negotiations about extending the contract while
changing some parameters,” Dujos Director Viktoras Valentukevicius told reporters today in Vilnius, the Lithuanian
capital. “It would be for a period sufficient for us to assess
changes and risks in the market, I think at least five years.”  Seeking to diversify its gas options,  Lithuania  is building
a floating liquefied natural-gas terminal on the Baltic Sea,
scheduled to start work in late 2014, and seeks to build a gas
pipeline link with neighboring  Poland . Valentukevicius said
Dujos, of which Gazprom owns 37 percent, handles almost 40
percent of gas used in the Baltic nation.  Dujos wants to end a direct link between “speculative”
world crude oil prices and what it pays for gas supplies,
Valentukevicius said. The talks were separate from those
Lithuania’s government is pursuing with Gazprom, he said.  Shares of Lietuvos Dujos rose 2 percent to 0.622 euro at 1
p.m. in Vilnius, the highest since trading resumed on July 2
after the spinoff of the utility’s transmission activities to a
new company. Volume of 31,908 shares was more than triple the
three-month daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lithuanian Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius has said the
country should avoid signing a long-term supply agreement with
Gazprom. The government owns 18 percent of Dujos and  Germany ’s
 EON AG (EOAN)  owns 39 percent.  In October, Lithuania’s previous government filed a lawsuit
against Gazprom in a Stockholm arbitration court for 5 billion
litai ($1.9 billion), the amount the country says it was
overcharged for supplies since 2004. That followed the EU’s
announcement in September, and partly at Lithuania’s request, of
an antitrust probe regarding the Russian company’s pricing for
gas sales in central and eastern Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  