-- Abe Rally Puts Megabanks on Pace for Annual Profit Targets
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-08-01T08:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/mitsubishi-ufj-with-mizuho-reports-profit-gain-on-fees-lending.html
Japan ’s three biggest banks are on
pace to achieve their annual profit targets after first-quarter
earnings jumped on higher fee income and equity investments.  Net income at  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
totaled 791.6 billion yen ($8.1 billion) in the three months
ended June 30, surging 63 percent from a year earlier, according
to calculations based on their earnings statements released this
week. That accounts for 43 percent of the lenders’ combined 1.84
trillion-yen fiscal-year profit goal.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic stimulus policies have
helped Japanese stocks become the best performers among major
markets this year, spurring the megabanks’ fee businesses such
as investment trust sales. Lending income also picked up as
demand for credit rose. Bond trading slumped as the banks sold
government debt amid growing expectations for inflation.  “Megabanks are steadily making strides forward to meet
full-year profit forecasts,” said Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA, who has a buy rating on all
three companies. “Mutual-fund sales are likely to remain strong
and continue to boost fee income.”  Quarterly profit for each bank topped analysts’ average
estimates. Mitsubishi UFJ’s  net income  climbed 40 percent from a
year earlier to 255.3 billion yen, Japan’s biggest publicly
traded lender said yesterday. Mizuho, the country’s third-biggest bank by market value, said yesterday that quarterly
profit increased 35 percent to 248 billion yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui ,
the second-largest lender, said on July 29 that profit more than
doubled to 288.3 billion yen.  Shares Rise  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ jumped 4 percent today, the
biggest gain in a month. Mizuho surged 4.9 percent, the most in
seven weeks. Sumitomo Mitsui, the best performer among the three
this year, closed 4.1 percent higher. The benchmark Topix Index
climbed 2.8 percent, extending this year’s advance to 35
percent, aided by Abe’s three-pronged policy of fiscal stimulus,
monetary easing and deregulation.  Mitsubishi UFJ maintained its full-year profit target of
760 billion yen for the year ending March, while Sumitomo Mitsui
and Mizuho kept their forecasts of 580 billion yen and 500
billion yen, respectively.  Combined fees and commissions surged 29 percent last
quarter from a year earlier to 642.1 billion yen, the reports
showed. The banks’ total equity-related investments gained 96.1
billion yen, compared with a 185.5 billion yen loss a year
earlier. Surging stock trading volumes also boosted quarterly
earnings at their brokerage arms.  Economic Recovery  The world’s third-largest economy is showing signs of a
self-sustaining recovery, the Cabinet Office said last week,
raising its assessment for a third straight month. The rebound
has helped city banks increase lending for seven straight
months, central bank data show.  Total lending income at the megabanks climbed 11 percent
last quarter to 1.12 trillion yen.  “The environment is improving for Japanese companies to
expand  capital spending ,” Takeshi Kunibe, chairman of the
Japanese Bankers Association, said on July 18. “The key is how
to further encourage corporate and consumer sentiment, which
will need the government to execute its growth strategies,”
said Kunibe, who is president of Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit.  Profit Risks  There are risks to the profit outlook as investors wait to
see how aggressively Abe will implement his deregulation agenda
later this year. Outside Japan,  China ’s economic slowdown is
showing signs of deepening while the  Federal Reserve  may start
to reduce bond purchases that have buoyed the  U.S. economy .  Even as credit demand picks up, lending profitability
remains weak as the Bank of Japan’s monetary easing drags down
 interest rates  on loans. The average net interest margin at the
85 companies on the Topix Banks Index is 1.31 percent, the least
in  Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The problem is that lending margin keeps falling,” said
Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko.
“Loans are increasing for large companies, mergers and
acquisitions and mortgages, but profitability is low. Banks need
to broaden their borrower base to small and mid-sized
corporates.”  The firms are accelerating overseas takeovers to chase
higher loan returns. Mitsubishi UFJ in July offered to buy
 Thailand ’s Bank of Ayudhya for $5.6 billion. Sumitomo Mitsui
struck a deal to buy 40 percent of  Indonesia ’s PT Bank Tabungan
Pensiunan Nasional for about $1.5 billion in May.  Mizuho Shopping  Mizuho has scope to buy a commercial bank in the U.S.,
Chief Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  said in February. The bank
merged its corporate and retail lending arms in July.  Bond trading is no longer a driver of profit growth at the
banks, which are paring holdings, yesterday’s reports showed.
Combined bond and securities trading income fell 43 percent to
265.6 billion yen in the first quarter.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s lending unit almost halved its Japanese
 government bond holdings  to 11.5 trillion yen in the three
months through June, according to the company’s earnings
presentation. Mitsubishi UFJ pared its holdings by 17 percent
over the quarter to 40.3 trillion yen and Mizuho reduced the
amount by 20 percent to 24.6 trillion yen.  “Megabanks started adjusting their balance sheets on the
premise that credit demand will increase,” said BNP Paribas’
Sameshima. “They’re trimming JGB holdings to get cash that they
can use for lending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  