-- IVG Said to Mull Court-Approved Restructuring Amid Debt Talks
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-07-31T13:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ivg-said-to-mull-court-approved-restructuring-amid-debt-talks.html
IVG Immobilien AG (IVG)  is examining
whether it qualifies for a court-supervised restructuring after
the debt-laden German real estate company’s creditors failed to
offer an alternative by yesterday’s deadline, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  IVG hired a  law firm  that will determine whether the Bonn-based company meets the criteria for a
“Schutzschirmverfahren,”  Germany ’s equivalent of the U.S.
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the information is private. IVG is seeking to
renegotiate more than 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of debt.  The missed deadline means IVG shareholders won’t vote on a
proposal at the Sept. 12 annual meeting and the company will
“examine whether the positive going concern forecast for IVG
Immobilien AG can be upheld,” IVG said in a statement after the
market closed yesterday. If the restructuring begins, the
company will have three months to reach an agreement with
creditors under the supervision of a court-appointed
administrator.  IVG will hold further talks with creditors about an out-of-court restructuring deal, according to the person. A consensual
restructuring would ensure “the greatest possible preservation
of value for all the company’s stakeholders,” IVG said in
yesterday’s statement.  A spokesman for the company declined to comment.  IVG, whose shares have lost more than 99 percent since 2007
after the value of its assets plunged, began negotiating with
holders of its loans and bonds in May. The company needs to
raise as much as 120 million euros after losing access to its
subsidiaries’ income and to help cover the cost of the
refinancing efforts, according to a July 19 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Freke at   tfreke@bloomberg.net  