-- J.C. Penney Says CIT Still Funding, Has ‘Ample’ Liquidity
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-08-01T20:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/j-c-penney-falls-on-report-cit-stopped-funding-suppliers.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the department-store
chain seeking to rebound from its worst sales year in more than
two decades, said today a report that  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  has stopped
funding some of its suppliers is false.  J.C. Penney fell 0.1 percent to $14.58 at the close in New
York, following a 10 percent decline yesterday after the New
York Post  reported  that commercial lender CIT ceased supporting
deliveries from small manufacturers to its stores. The newspaper
didn’t name its source.  “Contrary to the news report, CIT continues to factor and
support deliveries from J.C. Penney suppliers,” the Plano,
Texas-based store operator said in a statement. J.C. Penney
“continues to have ample liquidity to manage its business with
expectations to close the quarter with approximately $1.5
billion in cash on its balance sheet.”  Firms such as CIT provide money on a short-term basis for
manufacturers to produce goods for retailers, and in return are
paid a fee based on a percentage of the total order. If so-called factors like CIT stop funding suppliers, it can prompt
other such lenders to follow suit.  That also would mean J.C. Penney would have to pay for
goods in cash when delivered, Liz Dunn, an analyst for Macquarie
Group in  New York , said in a note to clients. Less than 10
percent of J.C. Penney’s goods are funded by commercial lenders,
of which CIT is the biggest, and if it had to pay up front for
all those goods it would total about $300 million, Dunn said.  CIT Factoring  J.C. Penney said today CIT factored merchandise currently
represents less than 4 percent of its overall inventory for the
year.  Such a move by CIT wouldn’t have been unprecedented. It cut
off funding to  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s suppliers in 2012. Those
vendors made up less than 5 percent of sales, Sears said at the
time.  J.C. Penney is working to improve sales after revenue last
year tumbled 25 percent to $13 billion, leading to a net loss of
$985 million after  Ron Johnson ’s failed attempt to remake the
retailer. The chain ousted Johnson, a former Apple Inc.
executive, in April just 17 months after he took the job.  Mike Ullman, who retook the CEO spot, is working to shore
up the company’s finances and increase promotions to lure back
shoppers. J.C. Penney will report its first full quarter under
Ullman’s leadership next month. A date hasn’t been set yet.  Matt Klein, a spokesman for CIT, said yesterday the company
doesn’t comment on specific customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  