-- Japanese Auto Brands Slide in Customer Satisfaction in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-31T07:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/japanese-auto-brands-slide-in-customer-satisfaction-in-china.html
Japanese auto brands posted the
biggest decline in customer satisfaction in  China  among foreign
automakers, after a territorial dispute sparked nationwide
protests last year.  Japanese brands trailed their South Korean, American and
European competitors, beating only Chinese nameplates in an
annual industry survey released today by J.D. Power &
Associates. That contrasts with last year, when Japanese marques
topped the same study.  “The decline was mainly driven by political reasons, which
undermined the reputation of Japanese brands,” Tony Zhou,
director of automotive research at J.D. Power China, said in
Beijing today. “Consumers also complained about aggressive push
by Japanese dealerships, which are under pressure to generate
profit amid rising competition, to make them spend more money.”  The deterioration in customer attitudes toward Japanese
brands underscore the challenges that the country’s automakers
face in restoring goodwill lost in the aftermath of last year’s
protests against  Japan ’s nationalization of a group of islands
that China also claims.  About 1,800 cars of brands belonging to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. were damaged during anti-Japanese protests in September, according to  Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. (2238) , which operates joint ventures with both
Toyota and Honda.  The China Customer Service Index Study, in its 13th year,
measures satisfaction among vehicle owners who bought their
models within the past two years and visited an authorized
dealer’s service department for maintenance or repair work in
the last six months. Overall customer satisfaction in China fell
for the first time since 2006, the latest findings show.  Luxury Brands  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi ranked first in customer satisfaction
among luxury brands, beating  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac, according to the study.  A separate survey found that about 40 percent of
dealerships in China incurred losses last year, compared with 6
percent three to four years ago, according to Mei Songlin, vice
president of J.D. Power’s unit in  Shanghai .  More dealerships are losing money because automakers are
producing more vehicles than there is demand, while distributors
haven’t sufficiently developed their used-car business, Mei
said. After-sales services account for 50 percent of dealership
profit, up from 44 percent in 2012, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  