-- Japan Mulls Deficit Cut as Sales-Tax Debate Intensifies: Economy
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-07-31T05:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/japan-considers-deficit-cuts-as-sales-tax-debate-intensifies.html
Japan  is considering an 8 trillion
yen ($82 billion) target for budget-deficit cuts over the next
two years as officials debate how to proceed with a  sales-tax 
increase that threatens to damage an economic rebound.  The goal is based on the assumption that the consumption
levy is raised as planned to 8 percent in April, from 5 percent
now, according to two government officials who asked not to be
named per government policy. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
administration plans to release its medium-term fiscal plans,
and a final decision on the sales levy, later this year.  With a report today showing little sign of the wage gains
Abe needs to bolster his reflation campaign, policy makers face
the challenge of reining in the world’s largest public debt
burden without derailing growth. Economy Minister Akira Amari
said yesterday officials will canvass with “experts” on how to
implement the tax hike enacted by the previous administration.  “It’s highly likely that Abe’s government will choose to
lift the sales tax as planned,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief
rates strategist in  Tokyo  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit, one of the 24 primary dealers in Japanese
 government securities . “The amount of 8 trillion yen underlines
that the government has no other choice,” given the difficulty
in finding other means to make up the deficit cut, he said. The
Asahi reported the 8 trillion yen figure earlier today.  The Topix index fell 0.4 percent as of 2:30 p.m. in Tokyo
today as investors looked ahead to a U.S. Federal Reserve policy
statement that may give more clues on when the Fed will trim $85
billion of monthly bond purchases.  ‘No Option’  Amari told reporters late yesterday in Tokyo that “there
is no option to not raise the  consumption tax  at all,” barring
an external shock of a magnitude similar to the September 2008
global money-market breakdown. He said that economic expansion
may slow next year due to the levy, then rebound after that.  Expert-produced studies showing varying impacts on the
economy from scales of tax increases could help policy makers
determine how much of a supplementary budget is needed to
counter the hit, according to Fukunaga. Economists estimate the
need for a 5 trillion yen package to cushion Japan from the move
scheduled for April, a Bloomberg News survey showed this month.  The legislation approved under the former government
allowed a delay in the two-step tax increase, which would bring
the rate to 10 percent in 2015, depending on the state of the
economy. Officials including Amari and Finance Minister Taro Aso
have said the call will be made after the government’s second
estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product, due Sept. 9.  Revenue Increase  The cabinet office  estimated  in August last year that a 1
percentage point increase in the tax would create about 2.7
trillion yen in extra revenue. RBS’s Fukunaga estimates that a 3
percentage point increase in the consumption tax will generate
about 7 to 8 trillion yen.  In the fiscal year starting in April, the primary balance
fiscal deficit will be 23.2 trillion yen, the  finance ministry 
 estimated  in January.  Japan’s medium-term fiscal plan will be submitted to the
Group of 20 nations meeting in early September, Aso said
yesterday. Aso told his G-20 counterparts at a July 20 gathering
in Moscow that his nation will craft a credible framework.  Political Pain  “Politicians are always very cowardly about things which
will cause pain to the people,” former ruling party secretary-general and retired lawmaker Makoto Koga said in an interview
yesterday. “Raising the sales tax is the first test of whether
Abenomics can be successfully implemented. This is the first
major test - I think they need to overcome it.’  Government debt will exceed 245 percent of GDP this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund  -- the legacy of
deficit spending and two decades of malaise that has sapped  tax
revenue .  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda this week indicated
little concern that a sales-tax rise would derail the nation’s
economic rebound.  ‘‘A two-step sales tax increase won’t give major damage to
growth in Japan’s economy,” Kuroda said in a speech in Tokyo,
referring to the BOJ’s growth forecasts. “We consider a
downturn in overseas economies to be the largest risk factor to
the outlook for economic activity and prices.”  Japanese workers saw their wages rise 0.1 percent on
average in June compared with a year before, after a 0.1 percent
drop in May, a government report showed today. Abe has urged
companies to boost compensation, as their profits improve with a
more competitive  exchange rate .  Wages, Manufacturing  A Japanese manufacturing index fell to 50.7 in July from
52.3 in June, Markit Economics said today.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Taiwan ’s economy grew by more than
economists estimated last quarter as domestic consumption
improved.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a 1 percent annualized
rate from April through June, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts ahead of data to be released today. ADP
Research Institute may say U.S. private employers added 180,000
jobs in July, a separate poll showed. Data are due on retail
sales in Germany and  Spain  and inflation in the European Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  