-- JPMorgan Commodity-Tied Note Sales Climb to Largest With Add-On
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-07-31T16:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/jpmorgan-commodity-tied-note-sales-climb-to-largest-with-add-on.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold $195
million of structured notes tied to an index of commodity
futures, the largest such note in more than three and a half
years after the size was increased twice.  The four-year securities, $40 million of which were issued
on July 23, yield the gains and losses of the Dow Jones-UBS
Commodity Index 3 Month Forward Total Return minus a fee with
all capital at risk, according to a prospectus filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank originally
sold $65 million of the notes on Nov. 18, 2010, and an
additional $90 million on Feb. 28 this year.  The Dow Jones-UBS  benchmark , which tracks natural gas and
19 other commodities, declined 9.4 percent this year to 546.7 at
the close of trading yesterday. The index would have to rise
more than 8 percent from the day the securities were most
recently issued in order to reach the initial level from
November 2010.  “America’s power needs are only increasing with
population, as well as the general trend of people moving from
colder states to the Sun Belt,” said Aaron Calder, senior
market analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston. U.S.
regulations could decrease coal production, boosting prices for
other energy sources, he said.  Investors have bought $760.5 million of commodity-tied
notes this year, the slowest period since Bloomberg started
collecting data on the securities in 2010. Globally, banks have
sold about $2 billion of the securities this year, the least
since 2004, Bloomberg data show.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan in  New York ,
declined to comment on the notes.  Bloomberg started collecting comprehensive data on the
securities in January 2010.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  