-- JPMorgan Accused by Siena Prosecutors in Monte Paschi Probe
-- B y   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-07-31T16:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/jpmorgan-accused-by-siena-prosecutors-in-monte-paschi-probe-1-.html
Siena prosecutors accused  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and at least one of its employees of obstructing
regulators as part of a wider probe into  Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA ’s purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA.  Prosecutors allege an unidentified person at JPMorgan
Securities Ltd., a unit of the New York-based bank, withheld
information from regulators about a 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) financing arranged for Monte Paschi’s takeover of
Antonveneta in 2008, a July 30 court filing obtained by
 Bloomberg News  showed. The  U.S. bank  failed to oversee its
employees properly, according to the filing.  JPMorgan arranged a sale of bonds exchangeable into shares
of Monte Paschi to finance the deal. The lender, which benefited
from the alleged crime by earning commissions, didn’t inform the
 Bank of Italy  that it signed a so-called indemnity agreement
with Monte Paschi, protecting JPMorgan from potential losses
linked to the securities, according to prosecutors. By hiding
the agreement,  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  was able to count the funding as
equity instead of debt and boost capital.  The documents mark the final stage before the authorities
can request formal indictments, and it brings them a step closer
to reconstructing how Monte Paschi’s former managers allegedly
colluded to misrepresent the lender’s finances in the years
before it sought a government bailout.  Market Manipulation  Prosecutors also accused former Monte Paschi bankers,
including former chairman  Giuseppe Mussari , General Manager
Antonio Vigni, of obstructing regulators as well as market
manipulation and falsifying market filings, according to the
filing. Ex-Chief Financial Officer Marco Morelli, now head of
Bank of America Corp. in  Italy , was also accused of obstruction.  JPMorgan said in a statement today that the bank and its
employees acted correctly, and it will “vigorously” defend
itself. No claim was ever made under the indemnity, it said. A
Monte Paschi spokeswoman declined to comment.  Fabio Pisillo, Mussari’s lawyer, said in a statement that
the allegations are without foundation and his client will
outline his defense to the judges. Morelli and his lawyer
Riccardo Olivo didn’t immediately return calls for comment.
Enrico De Martino, a lawyer for Vigni, didn’t immediately answer
calls.  Monte Paschi bought its Italian competitor from  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  in 2008 for 9 billion euros, 36 percent more than
what the Spanish lender paid for the Padua, Italy-based bank two
months earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 