-- Just Don't Call It a 'Peace Process'
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-31T16:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/just-don-t-call-it-a-peace-process-.html
Perhaps the most promising thing
that can be said about anticipated Israeli-Palestinian peace
negotiations is that we don’t know much about them.  After hosting talks about talks in  Washington   this week ,
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said formal discussions would
begin within two weeks. No terms of reference were announced, so
it’s not clear whether the two sides will begin where previous
negotiations left off, from scratch or somewhere in between.  This is a plus. When commentators, politicians and
partisans of every stripe weigh in on every reported turn in a
complicated interaction, negotiators can become fearful of
deviating from fixed positions. That’s one reason talks tend to
fare better outside the glare of publicity.  Kerry has been astute to ask the Israelis and Palestinians
to let him be the sole spokesman for this initiative, and he’s
been wise to remain tight-lipped about what prior understandings
may have been reached to get the two sides to the table. (Of
course, if there are no such terms of reference, he’d have a
hard time explaining what he has been doing for the six months
he has focused on setting up the talks.) If the Israelis or
Palestinians begin to leak what is happening inside the
discussions, it will be a sign they are less interested in
progress than they are in posturing.  The other known feature of the talks that sets them apart
from previous rounds is that a relatively short time has been
set for them to produce a deal: nine months.  That’s ambitious .
On-and-off negotiations over at least 17 years have failed to
produce the conflict-ending agreement Kerry seeks. Nevertheless,
it’s doable.  It’s trite but true: The  parameters of a deal  are
understood on both sides. A demilitarized Palestinian state
would be created in the  Gaza Strip  and  West Bank .  Palestine 
would recognize Israel as a Jewish state. Israel would annex a
small percentage of West Bank land in order to absorb Jewish
settlements close to Israel. Palestine would be compensated with
land from inside Israel. A limited number of Palestinian
refugees would be allowed to resettle in Israel; the rest would
be compensated. Israel would get an early-warning system against
invasion from the east -- perhaps a U.S. presence -- in the
Jordan Valley.  Jerusalem  would be shared.  Negotiators from previous sessions and  peace advocates 
working on their own have produced detailed frameworks for each
of these issues. Nine months is long enough to develop a human
being; it’s long enough for Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  to come to
terms if they want to do so. If they do not, no time is long
enough. Consequently, the U.S. should make nine months the limit
for its engagement. If the parties lack the will to make an
agreement, U.S. diplomatic resources and credibility are better
spent  elsewhere .  That Kerry was unable to get Israel to agree to freeze the
expansion of Jewish settlements in the West Bank is unfortunate.
For the Palestinians, this feels like negotiating over the
division of a pie while the other side is gobbling up slices. So
it will be worth watching where, in particular, Israel builds
during the talks. If it expands only those settlements everyone
expects to be annexed to Israel in a final agreement, a deal may
still be possible. If it builds outside those areas, there will
be legitimate doubt about Israel’s commitment to the  peace
process .  Speaking of that phrase: Kerry and the principals may want
to rebrand their talks to avoid the widely discredited term
“peace process.” For many Israelis and Palestinians, the
phrase is now synonymous with an endless procedure that produces
nothing. For that matter, the word “peace” has lost its sheen.  It was sweet that Israeli negotiator Tzipi Livni took the
hand of her Palestinian counterpart, Saeb Erekat, in their
Washington appearance yesterday. But at this stage, their
compatriots are, in the main, fed up with one another. Israelis
disdain Palestinians for passing up previous peace offers and
for the continued support, among many, for Hamas, the violent
Islamist group dedicated to  Israel ’s destruction. Palestinians
resent Israelis for the continued occupation, which inflicts
daily misery on their lives.  Ordinary Israelis and Palestinians, for the most part,
aren’t looking for a coming-together. They want a divorce, with
a fair division of assets. Instead of a peace process, how about
a coexistence consultation?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 