-- Kinross Gold Takes Writedown and Cancels Dividend
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-07-31T23:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/kinross-gold-takes-2-29-billion-writedown-amid-dividend-halt.html
Kinross Gold Corp. (K) ,  Canada ’s third-largest producer by revenue, took a $2.29 billion writedown on
assets and goodwill and suspended dividend payments after gold
prices fell.  The company had a second-quarter net loss of $3.2 billion,
or $2.81 a share, compared with net income of $153.6 million, or
13 cents, a year earlier, Toronto-based Kinross said yesterday
in a statement. Profit excluding impairments and other one-time
items was 10 cents a share, beating the 6-cent average of 18
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell to $968
million from $1.01 billion a year earlier.  Gold-mining companies have announced at least $17 billion
of writedowns in the past two months after the metal’s steepest
quarterly drop in London trading in more than nine decades.
Kinross said the impairment was largely related to lower short-term and long-term gold price assumptions.  The company has also reduced capital and exploration
budgets, closed an office in  Vancouver  and reduced its staff in
Toronto by 7 percent this year. That’s about 22 people,  Steve Mitchell , a spokesman for Kinross, said by e-mail. Kinross said
it’s evaluating other ways to reduce spending, which may include
more job cuts.  “The speed at which the gold price has dropped has
triggered other discussions and decisions,” Chief Executive
Officer J. Paul Rollinson said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Spending Cuts  “We’ve taken $750 million out of the capital in the last
12 months,” Rollinson said. “I expect in a sustained gold
price environment we will have some significant reductions for
the 2014 spend as well.”  The company doesn’t expect to make a decision on whether to
proceed with an expansion at its Tasiast mine in Mauritania
until at least 2015.  Kinross, which had been paying a semi-annual  dividend  of 8
cents a share, decided to suspend the payments because of
volatility in the gold price and to protect its liquidity,
Rollinson said.  “We have a strong balance sheet and we wanted to keep it
that way, that’s the bottom line,” Rollinson said. The decision
will be revisited next year, he said.  The company also recorded a charge of $720 million, related
to its decision to stop developing the Fruta del Norte mine in
Ecuador. The company announced its decision on the project in
June.  Kinross fell 1.1 percent to C$5.34 at the close yesterday
in Toronto. The shares have dropped 45 percent this year.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  are the largest
Canadian gold miners by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  