-- Kirkland, Weil, K&L Gates, Loeb & Loeb: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/kirkland-weil-k-l-gates-loeb-loeb-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised
 Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the second-largest U.S. hospital
chain, which agreed to buy Health Management Associates for
$3.9 billion in cash and stock. Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP is
representing Health Management Associates.  The Kirkland team was led by  New York  partners Steve Fraidin, Thomas Christopher and Michael Brueck.  The Weil team included partners Michael Aiello and Matthew Gilroy, mergers and acquisitions; Matt Bloch,  capital markets ;
Douglas Urquhart, banking/finance; Steven Bernstein, regulatory;
 Helyn Goldstein , tax;  Paul Wessel , employee benefits; and  Charan
Sandhu , intellectual property.  Health Management holders will receive $13.78 a share, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. Investors also will get
a contingent value right that may add as much as $1 a share
based on the outcome of legal matters, the companies said.  The sale came amid pressure from Glenview Capital
Management LLC, which owns about 15 percent of Health Management
stock. Glenview proposed ousting the Naples, Florida-based
company’s board and management because of its “substandard
strategic and financial approach.” After the deal closes,
Franklin, Tennessee-based  Community Health  will operate about
206 hospitals in 29 states.  Including net debt, the purchase is valued at about
$7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that used
Community Health’s average price for the last 20 days of trading
to calculate the stock portion of the bid. The offer is equal to
8.3 times Health Management’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for the last 12 months, the data
show. Assumed debt is $3.7 billion, according to the statement
from the companies.  The takeover is the biggest of a hospital company since
2006, when HCA Inc. was acquired by buyout firms including KKR &
Co. for about $33 billion including debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Moves  Pinsent Lawyer Joins London Energy Practice of K&L Gates  The London office of K&L Gates LLP added  Mike Stewart ,
formerly of Pinsent Masons LLP, as a partner in its energy,
infrastructure and resources practice.  Stewart focuses on disputes arising from major energy and
infrastructure projects, the firm said. He represents owners and
contractors, acting as project counsel and appearing in
international arbitrations, and has experience with the FIDIC
form of contract after working in Turkey, Ukraine, Azerbaijan,
Jordan, India and Sri Lanka.  “Our international energy, infrastructure and resources
arbitration practice has seen real momentum in the past 12
months,” Tony Griffiths, administrative partner of K&L Gates’s
London office, said in a statement. “With his track record in
international matters, Mike is an important addition to our
growing team.”  K&L Gates has lawyers at 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,
 Australia , Europe, the  Middle East  and  South America .  Daniel Begian Joins Ogletree Deakins’ St. Louis Office  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC hired Daniel R.
Begian as a shareholder in its St. Louis office. He’s joining
the firm from the Lowenbaum Partnership.  Begian, who has more than 30 years’ experience in labor and
employment matters in St. Louis, will work in the firm’s
traditional labor relations, employment law, and workplace
safety and health practice groups. He has experience in
contingent workforce issues, arbitration, bargaining,
proceedings before the  National Labor Relations Board  and
election campaigns.  He will be reunited with former colleagues including
shareholders Bob Stewart, Stan Schroeder and Bill Lawson, who
joined the firm in January, and Burt Garland, the firm said.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers in 44 offices in
the U.S. and in Europe.  New York Corporate Partner Grandis Joins Loeb & Loeb  Loeb & Loeb LLP announced that Michael Grandis joined the
firm’s New York office as a partner in the corporate department.
He most recently was a partner in the corporate and commercial
practice at Ingram Yuzek Gainen Carroll & Bertolotti, LLP in New
York.  Grandis has almost 15 years of experience, primarily in
public and private mergers and acquisitions,  venture capital  and
private-equity financings, as well as corporate governance
counseling, the firm said. His practice also includes
intellectual property and licensing matters, employment
agreements, corporate governance and other general corporate
matters.  Loeb & Loeb has more than 300 attorneys at six offices in
the U.S. and Beijing.  Litigation  JPMorgan to Pay $410 Million to Settle U.S. Energy Probe  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will pay $410 million to settle U.S.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission allegations that the bank
manipulated power markets in California and the Midwest from
2010 to 2012.  The bank agreed to pay a U.S. civil penalty of $285 million
and return $125 million in ill-gotten profits to electricity
ratepayers, according to a FERC statement yesterday. New York-based JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by market value, said the
settlement will “put this matter behind it.”  JPMorgan “employed a fraudulent device, scheme or
artifice, made false statements or material omissions, or
engaged in a course of business that operated or would operate
as a fraud on electricity market participants,” the agency said
yesterday in an order posted on its website.  FERC said a JPMorgan energy-trading unit had engaged in 12
bidding strategies in wholesale energy markets from September
2010 to November 2012, resulting in tens of millions of dollars
in overpayments from the grid operators. The agency announced
the violations yesterday after investigating the bank’s energy-trading practices for more than a year.  Of the $410 million, $124 million will go to the California
electric-grid operator and $1 million to an operator in the
Midwest, according to the agency. The bank accepted the facts in
the settlement agreement without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, the commission said in a statement.  Francis Dunleavy, Andrew Kittell and John Bartholomew, who
the agency said devised the bidding strategy, are still employed
by the company, according to the settlement.  Brian Marchiony , a
JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on their current roles
or whether the company would cut their bonuses or Masters’
compensation.  The three traders didn’t agree to a settlement with the
commission, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, the  law firm 
representing Dunleavy, Kittell and Bartholomew, said in a
statement. The agency decided not to pursue sanctions against
them after they explained that their conduct was lawful, it
said.  “The commission’s decision to voluntarily settle with
JPMorgan and not proceed against the individuals can only be
read as the commission correctly concluding that no case or
findings against the individuals could be sustained in a court
of law,” William Scherman, their lawyer, said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Penn State Lawyer Made Light of Sandusky Probe, Witness Says  Former  Pennsylvania  State University General Counsel
Cynthia Baldwin brushed aside concerns about a grand jury
investigation into former football coach Jerry Sandusky in early
2011, calling it a “fishing expedition,” the school’s
communications director said.  In a March 2011 conversation, Baldwin told Lisa Powers,
Penn State’s spokeswoman, that it was the fourth time a grand
jury had convened to investigate Sandusky and the school and
there was no evidence of wrongdoing, Powers testified yesterday
in state court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “She said there was nothing to talk about and it was a
fishing expedition,” Powers said of the phone conversation.
“She said we have nothing to say because there were no findings
yet.”  Powers testified at a hearing over charges against former
Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and two other officials for
their role in an alleged cover-up of accusations against
Sandusky, a former football defensive coordinator. Sandusky was
convicted in June 2012 and sentenced in October to at least 30
years in prison for sexually molesting 10 boys over 15 years.  Magisterial District Judge William Wenner in Harrisburg
yesterday ordered Spanier, former Athletic Director Timothy
Curley and  Gary Schultz , a retired vice president in charge of
university police, to face trial on charges including
endangering the welfare of children, conspiracy and perjury.  Spanier, Curley and Schultz have all denied wrongdoing in
the case, which is based in part on their grand jury testimony
and e-mails and documents dating back to 1998.  Bankruptcy  ResCap Judge Won’t Disqualify Company, Creditor Lawyers  Residential Capital LLC’s bankruptcy judge said he won’t
disqualify key lawyers and advisers from participating in part
of the case, rejecting a motion by a group of noteholders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan said a
group of junior secured noteholders had been trying to
“derail” the bankruptcy. He denied a motion by the group that
would have disqualified lawyers for ResCap and a committee of
unsecured creditors from participating in any hearings on claims
that ResCap’s units may hold against one another.  The group said in court papers that such claims could
affect “the distribution of at least $500 million and likely in
excess of a billion dollars to creditors.” It claimed the
attorneys had a conflict of interest because of the intercompany
claims.  Glenn said the group was really trying to force the court
to make a determination about the value of the intercompany
claims. He said he wouldn’t delay consideration of a proposed
settlement between ResCap, its parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , and
the unsecured creditors’ committee.  If Glenn approves the settlement, Detroit-based Ally will
pay $2.1 billion to creditors in return for immunity from
current and future lawsuits related to mortgage-backed
securities that went bad. Glenn will consider approving the
accord as part of ResCap’s reorganization plan.  Noteholders weren’t trying to disrupt the case or interfere
with the settlement, their attorney Christopher Shore, a partner
at White & Case LLP, said in court yesterday.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 