-- KKR Said to Consider Bidding for Hutchison’s ParknShop Chain
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-31T02:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/kkr-said-to-consider-bidding-for-li-ka-shing-s-parknshop-chain.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is evaluating a bid for
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s ParknShop supermarket chain, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  KKR, which is talking to banks about financing for a
potential deal, may decide not to make an offer, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations
are private. Li’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  has asked potential
buyers to submit bids for the Hong Kong chain by Aug. 16, people
with knowledge of the process said last week.  Hutchison is seeking $3 billion to $4 billion for
ParknShop, one of Hong Kong’s two main supermarket chains,
according to a person familiar with the matter. That would make
it KKR’s biggest deal in Asia, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
surpassing the $1.8 billion purchase of South Korea’s Oriental
Brewery Co. in 2009.  “This is ideal for private equity because it’s an asset
that can generate very steady cash flows,”  Cusson Leung , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse AG, said by phone today.
“Even though the growth is slower, ParknShop operates in a very
stable market.”  A private-equity buyer could consider spinning off
ParknShop as a business trust after acquiring it, Leung said.
Buyout firms typically use borrowed money to help finance
acquisitions, using the target’s cash flows to repay the debt.
Steve Okun, a spokesman for KKR, declined to comment.  Telecom Deals  Hutchison said this month it’s conducting a strategic
review of ParknShop, which had more than 270 stores and sales of
HK$21.7 billion ($2.8 billion) in 2012, as it makes acquisitions
in faster-growing industries such as telecommunications.
Hutchison, which reports results tomorrow, had sales of HK$398
billion last year, according to its website.  Hong Kong-based Hutchison last month agreed to buy
Telefonica SA’s O2, Ireland’s No. 2 mobile operator, for as much
as 850 million euros ($1.1 billion) to increase the group’s
wireless market share to 37.5 percent. The company also held
talks with Telecom Italia SpA over a potential merger of their
Italian mobile-phone assets.  At $4 billion, Parknshop would be valued at about 1.4 times
sales. Chinese supermarket group  Wumart Stores Inc. (1025) , in which
U.S. private equity firm TPG Capital owns a stake, trades at 1.1
times last year’s revenue, while  Dairy Farm International
Holdings Ltd. (DFI) , the owner of the Wellcome supermarket chain in
Hong Kong, carries a multiple of 1.65, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  KKR raised $6 billion for its Asia II Fund, making it the
largest pan-Asian private equity pool of capital, according to a
statement from the New York-based firm this month. The firm more
than doubled its stake in a unit of  Vietnam ’s Masan Consumer
Corp. in January, investing an additional $200 million in the
manufacturer of food products including fish sauce.  Besides Oriental Brewery, KKR also invested in Asian
consumer product makers such as China Outfitter Holding Ltd.,
 India ’s Coffee Day Resorts and Hong Kong-based apparel retailer
Novo Holdco Ltd., according to the fund’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  