-- Kohn Is Policy Pragmatist Who Helped Bernanke Navigate Crisis
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-07-31T21:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/kohn-is-policy-pragmatist-who-helped-bernanke-navigate-crisis.html
Donald Kohn, named today as a
potential nominee for the Federal Reserve chairmanship, is a
policy pragmatist who helped Chairman Ben S. Bernanke navigate
the financial crisis.  Unlike Janet Yellen and Lawrence Summers, two other
candidates for the job, Kohn doesn’t come from an academic
environment. After spending 40 years at the Fed, he’s more
likely to be guided by experience than economic theory.  “He is a central banker,” said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey.
“Yellen and Summers have acquired the policy-making experience
needed to do the job, but they come originally from a different
background.”  Like Bernanke, Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman, is mindful
of the Fed’s independence and the limits of its authority. He
would probably continue the Fed’s new focus on financial
stability as integral to achieving its dual mandate to strive
for stable prices and full employment.  President  Barack Obama  discussed his choices for the Fed
chairmanship in a visit to Capitol Hill today. Obama defended
Summers and named Kohn and Yellen as potential nominees,
according to a Democratic aide who sought anonymity to discuss a
private session.  The president “took a minute to stand up for Larry
Summers,” said Representative Brad Sherman of  California ,
following the meeting with House Democrats.  Vice Chairman  Kohn, 70, who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in Washington, was Bernanke’s most important
supporter and adviser during the crisis. He became a Fed
governor in August 2002 and served as vice chairman from June
2006 until June 2010.  The Philadelphia native was one of former Chairman Alan Greenspan’s closest advisers as director of the Division of
Monetary Affairs from 1987 to 2001. He helped Greenspan manage
the 1987 stock-market crash and adopt the federal funds rate,
the rate for overnight lending among banks, as the Fed’s main
signal for monetary policy.  At the Division of Monetary Affairs, Kohn was in charge of
policy strategy, presenting several options for action at
meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee and giving equal
weight to each. Even now, his analysis is partial to
understanding fully positions that might be contrary to the
consensus.  Testing Views  Laurence Meyer, a Fed governor from June 1996 to January
2002, said he spoke to Kohn every Friday before FOMC meetings,
testing his own views.  “There is no better preparation for being chairman than
being director of Monetary Affairs,” said Meyer, now senior
managing director at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in  Washington .
“He has years and years of experience linking monetary policy
to forecasts and outcomes. He understands how to build
consensus. Every chairman valued him.”  After leaving the Fed, Kohn took on jobs related to
financial stability, a new direction after his long experience
with monetary policy.  He serves as a member of the Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee and is on the advisory committee of the U.S.
Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Research.  At the Fed, Kohn wasn’t enticed by the perquisites of
office. Fed governors have a private garage with an elevator
reserved for them in the Marriner S. Eccles Building on
Constitution Avenue. When the weather was fair, Kohn pedaled to
work and used the parking space for his bicycle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  