-- NFL Pro Bowl Rosters to Use Fantasy Football-Style Draft Format
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-31T18:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/nfl-pro-bowl-rosters-to-use-fantasy-football-style-draft-format.html
The  National Football League  is
abandoning the 32-year-old conference rivalry for its annual  Pro
Bowl , adopting a fantasy football-like draft to select players
for the two All-Star teams.  Instead of the American Football Conference facing the
 National Football Conference , players will be selected for the
game without regard to alignment in voting by fans, coaches and
players. The top six quarterbacks in the final balloting would
make the Pro Bowl, whether they play for AFC or NFC teams.  Players will be assigned to the squads through a televised
draft in which the two leading vote-getters will be joined by
two champions from NFL.com’s fantasy leagues. The change is
aimed at making the Pro Bowl more fan-friendly after the league
considered eliminating the exhibition because of diminished
television ratings and criticism about a lack of effort from
players and poor quality of play.  “The players made it clear that they wanted to continue
the Pro Bowl and were committed to making it better than ever,”
NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell   said . “We think these changes
will enhance the game for both fans and players.”  NFL Players Association President Domonique Foxworth
proposed the changes to the AFC-NFC format, which had been in
place since 1971. Pro Football Hall of Fame players  Jerry Rice 
and  Deion Sanders  will assist the Pro Bowl team captains and
fantasy football champions in the draft, which will be televised
on the NFL Network four days before next season’s game on Jan.
26 in Aloha Stadium in Honolulu.  The Pro Bowl will be televised by NBC.  ‘New Ideas’  “As players, we wanted to keep the Pro Bowl to honor
excellence in individual performance and connect with the fans
in a different environment,” Foxworth said.  “To do that, I
worked with a group of players to map out new ideas.”  The NFL and players union will institute several other
rules changes this year, including the elimination of kickoffs.  There also will be a two-minute warning added at the end of
the first and third quarters, giving more opportunities for
quarterbacks to direct “two-minute drills” as the ball will
change hands after each quarter. A coin toss will determine
which team is awarded possession first, while the ball will be
placed on the 25-yard line at the start of the second, third and
fourth quarters and after scoring plays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  