-- NSA Programs Needed to Root Out Terror, Alexander Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-07-31T17:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/nsa-programs-needed-to-root-out-terror-alexander-says.html
The head of the U.S. National
Security Agency defended spying programs that monitor Americans’
phone and Internet activities to a group of hackers the agency
has counted on to help aid its cybersecurity efforts.  “Terrorists use our communications. They live among us,”
Army General Keith Alexander said in a speech today at the  Black
Hat  annual computer security conference in  Las Vegas .  “How do we come up with a program to stop terrorism and
protect our civil liberties and privacy? This is perhaps one of
the biggest issues facing our country today.”  Alexander discussed electronic surveillance efforts exposed
in June by former government contractor Edward Snowden, under
which the NSA collects phone metadata on millions of U.S.
customers of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Through a separate
program, known as Prism, the agency monitors e-mail, online
video and other Internet content of users.  It marked the first time since Snowden’s revelations that
Alexander has spoken publicly to security researchers who
explore vulnerabilities in networks and let companies or
agencies know they exist. The U.S. needs independent researchers
to find software vulnerabilities and develop know-how to exploit
networks, as well as to work for intelligence and military
agencies, Alexander said.  The NSA faces mounting criticism from hackers, lawmakers
and privacy advocates following revelations of classified U.S.
surveillance programs.  Moral Dilemma  Alexander’s speech was interrupted several times by shouts
from audience members that the NSA can’t be trusted. Alexander
made a personal appeal for hackers to examine “the facts”
about the spy programs and to work with NSA.  “You’re the greatest gathering of technical talent
anywhere in the world,” he said. “The whole reason I came here
was to ask you to help us make it better. If you disagree with
what we’re doing, then you should help twice as much.”  The revelations have created a moral dilemma for hackers
about whether to continue friendly relations with the NSA and
other government agencies, Alex Stamos, an independent security
researcher and member of the Black Hat advisory board, said in
an interview.  “I think there’s going to be a real backlash,” he said.
“It’s going to be much harder for them to recruit because there
are a lot of people now who are going to think twice about
whether or not they’re going to be put into ethical
situations.”  Company Backlash  Stamos said during Black Hat in 2012 he met casually for
two hours by a pool with NSA officials. “This year, if I got
the same request I would say, ‘Send me questions in writing or
you can meet with me and my lawyers,’” he said.  Alexander also met privately with company executives at
Black Hat yesterday.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , based in Cupertino,  California ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
based in  Mountain View , California, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , based
in Redmond, Washington, have asked the U.S. Justice Department
for permission to clarify what they do and don’t disclose to the
NSA under the Prism program.  Companies will be hesitant to share information about cyber
threats on their networks with the government going forward,
believing cooperation will harm their reputations, John Dickson,
chief executive officer of the software security company the
Denim Group Ltd., based in  San Antonio , said in an interview.  “One of the implications is it will be an every-man-for-himself security environment,” said Dickson, who advises the
U.S. Air Force on cybersecurity.  NSA Uninvited  Alexander and other U.S. officials have been asked not to
attend another security conference in Las Vegas this week, known
as Defcon, that follows Black Hat in Las Vegas.  “When it comes to sharing and socializing with feds,
recent revelations have made many in the community uncomfortable
about this relationship,” conference founder Jeff Moss, using
the name “The Dark Tangent,” wrote in a July 10 blog.  “Therefore, I think it would be best for everyone involved
if the feds call a ’time-out’ and not attend DEF CON this year.
This will give everybody time to think about how we got here,
and what comes next,” he wrote.  House Bill  Many lawmakers also want to curb the NSA’s powers. A July
24 vote in the  House of Representatives  to defund the agency’s
ability to collect phone metadata came seven votes short of
passing.  Damage to the NSA’s reputation is a “serious situation”
because the agency relies on hackers and companies to develop
technology and find computer vulnerabilities, Representative
Charles “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland , the top Democrat on
the House Intelligence Committee, said in an interview.  “The people in the NSA, which I represent, are some of the
hardest working people you’ll ever meet,” Ruppersberger said.
“There’s almost an analogy like they’re being blamed like the
men and women who went to  Vietnam  were blamed when they came
home. The president of the  United States  and Congress authorized
Vietnam.”  The Office of the Director of National Intelligence
released today a previously classified April 25 court document,
along with briefing papers given earlier to Congress, describing
the phone metadata collection program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  