-- Obama to Nominate Raskin as First Female U.S. Treasury Deputy
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-31T21:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/obama-said-to-choose-raskin-as-first-female-treasury-deputy-1-.html
President Barack Obama plans to
nominate Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  to be
deputy Treasury secretary, the White House said in a statement,
which would make her the highest-ranking woman in the history of
the department.  Raskin, who must be confirmed by the Senate, would replace
Neal Wolin, who is leaving the Treasury at the end of August.
Wolin was a key negotiator with Congress on the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul law that was signed into law by Obama in
2010. Regulators are implementing the law and the Treasury is
coordinating that work among agencies including the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Raskin is “a proven leader whose experience and knowledge
will be a tremendous asset,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said in a statement today. “Sarah has a deep understanding of
banking and financial regulatory issues as well as a firm grasp
of how to run large, complex organizations.”  Raskin was Maryland’s top financial regulator from 2007 to
2010. Prior to that, she was a managing director at Promontory
Financial Group, which advises banks. She started at the Fed in
October 2010, filling a term that expires in January 2016.  The role of the deputy Treasury secretary has varied.
 Lawrence Summers , as deputy secretary in the late 1990s, was
instrumental in the U.S. response to the economic crises in Asia
and Latin America, and used the job as a springboard to the
Treasury secretary job.  Fed Openings  Raskin’s departure would leave a second opening on the
Fed’s board. Governor  Elizabeth Duke , who also focused on
regulation, announced July 11 that she would be leaving the
central bank at the end of August.  In addition, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s term ends early
next year. Obama is considering “several candidates,” said
National Economic Council director  Gene Sperling , at a Christian
Science Monitor breakfast in Washington today.  The president has indicated he won’t make an announcement
on a replacement for Bernanke until after August.  Obama defended Summers, a potential candidate for Fed
chairman, in a meeting with congressional Democrats today.  “He took a minute to stand up for  Larry Summers ,” said
Representative  Brad Sherman  of California. Obama told Democrats
he hadn’t made a decision about whom to appoint as Fed chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  