-- Obama Administration Deferred Deportation Suit Thrown Out
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-31T23:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/obama-administration-deferred-deportation-suit-thrown-out.html
Ten U.S. immigration agents lost a
challenge to an Obama administration initiative to defer
deportation of some people who are in the country illegally.  The agents contended that the plan announced in June 2012
was unlawful and placed them in the untenable position of
violating their sworn duty to uphold federal law by complying
with the directive or facing discipline for failing to do so.  U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor in  Dallas  today dismissed
the lawsuit, ruling that federal civil service laws deprive him
of jurisdiction over what the administration maintained was an
employment dispute.  “Congress has determined that this court does not have
jurisdiction over plaintiffs’ disputes,” the judge said. Still,
O’Connor maintained the agents are likely to succeed on the
merits of their claim that the directive is contrary to the
federal Immigration and Nationality Act.  The directive gives agents the ability to defer action on
people unlawfully in the U.S. if they came to the country under
the age of 16, are in school or have obtained a high school
diploma, haven’t been convicted of a felony, significant
misdemeanor or multiple misdemeanors, and aren’t a threat to
public safety or national security.  ‘Deferred Action’  The “Deferred Action” initiative, announced in June, was
created with the intent of shifting immigration agency focus
toward border security and the removal of dangerous people.  “This is not amnesty, this is not immunity,” Obama said
at the time. “This is not a path to citizenship, it’s not a
permanent fix.” Deferral, if conferred, is valid for two years,
during which the person may obtain authorization for employment,
and can be renewed, according to the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement  website . The deferral can be renewed.  The case was filed by attorney  Kris Kobach , who also serves
as Kansas Secretary of State and is a national Republican Party
adviser. Lead plaintiff Christopher L. Crane is president of the
National Immigration and Customs Enforcement Council, a 7,600-member federal immigration agents’ union.  Kobach didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the court’s decision.  While O’Connor concluded after an April hearing that the
Department of  Homeland Security  didn’t have the discretion to
refuse to initiate deportation proceedings, he refrained from
ruling on the agents’ request for injunctive relief, ordering an
additional round of briefing.  The case is Crane v. Napolitano, 3:12-cv-03247, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  