-- OGX Gains to Month High as Ibovespa Weighting Projected to Rise
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-31T16:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ogx-gains-to-month-high-as-ibovespa-weighting-projected-to-rise.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
 Eike Batista ’s flagship oil producer, rose to a one-month high
amid signs that its weighting in the Ibovespa equity benchmark
will more than double as trading volume surges.  Shares rose 3.1 percent to 66 centavos at 1:23 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, extending its eight-session rally to 32 percent. The
stock is down 85 percent this year as the company’s failure to
meet oil output targets sparked concern that it will run out of
cash to fund projects.  OGX’s Ibovespa weighting will rise to 4.82 percent from
1.86 percent starting Sept. 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on trading figures in the past 12 months.
BM&FBovespa will release the first preview of the index
tomorrow.  “Considering that the stock’s weighting on the index will
surge, gains will probably keep going for a while,” Roberto Altenhofen, a Sao Paulo-based oil and gas analyst at consulting
firm Empiricus Research, wrote in a research note. “But I don’t
see any fundamental improvement to recommend buying OGX.”  Batista, who was ranked as the world’s eighth-richest
person last year, ceased to be a billionaire as OGX and his
other commodities and logistics startups slumped. The producer
will have the biggest weighting increase on the Ibovespa,
according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX’s press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
and a phone call seeking comment.  Education company  Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3) 
will probably be added to the equity index with a weighting of
0.63 percent, the data show. After adding the stock, the
Ibovespa will have 72 members, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  