-- Moneysupermarket Slumps on Stalled Sales in July: London Mover
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-31T16:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/moneysupermarket-slumps-on-stalled-sales-in-july-london-mover.html
Moneysupermarket.com Group Plc (MONY) , a
U.K. price-comparison website, fell the most in five years after
revenue growth stalled in July and amid concern about potential
competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The stock fell 15 percent in London, the steepest decline
since July 2008, to 181 pence, valuing the Chester, England-based company at 981 million pounds ($1.49 billion). Trading
volume was more than 12 times the three-month daily average.  Moneysupermarket said revenue in July is “flat” compared
with a “strong” corresponding month last year, when a new
advertising campaign was started. The company plans this year’s
campaign for next month, it said in a statement. First-half
sales rose 10 percent from a year earlier to 112.3 million
pounds.  Slowing insurance revenue growth, following changes by
Google to search algorithms, was compounded by the lack of
specific comment on full-year prospects in the earnings
statement, Steve Liechti, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd.
who recommends clients buy the stock, said in a note.  “First-half figures are fine and marginally above our
forecast, but the financial year outlook comment looks an
issue,” he said. “We intend to tweak numbers down given
second-half uncertainties.”  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 29 percent to 39.9 million pounds. The company
also said today that Paul Doughty will step down as chief
financial officer no later than June 1, 2014.  Google Risk  Investors should also factor in the risk on the stock of
Google vying for market share, which could unravel
Moneysupermarket’s price-to-earnings ratio from 18 to less than
12, David McCann, an analyst at Numis Securities, said in a note
to clients. He has the only sell recommendation on the share
among 12 analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  “It is not so much that we see the Google threat as a
certainty, but more we think there should be more allowance in
the price for the tail risks,” said McCann, who has a price
estimate of 150 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in  London  at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Contiliano at 
 tcontiliano@bloomberg.net  