-- Hong Kong June Bank Loan Growth Is Fastest in 3 Years, HKMA Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-07-31T09:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hong-kong-june-bank-loan-growth-is-fastest-in-3-years-hkma-says.html
Hong Kong   bank loans  grew at the
fastest pace in almost three years last month, stoking concern
at the city’s banking regulator that credit and funding risks
have climbed.  June bank loans expanded 3.3 percent, almost double May’s
1.7 percent growth, according to data posted on the  Hong Kong
Monetary Authority’s  website today. That’s the fastest pace
since a 4.75 percent rate in September 2010.  A cash crunch in China’s interbank lending market last
month, the worst in at least 10 years, tightened fund
availability on the mainland, making Hong Kong more attractive
to borrowers, the HKMA said last week. The wave of lending
prompted the regulator to summon banks for meetings to assess
system risks and determine whether the pace will continue.  “The surge in total loans in June is temporary, as it’s
mainly due to one-time events such as the cash crunch on the
mainland,” Edmond Law, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian (Hong Kong)
Ltd., said by phone today. “As HKMA is being alerted, it’s
likely to monitor banks more closely.”  Hong Kong’s total outstanding loans rose by HK$195 billion
($25 billion) from a month earlier to HK$6.1 trillion in June,
according to today’s statement. Trade financing for use in Hong
Kong increased by HK$58.6 billion, accounting for 30 percent of
the increase in total lending.  China ’s interbank lending rates jumped to a record last
month as the central bank refrained from using open-market
operations to provide funding to the world’s second-largest
economy. The seven-day repurchase rate touched an all-time high
of 12.45 percent on June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  