-- Hong Kong Yuan Deposits Snap Eight-Month Increase on Cash Crunch
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-07-31T10:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hong-kong-yuan-deposits-snap-eight-month-increase-on-cash-crunch.html
Yuan  deposits in Hong Kong fell for
the first time in nine months on concern China’s worst cash
crunch in at least a decade will hurt economic growth.  Savings dropped by 522 million yuan ($85.2 million) to 698
billion yuan in June from a month earlier, the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said in a  statement  today. That’s the first
monthly decline since September 2012. Hong Kong handled 271
billion yuan of trade settled in the Chinese currency last month,
a 15 percent decrease from May, data from HKMA show.  Premier  Li Keqiang  engineered a  stress test  in June to
contain banking risks, leading to a surge in benchmark money-market rates to a record. China said in May it will increase
scrutiny of cross-border capital flows by importers and
exporters to prevent speculative funds from entering the country
disguised as payments for trade.  “The interbank liquidity stress has somehow harmed  market
sentiment ,” said Kelvin Lau, Hong Kong-based senior economist
at  Standard Chartered  Plc. “Expectations on yuan appreciation
have declined with rising concerns over China’s growth. Cross-border trade flows have also become more balanced than before,
meaning less net gains in the yuan pool in Hong Kong.”  Non-deliverable yuan forwards due in a year were heading
for a third monthly decline, the longest stretch since May last
year. China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  for manufacturing was
at 49.8 for July, below the 50 level that divides expansion and
contraction, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey before data due tomorrow.  Recent visits to clients in China reveal deterioration of
confidence and rising expectations of yuan depreciation this
quarter and in years to come, Credit Agricole CIB strategists
Dariusz Kowalczyk and Gary Yau wrote in a research note today.
China’s exports unexpectedly fell 3.1 percent in June, the first
decline since January 2012, the government reported July 10.  Standard Chartered expects Hong Kong’s yuan deposit growth
to slow in the second half as investors continue to scale back
bets on currency appreciation, said Lau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  