-- Hong Kong Stocks Swing Ahead of Fed on China Growth Vow
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-31T02:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hong-kong-stocks-swing-ahead-of-fed-on-china-growth-vow.html
Hong Kong  stocks  swung between gains
and losses after Chinese policy makers pledged to stabilize
growth and as investors awaited the outcome of the Federal
Reserve’s policy meeting.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , the second-biggest mainland
developer traded in Hong Kong, rose 5.8 percent on speculation
the government may ease property curbs. Huaneng Power
International Co. gained 2.1 percent after saying net income
more than doubled. China Life Insurance Co. gained 2.1 percent
on expectations first-half profit may surge. Li & Fung Ltd., a
supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., slumped
1.1 percent.  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.2 percent to 21,997.17 as of
10:42 a.m. in Hong Kong after falling as much as 0.3 percent.
The gauge is poised for a 5.7 percent gain this month, the
biggest since September. About two stocks climbed for each that
declined today on volume 26 percent lower than the 30-day
intraday average. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies gained 0.5 percent to 9,716.52.  “Market sentiment remains cautious ahead of the Fed
meeting,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI Asia
Ltd. Still, China policymakers’ comments on stable growth means
“the central leadership is closely monitoring the situation and
the market believes there will be more policies coming if things
worsen.”  The Hang Seng Index fell 3.1 percent this year through
yesterday, the second-worst performance among developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg, as shares slid on weaker growth in China
and concern the Federal Reserve will taper stimulus. The gauge
yesterday  traded  at 10.5 times estimated earnings, compared with
15.3 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Slower Growth  Materials and energy companies  led  declines this year on
the Hang Seng Composite Index on concern demand will weaken amid
slower growth in  China’s economy . Official data due tomorrow is
expected to show a contraction in mainland manufacturing.  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent today. The U.S.
equity gauge gained less than 0.1 percent yesterday as investors
weighed earnings reports and awaited results from the  Federal
Reserve ’s two-day policy meeting.  Home prices  rose in May by the
most in more than seven years as the recovery in the U.S.
property market gained momentum.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which has said it may
start paring stimulus should the  U.S. economy  meet the central
bank’s forecasts, concludes its two-day meeting today. Policy
makers will begin to reduce the central bank’s $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases in September, a Bloomberg survey shows.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, has fallen 21 percent from a Feb. 1 high through
yesterday, meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear market .
The  measure  traded at 1.17 times the value of net assets
yesterday, 34 percent lower than its five-year average of 1.78.  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  futures increased 0.2 percent to 21,994.
The HSI Volatility Index dropped 2.3 percent to 17.36,
indicating traders expect a swing of 5 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  