-- Toshiba Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates as TV, PC Sales Fall
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-31T06:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/toshiba-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-as-tv-pc-sales-fall.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese maker of
products from flash-memory chips to steam turbines, posted a
profit that missed analysts’ estimates as sales of televisions
and personal computers declined.  Net income totaled 5.3 billion yen ($54 million) in the
three months ended June 30, compared with a loss of 12.1 billion
yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a  statement 
today. That lagged behind the 14.5 billion-yen average of six
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The digital products division widened its loss almost
fivefold, reflecting falling sales of liquid-crystal-display
televisions and weaker demand for PCs as consumers shifted to
smartphones and tablet computers, Toshiba said. Hisao Tanaka,
who became president in June, is reorganizing the unprofitable
TV and PC operations to focus on semiconductors and energy.  “For TVs, the market in  Europe  has worsened, even as the
domestic market is starting to improve,” Makoto Kubo, Toshiba’s
corporate senior executive vice president, said at a briefing in
Tokyo. “The PC market in Europe and  North America  also
slumped.”  Toshiba  declined  3.8 percent to 425 yen in Tokyo trading
before the results. The stock has risen 26 percent this year,
compared with a 31 percent gain for  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  The digital products unit posted a loss of 16.3 billion yen
in the quarter, widening from 3.3 billion yen a year earlier.  Full-Year Outlook  The company kept its forecasts for the year ending March
31. Toshiba projects net income will rise 29 percent to 100
billion yen, and sales will gain 5.2 percent to 6.1 trillion
yen, it said in May. Operating profit, or sales minus the cost
of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses,
may climb 34 percent to 260 billion yen, the company said.  Kubo said the weaker yen also hurt Toshiba’s PC business in
Japan, as that increases the costs of importing components. The
yen fell 13 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the first six
months of the year, the most among 10 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The television  business  lost about 100 billion yen in the
past two fiscal years, hurt by competition from other makers
including Samsung Electronics Co.  As part of efforts to turn the division profitable in the
second half of this financial year, Toshiba plans to reduce
fixed costs and boost the proportion of sales from  emerging
markets  to 40 percent this year, from 30 percent, as demand
declines in Japan and Europe, it said July 26. The company also
said it plans to transfer 400 people out from the digital
products division to another unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  