-- Osram Gains After Raising Forecasts on Cost-Savings Push
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-31T13:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/osram-gains-after-raising-forecasts-on-cost-savings-push.html
Osram Licht AG (OSR)  climbed to the
highest price since it was spun off from  Siemens AG (SIE)  three weeks
ago after the lighting manufacturer raised profit forecasts
because cost-savings targets are being met early.  Osram  rose  as much as 8.9 percent to 29.80 euros in the
steepest intraday gain since the stock’s second trading day on
July 9. The shares were up 5.7 percent at 3:44 p.m. in
Frankfurt, valuing Osram at 3.03 billion euros ($4 billion).  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and one-time
effects will rise 20 percent to 30 percent in the year through
September, Munich-based Osram said today in a statement. That
compares with an earlier forecast of a “low double-digit”
percentage increase. The company expects to report positive net
income, versus a previous prediction of a “significantly
smaller” loss than in fiscal 2012.  “The market may react positively on the back of raised
guidance and good performance on the restructuring/costs savings
front,” Lucie Carrier,  Ben Uglow  and Robert Davies, London-based analysts at Morgan Stanley, said in a note today. The
analysts give the company an equal-weight recommendation, with a
share-price estimate of 28.50 euros.  Adjusted Ebita in the fiscal third quarter ended June 30
rose 27 percent from a year earlier to 95 million euros, Osram
said today. The company is “ahead of schedule” on reducing
spending, Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Dehen  said in the
statement. Osram plans to shut or sell six plants in a drive to
reach 1 billion euros in savings by 2015.  Siemens,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company, separated
from Osram as part of an effort to sell businesses with low
profitability or growth prospects. Osram’s detailed third-quarter earnings report will be published on Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  