-- Tour de France Turns to Women as Rescue From Doping Scandals
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-08-01T10:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/tour-de-france-turns-to-women-on-the-bike-as-rescue-from-scandal.html
The Tour de France, marred by the
doping scandal of seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong , stands to
get a boost from people it once rejected.  Opening the three-week race to women, who haven’t ridden in
the Tour for 24 years, would cast the event in a positive light
and has the potential to increase interest in the $46 billion
cycling industry.  Scarred by the stripping of Armstrong’s titles because of a
drug scandal so pervasive that just one winner between 1995 and
2010 hasn’t been linked to doping at some time in their careers,
the organizers said they’ll consider a women’s race.  “They’ve got the stars now, and there’s certainly a bigger
market because the general interest in the sport has grown
tenfold to where it was in the 80s,” said Phil Liggett, who has
covered the  Tour de France  since 1974 and called this year’s
event for NBC Sports.  Campaigners including Olympic road-race gold medalist
Marianne Vos are pressing organizer Amaury Sport Organisation to
hold a parallel race for women for the first time since 1989.
More than 83,000 have signed a petition that began July 12.  The petitioners are trying to bring cycling in line with
marathon running and triathlon, where both sexes have competed
on the same course since the 1980s. They want to trigger more
recognition and pay, and must win over a male-dominated sport.
Elite women racers earn as little as $15,800 per year, more than
20 times less than the men.  First Champion  A November study of 21 cities worldwide by Cologne,
Germany-based sports marketing researcher Repucom showed that
about 40 percent of cycling fans who expressed a high interest
in the sport were female.  As the first female winner of the Tour in 1984, American
Marianne Martin received $1,000 to share with her team. Last
month, champion Chris Froome split 450,000 euros ($596,000) with
his squad.  Martin, a 55-year-old living in Boulder,  Colorado , was
thrilled to race on the same roads as the men and even paid her
way to  New York  to join her teammates for the trip to  France .  “We pooled all our winnings and divided them,” said
Martin, who now works as a photographer. “My winnings might
have paid for my trip to New York: I didn’t care.”  The American didn’t defend her 1984 title because of
illness, and was retired by the time the women’s event was
dropped five years later. The Tour de France celebrated its
100th anniversary last month, with Froome’s accomplishment being
celebrated with a light show that illuminated the Eiffel Tower.  Stars, Depth  “What I do remember is that fans, especially the French,
were very impressed by the courage and the strength of the
women,” Liggett said. “And now you’ve got both stars and
strength in the depth of women’s cycling.”  ASO officials said last month that they would consider
adding a female version, although not in time for next year.
Organizers may be willing to expand the race as the sport tries
to overcome doping that has plagued the event and resulted in
Armstrong losing his seven titles from 1999 to 2005. Cheating
accusations continue to trickle out, with a French senate
committee report released July 24 naming 1998 Tour winner Marco
Pantani of  Italy  and runner-up Jan Ullrich of  Germany  as having
tested positive for blood-boosting erythropoietin, or EPO.  Ullrich said he has doped. Pantani died in 2004.  Women’s Discontinued  Issy-les-Moulineaux, France-based  ASO , formerly known as
Societe du Tour, held a parallel event for women from 1984 to
1989, although it didn’t prosper, according to Hugh Dauncey,
author of “French Cycling: A Social and Cultural History.” The
1984 race used the same finishes as the men, although stages
were shorter. There were five rest days compared to two for men,
and the women drove to their separate start towns each night.  “They closed the roads for several days for the mountain
stages and we’d have huge crowds,” Martin said.  The women’s Tour didn’t catch on with media or the public
and was discontinued, according to ASO Chairman Jean-Etienne Amaury. He said July 22 that the family-owned organization is
willing to discuss reviving the event, including how to finance
the extra costs.  “We need to work out the right economic model, get the
media on board and discuss with public authorities about closing
the roads,” Amaury said in a telephone interview. “All these
parameters need to be planned.”  The net income of Paris-based ASO, which also manages
sports events including the Dakar rally and Paris marathon,
remained little-changed at about 32 million euros ($38.9
million) between 2006 and 2010, company filings show.  Female Viewers  A women’s race would find a market in the U.S., said  Brad
Adgate , director of research for media-buying agency Horizon
Media Inc. in New York.  “There is a huge appetite for live sports and a lot of
room available for it,” Adgate said in a telephone interview.
“The biggest question about a stand-alone women’s race will be
if it dilutes the men’s Tour de France viewership because that’s
not a huge ratings draw in this country as it is.”  It would be better to hold it simultaneously, he said.  Women accounted for 36.6 percent of the viewers of Comcast
Corp.’s NBC and NBC Sports Network’s live coverage of the 2013
Tour de France, according to Adgate. Most female athletic
events, such as women’s golf and women’s basketball, attract a
larger male television audience than female audience, he said.  60 Races  Pat McQuaid, president of cycling’s ruling body  Union
Cycliste Internationale , said while it’s “an absolute
priority” to develop women’s events, it may be too early to
target the Tour de France.  “I am first and foremost in favor of investing heavily in
grassroots development of women’s cycling which will have a
significant effect on elite cycling down the line,” McQuaid
said in a statement.  Women’s 34 elite teams have 60 races on UCI’s schedule for
this year, while the top 20 men’s teams -- those riding in the
so-called classics in France,  Belgium  and the grand tours -- can
race almost 30 times. Second-tier mens’s pro teams, which number
more than 150, have another round of continental competitions to
develop new riders and interest in the sport.  Former world time-trial champion Emma Pooley, a 5-foot-2
Briton, said a women’s Tour de France running in conjunction
with the men would immediately benefit from the presence of 85
broadcasters and as many as 12 million spectators on the route -
- about one-third of whom are female. If the race was held at
another time, “no one would send a TV crew,” she said.  Long-term Sponsor  Women’s elite cycling struggles to attract television
coverage and sponsorships, forcing many riders to take second
jobs or give up competing, Pooley said. A typical salary is
12,000 euros ($15,800), she added. The average pro salary for
men is  264,000 euros , according to a report by Ernst & Young for
the Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI.  “It’s a constant battle for us to find a team,” Pooley,
30, said by phone from outside Zurich. “I’m full of envy
watching the men’s race.”  Ulrich Lacher, a senior consultant at marketing firm
Repucom, said women’s cycling needs a sponsor willing to invest
over several years to establish a brand that can compete with
the men’s Tour.  “You’re not going to build a success purely building from
a grassroots perspective,” Lacher said. “You need an investor
with a proper strategy, marketing strength and the ability to
set up communication to the target audiences.”  Petition’s Start  Carlos Sastre, the 2008 Tour de France champion, said he
sees no reason that women can’t race on the same course as men.  “It’s a good idea,” Sastre, 38, said by telephone.
“Women should have the same treatment.”  Not all riders may share his view, said Daniel Malbranque,
former general secretary of the professional riders’ union,
Cyclistes Professionnels Associes.  “I don’t know if the French macho types are ready for
this,” Malbranque said.  Kathryn Bertine, a cyclist and filmmaker in Tucson,
 Arizona ,  started the petition  after enlisting support from
Pooley, Vos of the Netherlands and U.K. triathlete Chrissie
Wellington.  “I came from triathlon and was shocked by the discrepancy
between men and women’s cycling,” said Bertine, 38. “Cycling
is stuck in its ways: We are trying to be the tow truck that
gets it out of the quagmire.”  Sharapova Stardom  Javier Guillen and Michele Acquarone, who head up cycling’s
biggest stage races after the Tour, the  Giro d’Italia  and Vuelta
a Espana, said that while they are in favor of having a
simultaneous women’s event, they don’t know if it’s viable.  The Giro’s organizer, RCS Sport SpA, funds television
production costs of 6 million euros with broadcaster RAI that
include hiring helicopters to film the more than 2,000-mile
(3,218 kilometer) race on public roads, Acquarone said. Compared
to soccer and tennis, “cycling is incredibly expensive” to
broadcast, he added.  Giving women more coverage will help to eventually create
sporting icons like tennis player  Maria Sharapova , who in turn
will lure sponsors and TV revenue for race organizers. Her
sponsors include Head NV, Nike Inc., Porsche AG, Danone’s Evian
and  Samsung Electronics Co., (005930)  according to her website.  “First we have to work out the costs and then we can go to
the market,” Acquarone said.  Martin said she was broke when she retired, and took up
photography, a hobby that she shared with her father. Women’s
sports have moved on and athletes expect better pay and better
treatment, she said. More money will attract more women, which
will help bring in sponsors as well, she said.  “First and foremost we would like the chance to take part
in an iconic race like the Tour de France,” said Pooley, who
got as little as 163 euros for winning a four-day race in France
in 2009. “And some day, the prize money will follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  