-- Tourre Trial, MF Global CDS Suit, Insider: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/tourre-trial-mf-global-cds-suit-insider-compliance.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Vice
President Fabrice Tourre, accused of fraud for his role in a
failed $1 billion investment tied to the housing market
collapse, perpetrated a “very simple” scheme aimed at feeding
“Wall Street greed,” a government lawyer told jurors
yesterday.  The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Tourre, 34,
alleging he intentionally misled participants in a 2007 deal
known as Abacus about the role played by  John Paulson ’s hedge
fund, Paulson & Co. The SEC claimed Tourre hid that Paulson
helped choose the portfolio of subprime mortgage-backed
securities underlying Abacus and made a billion-dollar bet it
would fail.  SEC lawyer Matthew Martens said yesterday in his closing
arguments that while collateralized debt obligations are
complicated, “the fraud here was very simple.”  Tourre rested his defense July 29 without calling any
witnesses, shortly after the SEC concluded its case following
two weeks of presenting evidence.  Tourre’s lawyer John “Sean” Coffey told jurors at the
start of his closing argument that Tourre, a French citizen, is
“a remarkable young man” entrusting his case to a U.S. jury.
He said Tourre “knows he did nothing wrong.”  Coffey attacked the government for failing to show that any
claimed misrepresentations by Tourre made a difference to ACA or
to investors in the deal, and argued that ACA knew Paulson
planned to short Abacus and wasn’t misled.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Iosco Recommends Supervisory Group for Global Credit Raters  The International Organization of Securities Commissions
recommended that regulators of credit-rating firms improve how
they share information through the creation of a college to
enhance oversight.  The international policy forum for regulators advocates
that supervisors share information, including how credit graders
comply with local laws, manage conflicts of interest and operate
their methodologies, Madrid-based Iosco  said  yesterday in a
statement on its website. The group’s membership regulates more
than 95 percent of the world’s securities markets.  U.S. lawmakers targeted the credit-grading business with
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act after the collapse of top-ranked
mortgage-backed securities contributed to $2.1 trillion in
losses at the world’s largest banks, leading to the longest
recession since the 1930s.  Philippine SEC Says It May Ease ETF Rules in Case of Demand  Exchange-traded funds are now limited to passively managed
funds, Philippine Securities and Exchange Commissioner Juanita
Cueto said in a speech in Manila.  Cueto said there is room for amending the rule to
accommodate “other ETF types.”  Philippine SEC rules provide more flexibility for ETF
investments, Cueto said. ETFs not subject to maximum or minimum
investment limitations, and the funds also are exempted from the
mandatory tender offer rule, she said.  Compliance Action  Barclays Says Contesting Regulator’s Findings in Qatar Probe  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, said
it’s contesting a regulator’s findings in a probe into fees the
bank paid Qatar during a 2008 fundraising that helped it avoid a
bailout.  The Financial Conduct Authority sent Barclays on June 27
its preliminary findings over the fees and the involvement of
four current and former employees including Finance Director
Chris Lucas, the London-based lender said in a statement
yesterday.  The FCA’s enforcement unit typically gives companies early
notification when it expects to levy fines or other penalties.
The regulator is probing if Barclays properly disclosed fees
paid to the Qatar Investment Authority as part of a 7 billion-pound ($10.7 billion) fundraising during the financial crisis, a
move that helped the lender avoid taking state aid unlike  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  “Barclays expects further developments in the near-term,”
it said in a statement. On a conference call with reporters
yesterday, Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins 
declined to answer any questions on Qatar, citing the
investigation.  CFTC Charges AmeriFirst With Fraud on Precious-Metals Marketing  AmeriFirst Management LLC, based in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida, charged finance and storage fees for loans and metals
that were never delivered to customers, the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said yesterday in a statement on its
website.  AmeriFirst solicited customers to invest in financed
precious-metals transactions, according to the commission. The
company marketed itself as a precious-metals wholesaler and
clearing firm, operating through a network of more than 30
precious metals dealers, the commission said.  Calls to AmeriFirst seeking comment weren’t unanswered.  Lawsky Says New York Boosting Scrutiny of Public Pension Funds  New York regulators are increasing scrutiny of public
pension funds, the head of the state’s Department of Financial
Services said.  Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky , speaking yesterday at an
event sponsored by Crain’s New York Business, said that the
public would shortly “see some of the audits we’ve been
conducting.”  Lawsky said he may propose new regulations on the funds to
increase transparency and accountability after the audits. The
Department of Financial Services oversees New York-based banks
and insurers, as well as public funds that pay benefits to
retirees.  Courts  SAC Capital Probe Yields New Arrest Tied to Insider Trading  The  insider trading  investigation of SAC Capital Advisors
LP has resulted in the arrest of Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst
charged with providing illegal tips to convicted former SAC fund
manager Richard Lee.  Aggarwal, 40, was arrested July 29 by agents with the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation in San Jose, California, as part
of the government’s six-year initiative against insider trading
at  hedge funds , said  Peter Donald , an FBI spokesman in New York.  He’s charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said.
Aggarwal formerly worked at Collins Stewart LLC in  San
Francisco , said a person familiar with the situation, who
requested anonymity because the matter wasn’t public.  Aggarwal provided material nonpublic information about a
strategic partnership in Internet search and advertising between
Microsoft Corp. and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to two different hedge funds,
including SAC, the U.S. alleged in a criminal complaint unsealed
yesterday. Lee pleaded guilty on July 23 to trading on
information provided by a source at Yahoo and is cooperating
with the U.S.  Aggarwal made an initial appearance yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Nandor Vadas in federal court in San Francisco.
He was released on a $500,000 personal recognizance bond and
ordered to appear in federal court in New York on Aug. 2.  “He’s willingly returning to New York,” said Sam
Braverman, a lawyer in New York who’s representing Aggarwal.  Bharara’s office last week indicted Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC on charges of insider trading. As part of his
announcement, prosecutors added Lee to the list of at least
eight former analysts and portfolio managers who have been
charged with insider trading by the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Aggarwal, 13-MAG-1877; the SEC case is
SEC v. Lee, 13-CV-5185; the SAC case is U.S. v. SAC Capital
Advisors LP, 13-00541, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  MF Global Unit Sues 11 Banks Over Credit-Default Swaps Market  MF Global Capital LLC sued  Bank of America Corp .,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and nine other financial companies, claiming they were part
of a plot to unlawfully restrict the market for trading credit-default swaps.  The complaint, filed by a unit of bankrupt MF Global
Holdings Ltd. July 29 in federal court in Chicago, is at least
the fourth such suit accusing swaps dealers of conspiring to
control the market for information about the instruments and
their trading, in violation of federal antitrust laws.  The defendants’ actions forced customers “to pay inflated
bid/ask spreads, which cushion the profits of the defendants
while harming their CDS customers,” according to the complaint.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Damages sustained by the MF Global unit and other members
of a proposed class of individuals and entities that bought or
sold swaps from the defendants since October 2008 are estimated
to be in the tens of billions of dollars, according to the
filing.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said she couldn’t immediately
comment on the allegations. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is MF Global Capital LLC v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
13-cv-05417, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Interviews/Hearings  SEC’s White Says CEO Pay Disclosure Rule Coming Soon  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo
White and Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary
Gensler  spoke about systemic risk in the U.S. financial system
and implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.  They testified before the Senate Banking Committee in
Washington.  White said CEO pay disclosure rules are coming in the next
month or two. She reiterated that completion of JOBS Act rules
and the more than 90 Dodd-Frank rulemakings under SEC
jurisdiction remains her highest priority.  White also told the panel that the SEC is working hard on
the qualified residential mortgage, or QRM, rule and the
expectation is that regulatory action will be taken in “very
near term.”  The SEC is among six federal regulators working on the
rule. The agencies plan in the next few weeks to ask for public
feedback on the QRM regulation mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.  For the video, click here.  SEC Can Win Tourre Case on Negligence, Sporkin Says  Thomas Sporkin, a partner at  BuckleySandler LLP , talked
about the trial of  Fabrice Tourre , the ex-Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. vice president facing civil fraud claims for his role in a
failed $1 billion investment tied to the housing market
collapse.  Sporkin spoke with Sara Eisen and  Erik Schatzker  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 