-- House Passes Bill to Strengthen U.S. Sanctions on Iran
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-08-01T14:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/house-passes-bill-to-strengthen-u-s-sanctions-against-iran.html
The U.S. House passed its most
stringent package of sanctions against  Iran  just four days
before Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani, a cleric described
as a moderate, takes office.  The House yesterday voted 400-20 for a measure that would
subject more goods and services to sanctions, in addition to
authorizing the president to impose penalties on foreign
entities that maintain commercial ties with Iran. The bill, H.R.
850, intends to clamp down on resources that could be used by
the Islamic republic to further its nuclear weapons
capabilities, such as access to foreign-currency markets.  “New president or not, I am convinced that Iran’s Supreme
Leader intends to continue on this path,” Representative Ed Royce, a  California  Republican and chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, said on the House floor, referring to
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei . “That’s unless the sanctions bite so
bad the regime must relent or face upheaval. That’s why this
legislation dramatically steps up the pressure on Tehran.”  Additional sanctions “won’t do a thing to solve the
nuclear issue,” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Araghchi said, according to the state-run Fars news agency. “If
anything, it will make Iran’s resolve in securing its rights
stronger.”  Surprise Win  Rohani begins his term on Aug. 4. During Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s eight years in office, Iran was hit with
intensifying international sanctions over its nuclear program.
President  Barack Obama  has said the U.S. will prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  praised
yesterday’s House vote.  “Following the Iranian elections the  House of
Representatives  has sent a clear message to the Iranian regime
that international pressure will increase until Iran meets its
obligations and ceases its pursuit of a nuclear weapons
capability,” Netanyahu said today in a statement. “We will
judge Iran by its actions alone.”  The Washington-based Institute for Science and
International Security said this week that the Islamic Republic
may achieve the “critical capability” to process low-enriched
uranium into material for a nuclear weapon without detection by
inspectors by mid-2014.  Rohani was elected June 14 in a surprise victory after
pledging to ease Iran’s economic and political isolation.  The timing of the House vote drew objections from some
lawmakers who said that while they support sanctions, Rohani
should be given a chance to improve diplomatic relations.  ‘At Least Curious’  “Why aren’t we at least curious to find out whether or not
President Rohani means that he wants to pursue this course of
peace?” Minnesota Democrat  Keith Ellison  said on the House
floor. “I say let’s accept the olive branch extended by the
Iranian people who selected a more moderate candidate.’ ’  The new sanctions got bipartisan support from the chamber’s
leaders, with Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , and
Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California speaking in favor.  ‘‘Iran is a global menace and this bill empowers the
president to act decisively to address it,” Boehner said.  Iran’s Araghchi said the U.S. may think it can “impact the
political mood initiated with the coming of the new government,
so as to force it to give away additional points.” He said that
“such actions will have an adverse effect.”  The White House hasn’t issued a statement of administration
policy on the legislation. If enacted, the bill would build upon
a December 2011 law that cuts off access to the U.S. banking
system for foreign financial institutions that settle oil trades
with Iran’s central bank, unless their home countries get an
exemption from the sanctions by significantly reducing purchases
of Iranian oil.  The measures have hit Iran’s output. It was the second-biggest producer in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries as recently as June 2012, and has now
dropped to sixth place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  