-- Toyota Seen With Triple GM’s Profit as Abe Boosts Exports
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-08-01T12:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/toyota-seen-with-triple-gm-s-profit-as-abe-boosts-exports.html
While  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lost out to
 General Motors Co. (GM)  in the number of vehicles sold last quarter
for the first time since 2011, it won’t come in second by
profit: Toyota probably earned $3 for every dollar at GM.  The Japanese carmaker may report tomorrow that profit
climbed 52 percent to 441.2 billion yen ($4.5 billion) in the
quarter ended June, according to the  average  of four analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. By comparison, Detroit-based GM
reported last week that net income fell 23 percent to $1.4
billion as European operations continued to post losses.  While Toyota has been losing U.S. market share to  Detroit ’s
resurgent automakers, the profit surge shows how Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s efforts to weaken the yen are benefiting Japanese
exporters by bolstering the value of products sold overseas.
After four years of battling a recall crisis, strong yen and
natural disasters, the maker of the Camry sedan and Prius hybrid
is forecasting its highest annual profit in six years.  “Toyota is doing the right things in not trying to
increase market share, but trying to raise profit margins,”
said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research
Corp. in  Tokyo . “If volumes were sharply down, like 20 to 30
percent, I would worry.”  Toyota shares have outperformed all major automakers by
surging 55 percent in 2013, adding more than $77 billion in
market value, after the yen began declining against other
currencies since late last year. The stock is trading at about
10 times projected profits for next year, the highest multiple
among the world’s five biggest carmakers. Investors have also
become more optimistic on a price-to-sales basis since 2011.  Closing In  Toyota rose 4.2 percent, the most since June 10, to 6,220
yen in Tokyo trading today.  Compared with Toyota’s stock-price peak in 2007, investors
aren’t as enthusiastic about owning the stock, placing less
value on each dollar of revenue as Detroit automakers and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  improve their cars and close in on Toyota’s
quality.  The stock gain since 2011 has coincided with improving
profit margins. Toyota’s net profit margin rose to 4.4 percent
in the fiscal year that ended March 31 from 1.5 percent a year
earlier. It may increase to 6.7 percent in the current fiscal
year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. GM,
Ford Motor Co. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  profit margins may slide this
year before rising again in 2014, according to analysts’
estimates.  Toyota and its subsidiaries sold 2.48 million vehicles
globally last quarter, shy of GM’s 2.49 million, as Japan’s
largest manufacturer saw demand fall at home and competition
intensify in the U.S.  Detroit Revival  In North America, the company is facing revitalized U.S.
automakers that are rolling out the best cars they’ve built in a
generation. Operating profit from the region last quarter
probably reached 117.8 billion yen, little changed from a year
earlier, according to the median in a Bloomberg News survey of
four analysts.  Toyota’s deliveries in the U.S., its biggest overseas
market, rose by 3.7 percent -- less than half the pace of the
industry -- and its market share in the country fell to the
lowest in five quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By comparison, GM’s market share climbed to the
highest in four quarters, while  Ford (F)  saw its share increase to
the highest in six quarters.  GM is transforming its lineup into one of the market’s
newest from one of the oldest as it prepares to bring 18 new or
refreshed vehicles into showrooms this year, including the
redesigned Impala, the first car from a U.S. company to be rated
best sedan by Consumer Reports in at least 20 years. While net
income fell last quarter, profit excluding one-time items beat
analyst estimates.  Favorable Rates  Some Japanese automakers are taking advantage of favorable
exchange rates.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-largest
carmaker, saw U.S. deliveries surge 20 percent last quarter
after cutting prices of seven models in the U.S., including its
top-seller, the Altima sedan.  The yen has weakened 12 percent against the dollar this
year and last week traded at 100 versus the greenback. The
Japanese currency may weaken further to 105 in the fourth
quarter, according to the median of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  That’s helped bolster Toyota’s earnings in  Japan , the
company’s main export base. Earnings from home in the quarter
ended June probably surged 86 percent to 199 billion yen,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Japan Demand  In terms of demand, Japan’s a different story. Deliveries
in the country fell 8.4 percent, extending their decline after
government incentives for fuel-efficient models expired last
year. Japanese vehicle sales have fallen steadily since the
asset bubble burst in 1989, with temporary boosts from
government subsidies.  In Asian markets outside of Japan, Toyota’s operating
income probably fell for a second consecutive quarter as
Japanese carmakers continue to underperform the industry in
China, the world’s largest auto market. Profit from Asia,
excluding Japan, dropped 0.8 percent 100.8 billion yen last
quarter, according to the median analyst estimate.  In  China , where a territorial dispute led to a consumer
backlash that cut demand for Japanese products last year, Toyota
continued to lose market share to GM and VW. Toyota’s deliveries
climbed 0.6 percent last quarter, versus GM’s 12 percent and
VW’s 16 percent, according to figures reported by the companies.  Demand for Japanese products in China, the world’s largest
auto market, is recovering from last year and Toyota is
targeting this year’s deliveries to rise to at least 900,000
units.  In  Europe , where auto demand is slumping to its lowest
level in two decades, Toyota probably generated profit of 5.7
billion yen, or 1 cent in profit for every dollar in sales,
according to the median analyst estimate. Sales of Toyota and
Lexus cars in the region were also little changed, keeping
Toyota’s market share at about 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  