-- Pakistan Unveils Energy Policy to End Blackouts Within 5 Years
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-07-31T13:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/pakistan-unveils-energy-policy-to-end-blackouts-within-5-years.html
Pakistan  plans to cut power
subsidies, increase tariffs for commercial and private consumers
and promote coal generation as it seeks within five years to end
blackouts that are hurting economic growth.  Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  won a general election in May
partly based on his promise to end a record energy crisis which
the Planning Commission estimates sliced 2 percentage points off
expansion in the year to June 2012, shutting factories and
spurring social unrest. At its peak, the shortfall between
demand and supply tops 5,500 megawatts.  “Pakistan has a terribly inefficient power generation and
distribution system,” Power Minister Khawaja Asif told
reporters today in Islamabad. “The new policy will try to fix
these inefficiencies by attracting new investments.”  The policy will end the supply-demand gap within five years
as the country seeks investment to build dams and shifts the
energy mix to cheaper sources of generation, including coal,
Asif said. Consumers using more than 200 units of electricity
per month will face a higher tariff, he said, adding that
businesses will be charged more from August.  The government also plans to reform laws dealing with power
theft, making it a non-bailable offense, and regulate retailers’
business hours to reduce consumption, Asif said. It  paid down
480 billion rupees ($4.7 billion) of so-called circular debt
this month in a bid to increase generation. The debt refers to
money owed to power companies from unpaid bills.  “The government is moving in the right direction,” said
Zoya Ahmed, a Karachi-based analyst with BMA Capital Management.
“The problem of circular debt will pretty much be solved if an
increase in tariff actually takes place.”  IMF Loan  Pakistan this month agreed with the  International Monetary
Fund  on a $5.3 billion loan program as its reserves plunged and
the rupee fell to a record low. The IMF has asked Pakistan to
ensure policy changes, including energy reforms, are under way
when the board considers the program in September to help
convince it the nation is “committed,” Pakistan mission head
 Jeffrey Franks  said on July 4.  Sharif is aiming for 4.4 percent economic expansion in the
fiscal year that started July 1, up from from an estimated 3.6
percent in the 12 months ended June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  