-- Panasonic Profit Surges on One-Time Pension Account Gain
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-08-01T00:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/panasonic-profit-surges-on-one-time-pension-account-gain-1-.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Japan ’s biggest
consumer electronics maker, posted first-quarter profit that
outstripped analyst estimates, boosted by a one-time gain from
changes in pension accounting and cost cuts.  Net income  rose more than eight-fold to 107.8 billion yen
($1.1 billion) in the three months ended June from 12.8 billion
yen a year earlier, the Osaka-based company said after the
market closed in Tokyo yesterday. That beat the 14 billion yen
median of five analysts’ estimates obtained by  Bloomberg News .
The pension gain was 79.8 billion yen.  The maker of Viera televisions is headed for its first
annual profit in three years as President Kazuhiro Tsuga
restructures to end losses in TVs, semiconductors and mobile
phones. It’s “reconsidering” how to sustain the handset unit,
Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai said yesterday.  “The worst is over but it’s way too early to say whether
the key businesses are recovering,” Yoshihiro Nakatani, a  fund
manager  at Asahi Life Asset Management Co. in Tokyo said
yesterday. “Without a recovery in electronics and appliances,
it’s too early to be positive on the company.”  A weaker yen, triggered by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s monetary stimulus, is boosting overseas earnings.
Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, grew 66 percent to 64.2 billion yen in
the quarter. That result, which excludes the pension gain, beat
the 45 billion yen median of nine analyst estimates obtained by
Bloomberg News. Sales rose 0.6 percent to 1.8 trillion yen.  Mobile Business  Panasonic  rose  3.5 percent to 881 yen as of 9:13 a.m. in
 Tokyo  trading, the biggest rise in almost a month. The stock has
gained 69 percent this year, more than double the 32 percent
rise in the benchmark Topix index.  The mobile phone business provides an example of the kind
of problem Tsuga must fix. The unit’s operating loss totaled 5.4
billion yen in the quarter, wider than the 3.7 billion yen loss
of a year earlier.  “We still need more time to decide how to reform the
operation,” and options include expanding into business-use,
CFO Kawai said yesterday. He declined to say whether its options
include ending consumer handset operations.  The company is already working its way through reviewing
other businesses. Last week, it agreed to sell its ultrasound
diagnostic equipment operations to Konica Minolta Inc.  Panasonic is also seeking a sale of its stake in a health-care unit. In June, the electronics maker selected KKR & Co. and
Toshiba Corp. on a shortlist for second-round bids after
receiving offers that valued the division at about 200 billion
yen, people with the knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Segment Earnings  Earnings from the appliances segment of the business,
including refrigerators and air conditioners, fell 39 percent to
12.7 billion yen. Elsewhere, profit at its Eco Solutions unit --
comprising businesses like solar energy operations -- surged to
16.1 billion yen from 3.6 billion yen a year earlier.  Panasonic, the world’s No.4 TV maker in 2012, wasn’t among
the  top five makers  of flat-panel TVs during the March quarter,
according to researcher DisplaySearch.  China ’s  TCL Corp. (000100)  ranked
third, trailing  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   The company also  didn’t rank  among top five in the mobile-phone market during the June quarter, according to IDC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  