-- Pele Says Qatari Summer Heat ‘No Problem’ for Soccer’s World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/pele-says-qatari-summer-heat-poses-no-threat-to-soccer-world-cup.html
Pele, the only person to win three
World Cups, said there will be “no problem” playing the 2022
tournament in  Qatar  during the summer and that the death of an
Eduadorian soccer player in the Gulf state was a freak event.  Christian Benitez, 27, died this week of heart failure a
day after his first game for his new Qatari team, El Jaish. It’s
unclear whether heat played a role in the death of Benitez, who
was hospitalized with chest pains.  Temperatures can reach as high as 50 degrees Celsius (122
degrees Fahrenheit) in the summer in Qatar. On July 29, the date
of Benitez’s first game for El Jaish, the capital of Qatar,
Doha, had a high temperature of 40 degrees, according to the
Weather Channel’s website.  “Of course you can play, no problem,” Pele told reporters
in  New York  yesterday while promoting an endorsement deal with
Subway Restaurants. “This is one case out of a billion.”  Sepp Blatter, president of world soccer governing body
FIFA, will ask the organization’s executive board in October to
move the 2022 World Cup earlier from its June-July schedule to
cooler months. That plan is opposed by European soccer leagues
including  England ’s Premier League, which say it will cause
serious disruption to their seasons.  Pele, who spent most of his playing days with Santos in
 Brazil , said he played in hot conditions throughout his career
without suffering any ill effects.  FIFA medical committee chairman Michel D’Hooghe yesterday
reiterated his desire to bring the event forward.  “I’ve said it since the beginning, before the vote for
Qatar, that if we go to Qatar take care if we play in summer, we
will have problems,” D’Hooghe said in a telephone interview.  ‘Other Components’  While Qatar has pledged to cool stadiums, the rest of the
country will pose problems for players and visitors alike,
according to D’Hooghe, a physician who sits on FIFA’s decision-making board.  “There are other components in a World Cup,” he said.
“There are the 500 people of FIFA working there, there are the
more than 14,000 press representatives and the tens of thousands
of people coming with their teams. And then you will certainly
have problems.  ‘‘I think from a medical point of view, if you are not used
to such temperatures it is not wise,’’ D’Hooghe said. ‘‘You
cannot cover the whole country with air conditioning.’’  World Cup organizers, who have said they are planning for a
summer World Cup, say they are happy to move the tournament if
FIFA makes that decision.  ‘‘I’ve had many people come to Qatar during June and it
wasn’t the horror story people expected, that they would burst
in flames,” Qatar World Cup organizing committee general
secretary Hassan Al Thawadi told a conference in  Rio de Janeiro 
last month. “It’s not Armageddon.”  Qatar defeated bids from the U.S.,  Australia ,  Japan  and
 Korea  following a vote marred by bribery allegations against
several FIFA officials. Qatar, which is smaller in size than the
U.S. state of  Connecticut , has a population of about 2 million -
- less than the number of tickets sold for the last World Cup in
 South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  