-- Peugeot Reports Narrower-Than-Estimated Loss on Cost Cuts
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-31T09:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/peugeot-reports-narrower-than-estimated-loss-on-cost-cuts.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-largest automaker, reported a narrower-than-estimated
first-half operating loss as a tighter rein on costs offset a
decline in deliveries that outpaced the region’s contraction.  The loss was 65 million euros ($86 million) compared with a
deficit of 51 million euros a year earlier, Paris-based Peugeot
said in a statement today. The loss was narrower than the 295.8
million-euro average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares rose to a 15 1/2-month high.  “We see the first signs of the group’s recovery,” Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Varin said in the statement. “We
have to pursue our efforts to consolidate the industrial and
commercial rebound.”  Peugeot is cutting costs after its carmaking unit burned
through 3 billion euros in cash in 2012 as deliveries dropped
amid the fifth consecutive annual contraction in  Europe ’s auto
market. The manufacturer, which is closing a car plant near
Paris, is in talks with banks on options to shore up finances,
including a capital increase and selling assets such as a stake
in the Banque PSA Finance auto-loan arm, people familiar with
the matter said a week ago.  Peugeot  jumped  as much as 10 percent to 9.94 euros, the
highest intraday price since April 2012, and was trading up 7
percent at 11:38 a.m. in Paris. The stock has surged 76 percent
this year, valuing the company at 3.41 billion euros.  Auto Loss  The French company’s reorganization includes reducing its
domestic workforce by 17 percent and seeking more customers with
new models such as the Peugeot 2008 crossover, 208 hatchback and
Citroen DS vehicle line.  The new cars exceeded targets, helping narrow the loss at
the automaking unit to 510 million euros from 657 million euros
a year earlier, the company said. A further boost is expected
from the Peugeot 308 compact and Citroen C4 Picasso minivan in
the second half of the year.  “The loss in the automotive division is lower than
expected, while  cash flow  was higher,” said Sascha Gommel, an
analyst with Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The company is well
on track to reach its guidance.”  Currency Effects  First-half revenue was reduced 2.3 percent by foreign-exchange effects, particularly the performance of the
Argentinian peso, Brazilian real and British pound against the
euro, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said
today at a Paris press conference. Disruptions from labor
protests at the car plant in Aulnay that Peugeot is shutting
cost the company 100 million euros in the period, the CFO told
analysts on a conference call.  Peugeot reiterated a target today of cutting cash
consumption by at least 50 percent in 2013. The manufacturer is
planning on a “very significant reduction” in cash burn
throughout 2014, Peugeot said, without repeating an earlier goal
of breaking even on that basis next year.  Cash flow in the first half was a positive 203 million
euros, excluding 254 million euros in restructuring costs and
other one-time expenses. Net debt at the end of June totaled
3.32 billion euros, an increase of 173 million euros from the
end of 2012.  To cut costs, the manufacturer set up a partnership in 2012
with Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  to develop vehicles and
buy parts together. The alliance has started its first joint
purchasing negotiations, Peugeot said today.  Market Forecast  The company forecast that Europe’s car market, on track for
a sixth straight annual decline, will shrink by about 5 percent
this year. It had previously predicted industrywide demand in
the region to fall by 3 percent to 5 percent.  First-half European auto registrations fell 6.7 percent
from a year earlier to 6.44 million vehicles, according to the
Brussels-based  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association .
Peugeot’s sales in the region fell 13 percent during the period
to 855,000 vehicles, the company said on July 8. Weak deliveries
in Europe led to 3.8 percent drop in revenue in the first half
to 27.7 billion euros.  Peugeot has received financial backing including a 7
billion-euro French state guarantee of new bonds issued by
Banque PSA Finance as well as an 11.5 billion-euro refinancing
agreement for the unit with a pool of about 20 banks.  EU Clearance  European Union regulators cleared the government guarantee
yesterday on condition that Peugeot take steps to limit net debt
and accept restrictions on large acquisitions. The bank unit
also pledged not to reduce the spread currently applied to
wholesale financing for Peugeot and Citroen dealers. The
commitments will remain in effect until the end of 2015.  Peugeot allocated a board seat to the French state and to a
labor representative in return for the guarantee.  Operating profit at Banque PSA Finance dropped 24 percent
to 205 million euros. Earnings at the Faurecia car-parts
division, which reported first-half figures on July 25, fell 16
percent to 256 million euros.  Peugeot owns a 57 percent stake in Nanterre, France-based
Faurecia, Europe’s largest maker of car interiors. The
automaker, which has sold some businesses as part of its
reorganization, will continue “accompanying” Faurecia, de
Chatillon said today. The CFO said in February that Peugeot’s
holding in the component producer isn’t for sale.  The automaker is in talks with unions about improving
productivity at factories, seeking a program along the lines of
French competitor  Renault SA (RNO) ’s agreement with workers in March.
Peugeot, which is eliminating 11,200 jobs by 2015, has said it
may need more restructuring if the European car market continues
to slide. Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn  predicted in early July that
industrywide sales in the region will shrink further through
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  