-- Platts Says Commodity-Price Transparency at Risk From Regulation
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-07-31T15:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/platts-says-commodity-price-transparency-at-risk-from-regulation.html
Increased regulation of methods used
to establish commodities prices could backfire by reducing
transparency as market participants may stop giving information,
according to Platts, a price publisher.  “Commodity-price discovery depends on the voluntary
participation of traders, producers and other market players,”
the unit of  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Regulation could have the inadvertent
consequence of inhibiting participation in the price-assessment
process which would, in turn, decrease transparency, thus having
the opposite effect of regulators’ intentions.”  European antitrust authorities raided Platts’ offices,
along with those of Statoil ASA,  BP Plc (BP/)  and Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, in May as part of an investigation into alleged
manipulation of oil prices. Regulatory probes are expanding
after banks rigged the London interbank offered rate, a
benchmark for $300 trillion of global interest-rate contracts.  Platts publishes prices for commodities from oil to metals.
Two companies are no longer taking part in its assessments for
metals, Joe Innace, editorial director for metals in New York,
said yesterday.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions, a
Madrid-based group representing regulators from more than 100
countries, set tougher guidelines July 17 for publishing
benchmarks for everything from raw materials to equities. One
goal is that prices should be based on “observable” deals.  Delivery Ports  For crude oil and refined fuels, Platts publishes the names
of companies buying and selling, the products they are dealing,
prices, delivery ports and other transaction information. Those
details aren’t revealed for other commodities, Platts said.  “The degree of data transparency may differ, but rigorous
verification techniques combined with the application of clear
and transparent methodologies will readily yield assessments
that reflect true market value,” Platts said in the statement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
companies including Platts in providing commodity prices and
news.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  