-- Potash Group Surviving Demise of Russian Competitor
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-07-31T20:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/potash-group-surviving-demise-of-russian-rival-corporate-canada.html
The breakup of a Russian-led potash
marketing venture won’t end the export partnership managed by
North America’s three largest producers of the crop nutrient.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,  Mosaic (MOS)  Co. and  Agrium
Inc. (AGU) , which together account for about 38 percent of global
potash capacity, are poised to continue managing supply to
bolster prices.  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the biggest producer, yesterday
ended its marketing venture with Belarus and projected it will
boost output next year by 24 percent, which may lower prices.  Canpotex, which becomes the largest potash marketing group
following the demise of its Russian-led counterpart, “will
continue to do what it does,” Mosaic Chief Financial Officer
Larry Stranghoener said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“It’s an organization of great value to its member
organizations and to our customers.”  Shares of Potash Corp., Mosaic and Agrium fell for a second
day. They plunged as much as 26 percent yesterday after Uralkali
said it would exit the export marketing group Belarusian Potash
Co. and increase output to full capacity. While Uralkali may
grab market share, North American producers will probably
maintain Canpotex because it’s less expensive for them to handle
exports together, said  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at
BGC Partners LP.  “Canpotex is really all about logistics,” Gulley said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s all about economies
of scale to get the product from the Saskatchewan mines to a
port and to destinations.”  Supply Wave  Uralkali’s move to stop cooperating with Belaruskali and
increase annual production to 13 million tons next year from
10.5 million may reduce prices to less than $300 a ton,
according to Uralkali Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner. That would be at least 25 percent below the latest
contract price for China and the lowest since January 2010.  Canpotex’s three owners’ potash production capacity
accounts for about 38 percent globally, according to data
compiled by Barclays Plc. The bank estimates capacity is about
66.4 million metric tons.  Canpotex negotiates fixed-term supply contracts with
customers outside of  North America  on behalf of its members, and
also handles export logistics. That means the potash companies
don’t compete with each other overseas.  Leah Laxdal, a Canpotex spokeswoman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  ‘Long-Term View’  Potash isn’t traded on public exchanges. Prices for  potash
for delivery at Vancouver ’s port have fallen to $410 a ton, 19
percent less than a year earlier, according to data from Green
Markets, a fertilizer-industry information provider that is a
unit of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News . The average
retail potash price in 11 U.S. states has  fallen  12 percent in
the past year to $608.33, according to Green Markets.  Potash producers in  Canada  and the former  Soviet Union 
accounted for 56 percent of world supply last year, according to
 Green Markets .  “It’s important to take a long-term view of the business
and not overreact to today’s events,”  Bill Johnson , a Potash
Corp. spokesman, said yesterday by phone from Saskatoon, where
the company is based. “We will continue to keep an eye on the
situation and work with our customers in the interim.”  Ratings Cut  Potash Corp., which got 41 percent of its  revenue  last year
from potash, dropped 17 percent yesterday in  New York , the most
since October 2008, as analysts cut ratings, target prices and
earnings estimates. Peter Prattas, a Toronto-based analyst at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, lowered his rating to hold and reduced his
per-share earnings estimate by 6.3 percent for 2013 and 13
percent for 2014.  Potash Corp. fell 8.3 percent to $29 today at the close in
New York.  Agrium plans to continue with its “normal course of
operations,” Richard Downey, a company spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  “Comments made by Russian producers have clearly created
uncertainty in the potash market,” Downey said. “It is
important not to overreact to a single statement from one player
in the industry.”  Agrium, which is based in Calgary, fell 1.7 percent to $85
at the close in New York. Mosaic, based in Plymouth,  Minnesota ,
declined 6.2 percent to $41.09.  “We believe potash earnings estimates will move materially
lower,” Joel Jackson, a Toronto-based analyst at Bank of
Montreal, said in a note. “We expect a major exit by investors
out of potash producers.”  Meaningful Influence?  The members of Canpotex must decide whether a strategy of
controlling supply to bolster prices can still be effective
without BPC doing the same thing, said John Chu, a Toronto-based
analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc.  “Do they try to shut down more production in response to
Uralkali increasing production? Possibly,” he said by phone
yesterday. “The question becomes whether Canpotex, which
represents 25 percent of the export trade market,” can have a
meaningful influence on prices.  North American producers will probably reduce potash
exports, given their past approach to supply management,  Raymond Goldie , a Toronto-based analyst at Salman Partners Inc., said in
a note yesterday. There’s also doubt that Uralkali can increase
its production to the promised 13 million tons, Goldie said.  Even if existing mine output isn’t curtailed, Uralkali’s
move makes it less likely that expansions and new mines, such as
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Jansen project in Canada, will go ahead,
Prattas said.  Lower Prices  A spokeswoman for BHP declined to comment yesterday.  “The potash industry was largely ruled by the strength of
that duopoly, being Canpotex and BPC,” Prattas said. “If
there’s a crack in that duopoly then it threatens the whole
playbook that the potash producers have.”  Potash Corp. last week cut its full-year earnings  forecast 
after a drop in prices for its namesake crop nutrient.  Prices for potash, a crop nutrient that helps strengthen
plant roots and improve resistance to drought, are down because
of plentiful producer inventories and historically low import
volumes in  India . The company said it sold potash for an average
price of $356 a metric ton in the second quarter, compared with
$433 a year earlier.  The U.S. is the biggest importer of potash, about 90
percent of which comes from Canada, according to Neil Fleishman,
a potash-industry analyst at Green Markets. The U.S.,  Brazil  and
 China  account for about 60 percent of global potash imports, he
said.  Potash Corp., Agrium and Mosaic still have a geographic
advantage in North America, Goldie said.  “The interior of North America is protected against the
incursion of Russian and Belarusian potash by transportation
costs which, for potash, are high relative to the value of the
product,” Goldie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  