-- Potash’s $20 Billion Market Transformed by Uralkali
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-08-01T14:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/potash-s-20-billion-market-transformed-by-uralkali.html
(Corrects year that BPC was founded in seventh paragraph
of story published yesterday. To get alerts for commodities
columns: SALT CMMKT)  For the first time in eight years,
the $20 billion global market for the crop nutrient potash is
set to become freely traded.  In a surprise announcement yesterday,  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the
biggest supplier of the commodity, said it decided to end
production restrictions that underpinned global prices and
suspend a venture with a Belarusian miner that controlled
exports from the former  Soviet Union .  Shares of Uralkali and its biggest competitors -- Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  and  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) 
-- fell for a second day. They tumbled as much as 24 percent
yesterday as investors anticipated supply overwhelming demand.  The venture that Uralkali is abandoning is one of two that
until now have controlled most of the world’s supply by
negotiating fixed-term supply contracts on behalf of their
members. That means the potash companies don’t compete with each
other individually in export markets, helping them to match
production with demand.  The change may drive down prices as much as 33 percent,
according to Elena Sakhnova, a VTB Capital analyst in Moscow.
Lower fertilizer costs promise to cut farmers’ expenses and spur
demand from  India  to  China . That in turn may increase the size
of crops from corn to soybeans and lower food prices around the
world.  ‘Game-Changing’  “This effectively brings about a transformation of the
entire potash industry, shifting it away from what has been a de
facto duopoly,” Matthew Korn, an analyst at Barclays Plc in New
York, said in a note. “This is one of the few occasions of a
market truly undergoing a sudden game-changing event, with
impacts that cannot be overstated.”  Uralkali will no longer sell potash through Belarusian
Potash Co., the Minsk-based  marketing company  it established in
2005 with rival miner Belaruskali. Until yesterday, BPC
controlled about 40 percent of global potash exports.  The other group dominating the market is Canpotex Ltd.,
which since 1972 has exported potash for Canada’s Potash Corp.
and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic. Leah Laxdal, a Canpotex spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment,  Potash Corp., Uralkali and other producers have faced a
lawsuit in the U.S. court in  Chicago  from purchasers claiming
the companies violated the federal Foreign Trade Antitrust
Improvement Act, which can be used to extend the reach of
American antitrust laws to foreign anticompetitive conduct that
affects U.S. imports.  Lowest Cost  U.S. District Judge Ruben Castillo on June 6 granted final
approval to a $10 million settlement between the suing direct
purchasers and producers Uralkali and Silvinit. Six days later,
he approved a separate $17.5 million pact with defendants
Agrium, Mosaic and Potash Corp.  Uralkali said yesterday in a  statement  it broke with BPC
after the Belarus government canceled the group’s exclusive
right to export the nation’s potash.  The decision also came after record crop prices last year
failed to translate into higher fertilizer prices, Chief
Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said. Too much capacity
was added in recent years and rivals started behaving
“aggressively” in competing for more market share, he said.  “Uralkali is most favorably positioned being the lowest-cost producer,” Baumgertner said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions. “High capacity utilization will result
in economy of scales and enable us to increase our share in all
key markets.”  Belarus Feud  Uralkali stock was today cut to sell by analysts at HSBC
Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays and to hold at
Citigroup Inc. Potash Corp. was cut to hold by analysts at  BGC
Partners Inc. (BGCP) , Macquarie Group Ltd. and UBS AG.  The Russian company was concerned that Belaruskali, which
had started selling independently to China, would try to win a
bigger share of the Chinese potash market, VTB’s Sakhnova said.  “We’ve been aware that there’s been a feud of sorts under
way between Uralkali and Belaruskali,” Mosaic Chief Financial
Officer Larry Stranghoener said yesterday in a phone interview.
“We didn’t know it would escalate to this level.”  Russia  is likely to put pressure on Belarus President
 Aleksandr Lukashenko  to repair the situation, said  Raymond Goldie , an analyst at Salman Partners Inc. in Toronto. Filipp
Gritskov, a BPC spokesman, and Olga Dolgaya, a spokeswoman for
the government of Belarus, declined to comment.  Mining Costs  Baumgertner said that from August, Uralkali will use all of
its 13 million metric tons of production capacity. The company
sold 9.4 million tons of potash last year. Global sales were 51
million tons in 2012, according to the company.  A few potash supply contracts that set global benchmark
prices are typically settled each year. The last accord BPC
signed, for sales into China, was agreed at $400 a ton. That’s
one of three price agreements whose terms were published in
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices may now
fall as low as $270, VTB’s Sakhnova said yesterday by phone.  For Paul Jeschke, who farms soybeans and corn on 4,000
acres (1,619 hectares) in Mazon,  Illinois , such a reduction
would be welcome as grain prices decline while supply recovers
from last year’s drought. A $100-a-ton drop would cut farming
costs by as much as $10 an acre, he said yesterday by phone.  “We need to begin to see input costs decrease if we are
going to remain profitable,” Jeschke said.  Marginal Mines  For some potash miners, the concern is that prices may fall
close to, or less than, the marginal cost of production.
Uralkali has costs of $62 a ton, compared with more than $100
for North American miners and almost $240 in Europe, according
to the company’s July presentation.  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s biggest producer, dropped 8 percent in
 Frankfurt . It slumped 24 percent yesterday, the most in 14
years. Israel Chemicals fell 4 percent in  Tel Aviv  today; Potash
Corp. declined 4.3 percent in New York; Mosaic slid 5.3 percent;
Agrium fell 2.1 percent; and Uralkali dropped 5 percent in
Moscow.  Sinofert Holdings Ltd. (297) , a Chinese distributor 22 percent
owned by Potash Corp., fell 7.6 percent in  Hong Kong  today, the
lowest in a year. Sinofert is one of the two potash distributors
for BPC in China, according to Citigroup.  Mosaic’s Stranghoener said his company doesn’t plan any
specific actions in response to Uralkali’s announcement. Potash
Corp. and Agrium said in separate statements there shouldn’t be
an overreaction to the move.  ‘Price War’  “It is not the first time that Russian producers have had
disagreements,” Calgary-based Agrium said.  Uralkali’s decision to start a potash “price war” could
be a “game-changer” for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s proposed Jansen
mine in Canada, Heath Jansen, an analyst at Citigroup in London,
said yesterday in a note. A BHP spokeswoman declined to comment
on Jansen, which is projected to cost as much as $15 billion to
build.  Uralkali itself will delay its Polovodovskoye mine project,
Baumgertner said. K+S’s Legacy project in Saskatchewan looks
“increasingly unviable,” Sophie Jourdier, a Liberum Capital
Ltd. analyst in London, said in a note.  “Uralkali’s decision will affect every potash producer on
the globe and will completely change the market,” VTB’s
Sakhnova said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  