-- Pound Drops to 4-Month Low Versus Euro Before BOE; Gilts Decline
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-31T15:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/pound-reaches-4-month-low-versus-euro-as-shop-price-index-falls.html
The pound depreciated to the weakest
level since March against the euro as a gauge of U.K. shop
prices fell for the third month and before the Bank of England’s
latest policy decision.  Sterling slid for a fourth day versus the dollar as
investors awaited the central bank announcement tomorrow, the
second under new Governor Mark Carney. The Bank of England will
release its quarterly Inflation Report next week in which it
will include deliberations on adding future guidance on interest
rates to policy tools. The pound dropped for a seventh day
versus the European common currency, the longest losing streak
since January. Gilts fell for the first time in five days.  “Sterling is extremely vulnerable in this environment,”
said Ian Stannard, head of European currency strategy at Morgan
Stanley in  London . “It has not generated independent support
from positive data surprises. There is scope for the Bank of
England to flatten rate expectations with guidance and given
that sterling is one of the most sensitive currencies to changes
in rate expectations we expect it to come under pressure.”  The pound declined 0.5 percent to 87.45 pence per euro at
4:23 p.m. London time after touching 87.61, the weakest since
March 12. It posted a 2.3 percent drop this month, the most
since January. The U.K. currency slid 0.4 percent to $1.5181.
The four-day losing streak is the longest since June 28.  The British Retail Consortium-Nielsen Co. Shop Price Index
fell 0.5 percent in July from a 0.2 percent drop the previous
month.  Interest Rate  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will keep its
bond-purchase program at 375 billion pounds, according to all
but one of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Officials
will also hold the benchmark interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent, a separate survey showed.  The European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve will also
announce policy decisions this week.  Sterling has weakened 1.6 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro strengthened 0.8
percent and the dollar declined 1.4 percent.  The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.36 percent. The price of the 1.75
percent bond due September 2022 fell 0.32, or 3.20 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 95.07.  Carney Reputation  U.K. government bonds have returned 0.8 percent since
Carney took over as governor of the central bank at the start of
July, outperforming their German and U.S. counterparts. Holders
of Britain’s 10-year securities are demanding the lowest yield
relative to similar-maturity Treasuries in seven years and the
yield spread to bunds narrowed for the first month since April.  “Carney comes with a very strong reputation, much stronger
than the ECB’s,” Georgios Tsapouris, a London-based investment
strategist at Coutts & Co., which oversees $47 billion, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “If Carney says something, it’s
a much more credible signal than if the ECB says something,
because he’s practiced forward guidance before at the Bank of
 Canada . We’re more likely to see Carney going into more concrete
intermediate targets.”  Returns this month pared gilts’ declines to 2.8 percent
this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. German bunds lost 1.3 percent and U.S. Treasuries
declined 2.6 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  