-- Proton-Beam Cancer Sites to Get $380 Million From U.K.
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-07-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/proton-beam-cancer-sites-to-get-380-million-from-u-k-.html
The U.K. government set aside 250
million pounds ($380 million) to build two proton-beam cancer
therapy centers as it seeks to catch up with the U.S. and other
countries in Europe that already offer the treatment.  The new centers will be located in London and Manchester
and will serve about 1,500 patients beginning in 2018, Public Health Minister Anna Soubry said in a statement today.  The U.K.’s state-run health system has been sending about
100 patients a year to the U.S. for the radiotherapy, which is
used to treat hard-to-reach cancers. The  National Health Service 
estimates it can cut treatment costs in half by building its own
centers.  “By investing in proton-beam therapy facilities, we will
be able to treat more patients in the U.K. and reduce the stress
placed on families who have had to travel to the  United States 
to receive this innovative treatment,” Soubry said in the
statement.  The device relies on huge particle accelerators, which use
magnetic fields to increase the energy in protons. It then
shoots a concentrated beam of protons at a tumor to damage the
DNA in its cells so they can’t reproduce. Proton therapy spares
more of the surrounding tissue and reduces side effects in
patients, including later development of secondary cancers
associated with existing  radiation exposure , proponents say.  Reducing Risks  “Compared to standard radiotherapy options, proton-beam
therapy offers the opportunity to reduce the risks of potential
side effects such as growth deformity, loss of hearing and
lowered IQ, which is a particular consideration when treating
children and young people,” Adrian Crellin, the NHS clinical
leader for proton therapy, said in the statement.  The U.S. has 11 high-energy proton beam therapy centers and
Europe has 12, according to the website of the  Particle Therapy
Co-Operative Group , an industry body. The biggest builder of
proton therapy centers is  Ion Beam Applications SA (IBAB)  of Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium. Its competitors include Mevion Medical
Systems Inc. of  Boston ;  Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR)  of  Palo
Alto , California; and  Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. (6302)  and  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  of Japan.  The NHS is facing financial pressure. After its annual
budget more than doubled to about 100 billion pounds over a
decade, the government decided that amount wouldn’t increase
much beyond inflation before 2014-2015 and it would have to  save 
as much as 20 billion pounds, NHS Chief Executive Officer  David Nicholson  has said.  Limited Evidence  Evidence for proton therapy’s benefit is limited, except in
pediatric brain and spinal tumors, where research has shown it
reduces damage such as cognitive decline and deafness. Much of
the debate about proton therapy hinges on whether it is used in
a few, rare forms of cancer such as those in the brain or spine
for which there is better evidence, or more widely in commonly
occurring cancers in the prostate or lung that some doctors
consider inappropriate.  Three private companies are considering building proton-beam therapy centers in the U.K. and have said they would accept
NHS patients if the government chose to partner with them.  Advanced Proton Solutions has planning permission to build
a center in London’s financial district and has until September
2014 to break ground. Its publicly traded partner in the
venture,  Advanced Oncotherapy Plc (AVO) , which owns about 29 percent
of APS, has also agreed to develop proton-therapy centers in
Birmingham, Manchester and Scotland with BMI Healthcare Ltd., a
private-hospital operator owned by Apax Partners LLP and  Netcare
Ltd. (NTC)  Feroz Agad, an Atlanta-based financier who controls SAH
Global, plans to build a center in the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  