-- Queen’s Nuclear-War Message Drafted in 1983 U.K. Exercise
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/queen-s-nuclear-war-message-drafted-in-1983-u-k-exercise.html
British government files from 1983,
opened to the public for the first time today, include an
official’s view of the message  Queen Elizabeth II  would have
broadcast to the nation in the event of World War III.  The speech was drafted as part of a war-games exercise
codenamed Wintex-Cimex, in which officials in NATO countries
acted out responses to an attack by Soviet-led forces. In 1983,
they ended the simulated conflict by launching a limited nuclear
strike on the enemy.  “I have never forgotten the sorrow and the pride I felt as
my sister and I huddled around the nursery wireless set
listening to my father’s inspiring words on that fateful day in
1939” when World War II was declared, the scenario had the
queen telling her subjects at noon on Friday March 4, 1983.
“Not for a single moment did I imagine that this solemn and
awful duty would one day fall to me.”  Elsewhere, the files, published by the  National Archives  in
London, show a period of tension in the normally close
relationship between  Margaret Thatcher  and  Ronald Reagan . The
cause was a U.S. invasion of  Grenada , a Commonwealth country and
former British colony, hours after Foreign Secretary Geoffrey Howe told Parliament there was no reason to expect such a move.  According to a memo from one of her aides, when the
president called the prime minister to apologize for
embarrassing her, he said that if he were visiting in person
“he would throw his hat in the door first,” a reference to his
past as a cowboy actor.  Beirut Bombing  While Thatcher told her Cabinet that “Britain’s friendship
with the U.S. must on no account be jeopardized,” the two
leaders would shortly clash again, over possible U.S.
retaliation for the bombing of a barracks in  Beirut  that killed
241 American servicemen.  Three weeks after the attack, Reagan sent Thatcher a
message outlining his proposed response. While that document
remains classified, it was sufficiently concerning for the prime
minister to convene an immediate meeting to discuss how best to
change the president’s mind.  An official recorded the British anxiety: “The U.S. spoke
of carrying out a surgical operation but one could not depend on
any action being sufficiently surgical.”  American military action in 1980 to rescue those held at
the U.S. embassy in Tehran had ended in failure.  In the first draft of Thatcher’s response to Reagan, she
described herself as “frankly apprehensive.”  ‘Lonely Position’  “Dear Ron,” she wrote in the message she finally sent.
“You face a very difficult decision, and I can well understand
all the pressure upon you to take action. In such circumstances,
leaders find themselves in a lonely position, and I want to let
you have my frank views as someone who has been in a similar
situation. The decision must be yours.” Thatcher had gone to
war the previous year after Argentine forces invaded the
Falkland Islands.  It took five days, and another note from Thatcher, before
Reagan cabled back. “I have decided not to take any military
actions at this time,” he said. “I want you to know how much I
appreciate your frank views on this very difficult matter.”  The threat of nuclear war, deliberate or accidental, hangs
over the files. With the U.S. preparing to site cruise missiles
at its Greenham Common base in southern  England , Thatcher was
urged to press for a “dual-key” system, under which a British
officer would have to consent before a weapon could be launched.  In the course of investigating the option, the government
learned that the only time there had been such a system, on Thor
missiles in the early 1960s, a Royal Air Force technician had
discovered that the British key also turned the American lock.  ‘More Safely’  Still, Defence Secretary John Nott told Thatcher he was
worried about the level of opposition to siting cruise missiles
in the U.K. and that he’d “sleep more safely” if he knew there
was a dual-key system.  Thatcher rejected the idea, on the grounds that it would
imply distrust of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization ally, and
replaced Nott. The files show her dismissing as “an
eccentricity” the women protesters at Greenham Common, who
would stay outside the base in Berkshire until the missiles were
removed in 1991.  The queen’s speech in the Wintex-Cimex exercise has the
monarch urging families to remain united in the face of war and
to give assistance to those in need.  “Help those who cannot help themselves, give comfort to
the lonely and the homeless and let your family become the focus
of hope and life to those who need it,” the message read. “As
we strive together to fight off the new evil let us pray for our
country and men of goodwill wherever they may be.”  Chemical Attacks  The war-games file shows the level of imagination the
officials running the exercise put into every aspect. A daily
media briefing listed stories run by all the newspapers during
the 15-day drill. As Orange forces -- the codename for the
Soviets -- launched chemical attacks, the  Daily Mail  was asking
why the government hadn’t issued biological-warfare suits to
every citizen.  There was even a line about 1983’s royal baby. The
officials had the Sun newspaper reporting that the royal family
had fled to  Scotland  and running a picture of  Prince William ,
then eight months old, with his father. “Keep him safe Charlie:
We shall be needing him,” was the headline.  That media briefing closed by reporting that it would be
the last one, because the country had run out of paper on which
to print news. “Morituri te salutamus,” the authors signed off
-- Latin for “We who are about to die salute you.”  Limited Strikes  Later that day, the officials playing the war game ended it
by launching limited nuclear strikes against the Warsaw Pact
forces, which led to a request for unconditional peace talks.  The files also feature an early appearance from  William Hague , who would go on to lead the  Conservative Party  from 1997
to 2001 and is now foreign secretary. Then he was a 21-year-old
applying for a job as a special adviser at the Treasury. He had
first come to national prominence speaking to the 1977 Tory
conference as a schoolboy warning of the approach of socialism
in the U.K.  While the chancellor of the exchequer wanted to hire Hague,
Thatcher blocked the move. “No -- this is a gimmick and would
be deeply resented by many who have financial and economic
experience,” she scrawled on the chancellor’s letter.  Hague’s office said this week that “the foreign
secretary’s view was that ‘Mrs. Thatcher was, as usual,
right.”’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  