-- Rajoy Rejects Early Vote as Opposition Calls Him Liar
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-08-01T12:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/rajoy-bets-spain-s-recovery-may-limit-damage-from-graft-reports.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ,
derided as a liar by the opposition leader, rebuffed calls that
he resign as he confronted corruption allegations in Parliament.  Rajoy denied any wrongdoing and said opposition leader
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba was jeopardizing  Spain ’s financial
stability by slamming the government over reports the governing
 People’s Party  operated a slush fund for senior officials.  “I made a mistake in continuing to trust someone who we
now know didn’t merit that,” Rajoy told the Spanish parliament
during an extraordinary debate in Madrid today. “I trusted him
and I supported him. That has been the sum total of my role.”  Former party treasurer Luis Barcenas told the National
Court last month that he helped manage a secret fund for 20
years. He named Rajoy among the officials who received payments
and gave the court handwritten ledgers. The scandal has helped
wipe out Rajoy’s lead in opinion polls and cast doubt over the
government’s ability to see through its economic reform program.  “I won’t resign from the responsibility that a large
majority of the Spanish people handed to me at the last
election,” Rajoy told Rubalcaba. “The poverty of your
arguments and the strength of my case is such that I haven’t
even considered the possibility.”  Rajoy told Parliament that he declared all payments he
received to the tax authorities.  Barcenas told the court he visited Rajoy’s office at the
PP’s  Madrid  headquarters in March 2010 and gave the party chief
25,000 euros ($33,100) in cash, a transcript shows. Barcenas
said he also gave the premier payments between 1997 and 1999.  ‘You Lied’  “You lied,” Rubalcaba said today of the Spanish premier.  “You are politically corrupt,” said Catalan lawmaker Joan
Coscubiela.  Rosa Diez, leader of the Union for Progress & Democracy,
told Rajoy that his speech “was shameful.”  PP officials received bonus payments for accepting certain
posts and were advanced money by the party to cover expenses,
Rajoy said. He said all payments were included in the party’s
official accounts supplied to the national audit office and that
it was down to the individuals involved to ensure that extra
payments were declared to the tax authorities.  The scandal has resonated as Spain, which won an
international bailout of about 41 billion euros for its banks in
June 2012, remains mired in recession and burdened with a
jobless rate of more than 26 percent.  Recovery Bet  Rajoy is betting that a recovering economy will boost his
popularity before an election due in 2015 while helping him to
ride out the corruption storm. After 19 months of spending cuts,
tax increases and public protests against changes to the
country’s labor laws, Rajoy delivered his first reduction in
unemployment in the second quarter.  “Employment and the economy in general are the most
important issues,”  Antonio Barroso , a London-based senior vice-president at Teneo Intelligence, said before the debate. “They
will tend to overshadow any other issues in the political
agenda.”  The extra yield investors demand to buy Spanish bonds
instead of German bonds widened 2 basis points to 299 basis
points at 2:35 p.m.in Madrid. That’s down from an average of 325
basis points in the last six months, signaling an improvement in
investors’ risk assessment. The Spanish treasury sold 3.2
billion euros of three-and five-year bonds today, exceeding its
maximum target as yields fell.  “Winning the confidence of the international community has
cost us a lot,” Rajoy said. “It’s the fruit of the combined
effort of Spanish society, of great sacrifices, and we can’t
waste it through the irresponsible decisions of some
politicians.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  