-- Rand Declines for Third Day as Yields Fall Before Trade Report
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-07-31T09:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/rand-declines-for-third-day-as-yields-fall-before-trade-report.html
The rand weakened for a third day
and bond yields fell before data that may show  South Africa ’s
trade deficit this year is widening, adding to pressure on the
current account and the currency.  The nation posted a 15th consecutive monthly trade deficit
in June, a report may show at 2 p.m., bringing the cumulative
shortfall this year to 78.4 billion rand ($8 billion), compared
with 51 billion rand in the year-earlier period. Reports
yesterday showed unemployment rose in the second quarter, while
the  budget deficit  for the year outstripped the shortfall for
the comparable period in 2012.  “South Africa’s elevated twin deficits are among the
highest when compared to other  emerging markets , remaining a
fundamental negative factor for the rand exchange rate,”
Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at Nedbank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. The rand will
probably trade in a range between 9.75 per dollar and 9.95 per
dollar today, he said.  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 9.8520 per dollar
as of 10:39 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage points, to 8.15 percent.  The jobless rate rose to 25.6 percent in the second quarter
from 25.2 percent in the previous three months, Statistics South
Africa said yesterday. The budget deficit in the first half of
the year was 74 billion rand, compared with 57.9 billion rand in
the same period of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve  Investors are awaiting guidance from the  Federal Reserve ,
which announces its interest-rate decision today after a two-day
policy meeting. The  Federal Open Market Committee  has said it
may reduce asset purchases this year if the economy improves in
line with its forecasts.  “Any slight change in wording will be picked apart for
signs of how the Fed’s views on the economy are changing and
when and how they are likely to start tapering,”  John Cairns , a
currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments. The rand will “be sensitive to the
smallest change in tone towards tapering,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  