-- RBA to Cut Rate to Record as Aussie Too Strong: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-31T02:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/rba-to-cut-rate-to-record-as-aussie-too-strong-australia-credit.html
Investors are betting an Australian
rate cut is a done deal after Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  indicated the local dollar’s world-beating losses aren’t
enough to bolster growth.  Traders see a 95 percent chance the RBA will cut the cash
rate by a quarter-percentage point to 2.5 percent at an Aug. 6
meeting, up from 51 percent odds seen at the beginning of July,
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The central bank will
probably drop the benchmark to 2.25 percent or lower by year-end, the data show.  “Stevens has pretty much told you that he’s cutting rates
next week,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head
of currency strategy at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  “We got
the message that further  currency depreciation  doesn’t mean they
need to be thinking about pulling interest-rate policy levers
into reverse any time soon.”  The Aussie’s 12 percent slide in the past three months, the
most among major developed currencies, isn’t enough for Stevens
as he flagged further declines yesterday and said the inflation
outlook allows for room to lower  interest rates  if required.
 Government bonds  are rallying for the first time since April
with investors expecting the RBA to make the world’s biggest
rate reductions over the next year as unemployment rises and a
housing recovery stumbles after the peak of a mining boom.  Yields Drop  Australia ’s  two-year yield , among the most sensitive to
interest-rate expectations, touched 2.30 percent, the least
since July 2012. The 44 basis-point discount to the cash rate
was the biggest since May 6, the day before the RBA cut the
gauge to 2.75 percent, the lowest benchmark borrowing cost in
the central bank’s 53-year history. The one-year note’s yield
dropped to an all-time low of 2.25 percent.  The Aussie bought 90.36 U.S. cents as of 11:47 a.m. in
Sydney, down 15 percent from a three-month high of $1.0582 on
April 11. The world’s fifth-most traded currency reached 89.99
cents on July 12, the least since September 2010. The local
dollar has weakened 9.7 percent in trade-weighted terms this
year, heading for the biggest annual decline since 2008.  “It would not be a major surprise” if the Aussie
depreciated further over time, Stevens said yesterday in a
speech in Sydney.  “Swings in the  exchange rate , we’ve had some quite big
ones in recent years, and I think it’s unlikely that they’re
going to derail us seriously on inflation,” Stevens said in a
question-and-answer session after the speech. “I don’t think
we’ll have too many dramas on that front, short of a very, very
large depreciation.”  Inflation Subdued  Government data showed last week that Australia’s  trimmed
mean  gauge of annual  core inflation  remained below the midpoint
of the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target in the
second quarter.  NAB said it’s expecting two 25-basis-point reductions to
the cash rate including a cut next week, sending the benchmark
to 2.25 percent by Dec. 31. The bank previously predicted a 2.5
percent rate at year-end.  “Yesterday Glenn Stevens provided a much more sober and
realistic outlook, suggesting that the economy cannot rely on
housing and consumption to plug the growth hole,”  Alan Oster ,
NAB’s Melbourne-based chief economist, wrote in a report today.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 5.7 percent in June, the
highest since 2009, while building approvals unexpectedly
declined, according to government data.  Consumer confidence  slid
in July and business conditions slumped in June, private reports
showed this month.  Biggest Cut  Stevens and his board will reduce the RBA’s key rate by 56
basis points over the next year, the biggest cut seen since May
7 and the most among 10 developed-nation central banks tracked
by Credit Suisse Group AG indexes based on swaps.  Prospects for further cuts are boosting the appeal of
government bonds, which gained 0.7 percent this month as of July
30, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Sovereign debt advanced after losing 1.8 percent over the
previous two months, the data show.  The yield on notes due in a decade dropped six basis points
this week to 3.71 percent.  “The Australian economy is still weak,” said Bin Gao, the
head of interest-rate research for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank
of America Corp. in  Hong Kong . “We’re bullish. The market will
price in more cuts down the road.”  Lower Yields  Ten-year yields will slide to 3.5 percent by the end of
September, Gao said. That compares with the average forecast of
3.6 percent by economists surveyed by Bloomberg from July 11-16.  The Aussie will fall to 88 cents by June 2014, according to
the median estimate of analysts polled by Bloomberg. That would
take it to a level unseen since August 2010.  “Stevens is less confident than he was about the outlook
for the economy, and clearly he would like the Aussie dollar to
fall further,” said David Forrester, a Singapore-based senior
vice president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Macquarie Bank Ltd., in a phone interview yesterday. “The other
important point is that he is saying last week’s inflation data
hasn’t changed the easing bias. So we look for an RBA rate cut
next week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  