-- Treasuries Advance After Fed Maintains Stimulus, Cites Inflation
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-07-31T21:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/treasuries-pare-loss-as-fed-says-tapering-still-data-dependent.html
Treasuries rallied, reversing
earlier losses, after the  Federal Reserve  failed to indicate
when it will reduce the pace of the $85 billion a month in
monetary accommodation it has used to buy bonds since January.  U.S. 30-year bond yields  fell  from an almost two-year high
as policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
persistently low inflation could hamper the expansion. Any
slowdown in purchases remains linked to signals of sustained
economic gains, the Fed said. Treasuries fell earlier as U.S.
output grew 1.7 percent in the second quarter, the Commerce
Department said, exceeding a 1 percent forecast. The
 unemployment rate  dropped to 7.5 percent in July, according to
the median forecast of 83 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Aug. 2 report.  “The lack of specific guidance is what is helping fuel
demand in the Treasury market,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees
$8 billion in assets at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks,
 Pennsylvania . “The Fed has made the case that accommodation
remains appropriate at this point.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell three basis points or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.58 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2023 rose 9/32 or $2.81 per $1,000
face value to 92 28/32. The yield had climbed as high as 2.70
percent earlier.  Thirty-year bond yields fell four basis points to 3.64
percent after reaching 3.74 percent, the most since Aug. 16,
2011.  Market Returns  U.S. government securities generated a loss of 0.2 percent
in July and have declined 2.6 percent for the year, according to
the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)   “The committee recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back
toward its objective over the medium term,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said today at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting in  Washington .  “The Fed has very little reason to be talking about
tapering or tightening at this stage,” said Mark MacQueen,
partner and  money manager  in Austin,  Texas , at Sage Advisory
Services Ltd., which oversees $10 billion. “The Fed’s
discussion of inflation when everybody’s looking for a
discussion of tapering is telling us something. It’s telling us
that they continue to be worried about the economy slowing down,
not overheating.”  Fed Outlook  The slowdown in purchases may happen as soon as at the
central bank’s meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  “Given the fact the GDP is still below stall speed, I
think they want more evidence that we’re approaching 2.5, 3
percent trend growth versus the stall speed we’re currently
at,” said Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in
fixed-income securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments
in  Boston . “They’ll wait until September or December” to lay
out thinking at Bernanke’s post-statement press conference.”  The Treasury Department announced it plans to sell the
first floating-rate notes in January and expects to gradually
decrease coupon-auction sizes during the coming quarter as the
nation’s fiscal health improves.  Floating Rates  Three months ago, the Treasury had said floating-rate sales
may occur as early as the fourth quarter this year. The Treasury
also said sales next week of notes and bonds will be unchanged
from last quarter at $72 billion. The quarterly refunding, held
in February, May, August and November, have remained at that
level since November 2010.  “The Treasury is taking a very conservative and cautious
approach as the improvement in fiscal situation has been
somewhat questionable this year,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in  New York  at Jefferies LLC, one of
the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at government
debt auctions. “The sustainability of the improvement we’ve
seen is not entirely clear. So the Treasury doesn’t want to have
to ramp up borrowing again after cutting it.”  The August auctions will allow refunding of $69.6 billion
of securities maturing on Aug. 15 and raise $2.4 billion of new
cash.  The ADP Research Institute said that employers added
200,000 jobs in July, compared with a forecast of 180,000 jobs
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The government’s jobs report will show the economy added
185,000 jobs for the month, according to the median forecast of
a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  