-- U.S. Bond Yields Reach Almost 2-Year High on GDP, Jobs Reports
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-07-31T17:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/treasuries-trail-stocks-by-most-since-january-on-taper-outlook.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 30-year
bond yields to almost a two-year high, after reports showing
stronger-than-forecast economic growth and jobs bolstered
speculation the Federal Reserve may reduce its bond-buying.  Benchmark 10-year yields touched a three-week high after a
report showed the U.S. economy grew at a faster than projected
pace and the ADP Research Institute said employers added more
workers than forecast in July, bolstering economist forecasts
that the Labor Department’s monthly employment data released
Aug. 2 will show unemployment fell in July. The Fed may comment
on the path for its $85 billion in monthly purchases after a
policy meeting today.  “We had a pretty strong data from the ADP to GDP that is
weighing on the market ahead of the Fed,” said  Richard Gilhooly , an interest-rate strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit in New York. “The focus remains on jobs and
stronger data that continue to pressure the market to higher
rates.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  added four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.65 percent at 1:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2023 lost 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 92 1/4. The yield reached the highest
level since July 8.  Thirty-year bond yields reached 3.74 percent, the most
since Aug. 16, 2011.  Debt Returns  U.S. government securities generated a loss of 0.2 percent
in July through yesterday and have declined 2.6 percent for the
year, according to the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)   The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares returned 5
percent including reinvested dividends. The difference between
U.S. government debt and global equities is the most since a gap
of 5.6 percentage points in January.  The  difference  between two- and 30-year yields widened to
339 basis points, the most since August 2011, having expanded
from this year’s low of 260 basis points on April 23. A steeper
yield curve reflects diminishing demand from investors for
longer-maturity bonds as they anticipate quicker economic growth
and inflation.  The Treasury Department announced it plans to sell the
first floating-rate notes in January and expects to gradually
decrease coupon-auction sizes during the coming quarter as the
nation’s fiscal health improves.  Floating Rates  Three months ago, the Treasury had said floating-rate sales
may occur as early as the fourth quarter this year. The Treasury
also said sales next week of notes and bonds will be unchanged
from last quarter at $72 billion. The quarterly refunding, held
in February, May, August and November, have remained at that
level since November 2010.  “The Treasury is taking a very conservative and cautious
approach as the improvement in fiscal situation has been
somewhat questionable this year,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies LLC, one of
the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at government
debt auctions. “The sustainability of the improvement we’ve
seen is not entirely clear. So the Treasury doesn’t want to have
to ramp up borrowing again after cutting it.”  The August auctions will allow refunding of $69.6 billion
of securities maturing on Aug. 15 and raise $2.4 billion of new
cash.  U.S. gross-domestic-product growth was 1.7 percent in the
second quarter at an annualized rate, compared with a Bloomberg
News forecast of 1 percent. The ADP Research Institute said that
employers added 200,000 jobs in July, compared with a forecast
of 180,000 jobs in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Jobs Outlook  The unemployment rate fell to 7.5 percent in July,
according to the median forecast of 83 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The economy added 185,000 jobs for the month, the
median forecast of 86 economists in a separate survey shows.  The Fed, which has been buying $85 billion of bonds each
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs, will probably
start reducing purchases in September, based on a Bloomberg
survey. Today’s statement is scheduled for 2 p.m. in  Washington .  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, rose 7.2 percent to
$208.9 billion yesterday, still less than this month’s daily
average of $270.7 billion. Volume has declined from June’s
average of $446.2 billion a day.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index was 83.27 basis points
yesterday. The figure has fallen from 117.89 on July 5, which
the highest level since December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  