-- Rebar Climbs First Day in Five as China Pledges Steady Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-31T04:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/rebar-climbs-first-day-in-five-as-china-pledges-steady-growth.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures
rebounded from a three-week low after  China ’s policy makers
vowed to stabilize growth, boosting optimism curbs on property
development will be eased in the world’s biggest metal consumer.  Rebar for January delivery gained as much as 0.8 percent to
3,663  yuan  ($597) a metric ton on the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange
before trading at 3,651 yuan by 11:30 a.m. local time. The most-active contract earlier dropped to 3,613 yuan, the lowest level
since July 10. Futures lost 1.7 percent in the four days through
yesterday and are heading for a 2.8 percent advance this month.  Authorities will maintain steady second-half expansion, the
official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday after a meeting of
the ruling Politburo led by President Xi Jinping. The country
will seek “stable and healthy” development in the property
industry, the government said after the meeting. Chinese
developers’ stocks rose the most in three weeks.  “The government may ease curbs on real estate, and that
should boost demand for rebar,” said Xia Junyan, an analyst at
Wanda Futures Co. in Shanghai.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index advanced 3.4
percent, the biggest gain among five industry groups on the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index. It’s the first time this
year that the government didn’t mention further tightening of
the  property market , according to Credit Suisse Group AG and
Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd.  The average  spot price  for rebar fell 0.2 percent to 3,461
yuan a ton yesterday, according to Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co.  Iron ore  for immediate delivery at Tianjin port
fell 0.6 percent to $130.90 a dry ton yesterday, The Steel Index
Ltd. data showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  