-- Reliance Industries Approaches Banks for $1.75 Billion of Loans
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n ,   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-07-31T08:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/reliance-industries-approaches-banks-for-1-75-billion-of-loans.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest oil refinery complex, plans to borrow
$1.75 billion by mid-August to refinance debt and fund capital
expenditure, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The facility may be drawn in U.S. and Singapore dollars,
Euro and Japanese yen, and proceeds will help to refinance $1.2
billion of multicurrency loans signed in 2008, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.
Some $550 million of new money denominated in U.S. dollars will
be raised for capital expenditure.  Reliance plans to spend 1.5 trillion rupees ($24.6 billion)
over the next three years to expand businesses ranging from
natural gas to petrochemicals and telecommunications, its
billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  told shareholders in June.
The company borrowed about $5.4 billion overseas through bonds
and syndicated loans in 2012, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “Reliance possibly anticipates future interest rates
rising with the quantitative easing tapering off, and they’re
locking in rates now,” said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-based
analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd., a unit of state-run Bank
of Baroda, which rates the company’s stock as a hold. “They
want to stay cash rich which helps them raise money at cheaper
costs to finance expansion projects.”  Loan Tenors  Tushar Pania, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Reliance,
declined to comment on the company’s financing plans.  Reliance sent requests for proposals to banks last week and
has asked for responses by Aug. 2, the people said. The company
expects to have an underwriting bank group in place by mid-August, the people said.  The tenor for the U.S. dollar-equivalent $1.2 billion
facility will be five years and six for the about $550 million
loan, the people said.  Reliance,  India ’s 11th most indebted company, has $20.1
billion equivalent of bonds and loans outstanding, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company raised $800 million
selling 5.875 percent senior perpetual notes in January, the
data show.  Some of the debt the company is seeking to refinance is
paying an interest margin of 130 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Reliance Industries shares fell 0.7 percent to 851.8 rupees
as of 1:49 p.m. in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  