-- Roc Capital Said to Shutter Main Hedge Fund After Losses
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-07-31T22:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/roc-capital-said-to-shutter-main-hedge-fund-after-losses.html
Roc Capital Management LP, the
hedge-fund firm that counted  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and the daughter
of billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal  among its investors, is
liquidating its main fund after losing money, according to a
person with knowledge of the firm.  The firm has already started selling its holdings and is
scheduled to return all money to clients in the coming weeks,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the firm
is private. New York-based Roc managed about $642 million as of
 March 1 .  Founded by Arvind Raghunathan, the former head of Deutsche
Bank AG’s global arbitrage business, Roc is the latest hedge-fund firm run by an ex-proprietary trader to struggle. Pierre-Henri Flamand, the former chief of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
biggest proprietary-trading unit, shut his firm last year after
losing money and as assets dwindled.  Portman Square Capital LLP, founded by ex-Citigroup Inc.
proprietary-trading unit head Sutesh Sharma, opened with less
than a fifth of the amount the firm originally sought, two
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  Roc was the largest hedge-fund firm startup in 2009, with
more than $1 billion in assets. Raghunathan declined to comment
on the closing of the fund, which was  reported  earlier today by
industry publication Absolute Return.  Deutsche Bank owned at least a 5 percent stake in Roc as of
March, according to a regulatory filing. Vanisha Mittal Bhatia
and her husband bought a stake of 10 percent to 25 percent in
2011.  Roc, which uses computer models to pick investments through
a strategy known as quantitative trading, plans to start a new
fund initially investing employee money only, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  