-- Rodriguez Among Nine Who Face MLB Ban, Daily News Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-31T15:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/rodriguez-among-9-who-face-suspension-by-aug-4-daily-news-says.html
Alex Rodriguez  is among nine players
who may be suspended this week for obtaining performance-enhancing drugs,  Major League Baseball  told the players’ union,
according to  the New York Daily News .  Most of the players will be given 50-game suspensions, the
newspaper said, without identifying the source of its
information. Rodriguez, the  New York Yankees ’ All-Star third
baseman, is among others who face harsher penalties for lying or
interfering in the investigation of the now-defunct Biogenesis
clinic, according to the Daily News.  League investigators have evidence of e-mails,  text
messages  and telephone records that show Rodriguez used
performance-enhancing drugs in 2010, 2011 and 2012, although he
said he only used banned substances from 2001 to 2003, the Daily
News said. Rodriguez’s lawyer, David Cornwell, said two days ago
on ESPN radio in New York that he’s preparing for an appeal if
the player is suspended.  Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Melky Cabrera and Oakland
Athletics pitcher  Bartolo Colon  won’t be suspended because they
served bans last season for their links to Biogenesis of America
LLC in South Florida, the Daily News said.  Others will escape discipline because MLB investigators
couldn’t find evidence to warrant suspensions, the report said.  Players’ Response  Players’ representatives may tell the league by today if
they plan to challenge the suspensions, the Daily News said,
citing a person familiar with yesterday’s discussions.  Other players associated with Biogenesis include Yankees
catcher  Francisco Cervelli , Texas Rangers outfielder  Nelson Cruz , Detroit Tigers shortstop Jhonny Peralta and San Diego
Padres infielder Everth Cabrera, the Daily News said.  Rodriguez hasn’t played in the majors this season following
hip surgery in January. He completed a 20-day rehabilitation
program with Yankees minor-league teams before sustaining a mild
thigh strain that postponed his return to the New York roster.  A three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
Rodriguez may face a suspension through the 2014 season, which
would be the longest drug-related ban in the sport’s history.  Rodriguez, the active career home-run hitter in the major
leagues with 647, would still have three years and $61 million
remaining on his record 10-year, $275 million deal even if he’s
banned without pay for the rest of this season and in 2014.  Ryan Braun , the National League’s Most Valuable Player in
2011, was suspended without pay on July 22 for the final 65
games of the season for unspecified drug violations. The
Milwaukee Brewers’ outfielder will forfeit $3.4 million of his
$8.5 million salary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  