-- Rohani Clout in Iran Corridors of Power May Aid Nuclear Deal
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-08-01T14:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/rohani-s-clout-in-iran-corridors-of-power-may-help-nuclear-deal.html
Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani
once complained that the Islamic Republic’s leaders tend to take
extreme positions in negotiations with the West and find it hard
to compromise. Rohani is about to get a chance to prove he can
do better.  The former negotiator, who wrote a book about his
experience as a nuclear diplomat, will be inaugurated as
president on Sunday. He won the June 14 election promising to
ease a standoff with the U.S. and revive an economy crippled by
sanctions that reflect Iran’s growing isolation under outgoing
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  Failure risks exposing Iran to a military attack by  Israel ,
which says it considers a nuclear-armed Iran as an existential
threat, or the U.S. Success may depend on Rohani’s ability to
leverage connections with Iran’s powerful non-elected bodies and
most of all with  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the top decision-maker,
whom he first met four decades ago during the early days of
Islamist opposition to the Shah.  “Rohani can do a deal because the Supreme Leader trusts
him,” said Peter Jenkins, the U.K. Ambassador to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  in the period when Rohani was
Iran’s negotiator. “He is a defender of Iranian interests and
will drive a hard but honest bargain.”  ‘Critical Capability’  Rohani, 64, may need to reach a deal rapidly. The
Washington-based Institute for Science and International
Security said this week that the Islamic republic may achieve
the “critical capability” to process low-enriched uranium into
material for a nuclear weapon without detection by inspectors by
mid-2014. That’s something Israel and the U.S. have signaled
they won’t allow.  The new president takes over after several rounds of talks
with world powers that produced little progress. Rohani has
experience of negotiating standoffs when he held the nuclear
portfolio a decade ago, when tensions were lower.  Talks with European ministers in 2003 were bogged down in a
dispute with European ministers over three words in the proposed
deal, “all related activity.” and his interlocutors were
threatening to head for the airport, when Rohani demonstrated
his ability to convince the Iranian political elite to trust
him.  He sought guidance from Khamenei and then-President
Mohammad Khatami. “Do as you think is best, but don’t let talks
fail,” Khatami said, according to Rohani’s book “National
Security and Nuclear Diplomacy,” published in 2011. The outcome
was an agreement by Iran to partially suspend  uranium
enrichment , which lasted until 2005.  ‘More Freedoms’  Now, the U.S. and other European countries are seeking an
initial agreement to halt Iran’s production of 20 percent
enriched uranium -- one processing step short of bomb grade --
and removing stockpiles so that they can’t be diverted for
weapons. Iran says its program is for peaceful purposes.  Iran’s uncompromising stance under Ahmadinejad led the U.S.
and European Union to impose sanctions that have crippled the
economy. Oil revenues have fallen by 50 percent over the past
year as output fell to the lowest level since 1990, and the rial
has lost more than half its value.  “Rohani will have more freedoms to act on foreign affairs
because the regime has reached a dead-end and needs to make
concessions,” said Mohsen Kadivar, a professor of Islamic
Studies at  Duke University , and a dissident cleric who worked
closely with Rohani for five years before being jailed in 1999.
“He needs that freedom to ease the sanctions and repair the
economy.”  Massaging Data  The economy will shrink 1.3 percent this year, extending a
1.9 percent decline in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund 
predicts.  Inflation is above 30 percent and unemployment about 12
percent, twice that among young people. Rohani and aides say
those official figures mask an even worse reality, accusing
Ahmadinejad of massaging the data.  The U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure
yesterday subjecting more goods and services to sanctions, and
authorizing President  Barack Obama  to penalize foreign entities
that maintain commercial ties with  Iran . The legislation hasn’t
yet been approved by the Senate.  Rohani was born Hassan Fereidon in 1948 to a family of
shopkeepers in Sorkheh, a desert town in the north of Iran. He
was sent at 13 to study at a seminary in Qom, the center of
Iran’s Shiite Muslim establishment, where he would befriend many
of the leading figures of the Islamic Republic. He lived on 30
tomans (about $2.50 at the time) a month, sometimes surviving on
just bread and yoghurt, and in winter had to use a hammer to
crack the ice on a cistern to obtain water for washing,
according to his writings. He took the name “Rohani,” which
means spiritual, officially changing his name in 1981.  Secret Pamphlets  Qom was a center of agitation against Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, led by  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , the founder of the
Islamic Republic. Rohani helped, distributing secret pamphlets
denouncing the Shah. Later, he moved to Tehran to study law, a
step that marked him out from his peers.  “It was rare for a cleric to attend university during the
Shah’s time,” said Patrick Clawson, director of research at the
 Washington  Institute for Near East Policy. The universities were
a hotbed of secularism and “it just wasn’t done.”  Rohani became friends with Khamenei during military service
near Mashad after completing his degree in 1972, according to
his memoir. After anti-Shah speeches put him on the secret
police’s wanted list, he moved to  England , from where he
regularly visited the exiled Khomeini in Paris.  London Jail  In  London  in 1978, he was arrested alongside a dozen
activists after a police raid. Rohani punched and kicked his
cell door, then told the police officer who opened it that as a
lawyer he knew his rights and demanded to be charged or
released, according to the memoir. He was freed four hours later
and received an apology.  After the 1979 revolution, Rohani returned to Iran and was
given the task of organizing the Iranian army.  “He’s remained close to the center of power ever since,”
said Majid Tafreshi, an Iranian historian who was a Rohani
adviser during his campaign. “He has had a hand in almost every
major foreign policy decision over the past three decades.”  Rohani was head of air defenses and later deputy war
commander during the eight-year conflict with  Iraq . He served
five terms in parliament and was secretary of the Supreme
National Security Council for 16 years. He also found time to
write six books and obtain a PhD from Glasgow’s Caledonian
University for a thesis entitled “The Flexibility of Shariah
with reference to the Iranian experience.”  Little is known about his private life. At 20 he married
his cousin, Sahebeh Arabi, who was 14 at the time. She has
rarely been seen in public. The couple have had five children.  Poor Odds  Even an insider like Rohani won’t always be able to get his
way in the complex politics of the Islamic Republic, said
Kadivar. He’ll have to contend with unelected bodies such as the
Guardian Council and the Revolutionary Guards, which wield
enormous influence and can obstruct campaign promises such as
releasing political prisoners and curbing state intrusion into
private life, according to Reuel Marc Gerecht, a former case
officer in the Central Intelligence Agency and a senior fellow
at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington.  “The odds are poor that Rohani will diminish the Supreme
Leader’s power or change the Islamic republic,” Gerecht said.
“Khamenei has built shadow ministries and unregulated bodies,
such as foundations, that have veto powers over their official
counterparts.”  Rohani supporters such as Zahra, 25, a law student in the
capital, are looking forward to his presidency without getting
expectations too high.  “I think he can manage to solve one or two problems such
as unemployment, because it’s our right to have decent jobs in
our country,” said Zahra, who declined to give her surname. “I
know he can’t solve all the problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 