-- Romania Agrees With IMF and EU on EU4 Bln Precautionary Loan
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-07-31T10:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/romania-agrees-with-imf-and-eu-on-eu4-bln-precautionary-loan-1-.html
Romania  reached a staff-level
agreement with the International Monetary Fund and the European
Union on a 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) precautionary loan, its
third deal in five years.  The government requested a 24-month standby arrangement
with the IMF and balance-of-payment assistance from the EU,
Andrea Schaechter, the IMF mission chief to Romania, told
reporters in Bucharest today at the end of a two-week visit. The
country, the EU’s second-poorest member, doesn’t plan to draw on
the money, she said.  The accord, equally split between the IMF and the EU, will
be Romania’s third consecutive package and the smallest since
2009, when the country won a 20 billion-euro bailout from the
lenders. It will serve as an anchor against potential spillover
into financial markets from the easing of global stimulus by the
world’s central banks.  “We agreed on 4 billion euros, less than the previous 5
billion, to show an improvement,” Prime Minister Victor Ponta
told reporters in Bucharest today. “We won’t use the money,
it’s just a buffer we can count on in extraordinary
circumstances, like a financial crisis in Europe or worldwide.”  The government will focus on overhauling the health-care
system to cut costs with hospitals by increasing reliance on
family doctors, ambulatory and private-care services, Schaechter
said. The other main goal of the accord will be to clean up
state-owned transport and energy companies and press ahead with
plans to sell them, she said.  ‘Uncertain Environment  “The environment is uncertain and difficult, with the euro
area going through a recession, and we’ve seen that capital
flows have become more volatile to  emerging markets , including
Romania,” Schaechter said. “So a precautionary accord with the
EU and Washington-based IMF can help Romania to stay on course
with reforms and macroeconomic policies and serve as a buffer
against external shocks.”  The leu weakened 0.3 percent to 4.4057 per euro by 1:21
p.m. in Bucharest today, falling for a second day. The leu is
the best-performing currency in eastern Europe so far this year
with a 0.9 percent gain against the euro.  The IMF expects the  Romanian economy  to expand about 2
percent this year and 2.25 percent next year, helped by growing
exports and recovering domestic demand in 2014, Schaechter said.
Inflation is expected to slow before the end of the year to
within the central bank’s target band of 2.5 percent, plus or
minus 1 percentage point, as food-price growth eases.  Romania’s government raised its economic-growth forecast
for this year, citing a pickup in export demand, and said the
pace of the expansion may surpass that estimate if domestic
consumption rebounds.  Schaechter said the new deal needs approval from the IMF’s
board of directors and the EU before coming into effect. The
IMF’s board usually meets to discuss a new loan two months after
a staff-level agreement has been reached, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  