-- Ryanair-Boeing 737 Max Discussions Risk Dragging Beyond Year-End
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-07-31T12:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ryanair-boeing-737-max-discussions-risk-dragging-beyond-year-end.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount carrier, may not conclude a deal to add  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s 737 Max to its fleet by the end of the year as it
considers fuel savings and weight costs associated with the jet.  “We have a senior team working on a Max project,” Chief
Executive Michael O’Leary said in an interview in London today.
“We will then see if we can reach an agreement on price and
delivery dates by the end of the calendar year, but I suspect
that might be a little bit on the optimistic side.”  A Ryanair team evaluating the Max model is due to report
back to Boeing and the airline’s management by the end of
September, the executive said. The Irish carrier was looking to
seal terms on a Max order by the end of this year after
concluding a deal for 175 current-model 737-800s at the  Paris
Air Show  in June. The combined purchases could swell the fleet
to more than 500 airplanes from just over 300 today.  “A lot depends on what Boeing wants to do,” O’Leary said.
“If Boeing wants an order before the end of the year then one
will get done. If they don’t want or need an order before the
end of the year, then it might not.”  While Ryanair now has “more clarity” on the potential
fuel savings of the Max, the weight of the jet remains a
concern, O’Leary said. A deal for 200 737-800 Max planes would
be worth $20 billion at the list price of $100.5 million per
aircraft. The order confirmed on June 19 -- first announced in
March -- has a sticker value of $15.6 billion. Aircraft buyers
typically get discounts on their purchases.  More Competition  Ryanair said today it will add five flights a day on U.K.-
to-Ireland routes starting in October. Frequencies between
Dublin and London Stansted will go up to eight daily rotations
from seven. Other destinations where the airline will boost
frequencies include Edinburgh and the English cities of
Manchester, Bristol and Birmingham.  The additional frequencies are a direct response to  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  boosting flights to the U.K. and underscore the
fact that competition between the airlines is increasing,
Ryanair said in a statement. The airline has been wrangling with
regulators since 2006 when it acquired its Aer Lingus holding,
which now stands at about 29.8 percent according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ryanair’s most recent takeover bid was blocked in February
by the European Union, which ruled the combination would
increase fares and reduce consumer choice. The U.K. Competition
Commission said in May that it’s looking into whether the stake
gives Ryanair “the ability to influence the commercial policy
and strategy” of Aer Lingus. The U.K. regulator is due to issue
a decision on Sept. 5.  “We expect based on the provisional findings that they’ll
force us to sell down, possibly to as little as zero, which
creates a problem given that all the evidence shows there are no
competition concerns,” O’Leary said. “U.K. consumers have
benefited from intensified competition.”  The discount carrier may be able to delay its enforcement
for years while challenging the EU decision to block its full
takeover offer that valued Aer Lingus at 694 million euros ($921
million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  