-- S. Africa’s NUM Union Plans March Today to Sibanye Over Wages
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-31T11:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/s-africa-s-num-union-plans-march-today-to-sibanye-over-wages.html
The  National Union of Mineworkers  is
planning to march to the offices of  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) ,  South
Africa ’s second-biggest producer, to demand higher wages.  “The march is to send a strong message,”  Lesiba Seshoka ,
a spokesman for the NUM, said in a phone interview. “There will
be strikes throughout the gold sector” if demands are not
addressed, he said.  South African unions including the NUM, Solidarity and UASA
declared a deadlock in wage negotiations on July 24 after gold
producers represented by the Chamber of Mines raised their offer
one percentage point. Mediation at the country’s Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration is expected to last
about 30 days.  The NUM represents as much as 65 percent of the workforce
at Sibanye, James Wellsted, a company spokesman, said in a phone
interview. “We’ll continue to proceed with negotiations through
the Chamber of Mines.”  About 60 percent of gold-mining operations in South Africa,
the sixth-biggest producer, are unprofitable, the chamber said
July 15.  Sibanye Gold will wait for wage talks to be completed
before deciding on an interim dividend, Chief Executive Officer
Neal Froneman said yesterday in an interview. “Wage
negotiations will be concluded quite quickly; the industry has
very little place to move and I think there is very little
appetite for strikes.”  The union also plans to march and deliver a memorandum
today at  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ’s Arnot coal mine over the
company’s bonus payment system.  The NUM may rally at the offices of Harmony Gold Mining Co.
next week, Seshoka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  