-- Sanlam Invested 236 Million Rand in First Strut’s Floating Bonds
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-07-31T06:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/sanlam-invested-236-million-rand-in-first-strut-s-floating-bonds.html
Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) , South Africa’s second-largest life insurer, is the second-biggest investor in a
floating-rate note which may default following the liquidation
of an engineering company.  The Cape Town-based company invested 236 million rand ($24
million) in Bacarac Trading 142 (Pty) Ltd., specifically created
for the purpose of investing in First Strut RF Ltd.’s 925
million rand of floating-rate notes, according to Sanlam and
court documents seen by Bloomberg News.  The “major part” of the investment is being held in
Sanlam’s own corporate-debt portfolio, Kobus Moller, the
company’s financial director, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “This exposure is adequately provided for.
Policyholders are not affected.”  Investec Plc (INVP) ’s banking unit loaned First Strut, trading
under the name First Tech Group, 240 million rand and its
investment arm invested 435 million rand in the First Strut
bonds.  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South Africa’s second-largest bank,
loaned 200 million rand to First Strut while its Rand Merchant
Bank unit invested 50 million rand in the notes. Prudential
Portfolio Managers bought 51 million rand of the debt and
Fairtree Capital (Pty) Ltd. took 131 million rand.  First Strut was placed in provisional liquidation on July
16 following failed business rescue proceedings that started six
days earlier. The company’s winding down came after the murder
of Chairman Jeff Wiggill last month in Soweto, southwest of
Johannesburg. Wiggill’s shooting was a contract killing, the
Johannesburg-based newspaper Star reported last week, citing the
bail application of one of the men arrested for his killing.  Court documents filed in  Pretoria  on July 16 by Leslie
Matuson and John Louw, who were appointed as business rescue
practitioners, said that Sanlam had purchased 263 million rand
of the First Strut securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  