-- Scene: Oprah Touts ‘Butler’; Obama Toasts Women Hoopsters
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-08-01T20:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/scene-in-d-c-obama-toasts-uconn-huskies-women-champs.html
Oprah Winfrey  gave props to Forest Whitaker at a screening last night of “ Lee Daniels’ The
Butler ” hosted by O, The Oprah Magazine.  Whitaker plays Cecil Gaines, a former cotton picker who
becomes a butler to U.S. presidents. Winfrey plays Gaines’s
strong-willed wife in the film, based on the life of Eugene
Allen.  “He opens up the soul of that butler so that you can feel
the soul and spirit of America,” Winfrey said, standing near
director Lee Daniels and Whitaker.  Attending the screening at the Manhattan headquarters of
Hearst Corp. were  Gloria Steinem ,  Vera Wang ,  Barbara Walters ,
and Gayle King.  Daniels said he made the film to help his son, who knows
more about the story of  Anne Frank  than the struggle of blacks.  “By making this film, I now have an understanding of the
times my family went through,” Daniels said before the
screening.  The film, which opens Aug. 16, features  Robin Williams  as
Dwight Eisenhower and James Marsden as John F. Kennedy.  Obama’s Bracketology  The women’s basketball team at the  University of
Connecticut  visited the White House yesterday to celebrate its
eighth  NCAA  championship.  President Obama called the women “class acts” for their
athleticism and charity work. Earlier this year, the team joined
forces with its rival, the  Baylor University  Lady Bears, to
raise $30,000 for the  Kay Yow Cancer Fund , named after the head
women’s basketball coach at  North Carolina State University  who
died in 2009.  The team gave President Obama an autographed basketball and
a college jacket.  “My bracketology needs some work,” the president joked.  Connecticut Democrats Joe Courtney, John Larson, Elizabeth Esty and Jim Himes, members of the  House of Representatives ,
were in attendance, as well as Connecticut Attorney General
George Jepsen and Susan Herbst, president of the University of
Connecticut.  The University of Connecticut Huskies boast the longest
winning streak in men’s or women’s basketball history. The
women’s team includes Breanna Stewart, 18, named the Most
Outstanding Player in the Final Four, and the first freshman to
win this honor since 1987.  Head Coach Gene Auriemma has been with the team for 28
years. He also coached the U.S. women’s basketball team to a
gold medal in the 2012 Olympics.  “You’ve been here more than most presidents,” President
Obama told Auriemma, who counted this his eighth visit to the
White House.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter and  Stephanie Green  is a writer
and photographer for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writers on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net . or Stephanie Green in Washington at
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 