-- Schneider First-Half Profit Falls 5% on Taxes and Currencies
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-31T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/schneider-first-half-profit-falls-5-on-taxes-and-currencies.html
Schneider Electric SA (ALO) , the French
electrical gear maker in talks to buy the U.K.’s  Invensys Plc. (ISYS) ,
said first-half profit fell 5 percent as higher taxes and
unfavorable exchange rates offset rebounding sales.  Net income fell to 831 million euros ($1.1 billion) from
876 million euros a year earlier, the company, based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris, said in a statement today. Analysts
 estimated  837 million euros, on average.  “Growth in North America and China gains traction and new
economies sustain their good momentum,” Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Pascal Tricoire said in the statement. He reiterated his
2013 goals for sales and margins as expects “the first signs of
sequential stabilization towards the end of the year in western
Europe and continuous growth in North America,  China  and new
economies in the second half.”  Tricoire has until Aug. 8 to say whether he’ll proceed with
the acquisition of Invensys, which would give Schneider access
to software and control systems used by chemicals makers, oil
refineries, and mining companies. The  purchase , which would be
Schneider’s biggest since the $6.1 billion purchase of American
Power Conversion Corp. in 2006, would supplement its factory
automation offering as the company faces a slump in European
construction.  Invensys Bid  Schneider is offering to pay 505 pence a share, comprising
319 pence in cash and 186 pence in new shares, London-based
Invensys said July 11. Invensys has indicated it’s likely to
accept an offer at the proposed value of about $5 billion. The
talks are at an early stage, the French company said at the
time.  Standard & Poor’s said on July 17 it may cut Schneider’s A- credit rating  as the company takes on more debt to fund part of
the acquisition. The transaction “would put some pressure” on
Schneider’s credit metrics, Moody’s Investors Service said the
same day.  Schneider reiterated a 2013 target for “low-single digit
organic growth in sales and a stable to slightly up” margin
based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization.  Adjusted Ebita dropped 2 percent to 1.53 billion euros in
the first half, representing 13.4 percent of Schneider’s revenue
compared with 13.6 percent a year earlier. The depreciation of
some emerging market currencies, the British pound and the
Australian dollar against the euro shaved 38 million euros off
Ebita, which was also hurt by a “one-off impact” from some
unspecified projects.  Revamp  The French company is slashing costs by cutting jobs,
regrouping sites, being more selective on services contracts,
and redesigning products to adapt to a construction slump and
government austerity measures in Europe.  The restructuring costs, which rose to 62 million euros in
the first half from 43 million euros a year earlier, are
expected to increase in the second half, Schneider said.  Its second-quarter revenue climbed 3.7 percent to 6.22
billion euros, helped by the purchase of the 50 stake in
 Russia ’s Electroshield-TM Samara it didn’t already own.
Excluding currency effects and acquisitions, sales climbed 2.6
percent.  Asia overtook western Europe in terms of revenue in the
April-June period, becoming the group’s largest region on that
measure, Schneider said. Revenues in new economies were up 7
percent organically in the quarter, outperforming mature
countries by 7 percentage points, as sales continued to fall in
southern Europe and were impacted in  Germany  by lower utility
spending. Sales in North America rose 10 percent like-for-like.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  