-- Seahawks Wide Receiver Percy Harvin to Undergo Surgery on Hip
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-31T12:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/seahawks-wide-receiver-percy-harvin-says-he-ll-need-hip-surgery.html
Wide receiver  Percy Harvin , who
signed a six-year, $67 million deal after being traded to the
 Seattle Seahawks  in March, will undergo hip surgery tomorrow.  Neither the team nor the player gave a timetable for his
return. One doctor said the type of injury Harvin sustain may
keep him out for the entire season.  The Seahawks sent three National Football League draft
picks, including a first-round selection this year, to the
 Minnesota Vikings  to acquire Harvin as a top target for second-year quarterback Russell Wilson. Harvin, 25, led the Vikings
with 62 receptions for 677 yards last season, when he missed
seven games with an ankle injury.  Harvin, a 2009 first-round draft pick who also has five
career kickoff returns for touchdowns, wrote last night on his
Twitter account that he’d need surgery after receiving a second
opinion from a hip specialist on the slight tear in his labrum.  “Nobody was more anxious and excited about the season,”
Harvin wrote, without saying how much time he may miss. “But I
will be back strong as ever.”  The Seahawks later confirmed that Harvin will have surgery.  Football players who require arthroscopic surgery for a
labral injury often need six to eight months of recovery to
“return to elite play,” according to orthopedist Calin Moucha,
the associate chief of joint replacement surgery at the Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York.  If Harvin needs a full eight months of rehabilitation
following the surgery, he’d miss the Seahawks’ 16-game regular
season. The Seahawks, who went 11-5 last season before losing in
the second round of the playoffs, open the 2013 campaign on
Sept. 8 against the  Carolina Panthers .  Guaranteed Money  Harvin was scheduled to make $2.76 million in the final
year of his rookie contract before signing his new deal with the
Seahawks. His agreement with Seattle includes $25.5 million in
guaranteed money, including a $12 million signing bonus, a $2.5
million base salary in 2013 and an injury guaranteed $11 million
base salary in 2014, CBS Sportsline has reported.  Harvin had been tied for the NFL lead in receptions and was
second in yards receiving and kick-return average last season
before spraining his ankle.  With his addition, the Seahawks were tied as the fourth-favorite to win the  Super Bowl  at 8-1 odds, according to the Las
Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, trailing the  Denver Broncos ,  San
Francisco 49ers  and  New England Patriots .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  