-- SEC Says Largest U.S. Hedge Funds’ Debt Tops $1 Trillion
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/sec-says-largest-u-s-hedge-funds-debt-tops-1-trillion.html
The nation’s largest hedge funds had
$1.47 trillion in net assets and more than $1 trillion in
borrowings as of the fourth quarter, according to the first
report compiled on confidential data they provided to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The SEC’s Division of  Investment Management  issued the
report to Congress last week using figures from money managers
who run private funds with gross assets of at least $150
million, including borrowed capital, and the agency broke out
data for the biggest firms. Congress ordered the SEC to collect
information from private-equity and hedge-fund managers under a
provision of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act designed to help regulators
monitor risk in the financial system.  The SEC is required to submit an annual report to Congress
on how the agency has used data collected through the Form PF
from private funds. Investment advisers that meet the $150
million threshold must file the form once a year, and those with
more than $1.5 billion in gross hedge-fund assets must file
quarterly. For each separate fund with more than $500 million in
net assets, they must provide more detailed data on its
leverage, risk profile, exposures and liquidity.  Money-management firms with at least $5 billion of hedge-fund assets began making the filings last July. The SEC provided
data from their fourth-quarter filings in an appendix to its
report.  The managers oversaw 823  hedge funds  that met the $500
million threshold for more-detailed reporting, according to the
SEC. That included 569 funds with a single primary strategy and
252 that employed multiple strategies. Two funds didn’t report.  Liquidity Periods  The funds reported having $1.47 trillion in net assets and
$1.06 trillion in aggregate debt during the fourth quarter. Debt
includes secured and unsecured borrowings for each fund and
excludes “other significant methods of incurring leverage,”
such as derivatives, according to the report.  The report also provided details on the liquidity of the
assets held by the funds. Twenty-seven percent of their $1.47
trillion in net assets could be divested within a day, according
to the SEC. Fifty-three percent of the net assets could be
liquidated in a week or less, the large managers said, and 71
percent would take no more than a month to sell. Fifteen percent
of assets would take more than six months to liquidate.  The agency also detailed how quickly the managers allowed
their investors to cash out. About 7 percent of the $1.47
trillion could be withdrawn by investors in a day, and 24
percent could be taken out within a month. Investors could
redeem about 59 percent of the total capital within 180 days,
the report said. About 26 percent of capital would take more
than a year to get back.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the contents of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  