-- SEC Adopts Madoff-Inspired Rules to Protect Broker-Held Assets
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-31T21:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/sec-adopts-madoff-inspired-rules-to-protect-broker-held-assets.html
Brokers who hold investors’ assets
will have to file quarterly reports attesting to compliance with
measures to protect customer money and securities under rules
adopted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The measures, approved by commissioners today in a 3-2
private vote, are an outgrowth of the regulator’s response to
Bernard Madoff’s long-running  Ponzi scheme . They were opposed by
the SEC’s two Republican members.  “These rules will provide important additional safeguards
for customer assets,” SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said in a
statement. “These rules will strengthen the audit requirements
for broker-dealers and enhance our oversight of the way they
maintain custody.”  Brokers are required under the rules to file quarterly
reports starting later this year stating whether and how they
maintain customer securities and cash. They also will have to
file annual compliance reports beginning in June verifying
adherence with financial-responsibility rules such as net
 capital requirements .  The annual compliance reports will be reviewed by
independent public accountants, and the SEC can review auditors’
work papers as part of examinations of brokers. The reports will
be used to assist the agency’s examiners when they evaluate
compliance with SEC rules.  The rules will help “ensure that investor assets are
safely held,” SEC Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar said in a
statement.  Commissioners Daniel M. Gallagher and Troy A. Paredes, who
voted against the measures, said in a statement they worried
that they don’t “explicitly limit” the SEC’s authority to
demand access to the auditor’s work papers.  Prison Sentence  Bernard Madoff , who maintained custody of customer assets
in his  New York  brokerage, is serving a 150-year prison sentence
after being convicted of conducting what prosecutors said was
the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history. Liquidators of his
companies have sued banks, feeder funds, and Madoff’s employees
to recover some of the $17 billion lost by victims.  Lori Richards, a principal with PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP’s financial services regulatory practice who previously
directed the SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations, said the rules include a new requirement for
brokers to better document their risk management controls.  “Taken together, it seems clear that the SEC wants brokers
to better protect clients’ assets and to reduce risk of failure,
and to gain a better handle on those brokers that present
risk,” Richards said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  