-- Segro Profit Declines as Property Sales Curb Rental Income
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-07-31T07:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/segro-profit-falls-as-rental-income-drops-after-property-sales.html
  Segro Plc (SGRO) , the U.K.’s largest
publicly traded owner of industrial properties, said half-year
earnings fell 7.5 percent as the company collected less rent
after property sales and the bankruptcy of one of its tenants.  Profit excluding changes in property values and one-time
items dropped to 68.1 million pounds ($104 million) from 73.6
million pounds a year earlier, the Slough, England-based company
said in a statement today. Net rental income fell 9.3 percent to
118.7 million pounds. The bankruptcy of mail-order company
Neckermann.de GmbH contributed to the decline in profit,
according to the statement.  Segro this month agreed to sell a U.K. office park and a
Frankfurt distribution facility for a total of 285 million
pounds. The transaction is part of a plan, announced in 2011, to
sell 1.6 billion pounds of real estate to help repay debt and
focus on more profitable properties close to major
transportation hubs or large cities across  Europe .  “We’re already replacing a lot of rental income through
operational improvements,” Chief Executive Officer David Sleath
said by phone.  Divestment Target  The company has agreed to divest 437 million pounds of
properties this year and will meet or slightly exceed its target
of selling as much as 500 million pounds of buildings by the end
of the year, Sleath said.  Segro had the biggest gain in new lease signings since 2010
in the  second quarter , Sleath said. The company wants to take
advantage of increased demand for space from Internet retailers
by building facilities and renting out existing properties, he
said.  In June, the company used 974 million euros ($1.3 billion)
of its warehouses in mainland Europe to form a joint venture
with  Canada ’s Public Sector Pension Investment Board. The
venture will attempt to increase the portfolio’s value to at
least 2 billion euros through developments and acquisitions.  Europe needs 25 million square meters (296 million square
feet) of new distribution and storage warehouses in the next
five years, about 11 percent of existing modern space, to keep
up with Internet-sales growth,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in
March.  Segro reported net income 16.5 million pounds, or 2.2 pence
a share, for the first half compared with a loss of 80.2 million
pounds, or 10.8 pence, a year earlier.  The company owns data centers, distribution warehouses and
light-industrial parks in the U.K.,  France ,  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  