-- Shekel Advances as Leiderman Tapped to Head Central Bank
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-31T17:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/shekel-advances-as-leiderman-tapped-to-head-central-bank.html
The shekel strengthened, extending
its biggest monthly gain this year, after Bank Hapoalim Ltd.’s
chief economist Leo Leiderman was nominated as the next Bank of
Israel governor.  The Israeli currency rose to as high as 3.5676 per  U.S.
dollar  after the announcement came out and added 0.2 percent to
3.5696 at 1:32 p.m. in New York. The shekel has rallied 4.6
percent this year for the largest advance among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Leiderman’s appointment was announced today by Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yair Lapid in a
text message, and acting Governor Karnit Flug immediately
resigned after being passed over for a second time. Leiderman,
62, a former head of the central bank’s research department,
succeeds  Stanley Fischer , who stepped down June 30. First-choice
Jacob Frenkel withdrew his candidacy this week.  “This is probably a shekel positive in a certain sense, in
that by eliminating the uncertainty that existed over who will
be the next governor, this is a big help,”  Daniel Hewitt ,
senior economist at Barclays Plc in London, said in a telephone
interview. “He’s a very experienced person and has a strong
reputation, so I see this as a positive development.”  The  Bank of Israel  left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent at the end of July, after lowering it
gradually from 3.25 percent since 2011 in an effort to spur
growth in the export-driven economy. It also announced in May
that it would buy more than $2 billion by the end of the year,
citing the shekel’s appreciation and the downward revision in
global growth forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  