-- Siemens Seeks Insider Boost by Naming Veteran Kaeser CEO
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-08-01T08:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/siemens-names-finance-chief-kaeser-as-ceo-to-replace-loes.html
As  Siemens AG (SIE)  supervisory board
representatives met over the weekend to discuss the ouster of
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher , his successor traveled
110 miles to his home Bavarian village of Arnbruck to celebrate
the arrival of a new fire truck.  Joe Kaeser, named as CEO of Europe’s biggest engineering
company yesterday, is as much of a Siemens insider, rooted in
its southern German home state, as Loescher was an outsider. The
56-year-old Kaeser has worked at the Munich-based company for 33
years, and seven of those as chief financial officer.  Kaeser’s respect for local traditions endear him to the
workforce in the company’s main power centers of Munich and
Erlangen. At the same time, he wins plaudits from investors for
his communication skills and efforts to sell underperforming
businesses as well as his experience managing several of the
company’s units, with stints in both California and Asia.  “He’s an inspirational personality and he’s in the
position to know the business of Siemens inside out,” said
 Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.4 billion euros ($1.8
billion), including Siemens shares, at Aramea Asset Management.
“I want less vision and more concentration on profit. Kaeser is
a numbers man, which is a positive.”  When Bloomberg News on July 30 reported he had been
approached by the supervisory board to take on the CEO job,
Siemens stock rose as much as 2 percent. Today, the shares were
up 1.6 percent as of 10:17 a.m.  Insider’s Knowledge  While Siemens opted for a clean slate with Loescher in the
wake of a corruption scandal, the company now needs an insider’s
knowledge of the business to reach profit goals and catch up
with competitors, said investor Boehm. Loescher, the first CEO
to come from outside the company in its 166-year history, was
ousted after five profit-forecast cuts in his six-year tenure.  “It’s very hard to manage a company of that complexity
without having networks that you’ve built over years,” said
 Christian Stadler , who teaches strategic management at Warwick
Business School,  England . “That’s a very decisive advantage for
Joe Kaeser.”  Kaeser has spent his whole career at Siemens since joining
as a business administration graduate from Regensburg’s
 University of Applied Sciences  in 1980. That hasn’t stopped him
gaining experience around the world.  Giving Praise  A four-year spell as finance head of Siemens’s San Jose,
California-based microelectronics unit helped Kaeser cultivate
an interest in American football and cemented his preference for
the nickname Joe over the Josef on his birth certificate.
Kaeser, who also spent some time in Asia, became chief strategy
officer in 2004 before being promoted to the top finance job in
2006.  Kaeser, who was born in  Arnbruck , nestled in the Bavarian
forest on the border with the Czech Republic, and still has his
family home there, has sought to motivate employees and aides
with personal gestures. After Siemens sold a majority stake in
its Siemens Enterprise Communications after a stressful set of
negotiations in 2008, Kaeser personally thanked everybody
involved, said a person familiar with the matter.  Investors also welcomed the “One Siemens” initiative
pushed by Kaeser and introduced in 2010. The intention was to
measure the company once every six months against its peers and
set targets accordingly. While the program still exists, it was
subsumed by Siemens’s 100 billion-euro revenue goal.  Bringing Calm  “Our top priority will be to bring calm to our company and
stabilize its internal order,” Kaeser said at a press
conference in Munich yesterday. “Many Siemens businesses are
currently quite successful. What counts now is to stabilize and
expand these businesses. We’ll largely leave things the way they
are and change only a few things.”  Since Loescher, who was recruited by Chairman Gerhard Cromme, took over in July 2007, the shares have declined 22
percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has more than doubled in that period,
while  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical company, jumped 37
percent and Germany’s largest drugmaker  Bayer AG (BAYN)  climbed 51
percent.  The company yesterday reported a 31 percent drop in
quarterly operating profit. Siemens had a profit margin of 9.5
percent in 2012 when competitors  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and General Electric
Co. had margins of 10.3 percent and 15 percent, respectively.  “It’s too early to talk about a number which could replace
our 12 percent target,” Kaeser said in Munich. “Siemens’s DNA
is electrification. That’s where we will focus the value-creation chain.”  ‘Cost Cutter’  To revive profits, Kaeser should focus on fewer businesses,
sell underperforming assets and make sure that the company
incurs fewer charges for mismanaged projects, investors and
analysts have said.  “He’s probably more of a cost-cutter, so the portfolio
streamlining efforts will likely continue and even accelerate,”
said Societe Generale analyst Gael de Bray, who rates Siemens a
hold.  Siemens agreeed to sell its share in a six-year phone gear
venture to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  for 1.7 billion euros earlier this month,
with Kaeser leading the negotiations for the German company.  Siemens also this year separated from its Osram lighting
business as part of a drive to sell units with low profitability
or growth prospects. Earmarked for sale are also a water
business and units offering parcel automation, airport logistics
and airfreight.  Other Opportunities  Kaeser has almost become CEO of other German companies on
at least two prior occasions. In 2009, family-owned holding
company Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH approached Cromme, intending to
make Kaeser their new chief, according to two people with
knowledge of the talks. Cromme vetoed the bid, saying Kaeser was
needed at Siemens.  Kaeser also was this year under consideration to replace
Linde AG CEO Wolfgang Reitzle when he steps down next May,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  He was also passed over for the Siemens CEO job in 2007,
when the company appointed Loescher, then a little known Merck &
Co. executive, to replace Klaus Kleinfeld, who had resigned in
the midst of  Germany ’s biggest-ever corporate corruption
scandal. Representatives for Franz Haniel, Linde and Siemens
declined to comment.  The fear of losing Kaeser to someone else was an important
factor in Siemens choosing him as CEO, one person familiar with
the matter said.  “The only person who can lead Siemens is someone who knows
its operations from experience,” said Wolfgang Niclas, an
employee representative for the IG Metall union at Siemens’ main
manufacturing site in Erlangen. “Loescher was unable either to
convince employees to join him or to make the correct business
decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  