-- Slump Seen Brief as Taj to ITC Seek Expansion: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n   a n d   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 2013-07-31T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/slump-seen-brief-as-taj-to-itc-seek-expansion-corporate-india.html
Hotel operators in India are pressing
ahead with their expansion plans, undeterred by the worst
economic slowdown in a decade that has eroded their earnings and
value of their shares.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest cigarette maker by market
value and a franchisee of the Sheraton brand in the South Asian
country, is developing at least 18 projects, Nakul Anand, chief
executive of its hospitality business, said in an interview.
 Sterling Holiday Resorts India Ltd. (SLHR)  will double its rooms in the
next three years, while  Indian Hotels Co. (IH) , the owner of the Taj
brand hotel chain, plans to spend 2 billion rupees ($33 million)
in the next 18 months.  “The hotel industry is going through a little rough patch
and this is a temporary lull,” said Anand. “As soon as the
economy picks up, our business will pick up. In the next one
year, it’s going to be tough and the results of the hotel
companies show that.”  The hospitality sector in Asia’s third-largest economy is
struggling to recover from a slump as average luxury room rates
fell 18 percent in the four years through 2012 and a brutal gang
rape in New Delhi tarnished India’s reputation and deterred
women visitors. Shares of Indian Hotels and  EIH Ltd. (EIH) , the owner
of the Oberoi brand of hotels, have more than halved in the past
three years, while those of Sterling have slid 32 percent.  Challenging Environment  Indian Hotels reported its first annual  loss  since at least
1997 in the year ended March 31 as sales growth slowed to the
least in three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
EIH had its smallest  profit  since 2005, while Sterling has seen
group  losses  in the last four years.  The pace of growth in tourist arrivals into the country
slowed to 2.8 percent in the year ended March 31 from 9.9
percent in the previous year, according to data provided by ITC.  Amid such a “challenging” environment caused by a
prolonged crisis in  Europe  and a slump in the U.S., a “positive
long-term outlook” for room demand has helped the company
sustain investment in hotels, ITC said in its  annual report .
Three properties are slated for opening in the coming year after
the company unveiled its 522-room super-premium ITC Grand Chola
in Chennai in 2012.  While ITC’s investment is supported by  cash flow  from its
tobacco business, Indian Hotels is adding capacity through
management contracts, said Rashesh Shah, an analyst with
ICICIdirect.com. ITC’s cash and short-term investments stood at
88 billion rupees as on March 31, compared with 2.3 billion
rupees for Indian Hotels, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Silki Nanda, a spokeswoman for the Oberoi Group that
controls EIH, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comments on
the slowdown and expansion plans.  Share Slump  Sterling, which started in 1986 to cater to domestic
tourists and family vacationers, plans to increase the number of
rooms across its resorts nationwide to as many as 3,000 by March
2016, from 1,512, Managing Director Ramesh Ramanathan said in an
interview. Billionaire Rakesh Jhunjhunwala owns 3.67 percent of
Sterling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The sentiment in terms of discretionary spending is
lower,” Ramanathan said. “We’ve managed to cut costs in
several areas. Maybe going ahead in another two quarters things
will turn around for us.”  In the past three years, Indian Hotels shares have slumped
55 percent in Mumbai to 44.25 rupees, while EIH slid 59 percent
to 46.90 rupees. In the same period, ITC has more than doubled
to 341.70 rupees.  Rupee Opportunity  The rupee’s 8.9 percent depreciation against the dollar
this year may discourage Indians from traveling overseas and
benefit Sterling’s resorts, said Ramanathan. A weaker currency
may also boost the spending power of visitors, making  India  an
attractive destination for foreigners as Europe and the U.S.
recover from a slump, said Vikram Dhawan, director at Equentis
Capital Pvt. in Mumbai.  “Rupee weakness will help the hotels get more customers,”
Dhawan said. “A bulk of the corporate crowd and the well-heeled
people who come to India prefer these luxury hotels.”  Supply in the domestic hospitality sector rose by 24
percent in the year through March, while demand lagged behind by
3 percentage points, Raymond Bickson, managing director of
Indian Hotels, said at a press conference on May 30. India has
200,000 rooms versus 5 million in the U.S., which has a smaller
population, and 3 million in  China , according to him.  “India is outpacing the growth of many other economies,”
he told reporters. “We still need a lot of convention
facilities, hotels, rooms to keep up with that.” Indian Hotels
plans to add 1,590 rooms in the current financial year and 1,098
next year, he said.  Travel Cuts  The $1.8 trillion economy expanded 5 percent last fiscal
year, the slowest pace since 2003, as companies and businesses
curtailed travel budgets. Occupancy rate at luxury hotels fell
to 59.9 percent in the year through March 2012 from 73.8 percent
in 2006, according to data provided by the  Federation of Hotel
and Restaurant Associations of India . Average room tariffs
declined to 9,192 rupees from 11,200 rupees in 2008.  A spate of rape cases in India has also contributed to a
drop in tourists. The number of female visitors to India has
fallen as much as 35 percent since the December assault on a
young medical student in  New Delhi , according to the  survey  of
1,200 tour operators nationwide by  Assocham , one of India’s
largest business lobbying groups.  The slowdown, which has reduced visitors to historic sites
such as the  Taj Mahal  in Agra and Jaipur’s forts as well as the
capital, came during the peak winter season for travel to India.  Rape Cases  In the first six months of 2013, reported rapes in New
Delhi soared to 806 from 330 in the same period a year earlier,
according to Deepak Mishra, special commissioner of the police
force. Molestation cases rose sixfold to 1,780.  “The violence against women we have seen is definitely a
negative that is proving to be a dampener for people planning to
visit India,” Equentis’s Dhawan said.  An economic recovery in the U.S. and Europe will help India
to recover, spurring demand for hotel rooms, M.D. Kapoor,
secretary general of FHRAI, said in an e-mailed statement.  With the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark rate at an all-time low of 0.5 percent, economic reports suggest the currency
bloc is starting to emerge from a record-long recession. Euro-area manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in July for the first
time in two years, data showed last week, and German business
confidence improved for a third month.  “In the coming quarters, there will be a steady
improvement in the demand scenario,” said Kapoor. “Occupancy
and rates will stabilize first before a rebound.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  