-- Solvay Cuts Forecast as Energy Clients Buy Less on Price Drop
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-07-31T09:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/solvay-cuts-forecast-as-energy-clients-buy-less-on-price-drop.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the world’s largest maker
of guar-derived gelling agents used in hydraulic fracturing,
abandoned its forecast for  profit growth  this year as clients in
the energy and electronics industries cleared inventories.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items will be little changed from last year’s 1.88
billion euros ($2.49 billion) when adjusted for exceptional
income, Brussels-based Solvay said today in a statement. That
compares with analyst projections for Ebitda of 1.88 billion
euros, the average of 23  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Declining prices for guar gum and rare earths used in light
bulbs led customers to postpone purchases and clear their
stocks, affecting Solvay’s most profitable businesses. With no
recovery so far in demand for chemicals such as soda ash and
fluor-based refrigerants and facing excess capacity in plastics,
Solvay had to pass on almost all of its lower raw-material costs
into prices in the quarter.  “The quality of the results was slightly lower than
expected,” Wim Hoste, an analyst at KBC Securities NV in
Brussels, wrote in a note to clients. “The slight change in the
wording of the full-year guidance is no major issue.”  Solvay fell as much as 3.5 percent on Euronext Brussels and
traded 1.5 percent lower at 102.55 euros by 11 a.m. local time.
The shares have returned  25 percent  including dividends in the
past 12 months, exceeding the 20 percent return for the 24-company Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index.  Cash Generation  The lowered forecast and weakness in some of Solvay’s
growth businesses, which was offset by the sale of all its
remaining carbon credits, casts doubt about Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu’s 2016 profit target, which
requires growth of about 20 percent annually.  Cash generation also suffered in the quarter because of
increased tax expenses and  rising inventories  amid maintenance
shutdowns, even as the chemicals maker reduced  capital spending 
in the quarter. Net debt increased to 1.57 billion euros from
1.31 billion euros at the end of March.  Clamadieu approved a budget of as much as 950 million euros
in spending projects this year, a 21 percent increase from 2012,
to expand production of guar derivatives, silica for tires and
specialty polymers to help meet his 2016 target for earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and one-time
items of 3 billion euros.  New Finance Chief  Solvay spent only 319 million euros in the first half,
slightly less than in the same period a year earlier.  To confront weak demand in its European home market for
commodity products and potential competition from producers
outside the 28-nation bloc profiting from lower feedstock
prices, Solvay has announced cost-reduction programs in
polyamides and soda ash of 100 million euros annually each and
agreed to join forces with Ineos Group Holdings Ltd. for vinyls
with an option to exit the business as early as 2018.  Clamadieu expects to complete that deal by the end of the
year after making progress in discussions with European
antitrust regulators.  Separately, Solvay said Bernard de Laguiche will quit as
chief financial officer and will be replaced as of Oct. 1 by
Karim Hajjar, formerly a finance director at Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc. De Laguiche is leaving to pursue personal interests
in  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  