-- Sony Shares Sink on Report Board to Reject IPO of Unit
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-08-01T01:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/sony-shares-sink-on-report-board-to-reject-entertainment-ipo.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  fell as much as 3.1
percent in Japan trading after Nikkei reported the company is
poised to reject billionaire Daniel Loeb’s proposal to sell part
of the entertainment unit in an initial public offering.  The company declined to its lowest level in more than a
month before trading at 2,036 yen at 10:20 a.m. in Tokyo. Sony’s
New York-traded shares earlier retreated to their lowest close
in more than a month. At a board meeting yesterday, some Sony
directors objected to the plan from Loeb’s Third Point LLC hedge
fund to sell part of the business that creates and distributes
films, TV shows and music, Nikkei said. A formal rejection is
expected soon, the report said.  “The Sony board and management continues to review the
Third Point proposal, and we have no comment on this report,”
Jim Kennedy, a New York-based spokesman for Sony, said in an e-mail. Mami Imada, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the electronics
maker, declined to comment. Elissa Doyle, a managing director at
Third Point, also declined to comment.  Sony’s shares have more than doubled this year in  Tokyo ,
propelled by investor optimism that Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai
is making progress turning around the maker of Xperia phones,
PlayStation video-game consoles and Bravia TVs. New York-based
Third Point, which disclosed a stake in Sony in May, has been
pressuring Hirai to go further by selling as much as 20 percent
of the entertainment unit to the public.  Management Critique  Loeb contends an independent board and shareholders will
force management of Sony’s film, television and music operations
to become more disciplined and responsive to investors. The
company reports first-quarter earnings today and is expected to
post a profit of 2.6 billion yen ($27 million), according to the
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The activist stepped up his criticism of the entertainment
unit’s management in a July 29 quarterly letter to Third Point
investors, citing box-office disappointments for big-budget
films “After Earth” and “White House Down,” and pointing out
that Sony’s entertainment profit margins lag behind peers. He
said the unit needs closer supervision amid a lack of franchises
and bloated costs, and called on Sony to more fully address
entertainment results with investors.  “Given entertainment’s perpetual underperformance, perhaps
Sony’s reluctance to discuss it candidly stems from
(understandable) embarrassment,” Loeb wrote in the letter.  Entertainment Ties  Sony is working with Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. to
evaluate Loeb’s proposal, people familiar with the matter said
in May. The company’s advisers made recommendations to the board
yesterday, Nikkei reported. While some directors resisted a
spinoff, Sony will consider disclosing more information about
the entertainment unit, according to the report.  Today’s earnings report will give investors more evidence
as to whether Hirai is making headway with the struggling
electronics unit he considers the company’s highest priority.  Hirai has stressed the importance of ties between
electronics and the entertainment businesses, suggesting Sony
movies and music will help sell gear against competitors
including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and low-cost Chinese
manufacturers.  Sony’s film and television production arm has grown
operating earnings 37 percent over the last five years, compared
to little-change profit in total for U.S. film groups, according
to Dan Ernst, an analyst with Hudson Square Research in New York,
who has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Disney, Viacom  Large media companies with broadcast and cable networks,
including Time Warner Inc.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  and
21st Century Fox Inc., have generated higher operating margins
as Loeb has suggested, Ernst said in a recent report. However,
he said, Sony’s film and TV operating profit is on par with its
peers when compared with competitors’ similar segments and
adjusting for how film costs are amortized. Sony doesn’t operate
a television network.  Third Point said in May that it held a Sony stake valued at
$1.1 billion, and since then it has increased its holding. Third
Point owned 70 million shares through direct ownership and cash-settled swaps as of mid-June, and is interested in
representation on Sony’s board, according to a June 17 letter to
Hirai. The holding represents about 6.9 percent of shares
outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 