-- Spitzer Faces Limits on Playing Sheriff Again as NYC Comptroller
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-31T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/spitzer-faces-limits-on-playing-sheriff-again-as-nyc-comptroller.html
Eliot Spitzer  promises that if he
gets elected  New York  City comptroller, he’ll shake up the
office, using about $80 billion in pension  stock holdings  to
keep corporations well-managed and socially responsible.  The former New York governor, who resigned in a
prostitution scandal, wants to change the comptroller’s role
in the same way he revamped the state attorney general’s office
when he ran it from 1999 through 2006. Beyond merely auditing
agencies and reviewing contracts, he would examine programs to
determine how well they are achieving their goals, Spitzer said.  Yet if elected, the former “Sheriff of  Wall Street ” will
find that the comptroller’s office lacks the firepower he had
targeting banks as the state’s top law-enforcement officer. He
would have to share stewardship of five pension funds with 58
board members appointed by unions and other officials. He would
also be working without the prosecutorial authority state law
gave him as attorney general.  “The comptroller is not a Lone Ranger,” said Harrison Goldin, who held the post from 1974 to 1989. “The comptroller
has to act in concert with others.” Goldin has endorsed
Spitzer’s opponent, Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer,
in the Sept. 10 Democratic primary.  Wall Street  As attorney general, Spitzer, 54, rose to prominence by
exposing conflicts of interest between Wall Street firms’
analysts and investment bankers. He disclosed subpoenaed e-mails
and other evidence to persuade  Merrill Lynch & Co. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and other securities firms to pay $1.4 billion in pretrial
settlements, rather than go to court on charges they misled
consumers with biased research.  He was then elected governor, serving for less than 15
months before getting caught patronizing high-priced
prostitutes, which forced him to step down in 2008.  Spitzer says he wants to create a coalition of
institutional investors, including other public funds, unions
and nonprofits for a campaign he says could improve corporate
profitability and social responsibility by selecting high-caliber board members, rationalizing executive compensation and
forcing public disclosure of corporate political activity.  “Ownership trumps regulation as a way to change
behavior,” Spitzer said in a July 29 telephone interview.
“What’s been missing has been a unified organizing presence
that weaves shareholders together.”  Unions Opposed  As comptroller, Spitzer would be denied one of his most
potent weapons as attorney general: use of the  Martin Act , a
previously obscure 1921 state law granting broad power to
prosecute financial fraud. Instead, his stewardship of New
York’s pension funds will test his ability to work with dozens
of board members, including appointees from unions, most of
which have endorsed and raised money for Stringer.  Spitzer, who is financing his own campaign, says his lack
of union support means he wouldn’t be beholden to special
interests in setting policy. Stringer says the failure to get
labor backing shows that Spitzer would have difficulty working
with others. Spitzer is also opposed by some women’s groups and
business leaders.  Stringer, 53, also says that what Spitzer presents as a new
idea for the comptroller’s office really isn’t so new. Since
2006, the New York City funds have sponsored 119 of the 214
 proposals  put forth by government employee pensions at Fortune
250 companies, according to ProxyMonitor.org, a website
sponsored by Center for Legal Policy at the  Manhattan Institute 
for Policy Research.  Late Start  “Eliot is so late to the game,” Stringer said in an
interview. “City pension funds have a proud history on
corporate governance and responsibility, going back decades to
disinvestment of South African companies for its racial policies
in the 1980s.”  Stringer says his own views on using pension funds’
shareholder clout to influence corporate management and
decision-making parallel Spitzer’s.  “You have to be aggressive with corporate-governance work,
and need to press for reforms that improve accountability,
transparency, efficiency and performance because that’s good for
business,” Stringer said. “But you have to approach this work
with balance and maturity and work with a lot of people. It’s
wrong to think you’re the sheriff of our pension fund.”  Even when pensions successfully influence corporate
behavior, they don’t have much of an impact on asset value,
according to Brad Barber, a professor of finance at  University
of California , Davis. Public pension activism yields “weakly
positive” improvements in shareholder value of about 0.3
percentage point, said Barber, who has studied the performance
of the  California ’s Public Employees’ Retirement System’s
governance program.  ‘Gotcha’ Headlines  Spitzer also says he’ll revamp the way the comptroller
audits city agencies, measuring a program’s performance against
its goals, not just how an agency spends money.  “An audit should be done not only to ensure that the paper
clips that we bought are delivered but also whether policies for
which we are investing billions of dollars are in fact
generating the results we want,” Spitzer said.  Stringer’s description of how he’d perform in the job
doesn’t vary much from Spitzer’s.  “I would use the audit powers aggressively but
constructively so we could get real solutions from government
and not just get ‘gotcha’ headlines,” Stringer said. “It’s
about demanding performance and cutting waste.”  No Club  Elizabeth Holtzman, a former U.S. representative and
Brooklyn district attorney who served as comptroller from 1989
to 1993, said she used the pensions’ shareholder power to prod
Exxon Corp., now  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to revamp its environmental
practices after the 1989 Valdez oil tanker disaster, and to
pressure companies accused of race- or gender-based employment
discrimination.  “You don’t have a club, but you do have the power of
persuasion,” she said. “In the end, all you can do is try to
be persuasive, so it’s those skills that matter.”  Holtzman, former Comptroller  William Thompson  and former
state Comptroller H. Carl McCall have endorsed Stringer.  As attorney general and governor, Spitzer had a reputation
for confrontation, not collaboration. He sued Merrill Lynch
without informing the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and as governor he referred to himself as a “steamroller” who
wouldn’t rule out campaigns against fellow Democrats.  As comptroller, Spitzer won’t be able to impose his will on
the five boards that control the public pensions, whose assets
are valued at about $140 billion.  Union Resistance  When  John Liu , the current comptroller, called for the
pensions to sell their gun stocks following the shooting deaths
of 20 children at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school last
year, the city’s police retirement fund refused.  Liu did score a win last year when, under pressure from the
city pensions,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five other technology companies
agreed to promote greater transparency of their suppliers’
compliance with standards on  workplace safety , human rights and
environmental responsibility.  Using the pensions to take more aggressive stands on
environmental and social issues runs the risk of conflicting
with the funds’ fiduciary duty to get the highest investment
returns for retirees, said  Ross Sandler , director for the Center
for New York City Law and New York Law School.  “If climate change really matters, does that mean you
can’t invest in Exxon or any gas or oil company, which pay good
dividends?” said Sandler. “You’ve now raised the potential for
a conflict.”  Spitzer presents the potential to change corporate power
structures because he has shown a willingness to shame company
officials into bending to his will, said James Copland, director
of the Center for Legal Policy at the Manhattan Institute, which
generally opposes government regulation of business.  “He’s mastered the art of influence by press conference,”
said Copland. “If you’re a company that sells to the general
public and Spitzer is out there saying you’re evil because
you’re not doing what he says you should do, there’s the
potential he can do much more damage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York, NY 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  