-- Stocks Beat Bonds by Most Since January as Crude Oil Climbs
-- B y   L u   W a n g ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-08-01T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/stocks-beat-bonds-dollar-by-most-since-january-as-oil-climbs.html
Global stocks rose in July, beating
bonds and the dollar by the most since at least January, while
commodities had the best returns in 11 months as corporate
profits topped analysts’ estimates and investors reversed bets
on when the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (SPX)  of equities in 45 markets
climbed 4.8 percent, including dividends, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose to a record. Bonds of all types returned
0.3 percent on average, ending two months of losses, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index of
20,000 fixed-income securities. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index 
slipped 1.4 percent as investors sought higher-risk assets. The
S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities climbed 4.9
percent, the most since August last year.  About $2.4 trillion was added to global share values in
July as companies from  Bank of America Corp.  to Apple Inc. and
Daimler AG beat earnings estimates. Treasury yields dropped from
a two-year high after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17
that the end of bond purchases is not on a preset course,
allaying speculation the central bank was preparing to phase
out, or taper, stimulus as U.S. payrolls increased.  “When investors look around and believe that the global
economy, including the U.S., is generally stabilizing and
turning positive, they move more toward risk-on assets,” Sandy Lincoln, the Chicago-based chief market strategist in the U.S.
with BMO Global Asset Management, which oversees about $120
billion, said in a telephone interview. Bernanke’s comments
“calmed down the nerves on the bond side.”  Best Month  Global stocks capped the best month since June 2012 as all
but nine of the world’s 45 biggest equity markets advanced,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI world index
rose 1 percent as of 4 p.m. in New York today and the  S&P 500 
climbed above 1,700 for the first time.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index advanced the most, jumping 14 percent,
after the military ousted Islamist President Mohamed Mursi,
triggering $12 billion of aid pledges from Persian Gulf
countries and stoking bets the economy will recover once violent
clashes subside. Chile’s Ipsa index slumped 7.4 percent for the
worst performance as the central bank cut its growth forecast.  The S&P 500 finished the month up 5 percent, extending its
advance for the year to 18 percent, as hiring, housing and
manufacturing improved. About 73 percent of the companies that
reported earnings during the month  exceeded  analysts’ profit
forecasts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Decent’ Earnings  “Earnings have been decent,” Greg Woodard, a strategist
in Fairport, New York, at Manning & Napier Inc., which has about
$48 billion under management, said in a phone interview. “The
corporate sector has done a good job.”  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, rallied 14
percent in July as lower provisions for bad credit and cost cuts
helped fuel a 63 percent increase in quarterly profit for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company.  Apple (AAPL) , in Cupertino, California, jumped 14 percent as the
maker of the iPhone and iPad reported higher third-quarter sales
and profit than analysts forecast, soothing concern increased
competition and saturation in the smartphone market would drag
the company into a prolonged slump.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart, Germany, surged 12 percent.
The world’s third-largest maker of  luxury vehicles   forecast 
significant gains in second-half earnings as the western
European auto market bottoms out and new models spur demand.  The rally has driven equity  valuations  to a three-year
high, with the S&P 500 trading at 16.2 times reported operating
earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark index
may end the year at 1,669, a 1 percent retreat from the closing
level yesterday, according to the average of 17 estimates from
strategists in a Bloomberg survey.  Bond Yields  Average yields on bonds worldwide fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage points, to 2.02 percent last month as of July
30, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad
Market Index. The benchmark gauge, which tracks debt securities
with a market value of about $44 trillion, has declined 0.9
percent in 2013.  Greek bonds were the best performers in July among the 26
sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 4.8 percent,
as the country won the release of a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3
billion) loan installment from international lenders. South
African debt lost the most, with a 0.8 percent decline.  Treasury Bonds  U.S. bonds fell 0.2 percent for the third straight monthly
decline, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Treasury Index. Speculation that the Fed will start scaling back
its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases pushed 10-year
Treasury yields to 2.75 percent on July 8, the highest level
since August 2011. They were at 2.70 percent today.  The Fed said yesterday at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting that persistently low inflation could hamper the
economic expansion. The central bank pledged to keep buying $85
billion in bonds every month.  “Not fighting the Fed is a well-established market
position,” Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said July 30 in an
interview. Englander previously worked at the New York Fed and
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. “The
market is still saying we expect rates to go up.”  Yields on 10-year  U.S. government debt  may be little
changed at 2.6 percent by the end of the year, according to the
median estimate of 68 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
They fell to a record 1.38 percent in July last year.  High-yield bonds returned 2.3 percent in July, according to
the Bloomberg Global High Yield Corporate Bond Index as of July
30. Speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  Dollar Index  The Bloomberg Dollar Index, which tracks the currency
against 10 major peers, had the biggest monthly retreat since
June 2012 as investors anticipated the Fed’s monetary policy
will remain accommodative.  Poland’s zloty rallied 4 percent against the greenback, the
most among the 31 most-traded peers. The Polish central bank
adopted a neutral view on monetary policy after lowering its
 reference rate  to a record, with Governor  Marek Belka  predicting
a gradual recovery in the eastern European economy.  Malaysia’s ringgit weakened about 2.6 percent for the worst
performance among emerging market currencies.  The  U.S. dollar  is forecast to strengthen 5 percent to
$1.26 per euro by the end of the year and climb 7 percent to 105
yen, according to the median estimates from analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Commodity Rally  Commodities rallied as gasoline, crude oil and  gold prices 
posted their biggest advances since at least August 2012 to lead
gains among the 24 raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI index.  Gasoline futures surged 11 percent as unplanned refinery
shutdowns by Irving Oil Corp. in New Brunswick, Philadelphia
Energy Solutions on the U.S. East Coast and Korea’s National Oil
Corp. in Newfoundland reduced fuel supplies. Gasoline at the
U.S. pump, averaged nationwide, climbed 4 percent to $3.627 a
gallon as of July 30, according to AAA.  Crude oil advanced 8.8 percent as inventories plummeted
while fuel consumption increased. West Texas Intermediate crude
cost $105.03 a barrel in New York, $2.67 below London-traded
Brent. WTI rose above Brent July 19 for the first time since
2010 before losing ground at the end of the month.  Oil Supplies  U.S. crude stockpiles capped their biggest four-week drop
in data going back to 1982, decreasing by 29.9 million barrels
in the period ended July 19, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.
Refineries used 16.2 million barrels a day of  crude  in the week
ended July 12, the most since August 2005, according to the EIA.  “The month of July is spectacular for the oil bulls,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in Chicago. “Demand has been pretty strong and refinery
runs are high.”  The U.S. oil will average $98 a barrel this quarter, based
on the median of 31 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Brent will average $105.33.  Gold jumped 7.3 percent to $1,313 an ounce as central banks
from Russia to Kazakhstan expanded their bullion reserves amid
speculation that continued monetary stimulus will boost demand
for the precious metal as a hedge against inflation.  Russia’s gold holdings, the seventh-largest by country,
climbed for a ninth straight month in June, while Kazakhstan and
Ukraine were among nations that added bullion, the  International
Monetary Fund  said July 25.  Gold Retreat  Gold prices have tumbled 22 percent this year, on pace for
the worst annual drop since 1981, after some investors lost
faith in the precious metal as a store of value following a 12-year  bull market .  Corn fell 6.3 percent to $4.79 a bushel, dropping for a
sixth straight month, the longest losing streak since November
1996. Farmers have boosted output after a drought cut 2012’s
harvest by 13 percent and sent corn to a record $8.49 a bushel a
year ago.  World  production  is expected to jump 12 percent to 959.7
million metric tons this year, according to the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture . Domestic output would surge 29 percent to a
record 13.95 billion bushels in 2014, the USDA forecast.  “We are moving from a tight global supply to rising
inventories,” said  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities
Inc. in  West Des Moines , Iowa. “You can’t keep producing more
when demand is leveling off. We may be talking about sub-$3
corn” by next year, he said.  ‘Risk Appetite’  The back-to-back monthly gains in commodities helped the
S&P GSCI index recoup more than half of a 6.2 percent plunge in
April and May, while the July rally in stocks marked a rebound
from the first monthly loss of the year for the S&P 500 and the
biggest monthly drop for the MSCI world index since May 2012.  “What we saw in the month of July, and really the whole
first half of the year, was a big improvement in investor risk
appetite,” said Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based
market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about
$130 billion in client assets. “The market seems to be
conveying a message that the future growth rate for the economy
and earnings is going to be much better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  