-- Suez Environnement Expects Acquisitions in Europe Waste Industry
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-07-31T14:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/suez-environnement-expects-acquisitions-in-europe-waste-industry.html
Suez Environnement (SEV) , a French water
and waste company, expects acquisitions in the trash-handling
industry as valuations drop, and may make purchases itself.  “There are waste assets for sale, maybe more now,”  Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Louis Chaussade said today in an
interview. “Things are moving. Our growth has been mostly
organic until now. We’ll see.”  Water and waste utilities in  Europe  have seen their market
values drop as manufacturers shutter factories to survive the
economic slowdown, curbing demand for industrial garbage
collection. Cheaper valuations may make targets more attractive
for companies such as Suez Environnement, whose comments today
indicate a purchase may come sooner than previously expected.  Chaussade said in November that the Paris-based utility may
bide its time and look to buy assets in about two years.
Interest in the industry has since intensified, with billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  and partners agreeing to
buy Dutch waste processor AVR Afvalverwerking BV for 943.7
million euros ($1.25 billion) last month.  “There are possibilities all over Europe,” Chaussade said
today. “In waste, everything could be bought or sold, the
question is at what price, synergies and opportunities.”  Suez Environnement, Europe’s second-biggest water company,
today reported a threefold increase in first-half profit and
said its waste-handling business may pick up. The utility
competes with Paris-based  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  for municipal
and industrial water and waste-treatment contracts.  Valuations for waste-handling companies in Europe have
dropped “considerably,” according to Chaussade. Five years ago
they were hovering at 10 to 12 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, and are now as low as
five.  “Consolidation will take place,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  