-- SunPower Making Panels at Full Speed, May Boost Capacity
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-07-31T23:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/sunpower-reports-second-quarter-profit-on-higher-demand.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-largest
U.S. solar manufacturer, is selling panels as fast as it can
make them and is seeking ways to expand production capacity in
anticipation of increasing global demand.  The company reached “full manufacturing utilization” in
the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer Chuck Boynton said
during a conference call yesterday. It’s considering expanding a
production joint venture with the Taiwanese electronics maker  AU
Optronics Corp. (2409)  or building new fabrication facilities.  SunPower is mulling an expansion as the rest of the
industry contends with a global oversupply of panels that’s
driven down prices and margins. Chief Executive Officer  Tom Werner  is seeking to position the company to gain share,
especially in  Asia .  “We’re fully allocated,” Werner said in an interview
yesterday. “There are times you wish you could build a new
fab.”  SunPower’s sales in Asia doubled in the second quarter to
$101.9 million from $48.2 million a year earlier, driven by
surging demand in  Japan  where the government is promoting wider
use of solar panels to replace electricity from shuttered
nuclear  power plants . The company estimates is has about 10
percent of the country’s residential panel market.  The company expects to be profitable in Europe this year,
and is developing financing mechanisms to spur demand for
rooftop projects in the U.S.  “The speed of international development is a sign of many
positive things,” Werner said. “When things turn on, they tend
to turn on very quick, very fast.”  Capital Efficiency  Other solar companies are unlikely to follow SunPower’s
lead by expanding capacity,  Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst at
Lazard Capital Markets in  New York , said yesterday in an
interview. The global oversupply of panels has had less of an
impact on SunPower because demand has remained strong for its
products, which are among the most efficient in the industry.  The company will probably seek manufacturing partners
before it opens a new factory, he said.  “They’ll probably look at ways of being capital-efficient
in terms of expanding manufacturing, likely looking at contract
manufacturing,” he said.  The company shifted to a profit in the quarter, beating
estimates. Net income was $19.6 million, or 15 cents a share,
compared with a net loss of $84.2 million, or 71 cents, a year
earlier,  San Jose , California-based SunPower said in a statement
yesterday. Revenue slipped 3.3 percent to $576.5 million.  Beating Estimates  Including $73.5 million in revenue from utility power
plants the company is building, and excluding some restructuring
expenses, earnings were 48 cents a share. That beat by 37 cents
the average of 13 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  SunPower shares have more than quadrupled this year, the
strongest  performance  on the WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index. The company last reported a profit in the
fourth quarter of 2010.  The company  expects  earnings this year of $1 to $1.30 a
share, compared with a May forecast of 60- cents to 80 cents a
share, on sales of $2.45 billion to $2.55 billion.  SunPower is benefiting from higher prices in  Europe  and
surging demand in Japan, Ben Kallo, analyst at Robert W Baird &
Co. in  San Francisco , said in an interview before the earnings
were released. He raised his price target to $34 a share from
$24 in a July 30 research note.  “I think the market is improving across many regions and
many sectors,” Kallo said. “Because of their diversification I
think they’ll benefit.”  First Solar Corp. is the largest U.S. solar manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  