-- Syria’s Assad Agrees to UN Chemical Weapons Investigation
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/syria-s-assad-agrees-to-un-chemical-weapons-investigation.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government has agreed for the first time to let  United Nations 
inspectors into his country to investigate three reported
incidents of chemical weapons use, UN spokesman  Martin Nesirky 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The Assad regime made the agreement after discussions last
week in Damascus with Angela Kane, the UN High Representative
for Disarmament Affairs, and Ake Sellstrom, head of the UN team
of chemical weapons experts created in March, Nesirky said.  The UN will send the investigators “as soon as possible”
to probe the three incidents, which include an alleged March
chemical attack in Khan al-Asal, a town near Aleppo, that killed
at least 30 people, he said, without giving further details.  Sellstrom’s team of experts hasn’t been able to get a
first-hand look at evidence and construct a chain of custody in
the face of conflicting claims by the Assad government and the
armed opposition over the alleged use of chemical weapons in
 Syria ’s two-year civil war. The UN so far has received 13
reports of such allegations, Robert Serry, the UN special
coordinator for the Middle East peace process, told the  Security
Council  on July 23.  The main Syrian political opposition group formed a
commission on July 28 to investigate the killing of dozens of
people during recent fighting in Khan al-Asal, where the Assad
government said a group linked to al-Qaeda had killed 123
people. Some bodies were mutilated and thrown in a ditch on the
outskirts of town, while others were incinerated, according to
the Syrian Foreign Ministry’s letter to the UN.  ‘Red Line’  President  Barack Obama , who in June pledged increased
support for rebel forces in Syria not allied with Muslim
extremists, has repeatedly said the use of chemical weapons by
Assad’s regime would cross a “red line” for the U.S.  The Syrian conflict began on the heels of the widespread
revolts in Arab nations in 2011. More than 100,000 people have
been killed in Syria and millions have either been displaced or
become refugees in neighboring countries, UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon told U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  during a
July 25 meeting in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  