-- U.S. Senate Confirms ATF’s First Director Since 2006
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/u-s-senate-confirms-atf-s-first-director-since-2006.html
The  U.S. Senate  confirmed B. Todd Jones as the director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives, giving the law enforcement agency its
first permanent director in seven years.  The Senate voted yesterday to confirm Jones, who has been
sharing time between serving as the agency’s acting director and
as the U.S. attorney for  Minnesota , 53-42.  The confirmation marks a win for President  Barack Obama ,
who has pushed for lawmakers to approve Jones as part of a broad
effort to crack down on gun violence. Confirmation of the
agency’s director has been stymied since 2006 by political
fights over government oversight of gun owners, and Obama in a
statement called the vote “welcome and overdue.”  “For nearly seven years, Senate Republicans had refused to
confirm an ATF director,” the president said. “Not because
they thought the nominees weren’t qualified, but because they
put politics ahead of the agency’s law enforcement mission.”  Obama’s proposals, laid out earlier this year after the
Dec. 14 school shooting in Newtown,  Connecticut , that killed 20
children and six adults, have mostly stalled in Congress due to
opposition from gun-rights groups. The Senate confirmation of
Jones was included in Obama’s package of priorities in January.  Jones, 56, who didn’t receive any Republican support during
committee consideration of his nomination, has faced scrutiny of
his record by Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican.  ‘Alarming Allegations’  Grassley, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committtee,
said investigations and complaints raised in law enforcement
circles related to Jones’s management style required lawmakers
to spend more time on the nomination.  “I do not believe that we should simply rubber stamp this
nomination and sweep the alarming allegations under the rug,”
Grassley said.  In the end, with a push from Senator  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Judiciary panel, the Jones
nomination cleared the committee and was brought to the floor.  “It has been held hostage by partisan politics for too
long at the expense of public safety,” Leahy said yesterday.  Under Senate rules, six Republicans voted to proceed to the
nomination vote on Jones, forcing Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to leave the procedural vote open for more than five hours
to secure the required 60 votes.  The chamber was waiting for Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a North
Dakota Democrat, to return to Washington from her home. One
Republican, Senator  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois , joined Democrats in
voting to confirm Jones.  Rebuilding Agency  Jones has led the agency since 2011 in an acting capacity
as it has attempted to recover from a botched federal gun
operation known as Fast and Furious that led to resignations,
demotions and detailed inquiries. During his tenure atop the
ATF, it has played a leading role in the investigations of the
April 15 Boston Marathon bombing and the West,  Texas , fertilizer
plant explosion.  “He literally has never turned down a tough assignment,”
Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, said yesterday in
Senate debate before the vote. “Todd Jones has an impressive
background that makes him well prepared to lead the ATF.”  Jones, in his June confirmation hearing, said when he
started his job he “discovered an agency in distress.”  “There had been a lack of strong, visionary leadership and
of accountability and attention to detail,” Jones, who served
in the U.S. Marines, told lawmakers.  The gun operation, known as Fast and Furious, allowed
individuals purchasing guns believed to be for Mexican drug
cartels to “walk” with the guns in an effort to track their
eventual location. The agency ended up losing more than 2,000
firearms, including weapons that were found at the scene of the
murder of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry.  “He was able to come in after that and clean up the agency
and make some very tough decisions,” Klobuchar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  