-- U.S. Credit Swaps Fall After Fed Report; BMC Plans Bond Offering
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-31T21:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/u-s-credit-swaps-rise-bmc-said-to-plan-1-38-billion-bond-sale.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk in
the U.S. fell for a second day after the  Federal Reserve 
maintained the pace of its bond purchases. BMC Software Inc. is
planing to sell $1.38 billion of bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.8
basis point to a mid-price of 74.8 basis points at 4:19 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It fell as
low as 73.3 after the Fed announcement.  The central bank pledged at the end of its two-day meeting
to continue buying $85 billion of bonds in a program that’s
bolstered credit market. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
reaffirmed that a “highly accomodative” stance will remain in
effect for a “considerable time,” according to a statement
today.  “When we think Fed tapering is at bay for a while, the
taste for yield continues and that contributes to a risk-on
environment in the corporate-bond market,” Kathy Jones, a
fixed-income strategist at Charles Schwab & Co. in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “As long as the Fed provides a
lot of liquidity to the market, it’s good for corporate
issuers.”  The credit-swaps index typically drops as investor
confidence improves and increases as it deteriorates. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Employment Change  U.S. businesses added 200,000 new jobs in July, compared
with a revised 198,000 gain in June, according to figures from
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute. The median
estimate of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase of 180,000.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 1.7 percent annualized rate in
the second quarter after a revised 1.1 percent gain in the prior
period, according to a Commerce Department report in  Washington .
A Bloomberg survey of 85 analysts forecast annualized growth of
1 percent.  The Fed reiterated that reduction of asset purchases would
depend on improvements in the economy, noting that “economic
activity expanded at a modest pace during the first half of the
year.”  ‘Credit Risk’  “The market is getting comfortable with the fact that
tapering will be gradual,” said George Rusnak, managing
director of fixed-income strategies for Wells Fargo Private Bank
in Philadelphia. “As people get more comfortable that it will
not be a quick exit and it will be data dependent, then it makes
sense to take on more credit risk as spreads compress.”  BMC (BMC)  is planning to market $1.05 billion of dollar-denominated bonds and 250 million euros ($331.7 million) of
notes, both maturing in eight years, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction. The securities may be rated Caa1
by Moody’s Investors Service and may be sold next week, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Proceeds from the information-technology provider’s sale
will be used to help fund its purchase by a group led by Bain
Capital LLC and Golden Gate Capital, according to the person.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt widened
1 basis points to 128.9 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 1.5 basis points to 370.1 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 4.3 basis points to 557.1 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  