-- U.S. Declassifies Court Order Allowing Record Collection
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-31T17:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/u-s-declassifies-court-order-allowing-record-collection.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration released previously classified  documents  on the
government’s collection of millions of U.S. phone records,
including a secret order that authorized and set limits for the
program.  The Office of the Director of National Intelligence
released today an April 25 court document, along with two
briefing papers provided to Congress that describe the program’s
use. Some text is redacted.  “We welcome a public debate about how best to safeguard
both our national security and the privacy of our citizens,”
Deputy Attorney General James Cole said in testimony before the
Senate Judiciary Committee today. “We will be considering in
the coming days and weeks further steps to declassify
information and help facilitate that debate.”  The government’s disclosures shed new light on the scope of
tools utilized by intelligence and law-enforcement agencies
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Each of the
documents calls the programs critical to halting future plots
and presents the methodology and restrictions in place to guide
their use.  They don’t include the legal rationale for the programs
which, along with the large-scale collection, has raised
concerns from lawmakers in both parties.  “If this program is not effective, it has to end,”
Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and the chairman of
the committee, said today. “So far I’m not convinced by what
I’ve seen.”  ‘Among Us’  Top intelligence and law-enforcement officials are
defending the data-collection programs from criticism -- and
proposals for legislative curbs -- since their disclosure by
former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.  U.S. agencies are also facing pressure from technology
companies including Yahoo! Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , to allow the disclosure of the role the
private sector plays in the classified programs.  General Keith Alexander, the director of the NSA, said at a
conference in Las Vegas today that intelligence agencies need to
maintain their access to the data.  “Terrorists use our communications,” Alexander said in a
speech at the Black Hat annual computer security conference.
“They live among us.”  Internet Surveillance  Snowden, who’s currently in the Moscow airport and facing
charges of espionage and theft in the U.S., also disclosed the
existence of an Internet surveillance program, known as Prism,
that collects information on foreign citizens believed to be
outside the U.S. and involved with terrorist organizations.  His disclosures, mostly released by the Washington Post and
The Guardian, have restarted a debate that had subsided in the
wake of President George W. Bush’s administration.  The Guardian today  reported  on another program disclosed by
Snowden, called XKeyscore, which the organization said allowed
NSA analysts to search databases containing e-mails, online
chats and the browsing histories of individuals.  Lawmakers have zeroed in on the program that gathers
millions of phone records from U.S. citizens into government
computers, authorized by the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court  under the Patriot Act. The court, which operates in
secret, has come under scrutiny for being too willing to approve
intelligence-agency requests.  Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat and
chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said today she would
consider including curbs on the phone-data program in the annual
intelligence authorization bill.  Legislation Considered  Those changes, according to Feinstein, would include the
requirement of annual reports on the number of warrants obtained
by the FBI to collect the content of calls, the number of U.S.
phone numbers submitted as queries to a NSA database and the
number of times per year a private company is required to
provide data as part of the program.  Top intelligence and law-enforcement officials have made
repeated trips to Capitol Hill, participating in public hearings
and in classified closed-door briefings, to defend the
initiatives.  James Clapper, the director of national intelligence, said
in a June 26 letter to senators that the phone record-collection
program began in 2006 and is reauthorized by the the Foreign
Surveillance Intelligence Court every 90 days. Clapper pointed
to congressional reauthorization of the law permitting the
collection, as well as its oversight, in the letter.  Congress Briefed  Included in the information declassified today were
 briefing materials  provided by the Justice Department to
lawmakers on the House and Senate Intelligence and Judiciary
committees that described the phone-record program.  The materials, provided in 2009 and 2011, consist of five
pages that outline the use and restrictions imposed on the
program. They also include the request that all members of
Congress have an opportunity to access the contents in a
classified setting over a limited period of time.  The declassified documents include the outlines of a
broader effort to collect electronic communications of U.S.
citizens under the program -- a practice that U.S. officials say
ended in 2011.  Those programs “operate on a very large scale,” according
to the documents provided to lawmakers in February 2011.  ‘Compliance Problems’  The briefing materials include the acknowledgment that
“there have been a number of technical compliance problems and
human implementation in these two bulk programs.” The briefing
said NSA and the surveillance court found no “intentional or
bad-faith violations.”  The officials’ efforts so far have failed to quell
lawmakers’ concerns that the programs undermine individual
liberty, including privacy rights.  While lawmakers today said they appreciated the latest
declassification effort, they also criticized its timing and the
forced nature of the debate over the programs.  “Ad-hoc transparency doesn’t engender trust,” Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, said during today’s hearing.  Democratic Senators Mark Udall of  Colorado  and Ron Wyden of
 Oregon  have been among the programs’ most vocal critics. They’ve
been joined by lawmakers from both parties.  Curtailment Urged  The two senators have called into question the testimony of
intelligence officials that the phone-record program has been an
integral part of halting or disrupting terror plots. They have
called on Obama’s administration to end the program while
proposing legislation to curtail its use.  A House proposal to defund the NSA programs came seven
votes short of passing July 24.  Democratic and Republican lawmakers across the political
spectrum now say they’re drawing plans to restrict data
collection, declassify court orders allowing the spying and
change the way the court’s judges are appointed. The 17-page
order released today was signed by Judge Roger Vinson.  Underpinning efforts to curb the NSA programs is a shift in
public opinion about government surveillance activities
fashioned after the Sept. 11 attacks. A July 17-21 Pew Research
Center survey found 47 percent of adults polled have greater
concern over the reach of U.S. anti-terrorism policies, while 35
percent were concerned they didn’t go far enough.  That marked the first time civil liberties concerns have
trumped protection from terrorism since the organization began
asking the question in 2004.  Transparency Sought  While House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi of  California 
voted against the effort to defund the programs, she
subsequently asked the White House to seek changes. Pelosi and
153 other House Democrats sent Obama a letter July 26, urging
curbs that would “preserve American’s privacy and civil
liberties while protecting our national security.”  Top lawmakers on the House and Senate Judiciary and
Intelligence committees, which have oversight of the programs,
are working on proposals to curb or provide more transparency to
the NSA programs.  Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican
who sponsored the Patriot Act in 2001, and Democratic
Representative Zoe Lofgren of California are working together on
legislation to allow businesses to disclose their involvement
with surveillance orders.  A separate Sensenbrenner bill would limit collection of
phone data to targets of a federal terrorism investigation and
put new restrictions on the surveillance court, said Ben Miller,
a Sensenbrenner spokesman.  Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat and
member of the House Intelligence Committee, has introduced two
measures since the Snowden revelations that would revamp the
court. One would change the selection process for the court’s
judges, taking it out of the hands of the U.S. Supreme Court
Chief Justice to allow White House input and Senate
confirmation. The other seeks to declassify many of the court’s
secret rulings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  