-- Hugo Boss Second-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Stores
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-07-31T15:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hugo-boss-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-stores.html
Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  reported earnings that
beat estimates after the German luxury-clothing maker opened
more stores and tightened inventory handling to protect pricing.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items rose 31 percent to 101.8 million euros ($135
million), Metzingen-based Hugo Boss said in a statement today.
The average estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was
98.1 million euros.  “We’ve become more proficient in the use of our
inventory,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Langer said in a
telephone interview from the company’s headquarters. “It allows
us to be even stricter on markdown policies in our retail
operations.”  Retail sales will be the “growth engine” this year, Chief
Executive Officer Claus Dietrich Lahrs said in March. The
company added 61 directly operated stores in the first half.
 Hugo Boss  has moved toward the higher-end segment after merging
its Boss Selection range with the core Boss brand a year ago,
and has worked on improving its womenswear by appointing Jason Wu as creative director for the arm in June.  The value of inventory was down 9 percent to 446 million
euros at the end of June, compared with a year earlier, Hugo
Boss said today. Adjusted for currency effects, inventory fell
by 7 percent.  Shares Gain  Hugo Boss shares rose 0.2 percent to 87.18 euros in
 Frankfurt  today, valuing the company at 6.14 billion euros.  The gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting production costs, widened to 65.8 percent from 62.4
percent, partly as a result of lower inventory valuation and
retail sales growth, Hugo Boss said. The average estimate was 63
percent.  “The gross margin improvement is extremely positive,”
said Anna Patrice, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.
“Inventories are clean so we should expect fewer promotions
going forward, which will be positive for the margin.”  Second-quarter sales jumped to 531.7 million euros from
485.3 million euros. The average estimate of 14 analysts was
539.3 million euros. Wholesale revenue rose 6 percent on a
currency-adjusted basis because of the new collection cycle,
while retail sales increased 15 percent.  Global Footprint  “Hugo Boss remains a quality growth stock that offers a
global footprint” and solid revenue-earnings dynamics,  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a note
today. “We see long-term opportunities in retail expansion in
 Asia  and the U.S.,” product diversification and sales-productivity improvement. He recommends that clients buy the
stock.  Sales  in Asia  rose 7 percent on a currency-neutral basis,
while climbing 14 percent in  Europe  and 9 percent in the
Americas. Lahrs said in March that the proportion of sales Hugo
Boss gets from Europe may fall to about half by 2015 from 60
percent last year as the suitmaker expands in the U.S. and Asia.  “We continue to expect a challenging retail environment in
Europe,” Langer said today. “In terms of trends, I would
expect a similar pattern in the second half to what we’ve seen
in the first half. However, we remain confident on retail
opportunities.”  Fashion Events  China will perform better in the second half of the year,
he said, citing benefits of fashion events and the merger of
Boss Selection and the core Boss brand.  Ebitda before special items and sales on a currency-adjusted basis will rise at a high single-digit rate this year,
Hugo Boss reiterated today.  Hugo Boss aims for revenue of 3 billion euros and Ebitda of
750 million euros in 2015, with the retail business representing
at least 55 percent of revenue by then.  Permira Advisers LLP, based in  London , acquired in 2007 a
majority holding in Valentino Fashion Group SpA, Hugo Boss’s
parent company at the time. The private-equity firm owns about
56 percent of Hugo Boss after selling a 10 percent stake in an
accelerated bookbuilding in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  