-- Ukraine’s Second-Quarter GDP Shrinks 1.1% in Year on Weak Demand
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-07-31T10:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ukraine-s-second-quarter-gdp-shrinks-1-1-in-year-on-weak-demand.html
Ukraine’s  economy  contracted for the
fourth quarter on an annual basis as industrial production
slumped because of weak global demand for the country’s
products.  Gross domestic product shrank 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from the same period a year ago, matching the median
estimate in a  Bloomberg survey  of eight economists, the state
statistics committee, based in the capital Kiev, said in a
statement on its  website . The economy slid 0.4 percent in the
first three months.  Ukraine slipped into recession in mid-2012 as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbed demand for export goods such as steel. The country
exited its second recession in four years in the first quarter
of this year after GDP grew 0.6 percent from the previous three-month period.  “A low comparison base and a strong harvest, which is
expected to increase from the previous year on higher yields,
will help GDP to advance in the second half of the year,”  Olena Bilan , the chief economist at Dragon Capital Investment bank,
said by phone. “We maintain our full-year projection of  0
percent growth.”  Ukraine’s grain harvest will climb 20 percent to about 56
million metric tons this year, according to estimates by the
 Agriculture Ministry .  The government also plans to resume cooperation with the
 International Monetary Fund  late this year and secure an
agreement for a “long-expected” new loan program of about $15
billion, Ukrinform newswire reported yesterday, citing First
Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Arbuzov.  The government has failed to seal a third IMF bailout since
2008 because of disagreements over heating subsidies.  Ukraine’s government bonds due 2023 rose, pushing the yield
down to 9.439 percent as of 11:34 a.m. in Kiev from 9.463
percent yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Ukraine’s
hryvnia strengthened against the dollar to 8.1170 from 8.1278
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ; 