-- Hulu Targets Binge Viewers With Full Original Series
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-31T21:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hulu-targets-binge-viewers-with-full-release-of-original-series.html
Hulu LLC, the television streaming
service owned by Hollywood media companies, plans to provide all
episodes of original series at once to paying subscribers,
exploiting the popularity of so-called binge viewing.  Six episodes of “The Wrong Mans,” a co-production with
the British Broadcasting Corp., will become available on Nov. 11
for Hulu Plus subscribers, Andy Forssell, acting chief executive
officer, told reporters today at a TV critics conference in
 Beverly Hills ,  California . Customers of the free service will
have to wait each week for a new episode.  “With that show, it’s so easy to binge watch,” Forssell
said. “We think it will be a good opportunity to draw
subscribers to Hulu Plus.”  Hulu is taking a page from its larger competitor,  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) , which releases whole seasons of new programs at once,
letting eager viewers plow through all episodes quickly.  “The Wrong Mans” is a comedy about two office workers who
become caught up in a deadly criminal conspiracy.  Los Angeles-based Hulu will release 20 exclusive and
original series this year and plans to increase that to 40
within two years, Forssell said. When possible, the service will
release all episodes of a show at once on Hulu Plus, the $8 a
month service.  Hulu, where annual revenue doubled last year to $690
million, is owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, 21st Century Fox
Inc.’s Fox and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal. The owners canceled
a sale of Hulu earlier this month and decided to invest $750
million to help attract subscribers and take on Netflix.  Co-Financing Shows  Even with more than 4 million subscribers, Hulu Plus loses
money, mostly due to higher content costs, a person familiar
with the matter said last month. Depending on how it grows, Hulu
Plus could be profitable in 18 months, the person said. Hulu’s
free, advertising-supported version, which attracts 30 million
unique visitors a month, makes money, the person said.  To gain access to more exclusive content, Hulu and its
competitors will become more involved in co-financing programs
with partners, Forssell said. Hulu co-funds shows with the  BBC ,
while Amazon.com Inc. is sharing costs of  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “Under
the Dome” series.  “More than becoming our own studio, that’s the direction I
see the industry moving,” Forssell said.  Hulu will air two episodes tomorrow of the animated series
“The Awesomes,” a comedy about a pack of superheroes from  Seth
Meyers  of “Saturday Night Live” and Mike Shoemaker of “Late
Night with  Jimmy Fallon ,” it said today in a  statement  on its
website. “Quick Draw,” a comedy Western, becomes available on
Aug. 5, it said.  Eva Longoria  “Behind the Mask,” a documentary series on amateur and
professional mascots, will be available for streaming on Oct. 29
and “Mother Up!,” an animated series with the voice of Eva Longoria, will be posted on Nov. 6.  Hulu also announced new exclusive shows. “Run,” a four-part series about inner-city life, becomes available on Aug. 20.
The animated series “Fugget About It,” featuring a former mob
boss who enters witness protection in small-town  Canada , will
begin streaming on Oct. 13. “Strange Calls,” about a detective
demoted to investigating weird phone calls, will start on Oct.
19, the company said.  “Misfits” will return for a fifth season and  Chris
O’Dowd ’s “Moone Boy” is getting a second season, Hulu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  