-- Tunisia Forces Hunt Militants After Soldier Mutilations
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-07-31T10:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/tunisia-forces-hunt-militants-after-soldier-mutilations.html
Tunisian security forces stepped up
their hunt for al-Qaeda-linked militants in areas bordering
 Algeria  after the killing and mutilation of eight soldiers
fanned anti-government protests.  Military aircraft were sent late yesterday to scour the
area around Mount Chaambi, about 180 miles (290 kilometers) west
of Tunis, where the bodies of the soldiers were found on July
30. Five were found to have been mutilated after being shot
dead. Reinforcements have also been sent to bolster forces
deployed to the area in December after al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb was accused of killing a member of the National Guard.  The ambush of the soldiers, the largest militant attack
against Tunisian forces in recent years, has fueled street
protests triggered by the July 25 killing of Mohamed Brahmi, a
secular opposition leader. Critics of Ennahda, the moderate
Islamist-led party leading the coalition government, say it has
failed to protect civilians from radical Islamists.  “People are already angry and the deaths of the soldiers
will give ammunition to the opposition,” Anna Boyd, Senior
Middle East Analyst at London-based IHS Country Risk, said in an
interview. “It will further polarize the society.”  Prime Minister Ali Larayedh rejected calls for the
coalition to step, saying it will fulfill its mandate. He said
the new constitution would be ready by August and proposed
general elections on Dec. 17.  Attack Warning  The secular Ettakatol party is among groups demanding the
coalition resign. Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddo, an
independent, yesterday said he’s ready to leave office and
called for the formation of a government of national unity.  The soldiers were traveling in a military vehicle when they
were ambushed by “Islamist terrorists,” the government said.
They were shot dead, then stabbed and disfigured, according to
Chadli Almaqsodi, a doctor in the regional Kasserine hospital.
Another four were seriously wounded.  Zied El Heni, a Tunis-based political analyst, said the
killings were intended to warn the Tunisia government to abandon
efforts to aid Algerian counter-insurgency efforts in the border
region. They were “a letter signed and addressed to the
authority in Tunisia,” he said.  The government says Brahmi and Chukri Beleid, another
secular opposition leader assassinated earlier this year, were
killed with the same weapon by the same radical Islamist,
Boubaker Hakim. Beleid’s death led to the downfall of Prime
Minister Hamadi Jebali in February, undermining the transition
to democracy in the birthplace of the 2011 Arab Spring.  Photos of the dead soldiers, which were broadcast on
Tunisian television this week, “caused a real earthquake in our
souls,” said Ghada Malki, 31, an elementary school teacher.
“It made us wonder about what sort of future is in store for
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  