-- Vestas Gains as HSBC Sees Market Recovery: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-31T08:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/vestas-gains-as-hsbc-sees-market-recovery-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose more
than other benchmark stocks in Copenhagen trading today after
HSBC Holdings Plc said the turbine maker is well position to
benefit from a market recovery.  Vestas gained as much as 2.6 percent, making it today’s
biggest winner in the Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 index. The stock
added 2 percent to 111.20 kroner at 9:48 a.m. local time with
trading volume at 20 percent of the three-month daily average.  The global wind turbine market is set to improve as demand
and prices pick up, HSBC said today in a note to clients.
Vestas’s position as “the most geographically diversified”
turbine maker means the company will benefit more than
competitors from an increase in demand, the bank said. HSBC
raised its price target on the share by 30 percent.  “Vestas’s strong order inflow in the second quarter and
rising activity levels in the U.S. lead us to raise our long-term estimates,” HSBC analysts, including Sean McLoughlin, said
in the note.  Vestas, which is competing with General Electric Co. for
the No. 1 spot in the global wind turbine market, has lost money
for two years as overcapacity in the industry pushed down
prices. This year, the shares have more than tripled in value
after an influx of new orders fueled investor optimism that the
producer will return to profit.  “We see clear long-term value,” HSBC said today. “This
justifies entry point at current levels despite re-rating.”  HSBC raised its share price estimate to 130 kroner from 100
kroner and repeated a recommendation that investors overweight
holdings in the stock.  Vestas is due to report second-quarter earnings on Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  