-- Vodacom, MTN Said to Be Interested in Madagascar Acquisition
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-07-31T13:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/vodacom-mtn-said-to-be-interested-in-madagascar-acquisition.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  and  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN) ,  South Africa ’s largest wireless companies, have expressed
interest in expanding into Madagascar by buying Telecom Malagasy
SA, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The Johannesburg-based companies are interested in
acquiring closely-held Telma, as the carrier is called, to
diversify sources of revenue, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are private. Telma, based
in the Madagascar capital of Antananarivo, is seeking a buyer,
people familiar with the matter said in February. It is valued
at about $500 million, one of the people said at the time.  South African wireless companies are looking at other
African markets as consumers increasingly use more profitable
data-enabled smartphones and as domestic voice service revenue
declines. Vodacom, which is 65 percent owned by  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , is planning to expand into three additional countries by
the end of the 2014, Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said
in an interview in May.  Telma competes with  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Orange SA (ORA)  in
Madagascar and has more than 1.8 million mobile subscribers,
according to a 2011 corporate review on its  website . That’s
about 30 percent of the market, the phone operator said.  “We explore investment opportunities on a regular basis,”
Vodacom said in an e-mailed statement, declining to comment on
specific companies or countries. In an e-mailed statement, MTN
declined to comment on whether it’s interested in Telma. Calls
to Telma’s offices went unanswered.  Wireless Pentration  Madagascar, located about 450 kilometers (280 miles) east
of mainland Africa, has a population of more than 22 million.
Its $10 billion economy is forecast to expand 2.6 percent this
year, compared with 1.9 percent in 2012, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  Madagascar had 38 wireless subscribers per 100 people in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compared
with 99 in the fellow island nation of Mauritius and 127 in
South Africa, the continent’s largest economy.  Madagascar, the world’s second-largest producer of vanilla
and cloves, has been in political crisis since 2009 when  Andry Rajoelina , a 39-year-old former nightclub DJ, seized power from
President  Marc Ravalomanana  with the help of the Indian Ocean
island nation’s army. The country is scheduled to hold elections
on Aug. 23 and the African Union has threatened to impose
sanctions on Rajoelina and two other presidential candidates,
including Ravalomanana’s wife, unless they meet demands to
withdraw from the race by today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  