-- Which Chinese City Will Become the Next Detroit?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-07-31T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/which-chinese-city-will-become-the-next-detroit-.html
Where is  China ’s Detroit? A few
weeks ago, the answer to that question would have been an
optimistic  shortlist  of  towns  with  thriving automobile
industries . But since Detroit filed for bankruptcy on July 18,
the question has become this: Which Chinese city will be the
poster child for the country’s growing  multitrillion-dollar
local-government-debt  problem?  In 2010, China’s National Audit Office  announced  that local
governments had amassed a debt of $1.73 trillion, driven largely
by borrowing for construction, infrastructure and debt service.
Easy credit meant to avert the worst of the global financial
crisis only served to worsen the problem: Local debt will grow
to $2.63 trillion by the end of the year, equal to 29 percent of
gross domestic product,  according to Huatai Securities  Co. Ltd.
 A 2012 audit  of 36 local governments found $624.6 billion in
debt -- suggesting there are at least a few Chinese cities with
debt equal to, or in excess of, the $18 billion that sunk
 Detroit .  These facts have been covered extensively in China’s
financial press for several years without making much of an
impression outside of it. But in the almost two weeks since
Detroit filed for bankruptcy, there has been a noticeable
change. Palpable fiscal anxiety, in part driven by photos of
decaying Detroit in newspapers and on newscasts, has found
increasing expression in Chinese social media and on the
editorial and commentary pages of the country’s leading news
sites.  Underlying this discussion is the sense that China’s three
decades of economic resurgence is being threatened by public
officials who are unable or unwilling to learn from the mistakes
of other countries, much less take responsibility for their own
errors. Yet despite the very real warning that Detroit has
sounded for China’s local governments, most commentators have
been careful to note the different causes -- and outcomes -- of
debt crises in both countries. “Because the two systems of
government are different, Chinese officials will never have to
take responsibility for a government bankruptcy,”  noted 
JollyRoger398, an anonymous Sina Weibo user in Liaoning
Province, on July 21.  The critiques don’t just target governing philosophy. As
other users of Sina Weibo have pointed out, China’s local debts
are largely held by state-owned institutions that don’t
necessarily need to be paid back (unlike Detroit’s creditors).
Taizhou Laomo, the Sina Weibo handle for the director of the
Taizhou Media Group in Zhejiang Province, expressed the
frustration of many when he  tweeted  on July 29: “Our local
governments are like unlimited liability companies. No matter
how much money is borrowed, nobody has to pay. The result is the
issue is buried and more debt is issued, while nobody knows the
real risk and how to deal with it.”  Similarly, Mao Xiaogang, a columnist with state-owned
Beijing Daily, wrote a widely circulated column, “ Detroit’s
bankruptcy is a warning to us as well ,” on July 26. He
carefully noted that real-estate development -- an activity
widely  associated  with corrupt local-government officials who
have access to land -- has played a major role in China’s local-government-debt accumulation:  “Certainly, China’s local-government debt problem is
different from America’s. For instance, Detroit’s debt was
driven by the pressure of welfare burdens, pensions, medical
care and  unemployment benefits . But in China debt was incurred
by trying to increase GDP via investment, infrastructure and the
construction of hotels, offices and government buildings, while
the social welfare benefits are secondary. Regardless of the
different causes, both cases result in deficit spending and a
mortgaged future. If the local-government debt bubble bursts,
the consequences are unthinkable.”  Of course, not every Chinese newspaper and netizen views
Detroit’s bankruptcy as an opportunity to highlight American
virtue at the expense of Chinese corruption. On July 25,
People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of China’s Communist
Party, editorialized that Detroit’s bankruptcy was an expression
of American democracy’s failure. “When Detroit was in need of a
helping hand on this critical issue, the  Democratic Party  and
the  Republican Party  ignored the people’s well-being in favor of
their respective interests and continued to quarrel while making
excuses,” the paper wrote. The editors concluded: “It’s
noteworthy that the  United States  is similar to Detroit in that
it is struggling under a huge debt. The vicious cycle of living
beyond one’s means seems to have become institutionalized.
Detroit’s fall sounds the alarm.”  People’s Daily doesn’t lack for adherents to its ongoing
narrative of the U.S.’s decline. But there is a surprisingly
 small number  of similar commentaries in the Chinese news media
and online. Rather, for weeks, Chinese netizens have devoted
much of their commentary to  salivating  over Detroit’s cheap,
spacious homes, especially as compared to  the cramped,
unaffordable abodes  available to most Chinese.  And many Chinese -- including  newspaper commentators  --
have taken away a more practical lesson: Local Chinese economies
need to diversify. “It is very dangerous to rely on a single
industry and a single resource,”  tweeted  Lu Shangbin, a
professor of journalism at Wuhan University. “‘Motor city,’
‘coal city,’ ‘oil city,’ ‘copper city,’ ‘steel city’ may
experience worse fates than Detroit’s if they don’t undergo some
economic restructuring.”  The urgency for Chinese leaders to prevent their own
Detroit appears to be real: On July 28, China’s National Audit
Office issued  a one-sentence statement  noting that it was
undertaking a national audit of government debt at the behest of
China’s State Council (an organization roughly equivalent to a
U.S. presidential Cabinet). Later that day,  People’s Daily
reported  that the audit office would suspend its other work and
begin the national audit on July 29. No word yet on whether
they’ll release the results or the name of China’s Detroit, if
and when they find it.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.  Follow  him on Twitter.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Kirsten
Salyer at  ksalyer@bloomberg.net . 