-- Hyatt Jumps Most Since 2011 as Demand Up for U.S. Hotels
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-07-31T20:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hyatt-earnings-jump-as-demand-increases-for-u-s-hotels.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  rose the most in
20 months after the chain controlled by the Pritzker family said
second-quarter profit jumped as  travel demand  climbed at its
U.S. properties.  Net income climbed to $112 million, or 70 cents a share,
from $39 million, or 24 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
company said today in a statement. Hyatt rose 6 percent to
$45.25 at the close in New York, It was the biggest gain since
November 2011.  Hyatt is benefiting from increased demand by individual
business travelers and vacationers, especially in North America,
which accounts for two-thirds of the company’s operating income,
according to Nikhil Bhalla, an analyst at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  in
Arlington, Virginia.  “These results should be well-received and potentially
represent a key inflection point operationally,” Carlo Santarelli, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
after the earnings release. Hyatt had better-than-expected
revenue per available room, an industry measure of occupancy and
rates, said Santarelli, who has a buy rating on the stock.  Second-quarter revpar increased 7.1 percent from a year
earlier for owned and leased hotels, and 3.9 percent systemwide,
which includes properties managed and not owned by Hyatt.  “Occupancy was at peak levels in several markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark Hoplamazian said on a conference call
with investors. “Revpar was therefore driven by rate
increases.”  ‘Strong Markets’  Adjusted earnings, which exclude items such as gains on the
sale of real estate, were $70 million, or 43 cents a share. The
average estimate of 23 analysts was 30 cents a share, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose to $1.09 billion
from $1.01 billion from a year earlier.  “Strong demand in the U.S., particularly in cities like
 Chicago , which is their home market, helped them,” Bhalla said
in a telephone interview before the report.  The hotelier expects Chicago and Orlando, Florida, to be
“strong markets” in the future, Hoplamazian said.  Hyatt increased its investment spending outlook for the
year to more than $500 million, including an expected $325
million investment in the resort segment.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, is scheduled to report earnings after markets
close today.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of
the luxury St. Regis and W brands, last week said second-quarter
earnings climbed 12 percent from a year earlier, helped by cost
cuts and sales of vacation units at the company’s  South Florida 
resort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  