-- Yes Bank Falls After Raising Rates for First Time in Two Years
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-07-31T08:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/yes-bank-falls-after-raising-rates-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
Yes Bank Ltd. (YES) , the Indian lender
with the lowest bad debt ratio, plunged in Mumbai trading after
a cash crunch prompted it to raise lending rates for the first
time in almost two years.  Yes Bank shares  declined  9.2 percent to 316.55 rupees as of
1:38 p.m. in Mumbai, headed for the lowest close since May 2012.
The stock was the worst performer on the S&P BSE Bankex index, a
gauge for 13 banks, which fell 2.7 percent.  The lender raised its  base rate  by 25 basis points to 10.75
percent and deposit rates by as much as 50 basis points with
effect from Aug. 1, according to an e-mailed statement today.
Yes Bank’s move to raise interest rates, the first lender to
increase borrowing costs since the Reserve Bank of India
tightened liquidity to support the rupee, will slow credit
growth at the company, according to Hatim Broachwala, an analyst
with Karvy Stock Broking Ltd.  “Increase in lending and deposit rates suggests that Yes
Bank expects the tight liquidity scenario to continue for some
time,” said Mumbai-based Broachwala. “Investors see this as a
drag on loan growth and profitability.”  The central bank raised two interest rates this month and
capped banks’ access to funds under the liquidity adjustment
facility to halt a slide in the rupee, which plunged to a record
low of 61.2125 a dollar on July 8.  Yes Bank will maintain its  net interest margin , a gauge of
lending profitability, above 3 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Rana Kapoor said earlier this month. The Mumbai-based company
reported a net bad loan ratio of 0.03 percent as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  