-- Yoox Repeats 2013 Outlook as Sales Surge in Italy, North America
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-31T17:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/yoox-repeats-2013-outlook-as-sales-surge-in-italy-north-america.html
Yoox Group (YOOX) , operator of e-commerce
stores for brands from Armani to Zegna, repeated its guidance of
revenue and earnings growth in 2013 after quarterly sales rose
18 percent, buoyed by demand in  Italy  and North America.  Second-quarter revenue grew to 97 million euros ($128.8
million) from 81.9 million euros a year earlier, Bologna, Italy-based Yoox said today in a statement after European markets
closed. Sales grew 19 percent in Italy and 31 percent in North
America, its biggest market. Net income, excluding incentive
plan costs, climbed 19 percent to 1.8 million euros.  Yoox, which last year set up an e-commerce venture with
Gucci-owner  Kering SA (KER) , is winning orders as value-conscious
customers search for deals online and increasingly shop for
clothing and accessories via phones and tablets. The online
luxury market will more than double to 15 billion euros by 2016,
estimates  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   “It is reasonable to expect that Yoox Group will continue
to increase revenues and profits in 2013,” the company said in
the statement, adding it had more than 1 million active users in
the first half.  Yoox shares retreated 1.3 percent to 19.73 euros today in
Milan, paring this year’s gain to 66 percent and giving the
company a market value of 1.14 billion euros.  Yoox, which designs and manages online stores for more than
30 fashion and luxury goods brands, said it signed yesterday a
six-year deal with Kartell SpA for a Web boutique in Europe from
the first quarter of 2014. The e-commerce operator has renewed
for another five years its partnerships with  Aeffe SpA (AEF) ’s
Moschino brand,  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Pucci
label and  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s Napapijri unit, it said.  In the second-half, Yoox’s single brand business will
benefit from the joint venture with Kering as well upgrades to
the online stores of a number of long-standing partners, the
company said. The multibrand operation, which includes the
yoox.com, thecorner.com and shoescribe.com Web stores, will
continue to achieve sustained growth, Yoox said.  Investments in operations and technology will continue at a
slower pace than in the first half of the year when Yoox’s
capital expenditure was 20.3 million euros, it said. Internal
initiatives to improve efficiency and ensure tight cost control
will also continue, Yoox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  