-- Zynga Sues Casual Sex App Over Trademark Infringement
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-31T15:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/zynga-sues-casual-sex-app-over-trademark-infringement.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  sued the maker of the
“Bang With Friends” casual sex Internet application, claiming
it infringes Zynga’s trademark for its “with friends” family
of games.  Bang With Friends Inc., which makes an application matching
Facebook friends anonymously for casual sex, registered its
 Internet domain name  last year, according to the complaint filed
yesterday federal court in San Francisco.  The company “selected the name ‘Bang With Friends’ for its
casual sex matchmaking app with Zynga’s game trademarks fully in
mind,” according to the complaint. The name infringes a
trademark covering games such as “Words With Friends” and
“Chess With Friends,” according to the filing.  Zynga seeks a court order barring the company from using
the name “Bang With Friends” in connection with any social-networking applications in the U.S. and unspecified damages.  “As a technology company, we take intellectual property
seriously, and will evaluate the case in detail once we receive
a copy,” Bang With Friends said in an e-mailed statement.  More than a dozen top managers have left Zynga since the
company’s December 2011 initial public offering, as waning
demand for its games on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s network has sent the
shares down more than 70 percent, eroding the value of equity-based compensation.  ‘Mafia Wars’  At the time of its IPO, Zynga was the largest maker of
games played on Facebook, with popular titles such as
“CityVille,” “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars.” The IPO raised
$1 billion, the biggest debut by a U.S. Internet company since
Google Inc. raised $1.9 billion in its 2004 IPO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Zynga filed a lawsuit to stop blatant infringement of its
valuable ‘With Friends’ brand,” Renee Lawson, the company’s
deputy general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement. “Zynga
is compelled to file suit to prevent further consumer confusion
and protect its intellectual property rights against
infringement.”  The case is Zynga Inc. v. Bang With Friends Inc., 13-03517,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha  at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 