-- 
JetBlue Said to Win U.S. Auction of New York, Washington Flights

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-11-24T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-23/laguardia-reagan-flight-slots-fetch-100-million-in-bids.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  beat rivals
that included  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  to win an auction for new
flights at  New York ’s LaGuardia airport and Reagan airport in
Washington, two people familiar with the matter said.  JetBlue will receive eight pairs of takeoff and landing
slots at each of the airports, said the people, who weren’t
authorized to comment publicly about the U.S. Transportation
Department auction.  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  said yesterday it won
the auction for eight other slot pairs at LaGuardia.  Southwest, the biggest discount carrier, is almost three
times as large as JetBlue based on passenger traffic. Dallas-
based Southwest had said it would bid for flights at both
LaGuardia International and Ronald Reagan National, where
federal rules limit the number of takeoffs and landings.  “They’re probably pretty disappointed at Southwest,”  Bob McAdoo , an Avondale Partners LLC analyst, said in an interview.
“Southwest has some nice slots, but they don’t have that good a
position. These kinds of auctions don’t come around that
often.” McAdoo rates the shares “market perform.”  Brandy King, a Southwest spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Southwest had eight daily LaGuardia flights and obtained 20 more
when it bought AirTran Holdings Inc. in May, a deal that also
brought 12 daily departures from Reagan.  Airlines can expand or start flights at LaGuardia and
Reagan only by securing flight slots. The airports are prized by
carriers because each is popular with business fliers who
typically buy the most-expensive tickets.  Delta, US Airways  The airlines bid on slots that  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  was
required to surrender to win U.S. approval for a trade of the
flight spots with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  at the two airports. The
auction may be the biggest for landing rights at LaGuardia and
Reagan, according to Sandy Rederer, a principal at consultant
Aviation Planning & Finance in Washington.  JetBlue’s winning bids totaled $72 million, while Calgary-
based WestJet bid $17.6 million, according to  data  on a
government website. Mateo Lleras, a spokesman for New York-based
JetBlue, declined to comment.  “It will be interesting to hear JetBlue’s plans for its
slots,” said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “Additional flights to Florida wouldn’t
appear to justify the price, and JetBlue doesn’t have a hub that
can use the feed from LaGuardia and National as Southwest
does.”  JetBlue has as many as 11 daily flights from LaGuardia and
nine from Reagan. The airline has the most daily domestic
flights from New York’s Kennedy airport.  ‘Dark Horse’  “WestJet was always the credible dark horse at LaGuardia,
given a strong cash position and it’s stepping up competition
against Air Canada for ‘golden triangle’ traffic -- Toronto,
Montreal and Ottawa,” Straebler said. “LaGuardia service to
any of these cities will be a nice complement.”  Securing the flight slots was a “once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity,” WestJet Chief Executive Officer Gregg Saretsky
said in a statement. “Our ability to serve New York
demonstrates we are focused on delivering on our business
traveler strategy.”  The other registered bidders were Frontier Airlines, a unit
of  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ; Spirit Airlines Inc.;
 Allegiant Travel Co. (ALGT) ; and closely held Sun Country Airlines Inc.  Auction Rules  Under rules set for the auction, airlines or affiliates
already holding a certain amount of slots couldn’t participate.  The rules say the government won’t identify winners until
carriers complete the sales, which must be done by Dec. 1. The
Transportation Department declined to comment further, spokesman
 Bill Mosley  said in an e-mail.  US Airways and Delta are awaiting approval from the  Port
Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  to complete the LaGuardia
side of the swap, after securing federal consent.  The Transportation Department also approved the Reagan
portion, although the U.S. Justice Department has yet to sign
off. The airlines have said they hope to close the transaction
this year.  The exchange would give Atlanta-based Delta 132 more pairs
of LaGuardia slots, assuring control of more than half the
flights there. US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, will get 42
pairs at Reagan, $66.5 million in cash and an additional daily
route to Sao Paulo and will scale back unprofitable operations
at LaGuardia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  