-- 3M Dropping Office Unit Deal Leaves Avery Seeking Buyer
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-04T13:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/3m-dropping-office-unit-deal-leaves-avery-seeking-buyer.html
3M Co. (MMM) ’s retreat from a $550 million
office-products purchase amid regulatory pressure will let it
focus on an even bigger acquisition while forcing deal partner
 Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY)  to put the unit back on the block.  Avery fell the most in a month today following yesterday’s
announcement. Investors may be concerned that Avery will
struggle to get another offer and a price that comes close to
3M’s, said  Ghansham Panjabi , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
in New York.  “When one of the national bidders is out of the process
now, then by definition there are fewer bidders for the asset,”
Panjabi said. “The likelihood of the sale is pretty high. The
question is, ‘At what price does it get done?’”  3M terminated the Jan. 3 sale accord to buy Avery’s office-
products business amid U.S. Justice Department opposition
because of overlap between the companies. The move reversed 3M’s
pledge last month to keep pursuing federal approval and came
after Chief Executive Officer Inge Thulin agreed Oct. 1 to pay
$860 million for ceramics maker  Ceradyne Inc. (CRDN)   Avery slid 4.6 percent to $29.99 at 9:48 a.m. in New York.
The stock dropped as much as 6.2 percent for the biggest
intraday decline since Sept. 4.  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M
rose 0.2 percent to $93.80.  3M Statement  Avery said yesterday it would continue to seek a buyer for
the office products division, which provided 13 percent of 2011
sales. The Pasadena, California-based company wants to dispose
of the unit as profit drops because of waning U.S. consumer
demand and private-label competition, said Panjabi, who has a
neutral  rating  on the stock.  “While we are disappointed with this turn of events, we
remain focused, as always, on investing in product innovation,”
Jesse Singh, vice president and general manager of 3M’s
Stationery and Office Supplies Division, said in a statement.  The takeover would have given 3M more than 80 percent of
the U.S. market for labels and sticky notes, the  Justice
Department  said in September. 3M and Avery said last month they
would “explore options” to respond to the department’s
concerns and win regulatory approval.  3M had planned to complete the purchase in the second half
of this year, and would have been able to use its global reach
to distribute Avery brands such as Hi-Liters and Marks-A-Lot
markers, which are sold chiefly in the U.S. Revenue of $6
billion for Avery last year compared with 3M’s $30 billion.  Justice Review  The Justice Department’s examination of the deal found that
3M and Avery have dominated adjacent segments of the office
products business for many years, with Avery making labels and
3M selling sticky notes under its Post-it brand.  The two companies are the largest label makers in the
world, according to Deane Dray, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 New York . Dray last month said the acquisition was small for 3M,
adding only 3 cents a share to his $6.75 earnings forecast for
next year.  Avery CEO Dean Scarborough told analysts on Sept. 5 he
disagreed with the Justice Department’s findings that the
purchase would hurt consumers, saying the combination would
allow for more spending on research to make the products more
innovative and competitive.  Thulin announced a reorganization of 3M yesterday, reducing
the number of units to five from six. He also shuffled some
businesses and executives among the units “to increase
relevance to our customers,” according to a statement.  On Oct. 1, 3M agreed to buy  Costa Mesa , California-based
Ceradyne as Thulin seeks to augment growth that has been
hampered by  Europe ’s recession and what may be  China ’s weakest
economic growth since 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  