-- Macklem Reiterates Bank of Canada May Reduce Stimulus
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-04T15:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/macklem-reiterates-bank-of-canada-may-reduce-monetary-stimulus.html
Bank of  Canada  Senior Deputy Governor
Tiff Macklem reiterated policy makers may withdraw monetary
stimulus as the economy recovers, and that some slack remains in
the labor market.  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some
modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy
stimulus may become appropriate,” Macklem said in a speech
today in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  The benchmark  interest rate  has been 1 percent for more
than two years, the longest pause since the 1950s. The central
bank has indicated since April it may raise borrowing costs, and
in July forecast the economy may reach full capacity in the
second half of next year. Other central bankers have added
stimulus this year to boost growth, including asset purchases by
the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Canada’s dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to 98.16 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:58 a.m. in Toronto. It touched 98.84 cents
yesterday, the weakest level since Sept. 6. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0191.  Government bonds  fell today, pushing benchmark
five-year yields three basis points higher to 1.31 percent. The
price of the 1.5 percent security due September 2017 fell 14
cents to C$100.91.  Trading in overnight index swaps shows investors have
priced in just two basis points of interest rate increases
through July.  Labor Market  Most of Macklem’s speech focused on Canada’s labor market,
which he said recovered quickly after the recession that ended
in mid-2009.  “Nevertheless, some slack remains and can be expected to
persist in the near term,” he said, citing “modest” wage
growth and a jobless rate above the average of the past decade.
He didn’t give a time frame for reaching full employment.  Statistics Canada  tomorrow may report that the  unemployment
rate  was unchanged at 7.3 percent for a third month according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who also forecast it will
exceed 7 percent through next year.  Canada has gained 339,000 jobs since recouping the 430,000
jobs lost in the last recession, Macklem said.  The country’s aging population means Canada will experience
labor shortages in the future, he said. Steps to alleviate that
including boosting productivity, more immigration and expanding
opportunities for the country’s aboriginal population where
unemployment is high, Macklem said.  Business Investment  “With a persistently strong Canadian dollar, a widening
competitiveness gap, low  interest rates , strong balance sheets
and increasing labor scarcity on the horizon, the imperative for
Canadian businesses to invest in M&E has rarely been more
compelling,” Macklem said, referring to machinery and
equipment.  “Recent  investment performance  has been solid but not
spectacular,” Macklem said. “We must do better than solid.”  While answering questions following the speech, he said
that besides investing more, businesses must refocus their plans
on faster-growing  emerging markets , particularly in  Asia .  “Our share of those markets has been declining,” Macklem
said. “We need a bigger part of the growing market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Winnipeg, Manitoba at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  