-- Afghan Official Blames Insider Attacks on Infiltrators
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-10-05T18:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/afghan-official-blames-insider-attacks-on-infiltrators.html
The majority of so-called insider
attacks by Afghan security forces against U.S. and other foreign
troops are committed by insurgent infiltrators, according to
 Afghanistan ’s deputy foreign minister, Jawed Ludin.  Speaking yesterday in Washington, he said he disagreed with
U.S. military commanders about one of the most sensitive issues
in the two nation’s security partnership: Afghan government
forces killing Americans and other allies.  Ludin disputed assertions by NATO and U.S. officials that
personal grievances and cultural frictions were behind many of
the attacks.  The culture clash explanation is “vastly overstated” and
“ignores the fact” that Afghan and NATO forces have fought
side by side for more than a decade, Ludin said.  He said the Afghan government has undertaken a “wholesale
review of all the recruitments we’ve done in recent years” and
has set up a joint threat-mitigation team with the  International
Security Assistance Force  in Afghanistan, or ISAF, to “figure
out what we need to do on a very urgent basis.”  ISAF says 37 attacks by Afghans working alongside
international partners have claimed the lives of 51 coalition
forces or contractors this year, with a spike in such incidents
in August. In all of last year, 21 attacks killed 35 ISAF
partners. In 2010, six insider attacks killed 20 coalition
members.  Coalition Estimates  ISAF says that in about half of the attacks, the attacker
was killed or escaped, so the motivation for the attack is
unknown. “Of the remaining 50 percent of the cases, about half
of them are confirmed to be insurgent-linked or strongly
suspected to be linked to the insurgency. The other 25 percent
is related to misunderstandings, perceived insults or other
cultural aspects,” Colonel Thomas Collins, an ISAF spokesman,
said in an e-mail exchange today.  Insider attacks have been responsible for 19 percent of
combat deaths of U.S. and coalition forces this year, he said.  In a Sept. 23 interview with the Department of Defense’s
Pentagon Channel, U.S. Marine General John Allen, commander of
U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan, said it’s hard to know
the precise reasons behind the attacks.  Creating Distrust  “The enemy” is seeking to prevent the defeat of the
insurgency by creating distrust and barriers between coalition
and Afghan forces, he said. At the same time, “the numbers of
incidents have been relatively few, and the numbers of shooters
who have survived have been much fewer even than the numbers. So
in the analysis, it’s been a challenge for us to understand
exactly the problem.”  Ludin said Afghan authorities have evidence and
intelligence indicating that the vast majority of so-called
green-on-blue incidents were masterminded or inspired by
insurgents.  Ludin said he understands that it’s difficult for Americans
to comprehend why some Afghan soldiers and police turn on their
foreign allies. In reality, he said, it’s the result of an enemy
“tactic that always was there: infiltration.”  Insurgents have stepped up attacks in the last six months
because of frustration over losing territory and watching the
dramatic expansion of Afghan army and police trained by North
Atlantic Treaty Organization partners, Ludin said.  Strategic Partnership  Insurgents also are lashing out, he said, in anger over the
U.S.-Afghan Strategic Partnership Agreement signed earlier this
year, which allows for continued military cooperation and an
enduring U.S. military presence after American and NATO combat
troops are withdrawn in 2014.  The Taliban have realized that the transition doesn’t mean
the U.S. will leave, he said.  Ludin was in Washington to discuss the U.S.-Afghan
strategic partnership, security cooperation after NATO combat
forces withdraw in 2014, efforts to draw insurgents into peace
talks and other issues related to the drawdown of the American
fighting forces, in addition to the green-on-blue attacks.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met Oct. 3 with Afghan
Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul, Ludin and other Afghan
officials.  The rise in attacks against allied forces by Afghan
military, police or civilians has raised questions about the
U.S. and NATO’s willingness to continue training Afghans and
funding the war. Some U.S. officials say they worry the attacks
are symptomatic of deeper challenges threatening efforts to turn
security over to Afghans as U.S. combat troops withdraw.  Infiltration Threat  This April, before the surge in insider attacks, a semi-
annual Defense Department analysis of stability and security in
Afghanistan highlighted the incidents as having “a significant
operational and strategic impact on the coalition mission.”  U.S. officials have said that some insider attacks on
coalition forces have been carried out by Afghans working for
the coalition by day and the Taliban by night, as some communist
Viet Cong did during the  Vietnam War .  Ludin said infiltration poses as great a threat to Afghan
security forces as it does to foreign forces. “Many more
Afghan” soldiers and police than foreigners have been killed by
insurgents who’ve infiltrated their ranks, he said, though he
didn’t have figures available.  ISAF has recorded 35 shootings by Afghan soldiers and
police resulting in 53 deaths and 22 injuries of Afghan
colleagues this year through Aug. 21, according to a U.S.
military official who shared the figures today on condition of
anonymity because ISAF may not have complete numbers of Afghan
casualties and isn’t authorized to disclose them.  Placing Blame  Ludin also expressed concern about the integrity of the
Afghan forces. “We are not just losing people,” he said,
adding that one of Afghanistan’s “most fundamental institutions
is at stake.”  “Our military was once before dismantled,” he said, a
reference to the 1979 Soviet invasion and the installation of a
Moscow-backed government, and the current leadership won’t let
that happen again.  On Aug. 23, Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  asserted that
some of the attacks were linked to infiltration by foreign spy
services that were seeking to undermine the Afghan military.  An investigation by the Afghan National Security Council
purportedly intercepted documents and phone calls before
concluding that neighboring Pakistan and  Iran  were recruiting
young Afghans to enlist in security forces and kill coalition
soldiers in an effort to discredit Afghan forces. U.S. officials
didn’t endorse or rebut the allegations.  Recruitment Problems  Ludin said that infiltration isn’t a new phenomenon, and
shouldn’t be a barrier to cooperation with properly vetted
Afghan forces. The first assassination attempt against Karzai,
in September 2002, was committed by an insurgent who infiltrated
Afghan security ranks, he said.  Ludin echoed the view of U.S. officials who have linked the
rise in insider killings to the large recruitment and perhaps
inadequate vetting of new Afghan security forces. The Afghan
army and police have about reached their combined target size of
352,000 personnel as of Oct. 1, compared with about 285,000 in
March 2011.  In response to the green-on-blue attacks, coalition
authorities last month suspended training for new Afghan
recruits working with U.S. Special Operations forces and
temporarily halted joint patrols and small-unit ground
operations with Afghan forces unless approved by high-ranking
ISAF commanders. A number of other measures were taken,
including orders for ISAF troops to carry loaded weapons at all
times and to review the vetting of about three-quarters of the
195,000-person Afghan army.  Joint patrols and training are starting to resume after
both sides were given some breathing room, according to a senior
U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of
sensitivity of the issue.  In comments to reporters at the Pentagon via satellite Oct.
3, British Army Lieutenant General Adrian Bradshaw, the deputy
ISAF commander, said coalition and Afghan forces are uniting in
an effort to crack down on insider attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  