-- Airlines Must Pay for Denied Boarding, EU Top Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-04T11:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/airlines-must-compensate-over-denied-boarding-eu-top-court-says.html
Airlines must compensate passengers
who were prevented from boarding their flights as a result of a
strike or a delayed earlier flight, the European Union’s highest
court said.  An “extraordinary” event, such as a strike, that prompts
an airline to reschedule subsequent flights “does not give
grounds for denying boarding or for exempting that carrier from
its obligation to compensate passengers,” the  EU Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today. In a separate case, it ruled
that compensation is also due when boarding on a connecting
flight is denied after a delayed first flight.  Under  EU law , airlines are obliged to compensate passengers
who are denied boarding. Rulings by the EU court in recent years
have clarified that carriers must compensate passengers on
flights that are delayed by more than three hours or canceled
because of mechanical problems.  Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  refused in December 2009
to compensate passengers who couldn’t get on a connecting flight
after their earlier flight arrived late. The passengers, who
arrived just as the final call for boarding was announced, found
their tickets had been canceled and their seats taken.  Finnair
Oyj (FIA1S)  refused in July 2006 to compensate a passenger who couldn’t
board his flight, which departed two days after an airport
strike that had created a backlog of passengers.  Health & Safety  The court ruled that the protection for passengers would be
“substantially” reduced if the scope of “denied boarding”
was limited only to cases of overbooking.  Under EU law, reasons of health, safety, security or
inadequate travel documents can justify a passenger being denied
boarding. In today’s cases, the court said, the reasons for the
denied boarding were not attributable to the passengers.  “It is good that there now is a clear ruling for these
kind of situations, so that airlines can better plan their
operations in a similar situation,” Paivyt Tallqvist, a
spokesman for Finnair, said by e-mail.  The cases are: C-22/11, Finnair Oyj v. Timy Lassooy; C-
321/11, German Rodriguez Cachafeiro and Maria Reyes Martinez-
Reboredo Varela-Villamayor v. Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  