-- Allergan’s Botox Shot Helps Overactive Bladder in Women
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-04T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/allergan-s-botox-shot-helps-overactive-bladder-in-women.html
A single injection of  Allergan Inc. (AGN) ’s
Botox into a woman’s bladder reduces urinary incontinence as
effectively as daily drugs and is better at resolving the
problem, a U.S. government-funded study found.  The study published in the  New England Journal of Medicine 
suggests the medicine popularly used to fight wrinkles,
migraines and muscle spasms may also be the first line of
defense for some women who struggle with frequent urinary
leakage. Women in the study getting Botox were more likely to
develop infections, retain urine and need catheterization.  Botox is approved to treat overactive bladder caused by
neurological conditions such as a spinal cord injury, and many
doctors give it without formal regulatory clearance to women
with the more common problem of unexplained incontinence. The
findings support use for the condition, which may gain U.S.
approval next year and might generate $216 million in sales for
the indication by 2015, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst with
Wells Fargo Securities in  New York .  “Previously, Botox was reserved for women who had tried
oral medications but found them ineffective,” said Susan
Meikle, senior author of the paper and program director for the
 National Institutes of Health ’s Pelvic Floor Disorders Network.
“Because we included some women who had not been treated with
oral medications before, these results suggest that Botox could
be discussed as an option for first line treatment,” she said
in a statement.  The results were presented today at the  American
Urogynecologic Society  meeting in  Chicago .  Government Funding  The  National Institutes of Health  funded the study, known
as the Anticholinergic versus Botox Comparison trial. The
researchers compared Botox to  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ’s Vesicare, a
so-called anticholinergic agent that generates about $1 billion
in annual sales, in 241 women. Patients who didn’t respond to
the medication subsequently were switched to the generic
medication trospium XR. The drugs were taken daily for six
months and women recorded episodes of incontinence in three-day
intervals for a full year.  The women went from an average of five episodes of urinary
incontinence a day before treatment to 1.6 in the drug treatment
group and 1.7 in the Botox group after six months. The condition
cleared up entirely in 13 percent of women given drugs and 27
percent of those treated with Botox, the study found. About 70
percent of women in both groups responded to treatment, and
their self-reported quality of life improvements were similar.  More Weight  “With the ABC study being sponsored by the NIH, and not
industry, we believe the results could carry more weight with
the physician community,” Biegelsen wrote in an Oct. 1 note to
investors before the results were released. “While we assume
that Botox will be used as second-line treatment after failure
of oral therapy, any positive data from the ABC trial could
yield upside for Botox.”  Urinary incontinence affects about 16 percent of women in
America, according to the NIH. While the cause isn’t always
known, pregnancy, childbirth and aging all contribute to its
development, according to the agency. It is often treated with
anticholinergic drugs that work through the nervous system to
reduce contractions in the bladder that lead to leakage.  Botox, a purified form of the botulinum toxin, was injected
into the bladder to paralyze the overactive muscles.  One year after the Botox injection and six months after
women stopped taking their medicine, the condition was still
under control for 25 percent of the medication group and 38
percent of the Botox group, the study found.  Catheter Needed  Within two months of treatment, 5 percent of women given
Botox needed to use a catheter to empty their bladders, compared
with none of those given the drugs. Urinary tract infections
also developed in one-third of Botox-treated women and 13
percent of drug-treated women. Nearly half of those given drugs
developed dry mouth, compared with 31 percent of Botox patients.  “The first line of treatment is often oral medications,
but these can have bothersome side effects that cause people to
quit taking them,” said Anthony Visco, the lead researcher and
chief of Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina . “There is a strong need
for additional options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  