-- AMR Risks Cash Erosion as Loose Seats Follow Delays
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-05T14:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/amr-risks-cash-erosion-as-loose-seats-follow-delays.html
American Airlines  risks having to tap
its $5 billion bankruptcy cash fund and probably will lose some
passengers after on-time arrivals tumbled, cancellations surged
and incorrectly installed seat clamps were found on six planes.  The operational obstacles add to questions about whether
American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, can successfully
emerge from  bankruptcy protection  on its own or should merge
with would-be suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , said James Corridore, a  Standard & Poor’s  equity analyst in  New York .  “Certainly things are not going well in the reorganization
process right now,” Corridore said in an interview. “These are
major hiccups.”  The glitches flag considerations that are among the most
important to passengers when choosing an airline -- arriving on
time safely and convenience of the flight schedule. Concerns
that seats are coming loose may lead more passengers to move to
a competitor, said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne, Agee & Leach analyst
in New York.  “The seat issue elevates it to a whole new level,”
Kauffman said. “Before you’re dealing with inconvenience; now
you’re dealing with safety. What else is going to happen?”  The airline and the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration 
are investigating why the seat clamps failed. American yesterday
began temporarily grounding 48 of its 102  Boeing Co. 757s  to
repair a locking mechanism it believes is responsible for the
problem, the second time the planes have been pulled from
service over the issue.  Canceled Flights  Forty-four flights were canceled yesterday and 50 today for
the repairs. The work, which has been completed on 36 757s,
should be wrapped up by tomorrow,  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman,
said today.  It’s the second time the planes have been inspected since
rows of seats came loose during three flights from Sept. 26
through Oct. 1. The planes originally were returned to service
Oct. 3.  American canceled at least 62 flights yesterday in total,
the most among U.S. carriers followed by industry researcher
FlightStats.com.  Seating Clamps  Six 757s were found to have improperly installed clamps
that could have allowed more seats to pull away from tracks
securing them to the cabin floor during the initial reviews. One
had a mix of two different types of seats, American said. The
airline declined to discuss additional details of the
inspections.  Some of the seats recently had been removed and reinstalled
to create a higher-price product in the coach cabin, and work
was done both by American employees and a contractor, the
airline said. Timco Aviation Services, based in Greensboro,
 North Carolina , did “much” of the work, the Transport Workers
Union said. Timco declined to comment.  American, a unit of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , inspects the seats monthly
even though Boeing only recommends they be checked every 18
months, said  David Campbell , vice president for safety, security
and environmental.  “We are a solidly safe airline,” Campbell said in an
interview. “I have a lot of confidence we are operating a safe
airline.”  Passenger Loyalty  Jay Sorensen, president of consultant IdeaWorks and a
former airline marketing director, said most passengers will
stick with American if the carrier provides the most attractive
schedule or a lower fare.  “Similar incidents like this have happened with airlines
all over the world for some reason or other,” said Sorensen,
who’s based in Shorewood,  Wisconsin . “Maybe not something as
visible as a loose seat, but often things like a broken engine
part. If I had to choose between them, I’d choose a loose seat
over a broken engine part every day of the week.”  The September delays and seat woes built on labor unrest
after  Fort Worth , Texas-based American imposed concessions on
pilots to help it restructure in bankruptcy and detailed plans
to cut more than 4,000 jobs among mechanics and airport ground
workers.  About 59 percent of American’s flights arrived on time in
September, according to preliminary numbers on 51,511 arrivals
tracked by industry researcher  FlightStats.com . That fell from
74 percent in August. American canceled 2.7 percent of its
September flights, up from 1.8 percent the prior month,
FlightStats data showed.  American expects the impact from the operational issues on
September unit revenue to be small,  Michael Trevino , a company
spokesman, said in an interview. The airline is expected to
report September traffic results, including revenue for each
seat flown a mile, on Oct. 8.  United Continental Holdings Inc., the world’s largest
carrier, had an 81 percent on-time rate in September, while No.
2 Delta Air Lines Inc. was at 89 percent, FlightStats showed.  Public Reaction  “It costs money when the system is not on time,” Kauffman
said. “Whether it’s reshuffling aircraft to different locations
or getting new crews or paying for passenger inconvenience,
there are a lot of small costs. The biggest one is when the
flying public says, ‘Enough is enough.’”  American trimmed as much as 2 percent of its capacity from
mid-September through October after late flights began to rise
last month. The airline threatened to take legal action against
the  Allied Pilots Association  if it didn’t move to stop the
slowdown, which the carrier blamed on a jump in maintenance
issues raised by pilots just before flights.  The union denied organizing or supporting any slowdown
effort and said pilots were citing legitimate concerns. The
airline’s on-time performance improved to 66 percent on Oct. 3
after the Allied Pilots Association agreed to resume talks on a
new contract.  ‘Booking Away’  “I’m sure there are people booking away” to other
airlines, said  David Swierenga , a former chief economist at the
Air Transport Association trade group who now runs consultant
AeroEcon in  Round Rock ,  Texas . “In an industry where profit
margins are very thin, one less passenger on an aircraft can
mean the difference between profit and loss for that flight.”  Kauffman, the Sterne Agee analyst, said he booked US
Airways over American for an upcoming business trip to avoid
delays. It may take American as long as 12 months to win back
the trust of some travelers, hindering its ability to accurately
forecast passenger traffic as it prepares a reorganization plan,
he said.  ‘Serious Hurt’  “This is a serious hurt for the company” that could “eat
through” part of the $5 billion cash reserve held by American
to finance its restructuring, Swierenga said. “There are people
who are just going to write this company off and say, ‘I’ve had
it.’”  American retains the exclusive right to propose a
reorganization plan until the end of this year.  US Airways 
agreed Aug. 31 to exchange confidential financial and operations
data with American to better evaluate a potential merger.  While US Airways already has reached contract agreements
with American’s unions conditioned on a merger, American has
said it prefers to emerge from court protection on its own and
then consider combinations.  If flight delays and other issues are brought under
control, American’s creditors committee probably will be willing
to move ahead in evaluating the airline’s plan before
considering other options against it, Kauffman said.  “But if, in the course of this, I have to ask, ‘Is this
being managed properly and is there a better solution,’ then
that’s a very different situation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  