-- Apple, Tory, Restoration Hardware: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/apple-tory-restoration-hardware-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s billion-dollar trial
victory in August was tainted by the jury foreman’s failure to
disclose a lawsuit and his personal bankruptcy,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  said in a request to a judge for the verdict to
be thrown out.  Samsung said foreman Velvin Hogan was asked during jury
selection whether he’d been involved in lawsuits and didn’t tell
the judge that he had filed for bankruptcy in 1993 and had been
sued by his former employer, Seagate Technology Inc.  Samsung has a “substantial strategic relationship” with
Seagate and the lawyer who filed the complaint against Hogan is
married to an attorney who works for the firm that represented
Samsung in the trial against Apple, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a filing yesterday in federal court in  San Jose ,
California.  “Mr. Hogan’s failure to disclose the Seagate suit raises
issues of bias that Samsung should have been allowed to
explore,” Samsung said in its request for a new trial. The
company also said Hogan’s public statements after the verdict
suggest he failed to answer the court’s questions “truthfully”
to “secure a seat on the jury.”  Hogan, in a phone interview Oct. 2, denied that there was
any misconduct, saying the court instructions for potential
jurors required disclosure of any litigation they were involved
in within the last 10 years -- and that the 1993 bankruptcy and
related litigation involving Seagate fell well outside that time
range.  “I answered every question the judge asked me” and
Samsung “had every opportunity to question me,” Hogan said. He
added that he’s surprised Samsung didn’t know about the history
it’s now citing given the relationship the lawyer Samsung refers
to in its filing has with another lawyer at Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, the firm representing the company.  Hogan said Samsung’s filing has him wondering whether the
Korean company “let me in the jury just to have an excuse for a
new trial if it didn’t go in their favor.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on Samsung’s filing.  Adam Yates , a spokesman in the U.S. for Samsung, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail, sent after regular business hours,
seeking a response to Hogan’s comments.  The nine-member panel reached a unanimous verdict in three
days of deliberations following the trial. The jury awarded
Apple $1.05 billion after finding that Samsung infringed six of
seven patents at issue. Apple is using the verdict to seek a
permanent U.S. sales ban on eight Samsung smartphones and a
tablet computer.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tory Burch Sues Glasses Manufacturer for Trademark Infringement  Tory Burch LLC, a closely held designer of high-end women’s
clothing and accessories, sued an eyewear manufacturer for
trademark infringement.  In the complaint filed Oct. 3 in federal court in
 Manhattan , Burch accuses Creative Eyewear Inc. of making fake
version of her sunglasses. She said the glasses use unauthorized
reproductions of her logo, which is a registered U.S. trademark.  She claims the infringement is deliberate, and aimed at
piggybacking on the goodwill associated with her brand. The
public is likely to be confused and assume falsely that the
glasses manufactured by Creative Eyewear are actually her
products, she said in the complaint.  The designer also objects to Creative Eyewear’s application
to register a logo with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office she
says resembles hers.  Burch asked the court to bar further infringement, and for
an order for the recall and destruction of all infringing
products and promotional materials. Additionally, she seeks an
award of profits Creative Eyewear achieved through its alleged
infringement, together with money damages and awards of attorney
fees and litigation costs.  She also asked the court to declare that the application
Creative Eyewear filed to register its logo as a trademark be
declared invalid.  Creative Eyewear, based in Ridgewood,  New York , didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Tory Burch LLC v. Creative Eyewear Inc., 1:12-
cv-07422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Restoration Hardware Allegedly Infringed ‘Navy Chair’ Trademark  Catterton Partners’ Restoration Hardware unit, a retail
chain specializing in late 19th and early 20th century home
furnishings, was sued for trademark infringement by a 68-year-
old Pennsylvania furniture maker.  The suit, filed Oct. 1 in federal court in San Jose,
 California , accuses Restoration Hardware of making knockoff
versions of what Emeco Industries Inc. calls its “iconic Navy
chair.” The chair, which the furniture maker says has won
design awards and is in many museums’ permanent collections, is
allegedly infringed by Restoration Hardware’s “Naval Chair,”
“Navy armchair” and “Navy counter stools.”  All are featured in the Corte Madera, California-based
unit’s Fall 2012 catalog, according to court papers. The Emeco
chair was originally commissioned by the U.S. Navy during World
War II, is manufactured in 77 steps, is built to last for 150
years, and retails for about $450, the company said.  Restoration’s $129 knockoffs are made in  China  and are of
inferior quality, Emeco claims. The Pennsylvania-based company
says it is so strongly identified with the Navy chair that it
uses its outline as the company’s official logo.  The California company’s sale of knockoffs will harm the
market for the originals, Emeco claims, and cause customers to
think Emeco provided them to Restoration Hardware.  Emeco said in its pleadings it sent Restoration a cease-
and-desist letter in September, and in response, the California
company removed reference to “Navy chair” in its website
description of the chairs that it continued to sell despite the
letter.  The chair company asked the court to bar Restoration
Hardware’s use of “Navy Chair” or “Naval” in connection with
its furniture, and for a ban on the importation, sale and
promotion of knockoffs. Additionally, the chair company seeks an
order for the destruction of all infringing products and
promotional material, together with awards of money damages,
including profits derived from the alleged infringement,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Claiming the infringement is deliberate, Emeco asked for
additional damages aimed at punishing Restoration Hardware for
its actions.  Restoration Hardware didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment. The company said in a Sept. 9
regulatory filing that it intends to raise $150 million in an
initial public offering.  The case is Emeco Industries Inc. v. Restoration Hardware
Inc., 5:12-cv-05072-PSG, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  California Gets $200,000 U.S. Grant to Fight IP Crime  California received a $200,000 grant from the U.S. Justice
Department to assist state law enforcement officials in the
fight against  intellectual property  crime, according to a
 statement  from the office of California’s attorney general.  The grant will be used to investigate and prosecute
intellectual property crimes and to develop training programs
for California law-enforcement officials and prosecutors to
improve the investigation and prosecution of intellectual
property theft.  Attorney General  Kamala Harris  said in the statement that
technology has enabled the movement of IP theft from physical
markets to computers and the Internet. Infringers generate
revenue from the sale of pirated goods and from website
advertising that takes advantage of  Internet traffic  to websites
from which the merchandise is sold, according to the statement.  Given that traditional law-enforcement jurisdictions don’t
exist on the Internet, it has “grown increasingly difficult”
to determine which agencies are responsible for investigating
Internet-based IP crime, according to the statement.  Harris said that California’s economy “thrives” on the
intellectual property of artists, creators, inventors, authors,
software designers, engineers and others.  “It is critical that we protect their creations from
theft, misappropriation and counterfeiting,” she said.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Becker & Poliakoff Expands IP and Emerging Technologies Group  Becker & Poliakoff PA hired Richard C. Litman for its
intellectual property and emerging technologies practice group,
the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based firm said in a  statement .  Litman , founding shareholder of the Litman Law firm of
Manassas,  Virginia , brought five additional patent lawyers, one
trademark lawyer and six patent agents with him to his new firm.  He does patent-related licensing and commercialization
work, in addition to university and research-institute
technology transfer work.  Litman has an undergraduate degree from Union College, a
master’s degree in forensic sciences from Antioch University, a
law degree from the  University of Miami  and a master’s degree in
patent and trade-regulation law from George Washington
University.  McDermott Hires Patent Litigator Mashhood Rassam From Fenwick  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired Mashhood Rassam for its IP
litigation group, the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement .  Rassam , who previously practiced at  Mountain View ,
California’s Fenwick & West LLP, has represented clients in
patent disputes in federal district and appellate courts. His
clients’ technologies have included software, e-commerce and
internet-related technologies, and semiconductor design and
fabrication.  He has an undergraduate degree from  Northwestern
University , and a law degree from the  University of Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 