-- Apple Puts Jump to 10-Month High After IPhone Map Flaws
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-10-04T13:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/apple-puts-jump-to-10-month-high-after-iphone-map-flaws.html
Bearish Apple Inc. options are the
most expensive in 10 months relative to bullish ones after the
world’s biggest company sold fewer iPhones than forecast and
apologized for faulty maps software.  Puts (AAPL)  that pay should the iPad and MacBook Pro maker lose 10
percent cost 7.9 points more than calls betting on a 10 percent
gain, according to one-month options data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price relationship known as skew reached 8.04 on Oct. 2, the
highest since November. The stock lost 4.1 percent since the
iPhone 5 debut on Sept. 21.  Apple’s 66 percent rally in 2012 has helped anchor gains in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which is posting its best
annual advance since 2009. The stock has contributed 14 percent
to the S&P 500’s advance this year, almost five times as much as
the next biggest company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “More and more people are hedging,” Oliver Pursche, co-
manager of the GMG Defensive Beta Fund and president of Suffern,
New York-based Gary Goldberg Financial Services, said yesterday
in a phone interview. The firm manages about $600 million and
owns Apple stock. “There have been a couple of blunders and the
iPhone 5 sales did not meet expectations. We’re debating whether
it makes sense to hedge our position through buying puts.”  The tally of 5 million iPhones sold in the first three days
of its debut fell short of some analyst predictions. Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said he was “extremely sorry” for
flaws in the company’s navigation software amid criticism that
it misrouted directions and inaccurately located landmarks.  Apple Rally  Cupertino, California-based Apple reached a record $702.10
a share on Sept. 19. The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product,
accounting for about two-thirds of its profits.  Implied volatility  for one-month contracts with an exercise
price 10 percent below Apple shares jumped 30 percent since the
end of August to 37.95 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s compares with a 19 percent increase to 30.01 for
calls 10 percent above.  In March, the measure for bullish options rose to a record
high relative to bearish ones amid the release of the third
version of the iPad.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  Brian White , an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets, had
estimated debut weekend sales of the iPhone 5 of 6 million to
6.5 million units, excluding Internet purchases that haven’t
been shipped.  Software Change  Apple, touting the map features as a key software change in
the iPhone 5, dropped the Google Inc. maps program it had used
since the device was introduced in 2007 to build its own
alternative.  Strong earnings, $117.2 billion in cash and a justifiable
price are reasons to remain bullish on Apple, according to  Dan Veru  of Palisade Capital Management LLC.  Analysts say the iPhone maker will post  record profit  this
year. Earnings for 2012 will grow 61 percent to a record $44.46
a share excluding some items, according to the average analyst
projection in a Bloomberg survey. Apple will release third-
quarter results on Oct. 25.  “We think the valuation is reasonable and we think the
catalyst is clearly the new iPhone,” Veru, chief investment
officer at Palisade Capital Management in  Fort Lee ,  New Jersey ,
said yesterday in a phone interview. His firm oversees $3.6
billion and owns Apple stock. “Earnings expectations are high,
but we think Apple can meet them,” he said. “Their cash is an
extraordinary story and they could pay out a special dividend.”  Stock Valuation  Investors value Apple at 15.8 times reported earnings,
 compared  with 17.1 for the 2,474-member Nasdaq Composite Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Apple VIX Index, which
tracks the stock’s volatility expectations, rose 0.7 percent to
34.68 at 9:42 a.m. in New York today. It touched its highest
level since June on Oct. 1. The CBOE Volatility Index, known as
the  VIX (VIX) , fell 1 percent to 15.27 today, and  Europe ’s VStoxx
Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx 50 Index option prices, lost 2.3
percent to 21.63.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell Apple versus calls to
buy rose 3.7 percent to 0.73-to-1 on Oct. 1 from the day of the
iPhone release, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Last week’s
average put  volume  relative to calls was 0.74-to-1, the most in
a five-day period since June, according to the data.  Apple “options signal more nervousness,” Ralph Edwards,
director of derivatives strategy at  Investment Technology Group
Inc. (ITG)  in New York, wrote in a note to clients on Oct. 2. “It’s
easy to assess the level of short-term anxiety in the stock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  