-- Arcapita Plan May Lead to Investments’ Sale, Lenders Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-10-04T16:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/arcapita-plan-may-lead-to-investments-sale-lenders-says.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, an Islamic-
compliant fund manager, shouldn’t be allowed to extend control
of its bankruptcy because it already has a plan that may lead to
the sale of investments with a liquidation value of
$1.4 billion, lenders said.  A group of lenders owning $1.1 billion of Arcapita’s
unsecured debt objected in court papers to the company’s bid to
extend by 120 days its exclusive right to file a bankruptcy exit
plan. The company has a “toggle” plan under which it will
either reorganize or “conduct an orderly monetization” of
assets, depending on whether Arcapita raises more money by the
time it seeks to confirm a plan in 2013, the lenders said.  Arcapita officials “should not be given four months to see
if they can raise new money -- they should file their ‘toggle
plan’ promptly and be put on a very short leash so funds are not
imprudently invested and creditor recoveries are not
diminished,” lawyers for the group wrote in an Oct. 2 filing in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The company’s case isn’t more difficult just because there
are issues with investments that are compliant with Shariah, or
Islamic law, lenders said.  Arcapita, which filed for Chapter 11 protection March 19,
has asked to have until Dec. 14 to file a plan and until Feb.12
to win creditors’ support. Valuation reports by  KPMG  indicate
that assets under management have a liquidation value of
$1.4 billion, lenders said.  Arcapita, based in Manama, Bahrain, listed assets of
$3.06 billion and liabilities of $2.55 billion in its Chapter 11
petition. Arcapita Investment Holdings Ltd., already in U.S.
bankruptcy, also has filed a bankruptcy in the  Cayman Islands .  The company’s investments include Irish power utility
Viridian Group Ltd. and U.S.-based Falcon Gas Storage Co.  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  