-- Mas Urges Rajoy to Ask EU for ‘Inevitable’ Spanish Bailout
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-04T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/mas-urges-rajoy-to-ask-eu-for-inevitable-spanish-bailout.html
Catalan President Artur Mas urged
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to ask the European Union
for a bailout as he rejected the deficit limits set for his
region next year.  Mas called on Rajoy to double the share of next year’s
budget shortfall allocated to regional administrations to 1.5
percent of gross domestic product and cut the central government
budget to compensate.  Spain  can’t overcome its economic crisis
without help and so Rajoy should request aid immediately, he
added in a  statement  posted on the regional government’s website
late yesterday.  “A bailout is inevitable; therefore the best thing to do
is to make the decision without delay,” Mas said. “Spain has
the potential to overcome the situation, but it will need
assistance for some time.”  Mas is heaping pressure on the Spanish leader, who has seen
police clash with demonstrators outside the national parliament
in  Madrid  and more than a million protestors in Barcelona call
for Catalonia to split from Spain. Mas’s comment cracked a  truce 
Rajoy had brokered with the regions less than 24 hours earlier
in which they endorsed his commitment to reducing the deficit.  The regional leaders didn’t reach an agreement with Rajoy
on how to share out the burden of meeting the national deficit
targets even when the prime minister agreed to negotiate the
breakdown for 2014, Mas said.  Rajoy’s plan “puts at risk the basic elements of social
cohesion,” Mas said.  Mas last month called early elections for his region to
seek a broader mandate for his push to win more autonomy and a
greater share of  tax revenue  for Catalonia. The vote will take
place on Nov. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  