-- Astro IPO Raises $1.5 Billion in Robust Malaysian Market
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n ,   E l f f i e   C h e w ,   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-10-04T09:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/astro-ipo-raises-1-5-billion-in-robust-malaysian-market.html
Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) , the
country’s largest pay-TV broadcaster, and shareholders including
billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan raised 4.6 billion ringgit ($1.5
billion) in an initial public offering.  The company sold shares in Kuala Lumpur at 3 ringgit
apiece, top of the marketed range, valuing it at $5.1 billion.
Institutional demand was for more than 30 times the number of
shares offered, the broadcaster said in an e-mailed statement.  Kuala Lumpur has been home to three of Asia’s four biggest
IPOs this year with the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
closing at a record today after rising 8.5 percent in 2012.
Demand for shares also exceeded supply when palm oil producer
 Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV)  raised $3.3 billion and
hospital operator  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)  sold $2.1 billion of
stock.  “Demand is mostly coming from foreigners,” said  Jason Chong , who oversees $1 billion of assets as chief investment
officer at Manulife Asset Management Services Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “Malaysia’s previous IPOs have been large and
successful, so that adds to investor’s confidence that this IPO
will succeed.”  IHH has jumped 14 percent since its July debut, while Felda
has risen 4.6 percent after selling shares in June.  Defying Slump  Malaysia has defied a global slump in IPOs, with the value
of new share sales in Kuala Lumpur more than tripling to $6.7
billion so far this year, including Astro, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Globally, the value of initial share sales
dropped 33 percent in the same period, the data show.  That’s the most companies have raised in Malaysia through
IPOs since a record $7 billion in 2010, including $4.2 billion
by Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. Malakoff Bhd., the Southeast
Asian nation’s biggest independent power producer, is among
corporates planning to selling shares.  Kuala Lumpur-based Astro was taken private in 2010 by
Ananda Krishnan, the country’s second-richest man according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The re-listed company, which excludes the group’s overseas
operations, raised 1.4 billion ringgit for itself as part of the
IPO, it said in the statement. Astro had offered stock to
institutions at 2.70 ringgit to 3 ringgit.  The Malaysia-born billionaire also has interests in real
estate, telecommunications and oil and gas, and helped develop
the 88-floor Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur -- the world’s
tallest building until 2004.  Two other companies he bought out have since sold stock to
the public after being restructured. Mobile-phone operator  Maxis
Bhd. (MAXIS)  raised $3.6 billion in a 2009 IPO.  Bumi Armada Bhd. (BAB) ,
Malaysia’s biggest supplier of support vessels for the oil and
gas industry, sold $882 million of shares in July last year.  Maxis has gained 41 percent from its offer price and Bumi
Armada is up 23 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ,  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among banks managing the offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  