-- Atletico Leads Perfect Trio in Europa League as Liverpool Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-04T23:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/atletico-leads-perfect-trio-in-europa-league-as-liverpool-loses.html
Atletico Madrid , Lyon and Dnipro won
to maintain their perfect records in soccer’s Europa League, as
Udinese rallied to beat Liverpool 3-2.  Defending champion Atletico beat Viktoria Plzen 1-0, Lyon
defeated Hapoel Kiryat Shmona 4-3 and Dnipro won 3-2 at AIK last
night to give each two wins to open group play in Europe’s
second-tier club competition. None of the other 45 teams have
won both their games.  Scores from Antonio Di Natale and Giovanni Pasquale
sandwiched around an own goal from Sebastian Coates helped
Udinese end Liverpool’s 13-match unbeaten run in European
competition at its Anfield stadium. Liverpool completed 691
passes to 173 by the visiting team.  “It was very frustrating,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said in comments on his team’s website. “It was a game
where we were much the better side but lost our concentration at
the beginning of the second half.”  Newcastle and  Inter Milan  also won, while Tottenham tied
1-1 at Panathinaikos.  Cristian Rodriguez’s goal in second-half injury time gave
Atletico, seeking its third Europa League title in four seasons,
the home win in Group B. Academica and Hapoel Tel-Aviv tied 1-1
in the other group match.  Lyon won in Israel on a stoppage time goal from Gueida
Fofana in Group I and  Sparta Prague  defeated last year’s runner-
up Athletic Bilbao 3-1. Dnipro scored twice in the final 16
minutes to beat AIK and stay atop Group F, as  PSV Eindhoven 
routed Napoli 3-0.  Three-Goal Burst  Jonjo Shelvy gave Liverpool the halftime lead in its Group
A match at Anfield before Udinese scored three straight after
the break.  Luis Suarez  got Liverpool’s final goal in the 75th
minute. Udinese shares the group lead with Anzhi Makhachkala,
which beat Young Boys 2-0 on a pair of second-half goals from
Samuel Eto’o.  Shola Ameobi  and Papiss Cisse scored as Newcastle beat
Bordeaux 3-0 to take over first place in Group D, as Bruges
defeated Maritimo 2-0. Lazio beat Maribor 1-0 to move atop Group
J with four points, with Tottenham two points back after its
draw in Greece.  In Group H, Inter won 3-1 at Neftchi and  Rubin Kazan 
defeated Partizan Belgrade 2-0. Metalist Kharkiv beat Rapid
Vienna 2-0 and  Bayer Leverkusen  defeated Rosenborg 1-0 to leave
both tied for the lead in Group K, while Hannover’s 2-1 win
against Levante left it atop Group L, as Helsingborg and FC
Twente finished 2-2.  In Group G, Videoton routed Sporting Lisbon 3-0 and Genk
and Basel drew 2-2. Steaua Bucharest beat Copenhagen 1-0 and
Molde defeated Stuttgart 2-0 in Group E, while Marseille routed
Limassol 5-1 and Fenerbahce won 4-2 at Borussia Moenchengladbach
in Group C.  The top two teams in each of the 12 groups advance to the
round of 32 alongside the eight third-place finishers from the
elite  Champions League  group stage. The next round of games will
be played Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  