-- Aussie Touches Month Low as Retail Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-04T06:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/aussie-touches-month-low-as-retail-sales-miss-estimates.html
Australia ’s dollar touched the lowest
level in almost a month after a report showed retail sales grew
more slowly than economists estimated.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus most of its 16 major
counterparts as the data added to expectations the Reserve Bank
of Australia will reduce borrowing costs for a second-straight
meeting in November to bolster growth. The Australian and New
Zealand dollars strengthened against the yen as the Bank of
 Japan  begins a two-day policy meeting today after expanding
stimulus last month.  “We’ve been seeing a string of relatively weak data from
Australia,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asia local markets
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc Singapore. “The risk for the
Aussie is still to the downside.”  The Australian dollar was at $1.0226 as of 4:20 p.m. in
Sydney after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent to $1.0182,
the lowest since Sept. 6. It gained 0.2 percent to 80.35 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, added 0.2 percent to
82.12 U.S. cents and rose 0.4 percent to 64.53 yen.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year debt rose to 2.98 percent
from 2.92 percent yesterday, when it dropped to as low as 2.91
percent, the least since July 27. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, advanced
three basis points to 2.62 percent.  Below Expectations  The Australian statistics bureau said  retail sales  climbed
0.2 percent in August from the previous month, advancing at half
the pace predicted by economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
figure compares with a 0.8 percent decline in July.  The report comes after data released yesterday showed the
country’s  trade deficit  widened in the same period to the most
since 2008. Building approvals rose in August from a month
earlier, according to a separate report today.  “The sub-consensus retail sales print kicked off a wave of
selling” in the Aussie dollar,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  said in an
e-mailed note to clients today. Key levels in the near term are
$1.0167 and $1.0168, the bank said, referring to the lows
reached on Sept. 5 and 6.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 70 percent chance the RBA will reduce its benchmark rate
on Nov. 6 by a quarter point to 3 percent. That would be the
first back-to-back rate cut since the two months ended June.  Australian bonds fell as Asian equities rallied, with the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbing 0.5 percent.  “Equities are stronger and this seems to have taken the
edge off Aussie bonds,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian
economic and fixed-income strategy at RBC Capital Markets in
Sydney. “It could be that risk is slightly better bid ahead of
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  meeting.”  BOJ Meeting  The Australian currency climbed versus the yen before
tomorrow’s decision from the BOJ.  Policy makers last month decided to increase the Japanese
central bank’s asset-purchase program by 10 trillion yen ($127
billion) to 55 trillion yen,  saying  the economy’s pick-up was
slowing while prices were flat.  Data over the past week have added to the case that the BOJ
will need to expand stimulus to boost growth and achieve its 1
percent inflation goal.  Consumer prices  in August matched the
steepest decline in 16 months and the nation’s biggest
manufacturers grew more pessimistic last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  