-- Australian Retail Sales Rose Less Than Forecast in August
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-04T03:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/australian-retail-sales-rose-less-than-forecast-in-august-1-.html
Australian retail sales advanced at
half the pace economists forecast in August as weaker demand at
household-goods outlets and restaurants offset a rebound in
spending at department stores.  Sales climbed 0.2 percent to A$21.5 billion ($22 billion)
from a month earlier, when they fell 0.8 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median  forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists for
a 0.4 percent gain.  Spending has been supported by four interest-rate
reductions -- totaling 1.25 percentage points from November to
June -- as  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens 
sought to buttress the economy. He lowered the benchmark
borrowing cost by a further quarter percentage point this week
to 3.25 percent to revive consumer demand in a nation with a
savings rate above 9 percent and where employers unexpectedly
cut payrolls in August.  The report “just reflects the financial conservatism in
the country with people saving more and more worried about the
security of their jobs,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at
St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “Retail sales are soft and
wouldn’t stand in the way of another cut” by the RBA, he said.  Dining Out  Consumers spent 1.5 percent less on household goods, and
cafes and restaurants dropped 0.9 percent, today’s report
showed. Spending at department stores surged 6.9 percent, and
consumers spent 0.4 percent more at food shops, according to the
figures.  The local dollar, which has fallen 1.7 percent since the
end of September, traded at $1.0205 at 12:43 p.m. in Sydney from
$1.0215 before the release.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
nation’s currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for all but 23 days this year.  Stevens said in the  statement  accompanying his Oct. 2 rate
reduction that the mining boom may crest at a lower level than
previously expected and the employment outlook is weaker.  “The peak in resource investment is likely to occur next
year, and may be at a lower level than earlier expected,” he
said. “As this peak approaches it will be important that the
forecast strengthening in some other components of demand starts
to occur.”  Home Building  A separate government report today showed home-building
approvals advanced for the third time in four months in August
on apartment projects.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments gained 6.4 percent from July, when they fell a
revised 21.2 percent, the report showed. The result compares
with the median forecast for a 4.7 percent gain in a Bloomberg
News survey of 20 economists.  Approvals to build private houses fell 0.5 percent to 7,314
in August from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations advanced 23 percent to 4,596.  The data “highlight a sluggish consumer and weak housing
construction market,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian
economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Sydney. “The data are consistent with our view that the economy
is moving to a sub-trend pace of growth in the second half and
supports further easing from the RBA.”  Traders are pricing in about a 73 percent chance the RBA
will cut rates again at its policy meeting next month, swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  