-- Australia Building Permits Rose More Than Forecast on Apartments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-04T01:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/australia-building-permits-rose-more-than-forecast-on-apartments.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
advanced for the third time in four months in August on
apartment projects, a sign housing demand may rebound after cuts
in the nation’s benchmark interest rate.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments gained 6.4 percent from July, when they fell a
revised 21.2 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The result compares with the median forecast for a 4.7
percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.  The Reserve Bank of Australia lowered borrowing four times
from November to June to buttress the economy as  Europe ’s crisis
weighed on global growth and Chinese demand. Governor Glenn Stevens cut rates by a further quarter percentage point this
week to revive industries like housing as the nation’s resources
boom that is expected to peak at a lower level next year.  “The cumulative impact of recent RBA rate cuts and
tentative signs that house prices are stabilizing will provide
some moderate support to residential building plans and
approvals data in coming months,” David Cannington, an
economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote
in a research report before today’s release.  Building approvals in August declined 15.4 percent from a
year earlier, the report showed. That compares with economists’
forecast for a 14.3 percent decrease year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses fell 0.5 percent to 7,314
in August from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations advanced 23 percent to 4,596.  Australian home prices climbed by the most in 30 months in
September, according to RP Data.  House and apartment prices across Australia’s eight state
and territory capitals rose 1.4 percent in September from the
previous month, the most since March 2010, the RP Data-Rismark
Home Value Index showed Oct. 2. They also rose 2 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from the prior quarter, the
Brisbane-based researcher said.  Australia ’s unemployment rate has remained in a range of 5
percent to 5.3 percent for the past 17 months. It unexpectedly
fell to 5.1 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  