-- Baloise to Shift Away From Index Funds to High-Dividend Shares
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-04T13:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/baloise-to-shift-away-from-index-funds-to-high-dividend-shares.html
Baloise Holding AG (BALN) , Switzerland’s
third-biggest insurer, plans to focus on investing in high-
dividend shares over the next five to 10 years on anticipation
that interest rates will remain low.  The shift away from index funds to higher-yielding shares
“will continue as long as the low interest-rate environment”
exists, Chairman Andreas Burckhardt said in an interview in
Belgrade on Oct. 2 during a visit to the company’s Serbian  unit .  The Basel-based insurer is due to announce in March a
revised goal for return-on-equity after concluding earlier this
year that its 15 percent target may no longer be attainable,
Burckhardt said. The company has “vastly” reduced exposure to
government bonds issued by some of the most debt-ridden European
Union states, he added.  Risk related to  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy  and Spain
is “not an issue any more” for Baloise, said Jan De Meulder,
head of international operations.  “We sold most of it,” De Meulder said. “There is still
some left, but it’s minimal.” The sale of Greek sovereign debt
last year cost the company more than 70 million euros ($90
million), he added.  While the low interest-rate outlook is clear, inflation
still remains an issue, Burckhardt said.  “We’ll probably have inflation, the question is when and
how fast,” he said.  Growth Potential  Baloise continues to see growth potential in southeastern
 Europe , Burckhardt said, adding that the Serbian unit probably
will break even in 2014, its sixth year of operation. The
Croatian unit, another greenfield unit until the 2007 takeover
of Osiguranje Zagreb, is already profitable and an “established
player” in  Croatia  with about 5 percent of the market.  The Croatian unit “will surely within two years’ time earn
the cost of capital,” Burckhardt said. “Croatia and  Serbia  are
two markets that shall become more important” even though they
account for less than one percent of Baloise’s volume, he said.
The Serbian market is less developed and has greater potential
due to lower penetration, he said.  The insurer whose half-year net profit beat estimates with
7.7 percent increase to 218.9 million Swiss francs ($233
million) on non-life earnings and investment income, following a
worse-than-expected plunge in 2011, remains “committed to
interesting  dividend  policy,” sustaining 4.5 francs per share,
he said.  “Non-life is today the profit generator of the group,”
accounting for more than three-quarters of net income, De
Meulder said. “That’s of course linked to the very low interest
rate environment that we are living in” as life is “a lot more
interest-sensitive than non-life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  