-- Barclays Combines Securities Businesses in Overhaul
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-10-05T08:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/barclays-says-four-managers-to-leave-in-securities-unit-merger.html
(Corrects to show Evans is remaining at Barclays in
seventh paragraph of story first published Oct. 4.)  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment banking
chief, Rich Ricci, will combine part of its fixed income and
equities operations in his first overhaul since taking sole
control of the operation in June.  The bank promoted Skip McGee to chief executive of
corporate and investment banking in the Americas and Jerry Donini was named chief operating officer of corporate and
investment banking, according to an internal memo seen by
Bloomberg. The trading and distribution teams in fixed income,
commodities and currencies and equities will be put into a
single markets business led by Eric Bommensath.  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , who succeeded
Robert Diamond in August following the Libor-rigging scandal, is
reviewing which parts of the company will be sold or shrunk as
the bank seeks to boost profitability and overhaul its culture.
Ricci’s changes, following a review that started in July, are
aimed at helping the bank sell more products to corporate
clients.  “Ricci has been wanting to get on the front foot since
Diamond left and this is the first step in rationalizing the
bank, making it more efficient, while working more closely
together and shedding businesses with reputational issues,”
said Christopher Wheeler, a London-based analyst at Mediobanca
SpA. “This is all about trying to create a degree of certainty,
post-Bob.”  Cost Cutting  Barclays’s corporate and investment bank eliminated more
than 500 million pounds ($810 million) of expenses in the past
18 months, Ricci said last month. Ricci at the time said the
bank would review products and services that are no longer
appropriate, regardless of financial return. He cited
“elements” of the bank’s tax advisory business and the sale of
structured products to small-and medium-sized businesses.  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds in June by
U.S. and U.K. regulators for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate, leading to the departure of Diamond, the chairman
and the bank’s chief operating officer.  Ivan Ritossa, the securities unit’s head of Latin America,
central and eastern  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa ,
Guglielmo Sartori di Borgoricco, head of distribution will
leave. Michael Evans, head of human resources at the unit, will
step down and be assigned a new role at a later date. Iain Abrahams, who became an executive vice chairman of Barclays last
year, will depart, Barclays said.  Jerry del Missier was named COO on June 22, leaving Ricci,
49, in sole charge of corporate and investment banking. He
resigned on July 3.  Single Committee  The bank will have a single executive committee for
corporate and investment banking which will include John Winter,
the CEO of corporate banking, the bank said.  “These organizational changes will position the firm best
to take advantage of the changing market landscape, to continue
delivering outstanding value to our clients, and to become the
‘go-to’ bank for all our stakeholders,” Ricci said in the memo.  Ritossa, Sartori di Borgoricco and Abrahams didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls and e-mails requesting
comment. Evans couldn’t be immediately reached.  The lender may cut its investment bank by 20 percent, the
Sunday Times said last month after an interview with incoming
Chairman David Walker. A final plan will be presented to
shareholders in February, Jenkins said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  