-- Bernanke’s QE3 Will Turn Out Better Than Japan’s
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-10-04T21:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/bernanke-s-qe3-will-turn-out-better-than-japan-s-william-pesek.html
It’s Paul Volcker time for  Ben Bernanke  and Masaaki Shirakawa.  The heads of the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of Japan  are
facing waves of hostility from politicians, perhaps of a
virulence not seen since Volcker ran the Fed from 1979 to 1987.
Bernanke is getting beaten up for doing too much; his third
round of quantitative easing enraged Republicans. Shirakawa is a
human pinata for doing too little.  What if the world’s two most powerful central bankers could
learn from each other how to be smarter and boost economic
growth?  Some will take exception to the suggestion that the BOJ
trumps the  European Central Bank . But the ECB’s mandate is too
restrictive and ideologically tied to the Bundesbank of old to
play the global role that the euro’s founders anticipated. The
BOJ is the glue holding together the biggest public debt of any
developed nation. A meltdown in Japanese bonds could dwarf
 Europe ’s current woes.  The issue for Bernanke is to look where quantitative easing
failed first. He did, of course, even before the practice
formally existed. The Fed chairman made his mark at  Princeton
University  with papers such as “ Japanese Monetary Policy: A
Case of Self-Induced Paralysis? ” in 1999. He applied those
lessons to America’s own brush with a depression in 2008.  Fresh Insights  Fresh insights can be gleaned from  Japan . The notion that
buying financial assets from banks and other private
institutions adds oomph to  monetary policy  was born in the
country 11 years ago. It has been a flop. Just ask Japan’s
newest finance minister, the fifth to hold the job in three
years. I debated whether even to mention Koriki Jojima’s name
here. You have to wonder how long this one will be around.  It is no mystery why finance czars keep falling on their
proverbial swords: The economy is no healthier than it was in
2001, when Japan’s central bank invented “QE.” Why? Because
the BOJ never fully embraced QE as it was originally envisioned.  The main criticism of former BOJ Governor Masaru Hayami,
who held the job from 1998 to 2003, was that he didn’t pump
enough yen into the economy to generate inflation and growth. In
reality, his mistake was that he didn’t take lenders’ toxic
assets onto the BOJ’s books so banks could return to the job of
credit creation. Hayami focused, instead, on relatively
conventional open-market operations to lower  interest rates . The
amount of liquidity increased, but confidence among bankers
didn’t.  “It’s like filling a bath with the plug out,” says
 Nicholas Smith , a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd.
in Tokyo.  Hayami’s successor, Toshihiko Fukui (2003-2008), made the
BOJ’s drain even wider. Under him, broad money growth faltered
and the yen surged. And let’s not forget Fukui’s ill-fated
decision in 2006 to begin raising interest rates. The only time
a recent central banker erred worse was when ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet boosted borrowing costs in 2008 as markets were
crashing. Shirakawa’s first job when he took over was to drive
interest rates back to zero.  Bernanke’ QE program has a much better chance of working
because it relies on boosting consumption by lifting asset
prices, particularly for housing. As home values stabilize, so
will Americans’ perceptions of their economic plight. The
trouble is that each QE dose loses its effectiveness unless it
is carefully calibrated to reach new asset classes.  “At the moment, it’s about curing a hangover by staying
drunk,” Smith says. “QE’s ability to drive share prices,
currencies and commodities is tapering away with less
predictable results.”  Gold Prices  Unless the Fed sees to it that the reach of its largess
increases, the only clear beneficiary is the price of gold.
Getting traction is crucial and the good news is that Bernanke’s
QE has gotten considerably more than the BOJ’s. There also is
time for the Fed to give banks incentives to extend credit.  Herein lies the lesson for Shirakawa. Currency traders
yawned last month when the BOJ added $128 billion to its asset-
purchase fund. Everyone gets the joke that the BOJ is impotent -
- everyone except Shirakawa.  Japan’s government needs to do its part to restore business
and  consumer confidence , particularly after last year’s
devastating earthquake. Yet it is a waste of time to print money
that won’t be used. Why not penalize banks that pour all of the
BOJ’s liquidity into  government bonds ? How about tax incentives
for bankers who actually lend? Purchase longer-dated bonds? Buy
foreign debt to weaken the yen? Try something new, or Japan will
still have deflation in 2022.  Next week, when Bernanke arrives in Tokyo for the
 International Monetary Fund ’s annual meeting, he and Shirakawa
should compare notes. Perhaps they could invite Volcker along to
do some brainstorming. They could do worse than learn from the
man who restored oomph to central banking.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  