-- Berry Plastics Raises $471 Million Pricing IPO Low End of Range
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/berry-plastics-raises-471-million-pricing-ipo-low-end-of-range.html
Berry Plastics Group Inc. (BERY) , the
packaging company owned by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , raised
$471 million in its initial public offering, pricing the shares
at the low end of the marketed range.  Berry sold 29.4 million shares for $16 each, according to a
statement from the company, after offering the shares for $16 to
$18 apiece. The stock will start trading today on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol BERY. The shares sold in the IPO
represent a 26 percent stake.  Apollo, which bought Berry in 2006, sought to raise as much
as $529.4 million in the offering, giving the company an
enterprise value in line with its peers ahead of the IPO,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, net debt is
projected to be $4.1 billion, or 6 times Ebitda, more than twice
the level of competitors, the data show. Berry’s higher debt
load may have given investors pause, even with a valuation
similar to rivals, said Todd Wenning of Morningstar Inc.  “Relative to the other players in the field, they stand
out as having a higher debt load and little bit more risky
balance sheet,” Wenning, a Chicago-based analyst, said in a
telephone interview before the IPO. “As an investor, if they’re
trading one-to-one valuation wise, certainly there would be a
concern.”  Apollo has been seeking to sell its portfolio companies
back to the public to return money to clients as it prepares to
market a new flagship buyout fund. The New York-based firm
expects to start marketing the pool later this year, seeking $10
billion to $12 billion, two people with knowledge of the plans
have said.  Apollo, Graham  Ebitda at Berry was $680 million in the 12 months through
June 30, filings show. The company also disclosed adjusted
Ebidta of $784 million during the period, which excludes charges
for restructuring. The IPO price values the company’s
outstanding common stock at $1.8 billion.  Apollo and Graham Partners Inc., which bought Berry from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2006,
planned to retain 59 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively, of
the company’s common stock after the IPO, filings show.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG led the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  