-- Beyond the IPad: Rivals Offer Attractive Alternatives
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-10-04T13:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/beyond-the-ipad-rivals-offer-attractive-alternatives.html
     (Updates with information on new products, including the
iPad mini, Surface and Nexus 10.)  For the first time, the phrase "tablet worth buying"
isn't automatically synonymous with "iPad."  Unlike years past, when anything without the Apple label
might have been met with a fallen face, this holiday season
presents the gift-buyer with a real choice of sizes, prices
and capabilities.  Full Special Report: Tech Gift Guide: 2012  Not that the iPad itself is any less desirable. The
latest edition of the iconic 9.7-inch tablet ($499-$829)
features Apple's gorgeous Retina Display and the new smaller
Lightning connector introduced on the iPhone 5. In
addition, the models equipped with cellular connections run
over the new, ultrafast 4G LTE networks.  Plus, of course, there's the new, 7.9-inch iPad mini. The
screen isn't as nice as big brother's, but it's crazy thin
(barely a quarter of an inch) and crazy light (11 ounces).
And, at prices ranging from $329 for a Wi-Fi-only model with
16 gigabytes of storage to $659 with LTE and 64
gigabytes, it's also the most affordable iPad.  Nexus 7  After two years of struggling to establish Android
tablets as direct competition for the big iPad, Google this
year tried a different, and more successful, tack. Working
with Asus, it launched the Nexus 7, a more
compact, Google-branded device.  Starting at $199, the Wi-Fi-only Nexus 7 features a
bright and beautiful seven-inch display and swift performance.
Newly upgraded to 16 gigabytes of storage, its big drawback is
the limited selection of content in some of the Google Play
online stores.  Kindle Fire HD  Lack of content isn't anything that afflicts Amazon.com's
seven-inch Kindle Fire HD, which also starts at $199.
Indeed, it functions best as a front end to Amazon's enormous
stockpiles of e-books, videos and music.  At the same time, it's heavier and slower than the Nexus
7, and although it runs a version of Android, it doesn't have
access to the vast universe of Android apps. But if you've got
a confirmed Amazon-lover on your list -- especially one who
already belongs to Amazon Prime and can take advantage of
features like the Kindle Lending Library -- this may be the
tablet that warms her heart.  Nook HD  An alternative is Barnes & Noble's new Nook HD. It lacks
some of the Kindle's extras, like a front-facing camera. But
it's got a better screen and -- hooray! -- no ads.  Amazon and B&N have also launched bigger, 9-inch models
-- $269 for the Nook, $299 for the Kindle ($499 with a
first-year-discounted LTE plan from AT&T). While they're
positioning themselves mostly against the iPad, they also face
competition from a legion of less proprietary devices running
off-the-shelf versions of Android.  Flush from its Nexus 7 success, Google has launched the
Nexus 10, a Samsung-manufactured 10.1-inch tablet with a truly
iPad-worthy screen and a starting price, $399, that's $100
cheaper than the comparable Apple product.  The big problem is the paucity of apps designed
specifically to take advantage of the Nexus 10's size and
capabilities. Blown-up smartphone apps are annoying enough on
the Nexus 7; here, they're downright aggravating.  Xperia Tablet S  Sony's Android-based Xperia Tablet S ($400-$500) tries to
get around that problem by building in a host of proprietary
apps, some really good -- like the one that turns it into a
super-duper universal TV remote -- and others not so much.  Last year's version of the Xperia had an eccentric
teardrop shape, cheap construction, poorly placed controls and
connectors, and sluggish performance. This year, the design
has been toned down without losing its
distinctiveness, controls are more user-friendly and a new
processor from Nvidia helps move things along. It's one of the
nicer Android tabs out there.  Surface  You could probably start an argument about whether the
Microsoft Surface ($499-$699) even belongs in a roundup about
tablets. Yes, it weighs about the same as an iPad, has a touch
screen and runs apps under a colorful new operating system
called Windows RT.  But underneath all that beats the heart of a Windows
personal computer, especially when you add its optional, $130
Type Cover keyboard and use its built-in versions of Microsoft
Word, Excel and Powerpoint. Maybe it's best thought of as a
sleekly stripped-down PC with extra tablet features thrown in.  Kindle Paperwhite  While multifunction color tablets get all the attention
these days, there's still a role for the humble monochrome
e-reader among, you know, readers. The class of the field here
is Amazon's new Kindle Paperwhite ($119-$199), which uses a
built-in light, improved contrast and higher resolution to
create a more book-like experience, even in a dark room.  The Kindle Paperwhite gives you access to the best
selection of e-books, extras like the Lending Library for
Prime members and eight weeks of battery life between charges.
Splurge for the $179 ($199 without ads) model, with its free
lifetime 3G service, and your recipients will silently thank
you every time they're stuck on an airport tarmac with nothing
to read.
 