-- Billabong Says TPG Has Concerns About Takeover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-10-05T06:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/billabong-drops-on-report-tpg-may-quit-bid-process-sydney-mover.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  closed
27 percent below a takeover offer from TPG International LLC
after the surfwear maker said the buyout firm had concerns about
its A$694 million ($710 million) bid.  TPG and its advisers had “expressed concerns in relation
to some issues” and discussions on the sale process continue,
 Gold Coast , Australia-based Billabong said in a regulatory
statement yesterday, without saying what the issues were.  Billabong  fell  1.4 percent to A$1.06 at the close in
Sydney, 39 cents below TPG’s A$1.45 conditional offer price. The
stock was halted yesterday after dropping 18 percent on a report
in the  Australian Financial Review  that TPG was considering
withdrawing its offer for the company.  “You look at Billabong and it’s a mess,” Sondal Bensan,
an analyst at  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT) , said by phone from
Sydney. “The retail deals that private equity have done well
have been clean businesses. Billabong is very complex, it’s got
structural issues and it’s not easy to turn around.”  Chris Fogarty, a spokesman for Billabong, and Sue Cato, a
spokeswoman for TPG’s external media adviser Cato Counsel,
declined to comment. A message left at the office of Simon
Harle, a Melbourne-based  executive director  for TPG, wasn’t
returned.  Buyout Target  Billabong became a target for buyout groups as debt and
slumping earnings caused a drop in its  share price .  A second buyout firm, which Billabong didn’t identify,
walked away last month, the company said. Boston-based Bain
Capital Partners LLC made the competing offer, people familiar
with the matter said Sept. 6.  TPG, which made its offer July 25, has been examining the
company’s financial records after signing a confidentiality
agreement.  Billabong in August posted a A$276 million  net loss , its
first since listing in 2000, and wrote off 42 percent of the
value of its namesake label as a consumer slowdown forced it to
sell inventory at a loss and pay penalties to close stores
before leases expired.  The stock has lost more than 90 percent of its value from a
peak in May 2007. Launa Inman, a former managing director of
 Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s Target discount department store chain, was
appointed CEO on May 9 to turn around the company’s performance.  “There remains a lot of hard work ahead of us to return a
strong group to its former position,” she told an investor
briefing Aug. 27.  Offer Rejected  The company has previously said TPG’s A$1.45-a-share bid
doesn’t reflect “the fundamental value of Billabong in the
context of a change of control transaction.”  Billabong in February rejected an offer of A$3.30 a share
from TPG. Founder and largest shareholder Gordon Merchant,
together with director Colette Paull, said they wouldn’t
consider a bid of less than A$4 a share. Billabong has since
increased its issued capital by 86 percent after it raised A$225
million selling new stock at a discount to repay debt.  Merchant, a former surfboard-shaper, started stitching
Billabong’s clothes in his kitchen in 1973, according to the
company’s website.  The company had 634 stores in  Australia ,  Europe  and the
Americas at the end of June having shut 58 during the year. A
further 82 are slated to close this year, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  