-- BJ’s Board Should Face Suits Over ’11 Buyout, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-04T18:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/bj-s-board-should-face-suits-over-11-buyout-lawyer-says.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc.’s directors
shortchanged investors in a $2.8 billion sale of the third-
largest U.S. warehouse-club chain to two private-equity firms by
dismissing higher offers, a lawyer argued.  Officials of Westborough, Massachusetts-based BJ’s turned
down higher offers from two unidentified bidders to accept a
$51.25-a-share going-private deal with Leonard Green & Partners
LP and  CVC Capital Partners  so senior managers could protect
their jobs, said  Cullin O’Brien , a lawyer for investors suing
over the buyout.  BJ’s board members “steered the process toward Leonard
Green,” he told Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble at a
hearing in Dover today. The judge didn’t immediately make a
decision on whether to let the case continue.  Last month, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded BJ’s after
finding executives adopted a “highly aggressive” financial
strategy in the wake of the acquisition. The chain announced
this year that it will back two new debt offerings totaling more
than $1.6 billion to refinance loans tied to the buyout.  BJ’s is the No. 3 warehouse-club chain after  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Sam’s Club. The  New
York  Post  reported  in August that BJ’s executives turned down a
$55-a-share offer from Wal-Mart because of antitrust concerns.  Wal-Mart Bid  O’Brien noted in today’s argument that Wal-Mart was one of
the unidentified bidders for BJ’s. Noble instructed the court
reporter to strike the identification from the record of the
hearing to honor an agreement not to officially identify other
bidders. The judge said O’Brien’s slip was inadvertent.  BJ’s lawyers urged the judge to throw out the case, saying
investors couldn’t show the directors botched the effort to shop
the company around for the highest price.  The shareholders “haven’t produced any facts” to back up
claims that they engineered the sale of BJ’s to the Leonard
Green group, Daniel Halston, one of the company’s lawyers, said.  A Virgin Islands-based  pension fund , the asset-management
division of a German bank and individual investors who hold BJ’s
shares sued company directors over the buyout in Delaware,
according to court filings.  The so-called derivative lawsuit would return any recovery
from insurance covering BJ’s officers and directors to the
company’s coffers.  Shareholder Interests  The investors contend the directors put their own interests
ahead of shareholders’ in backing the offer from Los Angeles-
based Leonard Green and CVC, which is based in  London .  Laura Sen, BJ’s chief executive officer, won assurances
that the funds would “retain BJ’s senior management following
consummation of the buyout” in return for backing the bid, the
investors argued in an Aug. 8 court filing.  Sen and other BJ’s board members dismissed the higher bid
from the unidentified rival in warehouse food-store industry
because of antitrust concerns that may have been able to be
overcome, O’Brien argued today.  Herbert Zarkin, chairman of BJ’s board, negotiated with
Leonard Green for three months before alerting his colleagues on
the board that the private-equity firm was interested in buying
the chain, O’Brien said.  Those talks showed favoritism toward the Leonard Green bid
and that “seems shady to me,” O’Brien said. Zarkin is BJ’s
former CEO.  Investor Premium  Lawyers for BJ’s directors said in their filings and in
today’s argument that the private-equity buyout provided a more
than 38 percent premium to shareholders and that board members
shopped the company around to at least 23 potential buyers. They
also said the deal was approved by 99 percent of voting
stockholders.  Investors challenging the deal can’t produce any evidence
showing board members acted in bad faith in backing the buyout,
the company’s lawyers said.  “The board was entitled to rely on advisers,” who said
the antitrust problems inherent in a deal with the unidentified
industry rival made a buyout unworkable, Halston said.  The case is In Re BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. Shareholders
Litigation, CA6623,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  