-- Blackstone Takes Majority Stake in California Portfolio
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-04T18:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/blackstone-takes-majority-stake-in-california-portfolio.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  took a majority
stake in an investor group that owns a 31-property Southern
California office portfolio after a debt restructuring led by SL
Green Realty Corp.  Blackstone’s Real Estate Partners VII fund invested about
$85 million into the 4.5 million-square-foot (418,000-square-
meter) portfolio, according to a statement today from  New York- 
based SL Green, which gained control of the properties in August
through its holding of junior debt.  Gramercy Capital Corp. (GKK)  and
Square Mile Capital Management LLC are also in the venture.  “We were able to successfully structure a
recapitalization, bring in a very strong owner and operator to
run the portfolio, and from our standpoint to preserve our
investment, and hopefully make a return,” David Schonbraun,  SL
Green (SLG) ’s co-chief investment officer, said in a phone interview.  Blackstone’s Equity Office division will take over
management and leasing for the portfolio, which includes
properties in Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego, to
expand its presence in Southern California. The New York-based
firm has raised $13.3 billion for Blackstone Real Estate
Partners VII, the largest-ever private-equity real estate fund.  Blackstone has said it intends to exit Equity Office in the
next few years, possibly by selling its buildings in chunks to
various buyers. Michael Kim, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said the California deal isn’t
inconsistent with that strategy.  Deal Timing  “This is a function of timing and where the assets sit in
the business cycle,” Kim said in a phone interview. “They just
raised a big new real estate fund, and they have plenty of
capacity to invest in new properties.”  For SL Green, the deal enables it to refocus its attention
on its almost exclusively New York-based portfolio. About 95
percent of its properties are in  Manhattan , according to an
analysis released today by Green Street Advisors Inc., a Newport
Beach, California-based real estate research firm.  In addition to owning and managing New York skyscrapers, SL
Green lends money to other real estate investors, typically
providing higher-interest “mezzanine” loans, which are
subordinate to the senior mortgage and provide an opportunity to
take equity in case of non-payment. Most of those loans have
been on New York properties, Schonbraun said.  Cabi Purchase  In the case of the Southern California buildings, SL Green
loaned about $50 million to a joint venture including Cabi
Developers, a division of Mexican real estate company GICSA, in
2007, when  U.S. commercial-property values  were peaking. The
buyers paid $1.5 billion to Arden Realty Inc. for the
properties.  “Outside of New York, we’ve seen a few deals that we
thought selectively were interesting enough to pursue, and this
was one of them,” Schonbraun said. “There was a large equity
cushion behind us. For us it was a yield play.”  As property values plummeted after the deal, Hines, a
Houston-based real estate investment firm, foreclosed on the
borrower. Since then, SL Green has been acquiring interests in
other holders of junior debt on the portfolio, so it could have
control when the senior debt matured in August, Schonbraun said.  New York Life Insurance Co. led an extended $678.8 million
mortgage financing on the portfolio. After the recapitalization,
total debt is $746.8 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  