-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop on Evidence of Slowdown; Currency Rises
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-10-04T18:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/brazil-swap-rates-drop-on-evidence-of-slowdown-currency-rises.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell to a record
low as reports this week showed industrial production grew less
than economists forecast and vehicle sales contracted, spurring
bets policy makers will make more cuts in borrowing costs.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2014 fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.57 percent at 2:57 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, a record low on a closing basis. The currency
appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0202 per dollar in Sao Paulo after
reaching 2.0186, the strongest intraday level since Sept. 17.  Brazil new-vehicle sales fell 7.6 percent in September from
a year earlier, the National Federation of Automotive
Distributors reported Oct. 1. Brazil’s industrial output rose
1.5 percent in August from the previous month, the national
statistics agency said the next day. While the increase was the
largest in 15 months, it was smaller than all except one
estimate from 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
forecast was for a 2 percent gain.  “Those last indicators show weak activity, and bets are
increasing that there will be another 25 basis point cut in the
Selic rate,” Thiago Carlos, an economist at Link SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in a phone interview.  Car sales dropped 34 percent to 214,351 in September from a
month earlier, the National Vehicle Manufacturer’s Association
reported today.  Also today, the government set investment and local content
requirements for automakers to obtain tax breaks in the world’s
fifth-largest car market, a move designed to boost efficiency
and safeguard jobs.  Rate Reductions  The central bank has cut the target lending rate by 5
percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 7.5 percent
to support the economy.  Brazil’s real touched a two-week high as the  Federal
Reserve ’s third round of asset purchases known as quantitative
easing and the  European Central Bank ’s bond buying-plan
bolstered demand for emerging-market assets.  “With a better mood in global markets after QE3 and before
the expectations for flows to Brazil, the real should
appreciate,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at Renascenca
DTVM, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. Room for
appreciation is small because Brazil’s central bank may
intervene to limit gains, Amado said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today in
Slovenia that the bank is ready to start buying  government bonds 
as soon as the necessary conditions are fulfilled. Policy makers
held the target lending rate at a record low 0.75 percent. The
Fed said on Sept. 13 that it will expand its holdings of long-
term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month to boost growth and reduce unemployment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  