-- Cameron’s Plan to Revive U.K. Housing Hit by Regulations
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-10-05T10:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/cameron-s-plan-to-revive-u-k-housing-hit-by-regulations.html
At 21,  Steve Morgan  borrowed 5,000
pounds ($8,100) from his father to start a business that would
become U.K. homebuilder  Redrow Plc. (RDW)  Four decades later, he says
he couldn’t repeat the feat in Britain.  “Where are the young Tony Pidgleys and Steve Morgans?”
the 59-year-old Redrow chairman said in an interview, referring
to the founder of Berkeley Group Holdings Plc, one of his
biggest competitors. “They’re not coming through and the reason
is twofold. One is planning and the other is capital and lack of
finance.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has tried to stimulate the
homebuilding market to help lift the U.K. out of a recession.
The government passed legislation designed to ease planning
approvals last year and introduced several initiatives to help
buyers get mortgages. Housing starts fell 10 percent in the
three months since a new planning framework was approved in
March, according to government data.  Like Morgan, 65-year-old Pidgley founded his own company.
Redrow, based in the Welsh town of Flint, is the smallest of the
U.K.’s seven publicly traded homebuilders, while  Berkeley (BKG)  is No.
2. When they started out, the companies could normally get
planning permission for new projects within two months, Morgan
said in the September interview. Now, he says, it’s much harder.
Pidgley wasn’t available to comment.  The government’s decision to increase local control over
planning approvals as part of a larger decentralization of power
sparked criticism from homebuilders, who said it would hinder
development. The Localism Act, which received final approval in
November 2011, scrapped regional homebuilding targets that were
used under the preceding Labour government.  Council Incentives  To encourage local planners to approve projects, Cameron’s
government offered financial incentives such as matching local
taxes paid on new homes for six years. It also whittled down
more than 1,000 pages of regulations to 52 to simplify who can
build what, where and how fast. In March, amendments were added
including changes to improve environmental protection.  Redrow’s plan to redevelop a derelict paper mill in
Sudbrook,  Wales , into 300 homes was rejected by the
Monmouthshire County Council on Oct. 2, a planning document
shows. The council cited an increase in traffic, inadequate
infrastructure to support such a large development and “an
adverse impact on the historical form and character of the
village of Sudbrook” as reasons for turning down the project.  Kate Logan, a Redrow spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Little Effect  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , Britain’s largest homebuilder by
volume, said last month that planning and regulation are
becoming increasingly complex.  “Although planning reform was introduced via the National
Planning Policy Framework, it is unlikely that this will have a
material short-term effect on the group,” the London-based
company said in an earnings statement.  The U.K. Department for Communities and Local Government
didn’t return e-mails or calls seeking comment. The department
is responsible for implementing housing policy.  The government took further steps to encourage housing
development in September, removing requirements to include low-
income and state-subsidized residences in building projects. It
also eased restrictions on extending existing homes and
businesses. Cameron  expressed frustration  with local planners
prior to introducing the measures.  Planning ‘Paralysis’  “A familiar cry goes up: ‘Yes we want more housing; but no
to every development -- and not in my back yard,”’ the prime
minister wrote in the Mail on Sunday on Sept. 1. “The nations
we’re competing against don’t stand for this kind of paralysis
and neither must we.”  The Campaign to Protect Rural England rejects the idea that
looser planning controls are needed to boost the economy. The
lobbying group says encroaching on the undeveloped “green
belt” between cities would lead to U.S.-style urban sprawl and
damage to the countryside.  “The countries with the most deregulated planning systems
in the European Union are  Greece ,  Spain ,  Portugal  and Ireland
and the countries that have the tightest regulation on planning
include  Germany  and the Scandinavian block,” Jack Neill-Hall, a
spokesman for the organization, said by phone. “So saying that
planning is our greatest block on the economy simply isn’t the
case.”  The U.K.’s planning process has been a drag on building
long before the current government took office, according to the
Home Builders Federation, an industry association.  Slow System  “We went from a fairly market-responsive system in the 70s
and 80s to a bureaucratic plan in the 90s and 2000s, where local
authorities ultimately control the supply of land,”  John Stewart , director of economic affairs at the federation, said by
telephone.  Homebuilding starts have dropped by more than half since
their peak in 2005 and completions are 39 percent below a March
2007 high, according to the  Communities Department . Housing
starts totaled 21,540 in the three months through June. About
60,000 new homes are needed each quarter to keep up with the
growth in households, the Office for National Statistics
estimates.  Though the government’s efforts to simplify the planning
process will help boost approvals, they’re not enough to counter
the decline in lending, according to the Home Builders
Federation.  “Until mortgage availability comes back and builders can
sell homes, they are not going to be putting in the volume of
planning applications that they are required for the number of
homes needed,” said Steve Turner, a spokesman for the group.  ‘Conservative Borrowers’  Mortgage approvals in August fell 9.1 percent from a year
earlier to 47,665, according to  Bank of England  data. Gross
mortgage lending fell 1 percent in August from the previous
month to 12.6 billion pounds, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders 
said on Sept. 20.  “People are acting conservatively in this weak economic
environment, maintaining debt repayments and building up
deposits,” British Bankers’ Association statistics director
 David Dooks  said in a Sept. 25 statement. “Household mortgage
approvals are improving slightly, but unsecured borrowing
continues to be subdued.”  U.K. banks have reined in lending to comply with stricter
capital rules even as  interest rates  retreated to record lows.
Lenders typically require deposits of 20 percent to 25 percent,
compared with zero to 5 percent before the financial crisis,
putting homes out of reach for many first-time buyers.  Lender Protection  In the last year, however, U.K. banks have showed increased
interest in financing real estate development projects on
expectations that Britain’s economy will recover more quickly
than elsewhere in  Europe , according to a study published today
by construction consultant EC Harris.  Since the second quarter, the government’s NewBuy program
has helped buyers get mortgages with a 5 percent deposit. The
loans include a guarantee shared by the state and the
homebuilders that protects lenders from some of the losses they
would incur in a default.  Purchasers of 250 homes used NewBuy in the second quarter,
the communities department said on Sept. 27. That’s not enough,
according to John Hitchcox, chairman of residential real estate
developer Yoo Ltd.  “Getting housing moving is about easing the supply of
credit and about getting the market moving,” he said in an e-
mailed statement. “If you sort out housing, you fix a myriad of
social issues: education, disengaged youth, health and crime.”  Redrow has sold about a quarter of all the homes purchased
through NewBuy in the 12 months through June, according to its
annual results statement on Sept. 19.  ‘Disappointing’ Interest  “The take-up so far has been disappointing, with just 63
customers choosing to use the scheme and many more discouraged
by the high interest rates charged by most of the participating
lenders,” the company said.  Morgan is leading a takeover approach for Redrow that would
value the company at about 562 million pounds. A U.K. Takeover
Panel deadline to make a firm offer or withdraw has been
extended to Oct. 18 following a request by the company, Redrow
said yesterday. The shares closed at 158.90 pence in  London 
trading yesterday, higher than the 152 pence price indicated by
the group on Aug. 31, a sign that shareholders expect an
improved bid.  Redrow’s legal completions fell 6 percent to 2,458 homes in
the year through June 30. The company, which has the capacity to
double the number of units it builds, will constrain its volume
while planning slows down development and restricted mortgage
lending deters first-time buyers, Morgan said at the Celtic
Manor Golf resort in Wales.  “Anything that slows down development, particularly when
the principle has already been agreed, is a barrier to jobs and
economic prosperity,” Morgan said. “We build less houses,
there’s less jobs, less stamp duty. We would like to be doing a
lot more than we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 