-- Canada Natural Gas Slips as Storage Build Beats Expectations
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-10-04T20:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/canada-natural-gas-slips-as-storage-build-beats-expectations.html
Canadian natural gas slipped after
the U.S. government reported a higher-than-expected increase in
gas supplies, indicating that demand for imports may weaken.  November  gas in Alberta  declined 0.1 percent. The U.S.
Energy Department said gas inventories rose 77 billion cubic
feet to 3.653 trillion in the week ended Sept. 28. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed an expected increase of
73 billion.  “It’s essentially neutral, the storage number, so I don’t
think we’re going to see any big price declines today,” said
 Martin King , an analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in
Calgary. “People are looking through this right now and forward
to the winter season. We’ve got some cold weather in the West
and it’s supposed to start cooling off out East.”  Forecasters shifted their outlooks for mid-October toward
colder weather. Commodity Weather Group LLC of Bethesda,
 Maryland  said in a note to clients today that it expects a
“more aggressive” push of cooler air to move into the eastern
and central U.S. from  Canada  between Oct. 9 and Oct. 13. Average
U.S. heating demand may be 30 percent above normal over the next
seven days, according to Weather Derivatives of Belton,
 Missouri .  Alberta  gas for November delivery declined 0.25 cent to
C$2.9675 per gigajoule ($2.87 per million British thermal units)
as of 3:55 p.m.  New York  time on NGX, a Canadian electronic
exchange.  Natural gas for November delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  rose 1.1 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $3.406
per million Btu.  Pipeline Flows  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.5 billion cubic
feet at 3 p.m. New York time, 776 million cubic feet below
target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.93 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.16 billion cubic feet.  There was no capacity available on TransCanada’s  British
Columbia system  at Kingsgate. The system was forecast to carry
1.67 billion cubic feet today, matching estimated capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
2.83 billion cubic feet at 2:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  