-- Canada’s Harper Says Cnooc’s Nexen Bid Raises Issues
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-10-04T20:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/canada-s-harper-says-cnooc-s-nexen-bid-raises-issues.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  raises tough policy issues his government is
considering in its review of the takeover.  “This particular transaction raises a range of difficult
policy questions, difficult forward-looking issues, and those
things will all be taken into account under the act in assessing
the net benefit of this investment,” Harper told reporters
today in Ottawa.  “We have approved many transactions, we have significantly
modified some, and we have blocked some transactions,” Harper
said at a news conference with Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete.  Canada  is examining the offer from the Chinese state-owned
oil producer under the Investment Canada Act, which requires
that foreign takeovers represent a “net benefit” to the
country. Canada’s 2010 rejection of Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s hostile $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. was one of only two acquisitions since 1985 to be blocked
under the current law.  Harper said the government is still gathering “information
and opinions” for its review of the friendly offer for Calgary-
based Nexen.  Extension Possibility  Industry Minister Christian Paradis told reporters
separately the government will take as much time as needed to
make a decision and an extension of the review period is a
possibility.  Under Canadian law, the government can unilaterally extend
the original 45-day review period by 30 days, and extend the
review further if Cnooc agrees. The government said Aug. 29 it
received the application.  The opposition  New Democratic Party  today called on the
government to reject the bid, citing a “lack of transparency”
in the approval process.  “A lot of jobs and growth depend on the investments that
come into this country,” Harper said when asked about the
position of the NDP, the biggest opposition party in the
country’s legislature. “As well, Canada is a significant
investor in other parts of the world.”  The prime minister said Canada will make its decision
regardless of the position taken by the U.S., which is also
reviewing the acquisition.  Nexen’s oil and gas assets include production platforms in
the North Sea, the  Gulf of Mexico  and in Nigeria, as well as
oil-sands reserves at Long Lake,  Alberta , where it already
produces crude in a joint venture with Cnooc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  