-- Canadian Dollar Rises From 1-Month Low on Central Bank Sentiment
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-04T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/canadian-dollar-rises-after-ecb-rate-decision-stocks-oil-gain.html
Canada ’s dollar rose for the first
time in three days against its U.S. peer after Bank of Canada
Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem reiterated policy makers may
withdraw monetary stimulus as the nation’s economy recovers.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened from
almost a one-month low amid increased demand for riskier assets
after the  European Central Bank  maintained its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent after a policy
meeting. Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, increased for
the first time in three days. Canadian  employment  data will be
released tomorrow after the measure rose faster than economists
forecast in August.  “The loonie is coming back from the dead after a few rough
sessions, as we sold off too far too fast,” said  Steve Butler ,
director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit. “The very hawkish comments by the
deputy governor have helped as he reiterated that the Bank of
Canada still prefers higher rates.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 98.04 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5:09 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 98.84 cents
yesterday, the weakest level since Sept. 6. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.02.  Crude-oil futures gained 4 percent to $91.71 a barrel in
 New York , after reaching a two-month low yesterday.  Stronger Tone  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the 10-year
government security up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.76 percent. The 2.75 security maturing in June 2022
lost 40 cents to C$108.76.  The  Bank of Canada  will sell C$2.7 billion of three-year
notes on Oct. 10. The debt matures in February 2016.  Canada’s Ivey purchasing managers’ index fell a second
month in September, staying at a level that indicates business
and government expenditures advanced.  The index fell to 60.4 in September on a seasonally
adjusted basis from 62.5 in August, according to a statement
today from the business school of Western University in  London .
Readings greater than 50 indicate purchasing advanced, and the
index has exceeded that mark since July.  “The Positive Canadian data this morning has helped the
loonie and the Bank of Canada is still talking about the
potential need to remove stimulus, which is helping to support
the currency,” Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based director of
foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a phone interview.
“All eyes will be on tomorrow’s employment data to give us
further direction.”  Bank Rate  The central bank’s benchmark  interest rate  has been 1
percent for more than two years, the longest pause since the
1950s. The central bank has indicated since April it may raise
rates, and in July forecast the economy may reach full capacity
in the second half of next year.  Other Group of Seven central bankers have added new
stimulus this year to combat flagging growth, including
extraordinary asset purchases by the  Federal Reserve  to reduce
unemployment stuck above 8 percent.  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some
modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy
stimulus may become appropriate,” Macklem said in the text of a
speech he’s giving today in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  Canada has gained 339,000 jobs since recouping the 430,000
jobs lost in the last recession, Macklem said.  Jobs Data  Canadian employers added 10,000 jobs last month, compared
with 34,300 the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 24 economists. The jobless rate is projected to hold
at 7.3 percent.  U.S. employers added 115,000 jobs in September and the
nation’s jobless rate advanced to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent,
according to surveys of economists before the Labor Department
report tomorrow.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today he
doesn’t think there is a bubble in Canada’s housing market.  Realtors in Toronto, Canada’s largest city, reported
yesterday that sales fell 21 percent in September from a year
earlier, while Vancouver realtors said sales were down 33
percent on the same basis there.  Canada’s dollar has gained 1.9 percent this year against
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  