-- Canada Stocks Rise to Three-Week High as ECB Is Set to Buy Debt
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-10-04T20:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/canada-stocks-rise-to-three-week-high-as-ecb-is-set-to-buy-debt.html
Canadian  stocks  rose to their highest
level in almost three weeks after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the bank is ready to buy government
bonds as soon as the necessary conditions are fulfilled.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  rose 1.8 percent after analysts at BMO
Capital Markets and UBS AG raised their rating on the stock on
an improved company outlook. Dundee Industrial Real Estate
Investment Trust jumped 9 percent in its first day of trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  gained 88.21
points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,447.68 in Toronto. The benchmark
index has risen 4.1 percent this year. Mining and telephone
stocks led the advance today as eight of 10 industries rose.  “Draghi’s comments definitely help,” said Bruce Campbell,
president of Campbell & Lee Investment Management Inc., in an
interview from Oakville, Ontario. “It’s fairly obvious Spain
needs some bailout help. We can argue what the number is, but
because of what he’s said he’ll do and what he’s already done,
it’s become self-fulfilling.”  The ECB is ready to start buying  government bonds  as soon
as the necessary conditions are fulfilled by any countries
needing assistance, Draghi said today at a press conference in
Ljubljana, Slovenia. The central bank is ready to undertake
purchases “once all the prerequisites are in place,” Draghi
said, after policy makers left the benchmark rate at a historic
low of 0.75 percent.  ‘Solid’ Investment  Bank of Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said
today that business investment has been “solid” and that
executives need to become more competitive and win sales in
faster-growing  emerging markets  such as Asia. Macklem also
reiterated the amount of slack in the labor market has shrunk
and policy makers may raise the policy interest rate to meet a 2
percent inflation target.  Canadian equities joined a rally in North American markets
after U.S. jobless claims data rose less than estimated.
Applications for  jobless benefits  increased 4,000 to 367,000 in
the week ended Sept. 29, U.S. Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The Canadian economy probably added 10,000 jobs in
September, with the  unemployment rate  unchanged at 7.3 percent,
according to the median  estimate  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg news ahead of a Statistics Canada announcement
tomorrow.  Analyst Ratings  Enbridge, Canada’s largest pipeline company by market
value, rose 1.8 percent to C$40.08 after  Carl Kirst , an analyst
with BMO Capital Markets, raised the stock to outperform and
Chad Friess of UBS raised his rating to buy after the company’s
investor meeting in Toronto yesterday.  Dundee Industrial REIT climbed 9 percent to C$10.90 in its
first day of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange after its
C$155 million ($158 million) initial public offering last month
at C$10 a unit.  Whitecap Resources Inc. (WCP)  jumped 6.7 percent to C$7.84 after
the oil and gas explorer reported record September production of
16,900 barrels of oil equivalent per day yesterday after the
market close.  Bankers Petroleum Ltd. (BNK) , which operates in the Patos-Marinza
oil field in Albania, surged 4.8 percent to C$3.25 after the
Albanian project reported a 10 percent increase in production in
the third quarter.  Sulliden Gold Corp. (SUE) , run by Forbes & Manhattan Inc.
Chairman Stan Bharti, soared 14 percent to C$1.06 after the
mineral exploration company canceled a bonus plan for the board
on shareholders’ input. The stock fell 15 percent yesterday.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest energy company,
advanced 1.3 percent to C$33.15 and  Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. (CNQ)  rose 1.4 percent to C$30.70 as crude rebounded from a two-
month low. Oil for November delivery gained 4.1 percent to
settle at $91.71 a barrel in New York as tensions between Syria
and Turkey fanned concern  Middle East  production may be
disrupted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  