-- Cantor Cut to Junk by Moody’s on Capital Markets Pressure
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-10-04T21:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/cantor-lowered-to-junk-by-moody-s-on-capital-markets-pressure.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the investment
bank planning to add 800 people, was cut to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service as the ratings company said the expansion has
failed to sufficiently boost profit.  The firm run by  Howard Lutnick , which has increased the
amount of money it commits to buy and sell bonds, was downgraded
to Ba1, the highest level of speculative grade, Moody’s said
today in a statement. Moody’s said it expects “the  capital
markets  operating environment to be challenging for all
participants for the medium term.”  Lutnick has been hiring to expand in capital markets and
grow outside the U.S. as a decline in trading pressures profits
at its brokerage unit. While the New York-based company is
diversifying revenues by adding new business, its compensation
expenses have “remained stubbornly high, resulting in only
modest profitability,” Moody’s said.  “It certainly makes it difficult to expand a company in
the face of a significant downgrade,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an e-mail. “A non-
investment-grade rating for a broker is not a death sentence,
but the lower rating will limit financing alternatives and
reduce the willingness of counterparties to deal with a firm.”  S&P, Fitch  Sheryl Lee, a Cantor spokeswoman, said she had no immediate
comment.  “This was about modest profitability and nothing else,”
Peter Nerby, the author of the Moody’s report, said in a
telephone interview. “They’re a very liquid company.”  Closely held Cantor still has investment-grade rankings of
BBB from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. S&P lowered its
outlook on Cantor to negative on Jan. 27, saying that the firm’s
profitability was low due to market conditions, its effort to
cut risk and leverage and because of “some employee turnover.”  “The question is, how is the Street going to handle this
and how do the employees feel since they have put a large chunk
of their earnings in the Cantor stock?” said Michael Maloney,
president of New York-based recruitment firm Maloney Inc.  Cantor, which lost 658 employees in the Sept. 11 World
Trade Center attacks, has sought to diversify revenue sources
aside from its inter-dealer brokerage franchise, BGC Partners
Inc., by adding sales, trading and banking capabilities, Moody’s
said. BGC, which was downgraded to Ba2 from Ba1, and Cantor are
“closely integrated,” and their credit grades will likely move
together in the future, the credit-rating company said.  Added Revenue  The expansion has “added some revenues,” Nerby said.
“It’s not producing tremendous profitability.”  The firm’s brokerage arm, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., plans to
boost its staff from the current 1,600 in the next few years,
unit Chief Executive Officer Shawn Matthews said in June.
Matthews said in August that Cantor will probably add an
additional 500 sales traders in the next two years and plans to
build its investment-banking and asset-management units.  The company has $800 million of bonds outstanding,
including 7.875 percent notes due in October 2019 and 6.375
percent bonds maturing in June 2015, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Money manager Loomis Sayles & Co., based in  Boston , owns 14
percent of the securities, two units of Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , hold about 10
percent and Calvert Group Ltd. in Bethesda,  Maryland , owns 5.4
percent, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  