-- Cathay Fortune Bids $848 Million to Control Discovery Metals
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-04T05:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/cathay-fortune-bids-848-million-to-control-discovery-metals.html
A Chinese private equity firm is
offering A$830 million ($848 million) for control of  Discovery
Metals Ltd. (DML) , an Australian copper producer with mines in
 Botswana , in the latest push by a mainland company to secure
access to overseas resources.  Cathay Fortune Corp., founded by billionaire Yu Yong, led
an offer of A$1.70 a share in cash for the stock in Discovery it
doesn’t  already own , the Shanghai-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement. The bid is 17 percent higher than
Discovery’s closing price yesterday. Cathay Fortune holds 13.7
percent of the target, it said.  A slump in commodity prices and asset values has triggered
renewed takeover interest in the mining sector, with Chinese
companies targeting assets in Africa. Sichuan Hanlong Group is
scheduled to complete a A$1.14 billion takeover for Sundance
Resource Ltd. in December to gain iron ore assets in central
Africa while MMG Ltd. in March bought African copper producer
Anvil Mining Ltd. for C$1.3 billion ($1.31 billion).  “The offer seems fully priced -- the market has decided
that commodities are coming off as  China ’s growth slows, so
asset values are falling,” Chris Brown, a Brisbane-based
resources analyst with RBS  Australia , said by phone. “Unlike
zinc, where the Chinese are a major producer, they’re not major
producers in their own right in copper.”  First Production  Buying Discovery would give Cathay Fortune, which manages
an investment portfolio of more than $3 billion, a copper-silver
mine in western Botswana that produced first copper in July with
a production capacity of 36,000 metric tons and 1.1 million
ounces of silver annually.  Discovery Metals is evaluating Cathay Fortune’s takeover
proposal and will respond after the board has considered its
terms, the company said in a statement. UBS AG is acting as
Discovery’s financial adviser, it said.  Commodity prices have declined as growth in China, the
biggest metals consumer, cooled to the slowest pace in three
years. The price of  iron ore  fell to a near three-year low last
month following slowing steel demand growth in China, the
largest importer of iron ore.  Arrium Ltd. (ARI) , an Australian steel and iron ore producer,
this week rebuffed a A$1.01 billion takeover offer from Noble
Group Ltd. and Korean investors as too low.  Engaging Directors  “We look forward to engaging with the board of directors
of Discovery Metals to progress our proposal,” Yu said in the
statement. Cathay is “enthusiastic” about working with the
board to develop and provide funding for the Boseto copper
project, it said.  Cathay Fortune has investments in 14 different sectors in
China, including resources and mining, according to the
statement. The private equity firm, begun in 1997, owns 35
percent of China Molybdenum Co., the biggest domestic producer
of the steelmaking raw material, it said in the statement.  Cathay Fortune would own 75 percent of the company if a
deal was completed, with the remainder held by China- Africa 
Development Fund, according to the statement. Citigroup Inc. is
adviser to Cathay Fortune.  Brisbane-based Discovery Metals gained 7 percent to A$1.455
yesterday. The company halted its shares from trading today
ahead of a statement, it said.  Paul Fulton, company secretary at Discovery Metals, wasn’t
immediately available for comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  