-- Chavez Thwarts Cancer Talk in Venezuela as Heir Duel Looms
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-04T19:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/chavez-thwarts-cancer-talk-in-venezuela-vote-as-heir-duel-looms.html
In 14 years, Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez  has survived a coup, seized 1,000 companies, forged
ties with  Iran  and called  George W. Bush  the “devil.” Not even
cancer has hobbled him enough to stop his fourth bid for office.  Following three surgeries in Cuba that had slowed his
campaign against Henrique Capriles Radonski, the 58-year-old
Chavez picked up the pace in the past two weeks, visiting seven
states that cover about one-third of the country. He ends his
campaign for the Oct. 7 election with a rally today in Caracas.  Even as cancer has become less of an issue for voters,
concerns persist that Chavez’s health won’t hold out for another
six years in office and a succession fight will break out, said
Moises Naim, a former Venezuelan trade minister now at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in  Washington .  “There are several factions that have leaders in the
government that feel both the right and duty to be the
successor,” said Naim, who also sat on the board of directors
of the central bank from 1989 to 1990. “Chavez knows if he
picks one the others will revolt.”  Investors boosted demand for Venezuelan debt earlier this
year as Chavez struggled with his cancer treatment, said Alfredo
Viegas, managing director for emerging markets at  Knight Capital 
in Greenwich,  Connecticut . The country’s dollar bonds have
returned 30 percent this year through September, the second-
highest in emerging markets after the  Ivory Coast , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  Youth and Fitness  Chavez isn’t guaranteed a victory as he faces his closest
campaign battle since entering office. Capriles, the 40-year-old
former governor of Miranda state, has stressed his youth and
fitness as a contrast to the ailing Chavez, visiting more than
260 communities over eight months and rallying tens of thousands
in Caracas Sept. 30.  “In the past Chavez was constantly in the streets and
doing what we’re seeing Capriles do now, which is visit several
states in the same day,” said Andres Canizalez, a media
professor at Universidad Catolica Andres Bello in Caracas.
“That was Chavez in 2006.”  Polls have varied widely, though most analysts give the
advantage to Chavez, who tried to make up for his lack of public
campaigning by requiring that television and radio stations
cover his official speeches, even when Capriles is already
speaking.  Conflicting Polls  Bank of America Merrill Lynch in an Oct. 1 report gave
Chavez an advantage of 12.2 percentage points in the election,
basing the estimate on surveys conducted by seven polling
companies. In a Sept. 7-18 survey of 1,500 people by Caracas-
based Consultores 21, the two candidates were in a statistical
tie, with Capriles supported by 46.5 percent and Chavez by 45.7
percent. The poll had a margin of error of 2.58 percentage
points.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez wins and becomes too ill to
serve during the first four years of his term, the vice
president assumes the presidency for 30 days while elections are
held. If he can’t serve the final two years, the vice president
can finish out the term.  While political analysts say the president of the national
assembly,  Diosdado Cabello , and Foreign Affairs Minister  Nicolas Maduro  are potential replacements, there’s no known line of
succession for the man who has dominated Venezuelan politics
since 1998. Chavez has dismissed the need for a  succession plan 
since he claims to be free of cancer.  Coup Charges  “To think of the country without Chavez at this time is to
think of another country,” Alberto Barrera, the Venezuelan co-
author of the Spanish-language biography “Hugo Chavez Out of
Uniform,” said in an e-mailed response to questions. “He has
developed an immense cult of personality. He clearly dominates
society.”  Since taking office with 56 percent of the vote in the 1998
election, Chavez has rewritten the constitution, fired 18,000
striking oil workers at state-run Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA,
shut down the country’s most popular television station, seized
brokerages and railed against the U.S. “empire,” which he
charged with backing an unsuccessful 2002 coup.  His penchant for needling the U.S., the biggest buyer of
Venezuelan crude, has included accusing the American ambassador
of spying, hosting Russian warships and praising Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . In a 2006 speech at the  United
Nations , one day after Bush’s visit, Chavez said the lectern
smelled of sulfur.  “Yesterday, ladies and gentleman, from this rostrum, the
president of the  United States , the gentleman whom I refer to as
the devil, came here, talking as if he owned the world,” Chavez
said.  TV Show  Domestically, Chavez has portrayed himself as a man of
action, bantering with everyone from shop keepers and
steelworkers to housewives and farmers for as long as six hours
straight on his weekly “Alo Presidente” television show before
the cancer struck.  When companies haven’t met Chavez’s own standards for
investment or low prices, he seized them, sometimes in mid-
stride during walks through the capital. That was the fate for
the local units of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
 Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , the world’s largest producer of glass
containers.  The takeovers have cost the government $12.7 billion in
compensation to date with $13.5 billion pending, according to
Caracas-based research company Ecoanalitica.  Low Inequality  Surging oil revenue aided Chavez’s takeovers and fueled
programs targeting the poor, including subsidized food and free
medical clinics. Crude has climbed from about $11 a barrel when
Chavez was elected to $88 yesterday. Venezuela has the world’s
largest reserves of oil, totaling about 300 billion barrels,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Boosted by election-year spending, Venezuela’s economy will
expand 5 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of
analysts polled by Bloomberg. Under Chavez, Venezuela has the
region’s lowest level of inequality, according to the United
Nations, and the fourth-highest per-capita GDP, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Venezuela’s 18 percent inflation rate is the world’s
fastest after Belarus, Iran and  Argentina . It has the highest
borrowing costs among major  emerging markets , according to
JPMorgan. Crime has soared since Chavez came to power, with the
homicide rate tripling last year to 67 per 100,000 inhabitants,
the highest in  South America , according to the Venezuelan
Violence Observatory. The government says the rate is lower,
without providing official figures.  ‘I’ve Never Failed You’  Chavez has acknowledged short-comings and vowed to be
“more efficient” and to eliminate poverty in a third six-year
term.  “I’m committed to being a better president starting on
Oct. 8,” he told supporters at an Oct. 2 rally in Lara state.
“Although I’ve committed mistakes, I’ve never failed you.”  Even as billboards and street art portray the president as
omnipresent, Chavez’s illness has taken its toll. The leader
once known for giving six-hour speeches spoke for an average of
just 24 minutes a day in late September, Barclays Plc wrote in a
Sept. 26 report, citing Venezuelan research group ODH.  Yet the president has been back to his old antics at times
in the past two weeks, singing and dancing with musicians during
campaign stops, while playfully boxing with young athletes at
rallies.  Caracas Rally  Chavez supporters wearing red shirts packed downtown
Caracas in the rain today, filling four broad avenues, before
the president was scheduled to appear. Buses carrying supporters
choked the capital’s streets while motorcycles decorated with
red flags wove in and out of traffic as they headed to the
rally.  “We’re in the midst of the final avalanche of people on
our way to a knock-out victory on Sunday,” Chavez said on state
television Oct. 2.  Without more details on his cancer, it’s impossible to
determine the severity of Chavez’s illness,  Sunil Daryanani , a
Caracas-based oncologist, said by phone. His erratic campaign
style may simply show that a year’s worth of treatment is taking
a physical toll, he said.  Even if Chavez is forced to step aside after winning, his
influence is unlikely to fade anytime soon, said former
Brazilian Foreign Minister Luiz Felipe Lampreia, who oversaw
ties with Venezuela when Chavez took office in 1999.  “Chavez’s policies are so implanted that it’ll take one or
two generations to roll them back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  