-- Cheaper Nikes Propel Soccer Investor to Top of Retailers
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-05T10:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/cheaper-nikes-propel-soccer-investor-ashley-to-top-of-retailers.html
Dan Thomas looks up at the rain
clouds hovering above  St. Paul ’s cathedral in  London  and then
smiles approvingly at the two golf umbrellas he’s just bought
for 5 pounds ($8) from a branch of  Sports Direct. (SPD)   The 28-year-old electrician from Essex said the store chain
controlled by Mike Ashley, the owner of Premier League soccer
club Newcastle United, is his initial port of call when he’s
looking for sporting goods. The reason: Price.  “I’ll always have a look in Sports Direct first because
they’re cheap,” said Thomas, who usually buys T-shirts for use
at the gym from the store. “The umbrellas were more expensive
when I looked on EBay.”  With prices luring thrifty customers, Sports Direct
International Plc’s stack-it-high-sell-it-cheap strategy helped
push its biggest competitor into bankruptcy this week, while
manufacturers  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Adidas AG (ADS)  have the products they
spend millions of dollars marketing sold at a discount.  In stores located everywhere from dilapidated provincial
retail parks to prime London shopping streets, Sports Direct
sells everything from Lonsdale boxing gloves and Slazenger
cricket bats, brands owned by Ashley, to Adidas sneakers and
replica Manchester United soccer shirts made by Nike.  Yard Sale  Logos of the world’s largest sporting-goods companies often
get displayed in stores that resemble a yard sale, according to
 Bryan Roberts , a director at  Kantar Retail  in London.  “It’s not the most attractive proposition in terms of in-
store experience, but it’s been tremendously effective,”
Roberts said in a telephone interview.  Sports Direct, which former squash coach Ashley founded by
opening an eponymous store Mike Ashley Sports in 1982, is now
the U.K.’s biggest sporting goods retailer, with almost 500
outlets and 19,000 employees.  It increased underlying profit by 14 percent in the 53
weeks ending April 29 to 109.1 million pounds, while sales rose
13 percent to 1.8 billion pounds, the company said in a
statement to the stock exchange on July 19.  Its  shares  have jumped 79 percent this year before today,
compared with the 6.5 percent gain for the benchmark  All-Share
Index. (ASX)  Nike has fallen 0.8 percent, while Adidas is up 30
percent. Sports Direct shares rose 3.9 pence to 386.7 pence at
11:16 a.m. in London.  JJB Sports Plc (JJB) , the company founded by another soccer club
owner, Dave Whelan of Wigan Athletic, on Oct. 1 announced it was
eliminating 2,200 jobs after the business went into
administration, a way of avoiding outright bankruptcy. Sports
Direct is acquiring 20 stores and JJB’s website, according to a
statement from administrator KPMG LLP on Oct. 1.  Replica Shirts  A key battle front in the competition among U.K. sports
retailers has been in the sale of replica soccer jerseys.  More official shirts are sold in the U.K. than anywhere
else in the world, according to Andy Anson, who runs Kitbag, an
online sporting-goods seller.  Sports Direct  discounts shirts to
the point where the current  England  national team uniform made
by Nike-owned Umbro is on sale for 16.49 pounds.  That’s forced Nike and Adidas, the two largest brands in
soccer, to respond, Anson said.  “They have been taking action to protect the premium
nature of the replica shirt product,” Anson said in a telephone
interview. “Across the major brands, wholesale prices and
recommended retail prices have been pushed up. The aim is to try
and slow down the discounting, though the jury is very much out
on the success of this strategy.”  Spokespeople at Nike and Adidas declined to comment. A
request to speak with Ashley, who became deputy chairman when
Sports Direct listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2007 and
rarely gives interviews, was declined.  ‘Out of Nowhere’  Forbes magazine  in March described the 47-year-old as a
“reclusive tycoon” with a fortune of $2.5 billion. Roberts at
Kantar Retail said Sports Direct “virtually came out of
nowhere” to take control of U.K. sporting-goods retailing.  While he doesn’t speak publicly, Ashley’s takeover of
Newcastle United months after pocketing $1.8 billion from Sports
Direct’s initial public offering thrust him into the spotlight.  The new owner started out by sitting among supporters,
drinking beer and wearing a replica black-and-white Newcastle
jersey. He tried to sell the club twice after angering fans by
the way he ran the team, which was relegated to the second
division following the 2008-2009 season.  With a return to the  Premier League  and qualification for
European competition, Ashley sits in the directors’ box in a
stadium he rebranded the Sports Direct Arena last year.  Complex Relationship  For Nike and Adidas, the relationship with Sports Direct is
complex. Both Adidas and Nike have  office space  inside Sports
Direct’s headquarters in Shirebrook on the outskirts of
Mansfield, a former mining area in central England.  Yet while Ashley’s retailer is their biggest customer in
the U.K., premium stock is often withheld until the company
provides assurances it will be displayed prominently in stores
that are uncluttered, according to two people familiar with
negotiations between the companies. They declined to comment
publicly because the talks are private. Sports Direct spokesman
Jonathon Brill also declined to comment.  The retailer has started a “He Runs, She Runs” campaign
at some of its stores to tap into a surge in the number of
casual runners in the U.K. Some pricier running apparel from
Nike, Adidas and  Japan ’s Asics Corp. are in three specific
areas, though typically with discounts of more than 30 percent.  With about 75 percent of Nike and Adidas’s U.K. retail
sales generated by Sports Direct, JJB and JD Sports, a fashion-
led sports retailer, the demise of JJB strengthens Ashley’s hand
over the suppliers, Roberts said.  Ashley’s Tune  Sports Direct controls 18.4 percent of the U.K.’s sporting-
goods market, according to market researcher Verdict.  “They are beyond a shadow of a doubt now the biggest
customer that a lot of these suppliers will have in the U.K.,”
Roberts said. “There will probably be more dancing to the tune
called by Sports Direct.”  On a recent visit to a Sports Direct store in central
London, less than mile away from Nike’s flagship outlet in
 Oxford Circus , stock is pouring out of the door.  Next to a floor-to-ceiling poster offering 70 percent off
sneakers bearing the logo of Sports Direct-owned Lonsdale is a
bucket of umbrellas made by  Dunlop Sports , another Ashley brand,
and discounted to 2.99 pounds. Above the door are stickers
showing Nike’s swoosh and Adidas’s three stripes.  Selling Nike and Adidas “gives their own-labels a bit of
respect,” said Carly Syme, a retail analyst with Verdict. “I
don’t think people would be drawn to Sports Direct so much if
the Nike and Adidas weren’t in there.”  For customers like Thomas at the store near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, it’s the bargain brands rather than the premium goods
he’s after at prices that will keep bringing him back.  “The stuff is cheap so you don’t mind if it can get
ruined,” Thomas said. “It’s like buying disposable clothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  