-- Chiasson Lawyer Seeks to Bar Client-Kinnucan Wiretaps
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/chiasson-lawyer-seeks-to-bar-client-kinnucan-wiretaps.html
Level Global Investors LP co-founder
Anthony Chiasson asked a judge to bar the U.S. from letting a
jury hear recorded calls of him receiving alleged illegal tips
about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  from John Kinnucan, founder of an expert-
networking firm.  Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital Management LLC
portfolio manager  Todd Newman  are scheduled for trial Oct. 29,
facing charges they were part a “criminal club” of friends and
co-workers who reaped almost $62 million from  insider trading  in
Dell and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Both have pleaded not guilty.  Chiasson’s lawyers, Greg Morvillo and  Reid Weingarten ,
argue that prosecutors shouldn’t be allowed to include in their
case any wiretapped phone calls between Kinnucan and their
client, saying Kinnucan hasn’t been identified by prosecutors as
a co-conspirator in the case and the calls occurred five months
after the alleged conspiracy ended.  “The court should exclude these recorded conversations
from evidence because they lack relevance to the conspiracy
described and charged in the indictment,” Morvillo and
Weingarten said in a memo to the federal court in  Manhattan .  Kinnucan, the founder of Broadband Research LLC who once
publicly refused to cooperate with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in its insider-trading probe, pleaded guilty in
July to passing material, nonpublic information to hedge-fund
clients. He isn’t cooperating with the government.  “The government has failed to provide any reason for
identifying these recordings among the exhibits it intends to
use at trial,” Morvillo and Weingarten said in court papers.  Alleged Conspiracy  Prosecutors said the alleged conspiracy ran from 2007 to
2009.  Jon Horvath, a former technology analyst at a unit of
 Steven Cohen ’s $14 billion hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP,
who was charged with the two men, pleaded guilty on Sept. 28 to
passing nonpublic information to his portfolio manager. He is
cooperating with the U.S.  Prosecutors filed a memo under seal on Sept. 21 describing
uncharged crimes against the two defendants. Defense lawyers
referred to the government’s memo in their court papers filed
October 3.  Eight people have been charged when the case and six have
pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges and are cooperating
with the U.S. When Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
announced the case in January, he said the inside information
was allegedly passed from employees who worked at technology
companies to fund managers who traded on the nonpublic
information.  Chiasson is accused of obtaining material, nonpublic
information from Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a Level Global
analyst.  October 2010  Chiasson’s lawyers said in a filing that the U.S. has been
investigating the case since October 2010 and that Adondakis,
“was approached by the government on Oct. 14, 2010.” He has
been cooperating with the U.S. since Nov. 2, 2010, defense
lawyers said. Previously, the timing of the government’s
investigation hadn’t been publicly disclosed.  In separate filings, lawyers for both men asked U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over the case,
to exclude evidence about their client’s compensation.  Chiasson made $9.79 million at Level Global in 2009, not
including deferred compensation or profit sharing, his lawyers
said. Newman’s earnings weren’t included in court papers filed
by his lawyer, John Nathanson.  Attorneys for both men also argue that they should be
allowed to cross-examine cooperating witnesses about the
potential benefits of their cooperation and the potential
penalties the cooperators could have faced.  Sealed Memo  Weingarten, Morvillo and Nathanson said that prosecutors
have asked in their sealed memo that defense lawyers be
prohibited from “raising in any way, the government’s
investigative and prosecutorial methods, including the use of
wiretaps and cooperating witnesses.”  The lawyers said their clients’ defenses would be hampered
if the judge grants the government’s request.  “This effort to prevent the defense from challenging in
any way the conduct of the investigation and prosecution is
overbroad, contrary to case law, and in any event premature,”
the defense lawyers said in a joint memo to Sullivan.  Prosecutors said in August that they had additional
evidence the defendants attempted or did obtain material
nonpublic information about 11 more stocks not listed in the
indictment, including  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSM) ,  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)   The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  