-- CIT to Cut Bond Sales With Investment Grade in Sight, Votek Says
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-10-04T14:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/cit-to-cut-bond-sales-with-investment-grade-in-sight-votek-says.html
CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the biggest junk-bond
issuer this year, will limit debt sales and focus on increasing
deposits as the commercial lender tries to gain investment-grade
status, according to Treasurer Glenn Votek.  The century-old company, which is rated four levels below
high grade at B1 by Moody’s Investors Service and one step
higher at BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , has offered $9.75 billion in
debt this year, more than any corporation since at least 1999,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  CIT plans to increase deposits made through its online
banking platform to account for 35 percent to 45 percent of
total funding, up from as much as 27 percent currently, Votek
said in a telephone interview. Increasing deposits is essential
for the New York-based lender, which completed its bankruptcy
reorganization in December 2009, to receive a boost to its
credit ratings.  “You’re not going to see us doing $10 billion a year;
we’ll be a smaller unsecured issuer,” Votek said. “It’ll be
more opportunistic in nature. Having a meaningful deposit
platform that can provide a stable source of funding will be
critical to us to gain an investment-grade rating.”  CIT was able to return to the unsecured  debt market  in
March after bondholders had previously demanded collateral to
buy new securities following its restructuring. The remainder of
the company’s funding needs after accounting for deposits will
be split equally between unsecured debt and asset-backed
securities, according to Votek.  Funding Costs  Unsecured issuance makes up 40 percent of CIT’s capital
structure, Votek said. When the bank was coming out of its
reorganization,  bank deposits  accounted for just 10 percent, he
said.  Continuing to lower obligation costs is also important for
attaining high-grade status, Votek said. The weighted average
fixed  coupon  on CIT’s bonds has fallen to 5.17 percent from 6.96
percent in the third quarter of 2010, Bloomberg data show. The
cost of funding may drop further as CIT accepts more deposits,
he said.  “I think CIT is definitely moving toward investment
grade,”  Mark Palmer , an equity analyst in New York at trading
firm BTIG LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Votek said more liability management would not make
financial sense, even though yields are attractive for
borrowers.  “If you look at where our debt complex is trading now, it
would be very uneconomic to take out any of that debt,” he
said. “You’d be hard-pressed to find a bond of ours in our debt
complex that is trading below 104” cents on the dollar.  Maturity Schedule  CIT has refinanced or eliminated almost $31 billion in debt
since emerging from bankruptcy, according to an Aug. 20
statement. Its nearest bond maturity is $1.3 billion in 2014,
according to Bloomberg data. No more than $3 billion is due in
any given year through 2024, Votek said.  The company’s $1.25 billion of 5 percent notes due August
2022 last traded at 104.8 cents on the dollar to yield 4.4
percent on Sept. 28, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  CIT has $7.7 billion in bonds due between 2017 and 2020,
Bloomberg data show, with about $3 billion of that maturing in
2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  