-- Commercial Paper Market Contracts for Fifth Week, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-10-04T16:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/commercial-paper-market-contracts-for-fifth-week-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted for a fifth week as
financial institutions reduced issuance of short-term IOUs,
instead borrowing cheaply from central banks and issuing
corporate bonds at record-low  interest rates .  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
dropped $15 billion to $975.1 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
It’s the longest stretch of declines since the period ended Jan.
4 and the lowest level since the market touched $972.6 billion
July 4, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial borrowers have relied increasingly on central
banks for funding as demand has declined for short-term
obligations on concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may
infect balance sheets globally. The Fed said on Sept. 13 it will
expand its holdings of long-term securities with purchases of
$40 billion of mortgage debt a month in an additional round of
so-called quantitative easing.  “The decline in domestic financial CP outstanding is a
function of the high but declining level of excess reserves in
the banking system,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco
Research LLC in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail.  U.S. Banks  Commercial paper issued by U.S.-based banks  plunged $18.1
billion to $257.5 billion outstanding, the lowest level since
January 2011, according to the Fed.  The amount sold by non-U.S.
financial institutions  rose for a second week, increasing $2.7
billion to $234.7 billion outstanding, the highest level in
three weeks.  IOUs issued by  non-financial companies  increased $200
million to $189.2 billion, compared with this year’s average of
$188 billion, Fed data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Based on tepid growth, corporations don’t see a lot of
need for expansion right now,”  Sean Simko , a  money manager  at
SEI Investments Co. in Oaks,  Pennsylvania , whose team manages
about $3 billion of commercial paper, said in a telephone
interview.  “The general trend in commercial paper continues to be
downward, due to the uncertainty of funding needs based on the
economy as well as the low interest rates,” which have
encouraged many industrial and financial companies to push out
maturities by issuing corporate bonds, Simko said.  Companies have sold $3 trillion of bonds worldwide this
year, a pace that’s second only to the record issuance in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on global
investment-grade company bonds fell to an all-time low 2.74
percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  