-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Climbs for a Sixth Week
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-04T21:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-advanced-for-a-sixth-consecutive-week.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed for a sixth straight week, the longest such stretch
since early 2006, as Americans grew more secure about their
finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose in the week ended
Sept. 30 to minus 36.9, a three-month high, from minus 39.6 in
the previous period. Households were also less pessimistic about
the buying climate and the economy. Another report showed claims
for jobless benefits increased last week from a two-month low.  Fifty percent of those surveyed had “positive” views of
their finances, the most since July, helping explain a pickup in
September chain-store sales that beat analysts’ forecasts.
Higher  home values , rising stocks and stable gasoline prices may
be alleviating some of the anxiety caused by an  unemployment
rate  stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  “The improvement hasn’t been huge, but it’s definitely
noticeable,” said Guy Berger, a U.S. economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There feels like
there’s a little more traction.”  First-time jobless  claims  climbed by 4,000 to 367,000 in
the week ended Sept. 29, according to a report today from the
Labor Department. A Labor Department report tomorrow may show
employers took on 115,000 workers in September, more than the
prior month, while the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Retail Sales  Greater confidence may be helping sustain spending. Sales
at stores open at least a year rose 3.9 percent, beating the
average estimate of a 3.7 percent gain, a survey by Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics Inc. showed today.  Purchases at TJX Cos. climbed 6 percent, more than the
average estimate for a 4.4 percent gain from analysts surveyed
by researcher Retail Metrics. Target Corp., the second-largest
U.S. discounter, posted a 2.1 percent increase. Retailers
benefited from back-to-school promotions that drove traffic
early in September before tapering off in the middle of the
month.  Stocks rose after the reports and as  Europe ’s central bank
held the line on  interest rates . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.7 percent to 1,461.4 at the close in  New York .  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark rate at 0.75
percent, as projected by 48 out of 52 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Orders  placed  with U.S. factories fell in August by the
most in more than three years, signaling that slowdowns in
business investment and exports restrained the expansion,
Commerce Department figures showed today. The 5.2 percent
decrease in bookings was the biggest since January 2009 and
followed a revised 2.6 percent increase.  Three Components  All three of the comfort index’s components improved. The
barometer of the state of the  economy  rose to minus 68.7 from
minus 70.3 the previous week. The index measuring Americans’
views on their  personal finances  rose to minus 0.4, the highest
since the end of July, from minus 3.6. Americans’ views on the
buying climate improved to minus 41.4 from minus 44.8 the
previous week.  “There’s definitely going to be a bigger change for the
better considering things couldn’t really get much worse,” said
Mike Ganis, a 27-year-old from  Los Angeles  who works in
communications. As for the economy, “hopefully we’ve hit the
worst and that’s that.”  The consumer comfort gauge averaged minus 41.6 in the
third quarter, weaker than the first two quarters. Still, the
average is better than any period from the second quarter of
2008 through the fourth quarter of 2011.  Car Sales  “We’re finally seeing an uptick in consumer sentiment,
consumer confidence,” Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S. sales
operations at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on a conference call on
Oct. 2. The company reported that its U.S. sales rose 1.5
percent in September from a year earlier.  At the same time, the Bloomberg survey showed 84 percent of
Americans rate the economy negatively and 71 percent said they
think it is a bad time to buy things they want and need.  The Bloomberg survey showed Americans making more than
$100,000 became confident in the economy for the first time in
two months.  Confidence improved in all regions except the Midwest, and
optimism among  women  and renters rose to the highest level since
April.  Republicans, Democrats  With the presidential election one month away, advances in
sentiment over the past few weeks have been bipartisan.
Confidence among Republicans climbed to minus 34, the highest
since April, from minus 42.2 the prior week. The index among
Democrats advanced to minus 25.9 from minus 30.1.  Independents were the  most bleak , with sentiment falling to
minus 44.5 from minus 43.6.  Signs of recovery in the housing market may be bolstering
confidence.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities climbed more than
forecast in July from the previous year, according to S&P/Case-
Shiller figures. The gain is helping make up for a slowdown in
manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  