-- Danish Retirement Repayment Surge Fails to Boost Spending
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-10-04T14:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/danish-retirement-repayment-surge-fails-to-boost-spending.html
Denmark has repaid 53 percent more
than it predicted from a change to an early retirement program,
funds that so far have failed to spur  consumer spending .  The government has repaid 27 billion kroner ($4.7 billion)
in premiums, according to Lea Willumsen, a section head at the
National Labor Market Authority. That compares with the 17.6
billion kroner the government had expected to repay, she said in
an e-mail in response to questions.  “This hasn’t had any visible effect,” said  Steen Bocian ,
chief economist at Copenhagen-based  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the
country’s largest lender. “As long as the housing and labor
markets are shaky, people will be hesitant to spend.”  Denmark is struggling to emerge from a burst real estate
bubble that’s forced the collapse of a dozen banks and an
industry retrenchment that’s triggered a funding squeeze among
businesses and falling  employment . Property prices have sunk
about 25 percent since their 2007 peak, and will decline 3.5
percent on average, the government estimates.  “If you look only at financial wealth, excluding pensions
and including housing, you’ve had quite a substantial kickback
in the wealth level,” Bocian said.  Danes faced an Oct. 1 deadline to decide whether to get the
premiums back tax-free. Today’s figure is preliminary and final
the tally is expected by the end of this month, Willumsen said.
Standard & Poor’s estimated in July the reimbursements alone
would make up 19 percent of this year’s government deficit.  Not Clear  Spending data shows the reimbursements haven’t galvanized
consumers, according to Jes Asmussen, chief economist at
 Handelsbanken AB. (SHBA)  The value of transactions using Dankort, a
nationwide debit card, fell 0.3 percent in September when
corrected for seasonal swings and increased use, he said.  “There is no clear sign that the money is being sent
further into the Danish economy in the form of higher
consumption,” Asmussen said in a note. “Based on developments
in  consumer confidence , the reimbursements haven’t lifted
households’ assessments of their economic situation either.”  Still, the intention of the changes, which was to reduce
future expenses, is working, Bocian said.  “The main aim was to reduce future payments, to strengthen
the sustainability of the welfare state,” he said. “From that
perspective, it has been a huge success. Fewer people will be
able to retire early, so there will be fewer payments in the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  