-- Dark Vision of ‘Obama’s America’ Brightens Election-Film Outlook
-- B y   S . T .   V a n A i r s d a l e
-- 2012-10-04T21:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/dark-vision-of-obama-s-america-brightens-election-film-outlook.html
It’s 2016, and the skies over
America’s heartland have turned tornado dark, seemingly for
good. The economy has suffered a collapse and Americans are
hungry and fearful. Anarchy reigns in some urban areas.  Ever since President  Barack Obama , deep into his second
term, withdrew U.S. forces from Afghanistan and Iraq, the whole
of the  Middle East  has fallen under the control of al-Qaeda and
the Muslim Brotherhood. The entire region has been forged
together to form a “United States of Islam,” where jihadists
train en masse and leaders have cut the flow of oil to the West.  Because the U.S. has dismantled its atomic arsenal, the
country idly stood by as Iranian operatives detonated a nuclear
bomb in  Israel , triggering World War III.  Such is the future in “2016: Obama’s America,” which hit
theaters in July,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Oct. 8
issue. Produced on a $2.5 million budget, it has amassed at
least $32 million at the box office, according to Rocky Mountain
Pictures, the film’s distributor.  Although it may sound like the Hollywood adaptation of a
dystopian, sci-fi graphic novel, “2016: Obama’s America” ranks
as the second-highest-grossing political documentary of all time
in the U.S. That’s thanks to a vast, conservative-minded bloc of
moviegoers, whom producers, filmmakers, and studios are racing
to reach before they stream into voting booths on Nov. 6.  Anticapitalism Accusation  The film is based on the book of the same name by
bestselling author and pundit Dinesh D’Souza, who also stars in
the film, traveling from  Hawaii  to  Indonesia  to  Kenya  as he
researches the president’s formative years in a quest to shed
light on Obama’s supposedly anticapitalist beliefs.  After such an extensive itinerary, and a series of
interviews, D’Souza concludes his film with the image of an
Indian boy reading a history tome, whose pages reveal the fall
of the American Empire in 2016.  The film’s unexpected popularity has raised expectations
for a flood of reactionary, election-season movies, which
include “Runaway Slave,” which features onetime Republican
presidential hopeful  Herman Cain  and a host of black
conservatives inveighing against the tenets of liberalism.  “The size, the scope, and the reach of government is the
new plantation!” preaches Cain. Another film, “Hating
Breitbart,” chronicles the life of the late conservative pundit
and Matt Drudge-like Internet impresario Andrew Breitbart.
According to the film’s official site, it demonstrates one man
with a website upended the traditional press.”  Freedom Fight  There’s also “Last Ounce of Courage,” about a small-town
Christian mayor, Marshall Teague, who refuses to acknowledge the
separation of church and state -- “We fight for freedom!” Teague
shouts to crowds -- which earned $2.7 million over two weeks.  Due on Oct. 12 is a sequel after the heart of a younger
 Paul Ryan : “Atlas Shrugged Part II,” the second installment of
a trilogy adapted from the Ayn Rand novel.  “When you look at box office returns,” says Andrew Marcus,
director of “Hating Breitbart,” “especially for films that
have political content, I think there is a huge audience that
feels underserved. 2016 really shows that. The market is so
tuned-in right now.”  David Bossie, president and chairman of the conservative
advocacy group  Citizens United , produced 2008’s “Hillary: The
Movie,” a film that led to the landmark Supreme Court case
Citizens United v.  Federal Election Commission , which cleared
the way for corporations to spend unlimited amounts supporting
candidates.  Echoes of Moore  Bossie argues that this year’s election season is
especially rife with polemics thanks to  Michael Moore , whose
anti- George W. Bush  “Fahrenheit 9/11” earned more than
$119 million domestically in the summer of 2004 and remains the
U.S.’s highest-grossing political documentary.  “Moore’s success from crossing the political Rubicon to pop
culture gave me the idea for our Supreme Court case,” Bossie
says. “I’m a political guy. I saw his 90-minute film, and I
said, ‘Oh my goodness. There’s no response. There’s nothing in
the marketplace of ideas to counter that. And we must have a
response.’”  John Sullivan , co-director of “2016: Obama’s America,”
agrees. “To be honest, we kind of followed Michael Moore’s
template,” he says. “If you’re going to do something of this
nature, you’re going to look for where there’s the most
interest, and you’re going to release something like that.”  ‘Character Assassination’  While traditional media outlets have largely dismissed the
film -- “A nonsensically unsubstantiated act of character
assassination,” said Entertainment Weekly -- more conservative
outlets offered praise . “The author’s film deserves to be part
of the electoral discussion,” said Big Hollywood.  The Obama campaign’s official website panned the movie as
“an insidious attempt to dishonestly smear the president.” The
directors couldn’t have asked for more.  That means “he doesn’t want you to see it,” says Bob
Angelotti, a film-marketing consultant. “That’s a marketing
dream.”  Rolling out the film was Rocky Mountain Pictures, a small
Salt Lake City-based distributor of independent films that’s
enjoying its biggest year ever. By Nov. 5, the company, which
accepted a flat fee and a percentage of the gross, will have
released seven documentaries, including “Hating Breitbart” and
“Last Ounce of Courage.”  Once in Lifetime  “It’s a once-in-a-lifetime experience for someone like me,”
says Randy Slaughter, Rocky Mountain’s co-founder. “Even
competitors have called me to congratulate me.”  Slaughter, the son of a Texas-based theater-chain owner who
began his career as the distributor of low-budget genre fare
such as horror, surfer, and blaxploitation flicks in the 1970s,
wants the movie to reach audiences across the aisle.  “I’m hoping, just from a business standpoint, that we’ll
see maybe the Democrats or middle-of-the-roaders who are, let’s
say, curious,” he said.  Much of the success of “2016: Obama’s America” is by
Slaughter’s design. Typically, major distributors place big bets
on Hollywood releases requiring massive upfront marketing
pushes. “Unfortunately, most producers are in a big hurry,” says
Slaughter of many of his clients. “Either they’ve got to get
their money back or they’ve got to show their investors that
they’re going to get a quick return.”  With political projects, he relies on a strategy that
involves small releases in specifically chosen markets where
they can build momentum.  ‘Going Gangbusters!’  For this film, Slaughter chose Republican-friendly Houston
before moving to  Dallas , Nashville,  Tennessee , and Anchorage,
 Alaska . Then, he says, if all goes well, right-wing talk radio
and  Fox News  lend support. “This movie is going gangbusters!”
roared  Rush Limbaugh  as the film began its second month in
theaters.  “These guys understood what I was saying,” says Slaughter,
referring to the film’s producers. “Although I’m sure they were
very anxious to get in more theaters, I had to kind of hold them
back. You have to do that with producers. This is their baby.”  At least one Obama supporter is getting in on the right-
wing film game. Billionaire sports and media mogul  Mark Cuban  --
-who earlier this year attended a $30,000-a-plate fundraiser for
the president -- partnered with Citizens United to distribute
“Occupy Unmasked,” a film critical of Occupy  Wall Street .  “There has always been a market for partisan films,” says
Cuban, who adds that they aren’t necessarily geared toward
viewers who seek to have their votes influenced, but rather
those who wish to have their beliefs reinforced. “Like-minded
people tend to have a herd mentality when they are trying to
prove a point. We like to tap into that opportunity.”  “Occupy Unmasked” earned $41,000 on four screens in its
opening week. Its per-screen average of $10,200 amounted to the
third-highest of any movie in the U.S., according to the
industry-tracking site Box Office Mojo.  “I don’t take sides” politically, says Cuban. “If there is
a legitimate market for the films, we will release or broadcast
them. We are capitalists and believers in free speech.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keenan Mayo at   kmayo3@bloomberg.net  