-- Blockbuster Hits Rewind on Plan to Return as Netflix Killer
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-10-05T20:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/dish-s-ergen-scraps-blockbuster-plans-after-wireless-delays.html
Billionaire  Charlie Ergen  is giving
up on his plan to turn the once-mighty Blockbuster LLC video-
store chain into a  Netflix (NFLX)  Inc. competitor and gadget retailer.  When Ergen’s  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  acquired Blockbuster out of
bankruptcy in April 2011, Ergen planned to use the stores to
sell Dish mobile devices that could be used to stream
Blockbuster movies. The plans broke down when U.S. regulators
didn’t immediately approve a waiver allowing Dish to use its
satellite spectrum for terrestrial data and voice transmission.  “You make a lot of mistakes in business,” Ergen, Dish’s
founder and chairman, said in an Oct. 3 interview. “I don’t
think Blockbuster is going to be a mistake, but it’s unclear if
that’s going to be a transformative decision.”  Dish has begun the process of closing stores that no longer
make strategic sense, a plan that will allow Dish to turn a
profit on the $320 million acquisition, Ergen said. Some
Blockbuster DVD-rental stores can still make money in rural
regions, he said. About 900 U.S. stores remained as of August, a
fraction of the thousands Blockbuster once operated.  Ergen’s plans for Blockbuster turned sour when the
regulatory approval process for his radio-wave licenses took
longer than expected. Ergen said he believed the government
would approve Dish’s plan in 2011 as it had done for  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc., which was also attempting to build
a new long-term evolution network.  FCC Decision  The government later denied Falcone use of his spectrum due
to global-positioning systems interference concerns, causing
LightSquared to file for bankruptcy. To avoid a similar outcome
with Dish, the government slowed down the approval process for
the Englewood, Colorado-based company, which is still waiting
for the results of the Federal Communications Commission’s
rulemaking.  Ergen’s airwaves, which Dish agreed last year to purchase
from DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. for
about $3 billion, require new handset devices with a chip that
links the satellite spectrum to terrestrial towers. The
government’s delay has caused Ergen to change his mind about
selling those products in Blockbuster stores.  “When your lease runs out on the stores, you can’t re-up
because you can’t make enough money from just selling DVDs,”
Ergen said.  Profitable Purchase  When Dish acquired Blockbuster last year, the company had
about $100 million in cash on the balance sheet. Shuttering and
selling all 1,700 Blockbuster stores that Dish purchased would
make Ergen’s company about $300 million, turning Dish a profit
without using the brand for anything, Ergen said. Dish announced
plans in February to shutter 500 stores, bringing its U.S. total
to about 900 through August.  “There was very little risk in buying,” Ergen said.
“Worst case we break even or make a little bit of money.”  Dish fell 0.5 percent to $32.12 at the close in New York.
It has climbed 29 percent in the past year.  Blockbuster was once so dominant in the home-video market
that it was sued by independent video retailers, who claimed in
a 2001 lawsuit that the company’s revenue-sharing agreements
with movie studios hurt competition. The suit was later
dismissed.  By the time  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  spun off Blockbuster in 2004,
Netflix was eating into the retailer’s customer base with its
postal DVD rentals. Blockbuster was operating about 9,000 stores
worldwide then. It filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September
2010.  Netflix Clone  Dish planned to entice consumers to buy its wireless
services by streaming Blockbuster movies on mobile devices.
Without the wireless network, a nationwide streaming service
would function a lot like Netflix, except Blockbuster would be
starting from scratch against a big incumbent, Ergen said.
Netflix has 24 million U.S. streaming-video customers.  Content providers have caught on to Netflix’s business
model, Ergen said, after years of struggling to figure it out.
Netflix pays a flat fee for the rights to stream library
content. When the  Los Gatos , California-company was growing
rapidly, Netflix was profitable because the company would pay a
fee based on the customers it had at the time, then make money
by recruiting millions more customers, Ergen said.  Going ‘Pfft’  “Netflix at first paid for 5 million customers and they
got 25 million,” Ergen said. “But now people are saying, ‘OK,
you’re going to get 30 million customers, so you’re going to pay
for 30.’ If Netflix can get 40 or 50 million, they’ll be fine.
But if they don’t get to 30, they’re probably going to go
pfft.”  Netflix shares have fallen 44 percent in the past 12
months. Analysts  predict  Netflix will lose money this quarter
and next, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Joris Evers, a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment.  Dish no longer has plans to use Blockbuster as a nationwide
video streaming or DVD-by-mail service, Ergen said.  Dish also considered a deal with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox,
allowing customers to rent a movie from a Redbox kiosk and
return it to a Blockbuster store, Ergen said. Those plans
deteriorated when  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  announced its
partnership with Coinstar earlier this year.  Dish has combined the Blockbuster brand with its own
offerings by giving customers a “Blockbuster @Home”  option ,
formerly Blockbuster Movie Pass, which allows subscribers to
rent DVDs and video games by mail, stream more than 25,000
movies to personal computers and watch more than 3,000 titles at
home on television. The package costs $10 a month and  is free 
for the first three months to new customers.  The company has other plans for Blockbuster on which Ergen
declined to comment. Dish has spent “a lot of time” talking
with cable networks about an Internet streaming service for live
programming, although the service is probably still “years
away,” Ergen said.  “Worst case, we’ll take our money after having wasted some
time, not much money, and life goes on,” Ergen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  