-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2012-10-04T12:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference today.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Vitor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB,
Brdo pri Kranju, 4 October 2012  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. I would like to thank
Governor Kranjec for his kind hospitality and express our
special gratitude to his staff for the excellent organisation of
today’s meeting of the Governing Council. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to high
energy prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro area
countries, inflation rates are expected to remain above 2%
throughout 2012, but then to fall below that level again in the
course of next year and to remain in line with  price stability 
over the policy-relevant horizon. Consistent with this picture,
the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains subdued.
Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly
anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. Economic growth in
the euro area is expected to remain weak, with ongoing tensions
in some euro area financial markets and high uncertainty still
weighing on confidence and sentiment. Our decisions as regards
Outright Monetary Transactions (OMTs) have helped to alleviate
such tensions over the past few weeks, thereby reducing concerns
about the materialisation of destructive scenarios. It is now
essential that governments continue to implement the necessary
steps to reduce both fiscal and structural imbalances and
proceed with financial sector restructuring measures.  The Governing Council remains firmly committed to preserving the
singleness of its monetary policy and to ensuring the proper
transmission of the policy stance to the real economy throughout
the euro area. OMTs will enable us to provide, under appropriate
conditions, a fully effective backstop to avoid destructive
scenarios with potentially severe challenges for price stability
in the euro area. Let me repeat again what I have said in past
months: we act strictly within our mandate to maintain price
stability over the medium term; we act independently in
determining monetary policy; and the euro is irreversible.  We are ready to undertake OMTs, once all the prerequisites are
in place. As we said last month, the Governing Council will
consider entering into OMTs to the extent that they are
warranted from a monetary policy perspective as long as
programme conditionality is fully respected. We would exit from
OMTs once their objectives have been achieved or when there is a
failure to comply with a programme. OMTs would not take place
while a given programme is under review and would resume after
the review period once programme compliance has been assured.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Euro area real GDP contracted by
0.2%, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of 2012,
following flat growth in the previous quarter. Economic
indicators, in particular survey results, confirm the
continuation of weak economic activity in the third quarter of
2012, in an environment characterised by high uncertainty. We
expect the euro area economy to remain weak in the near term and
to recover only very gradually thereafter. The growth momentum
is supported by our standard and non-standard monetary policy
measures, but is expected to remain dampened by the necessary
process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and non-
financial sectors, the existence of high unemployment and an
uneven global recovery.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. They relate, in particular, to
ongoing tensions in several euro area financial markets and the
potential spillover to the euro area real economy. These risks
should be contained by effective action by all policy-makers in
the euro area.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.7% in September 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, compared with 2.6% in
the previous month. This is higher than expected and mainly
reflects past increases in indirect taxes and euro-denominated
energy prices. On the basis of current futures prices for oil,
inflation rates could remain at elevated levels, before
declining to below 2% again in the course of next year. Over the
policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of modest growth in
the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation
expectations, underlying price pressures should remain moderate.
Current levels of inflation should thus remain transitory and
not give rise to second-round effects. We will continue to
monitor closely further developments in costs, wages and prices.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation. The main downside risks relate to the impact of
weaker than expected growth in the euro area, in the event of a
renewed intensification of financial market tensions, and its
effects on the domestic components of inflation. If not
contained by effective action by all policy-makers in the euro
area, such intensification has the potential to affect the
balance of risks on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm the
subdued underlying pace of monetary expansion. In August the
annual growth rate of M3 decreased to 2.9%, from 3.6% in July.
While this decline was mainly due to a base effect, monthly
inflows were also relatively contained. Conversely, strong
monthly inflows into overnight deposits contributed to a further
increase in the annual rate of growth of M1 to 5.1% in August,
compared with 4.5% in July. This increase reflects a continuing
high preference for liquidity in an environment of low  interest
rates  and high uncertainty.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) declined in August to -0.2%
(from 0.1% in July), reflecting a decrease in the annual rate of
growth of loans to non-financial corporations to -0.5%, from -
0.2% in July. By contrast, the annual growth of loans to
households remained unchanged, at 1.0%, in August. To a large
extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the weak outlook for GDP,
heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing adjustment in the
balance sheets of households and enterprises, all of which weigh
on credit demand. At the same time, in a number of euro area
countries, the segmentation of financial markets and capital
constraints for banks restrict credit supply.  The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in
facilitating both an appropriate provision of credit to the
economy and the normalisation of all funding channels, thereby
contributing to an adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions of the non-financial sectors in the
different countries of the euro area. It is thus essential that
the resilience of banks continues to be strengthened where
needed.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Other economic policy areas need to make substantial
contributions to ensure a further stabilisation of financial
markets and an improvement in the outlook for growth. As regards
fiscal policies, euro area countries are progressing with
consolidation. It is crucial that efforts are maintained to
restore sound fiscal positions, in line with the commitments
under the Stability and Growth Pact and the 2012 European
Semester recommendations. A rapid implementation of the fiscal
compact will also play a major role in strengthening confidence
in the soundness of public finances.  At the same time, structural reforms are as essential as fiscal
consolidation efforts and measures to improve the functioning of
the financial sector. In the countries most strongly affected by
the crisis, noticeable progress is being made in the correction
of unit labour cost and current account developments. Decisive
product and labour market reforms will further improve the
competitiveness of these countries and their capacity to adjust.  Finally, it is essential to push ahead with European
institution-building. The ECB welcomes the Commission proposal
of 12 September 2012 for a single supervisory mechanism (SSM)
involving the ECB, to be established through a Council
regulation on the basis of Article 127(6) of the Treaty.  The Governing Council considers an SSM to be one of the
fundamental pillars of a financial union and one of the main
building blocks towards a genuine Economic and Monetary Union.
We will formally issue a legal opinion in which we will, in
particular, take into account the following principles: a clear
and robust separation between supervisory decision-making and
monetary policy; appropriate accountability channels; a
decentralisation of tasks within the Eurosystem; an effective
supervisory framework ensuring coherent oversight of the euro
area banking system; and full compatibility with the Single
Market framework, including the role and prerogatives of the
European Banking Authority. As the Commission proposal sets out
an ambitious transition schedule towards the SSM, the ECB has
started preparatory work so as to be able to implement the
provisions of the Council regulation as soon as it enters into
force.  We are now at your disposal for questions. 