-- Draghi Says OMT Has Helped Relieve Tensions Over Past Weeks
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-04T13:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/draghi-says-omt-has-helped-relieve-tensions-over-past-weeks.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy, the ECB’s new bond-purchase
program and the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Ljubljana,
Slovenia, today after policy makers kept interest rates
unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent.  On ECB bond buying:  “OMT will enable us to provide under appropriate
conditions a fully effective backstop.”  “We are strictly within our mandate to maintain price
stability over the medium term. We would end OMTs when their
objectives have been achieved or there has been a failure to
keep to the program.”  “We view conditionality as an essential part of the
activation of the OMT.”  “Conditionality will have several roles, it will reduce
the moral hazard by governments.”  “The second role protects the independence of the ECB.
With conditionality the independence of the ECB is protected.
Without conditionality you would have fiscal dominance.”  “This is a way to have in effect a credit enhancement on
the bonds of the country that is under conditionality.”  “There is a tendency to identify conditionality with harsh
conditions. Conditionality doesn’t necessarily have to be
punitive.”  “We would actively seek the IMF involvement in the
process.”  “Today we are ready with our OMT.”  “We are ready and we have a fully effective backstop
mechanism in place. It is in the hands of governments, we have
said this many, many times, the ECB cannot replace the action of
governments.”  “The OMT would not apply to country that is under a full
adjustment program until full market access would be obtained.”  “The OMT is not a replacement for primary market access on
that front.”  “The OMT is not meant to induce strategic response in
issuing short terms by the issuer. We will certainly monitor the
strategic response of the issuers.”  “All these countries that may need an OMT have all after
many years of difficulties, reasonable maturities, of their
stock of public debt.”  “It is very unlikely they will change this duration.”  “There are also serious cons if you change the maturities.
The ECB will closely monitor this.”  “The OMT would create an environment that was conductive
to reforms, because it could remove tail risks.”  On effects of OMT on capital markets:  “OMT has helped relieve tensions over the past few
weeks.”  “There was a substantial significant improvement across
financial markets and then there was a correction.”  “If we take a snapshot compared to the beginning of August
we see spreads below where they were in July.”  “There has been sizable issuance by corporations and banks
and Target 2 imbalances have somehow stabilized.”  “In Spain recourse to central bank deposits has gone down
in the last month. So, not bad.”  On monetary policy:  “Non standard monetary policies are being designed and
implemented when the standard ones aren’t fully effective.”  “We have to see if we can repair monetary policy
transmission channels we don’t speculate on future interest rate
changes.”  “There was no discussion, so it was a unanimous decisions
on interest rates.”  “If the tradition of the Bundesbank was to ensure price
stability the ECB is fully in sync with that position.”  “The level of fragmentation becomes unacceptable when the
singleness of monetary policy is put into question.”  On euro-area banks:  “To a large extent, subdued loan growth reflects a weak
outlook for GDP, heightened risk aversion and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises.”  “A number of euro countries, the segmentation of financial
markets and capital constraint for banks restrict credit
supply.”  “It is thus essential that the resilience of banks
continues to be strengthened where needed.”  “The ECB has started preparatory work.”  “The capitalization gap that was pretty wide until two
years ago has been significantly reduced by the European
banks.”  On banking supervision  “ECB welcomes single supervisory mechanism.”  “The governing council considers an single supervisory
mechanism to be one of the financial pillars.”  “We have an organization that ensures de facto separation
of monetary policy and banking supervision.”  “This can be done fully delegating to the supervisory
board all the tasks.”  On euro-area countries’ economic efforts:  “Euro area countries are progressing with consolidation.”
“It is crucial that efforts are maintained.”  “A rapid implementation of the fiscal compact will also
play a major role in strengthening confidence.”  “In the countries most strongly affected by the crisis,
noticeable progress is being made in the correction of unit
labor costs and competitiveness.”  “We shouldn’t forget how countries got into bad
equilibrium in the first place. Bad policies or no policies at
all while all the other countries around them were changing.”  On Spain:  “In Spain that is one area where significant progress has
been made. There are also significant challenges that remain.”  “That’s up to the Spanish government and the other euro
area governments to decide.”  “Spain has completed almost 90 percent of the funding
program of the sovereign.”  On  Portugal :  “On Portugal that’s an example of the significant progress
that I’ve hinted at before -- very significant progress has
taken place.”  On inflation:  “This is higher than expected and mainly reflects
increases in indirect taxes and in energy prices.”  “Owing to high energy prices and increases in indirect
taxes in some euro area countries, inflation rates are expected
to remain above 2% throughout 2012, then to to fall below that
level again in the course of next year and to remain in line
with price stability over the policy-relevant horizon.”  “The underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
subdued.”  “In an environment of modest growth in the euro area and
well anchored inflation expectations, price pressures should
remain moderate.”  On the euro-area economy:  “Economic growth is expected to remain weak.”  “High uncertainty weighing on sentiment.”  “It is essential that governments continue to implement
the necessary steps.”  “Economic indicators point to continued weak economic
activity in the remainder of 2012, in an environment of
heightened uncertainty.”  “We expect the euro area economy to remain weak in the
near term and to recover only very gradually thereafter.”  “The growth momentum is expected to remain dampened by the
necessary process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial
and non-financial sectors, the existence of high unemployment
and an uneven global recovery.”  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook continue to be
on the downside.”  “We will continue to monitor closely further developments
in costs, wages and prices.”  “Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to
be broadly balanced over the medium term.”  “Upside risks pertain to further increases in indirect
taxes owing to the need for fiscal consolidation. If not
contained by effective action by all policy makers in the euro
area, such intensification has the potential to affect the
balance of risks on the downside.”  On youth unemployment:  “We completely share the concerns of the situation,
several times members of the governing council have raised the
issue with youth unemployment.”  “It is an incredible waste of resources.”  “It has to be addressed, it can be addressed by properly
reforming the labor markets, by addressing the dual nature of
the labor market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  