-- Dubai Financial Market Rises After New Market Rules: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-04T09:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/dubai-financial-market-rises-after-new-market-rules-dubai-mover.html
Dubai Financial Market PJSC (DFM)  rose to
the highest level in two weeks after the United Arab Emirates
regulator endorsed trading rules, fueling bets trading volumes
will increase, boosting revenue.  The shares advanced 2 percent to 1.03 dirhams, the highest
intraday level since Sept. 20, at 12:57 p.m. in the emirate,
bringing a gain this week to 6.2 percent. The stock was the
fourth-biggest gainer on the benchmark DFM General Index, which
rose 0.2 percent. The regulator endorsed securities lending and
borrowing, as well as short-selling regulations, according to a
 statement  on its website.  The bourse’s revenue relies in part on trading volumes,
which have fallen as foreign investors trimmed holdings of
riskier assets amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. About 228 million
shares traded in Dubai yesterday, down from this year’s peak of
835 million in March. The DFM may post a 30 percent drop in
trading-based fee income in the third quarter from the previous
three months,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in a note last month.  “The stock advanced after the most important pillars of
trading techniques and liquidity providing” were approved, a
move that may help boost trading volumes, said Talal Touqan,
head of research at Al Ramz Securities LLC in Abu Dhabi. The new
rules “if effectively applied, may even help us secure an
upgrade to the MSCI emerging market status,” he said.  Economic Boost  The U.A.E. in June failed to secure an upgrade to emerging
market status from frontier at MSCI, which cited market
accessibility issues. An upgrade may lead to the nation’s
equities luring more of the investor assets that track MSCI’s
gauges. The DFM is one of three bourses operating in the second-
largest Arab economy alongside Nasdaq Dubai and the  Abu Dhabi 
Securities Exchange. MSCI, a New York-based index provider,
tracks economic development, trading volumes and market
accessibility to assess market classifications.  “The regulation will help maintain market balance and
boost national economy,” the regulator cited Economy Minister
Sultan Al-Mansouri as saying.  The DFM’s second-quarter profit fell 31 percent to 10.2
million dirhams ($2.8 million) as revenue declined. Two analysts
recommend investors hold the shares while four say sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A short sale is the selling of a security that the seller
doesn’t own but is committed to repurchase eventually. Investors
use short sales to capitalize on an expected decline in the
security’s price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  