-- Dutch Drinking Water May Be Hurt by Changing Climate, Pollution
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-10-04T15:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/dutch-drinking-water-may-be-hurt-by-changing-climate-pollution.html
The Netherlands, almost a fifth of
which is covered by lakes, rivers and dikes, may be unable to
use surface waters as a source for drinking water by 2050 due to
the changing climate and contaminants.  The National Institute for  Public Health  and the
Environment said worsening water quality and drought is
affecting the country, whose total area is 41,500 square
kilometers (16,000 square miles), slightly larger than the U.S.
state of  Maryland , 18.4 percent of which necessitate travel by
boat.  The issue occurs “during dry years, when water quality
standards are exceeded during periods that last from days to
months,” the RIVM institute said on its  website . Water quality
deteriorates in periods of low river discharge as the effect of
spills from sewage treatment plants is much larger due to less
dilution, the government agency said.  About 40 percent of the Dutch population drink water
produced from surface water. Ten water companies in the
Netherlands, of which about a quarter is below  sea level , make
about 1.2 billion cubic meters of drinking water a year, three
times that of 1952, according to their trade group, Vewin.  “Water quality standards are already exceeded during very
dry years, which may increase in the future,” said the National
Institute for Public Health. The extent of the increase will
depend on the degree of  climate change , RIVM said.  Low Water Discharge  Nearly half of the locations in the Netherlands where
surface water is used for drinking water are in branches of
canals and rivers with very low water discharge during dry
periods, RIVM said. The water level in these sections is
maintained artificially at a fixed level and a small variation
in discharge may seriously affect the calculated concentrations
of substances, the agency said.  “It is therefore recommended that each abstraction point
is individually analyzed with all parties concerned,” RIVM
said. The risks can then be weighed, it said. Possible remedies
may include clamping down on what can be released into water,
reducing spills, flushing stagnant zones, extending the drinking
water treatment process and building a surplus during wet
periods.  “The study is an underpinning of what we’re already
doing,” said Marco Zoon, a spokesman for Rijswijk, Netherlands-
based Vewin. We’re “constantly looking for new ways to purify
water and have large buffers that are sometimes used without
anyone noticing.”  RIVM analyzed calculations by Deltares, a Dutch research
institute that focuses on delta, coastal and river basins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  