-- The Delusion of Limited Intervention in Syria
-- B y   B r i a n   T .   H a g g e r t y
-- 2012-10-04T22:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/the-delusion-of-limited-intervention-in-syria.html
With Turkey’s  decision  to shell
targets in  Syria  in retaliation for a mortar attack that killed
five civilians inside the Turkish border, there are new signs
that Syria’s civil war could escalate into a broader conflict.  As the stalemate continues on the ground, the cross-border
clashes may put added pressure on the West to heed the calls of
Syrian rebels and their international backers, including NATO
ally Turkey, for a  partial no-fly zone .  While the desire to act to prevent Syria’s conflict from
spilling over borders and provide safe haven for the tens of
thousands who continue to flee the repressive regime of Bashar al-Assad is understandable, the scale of such an operation is
bound to be much larger than its proponents have suggested.  I conducted an  open-source analysis  to estimate the
requirements for establishing command of the air over Syria. The
study shows that the effort could require about 200 strike
aircraft and more than 100 support aircraft for only the first
waves of strikes, making a Syrian intervention many times larger
than the opening phase of NATO’s recent air war over Libya.  After that, there is a high probability that the operation
would develop into providing close air support for rebel forces.
This  new phase  of the military operation would require a further
escalation of force numbers and resources.  No-Fly Zone  Frustration is understandably  rising  as the Assad
government remains stubbornly in place after 18 months of
bloodshed. With the U.S. reluctant to embark on another military
adventure in the Arab world, interventionists have pressed for a
partial no-fly zone between Aleppo and the Turkish border. This
would enable the creation of a safe zone in that area where
humanitarian aid could be delivered to civilians fleeing the
Syrian military’s brutal counterinsurgency campaign, an
operation that has included the use of  indiscriminate  shelling.  A U.S.-backed intervention along these lines, most recently
advocated by  Qatar  and NATO allies France and  Turkey , would
unfold in two major phases. The first, establishing a no-fly
zone, would require a sustained effort to degrade Syrian air
defenses in order to achieve command of the air.  While dense and overlapping, Syria’s strategic air defenses
present few serious challenges for Western air power. Most of
the equipment consists of aging Soviet-designed surface-to-air
missile systems that NATO either destroyed or countered with
relative ease in previous interventions over Kosovo and Libya.
Because many of these older systems are relatively immobile, it
is likely they could be eliminated quickly using an initial
barrage of cruise missiles launched from naval vessels in the
Mediterranean, in combination with an early wave of air strikes.  But the Syrian systems have recently been augmented with
more advanced and capable Russian designs, including the  Buk-M2E
and Pantsyr-S1 . These and other mobile air defenses pose a
larger threat. Should Syria’s mobile air defenses survive
initial strikes, they could quickly complicate efforts to use
air power to defend a safe zone from attacks by Assad’s ground
forces.  Recent  upgrades  to U.S. aircraft targeting systems may
mitigate these concerns, but Syrian air defense operators might
still find ways to pose persistent risks to coalition aircraft.
If so, they would hamper efforts to locate and hit ground
targets and might make any campaign much longer and slower than
interventionists anticipate.  Blowing down Syrian air defenses is just the start. A no-
fly zone would also require destroying enough of Syria’s most
capable combat aircraft on the ground to deter Syrian pilots
from challenging the zone.  Air Campaign  My study  found  that initial strikes would require
destroying more than 450 targets, including at least 22 early
warning radar sites and command-and-control facilities, 150
surface-to-air missile batteries, 27 surface-to-surface missile
batteries, 12 anti-ship missile batteries, 32 airfield targets
and more than 200 hardened aircraft shelters. This could require
dropping more than 1,600 munitions over hundreds of sorties in
the opening days of strikes, and could drag on much longer
should mobile targets prove difficult to find, which is all but
guaranteed.  Advocates of a partial no-fly zone imply that a lesser
effort would be required. But even enforcing a limited zone
would necessitate targeting air defenses, command and control
facilities, and airfields as far away as south of Damascus due
to the range of some of  Syria ’s static air defenses. If
coalition aircraft were later called upon to support a rebel
offensive as in  Libya , a total no-fly zone encompassing all of
Syria would rapidly be required.  In the second phase, establishing a northern safe zone
would require delivery of humanitarian supplies over the Turkish
border. But Assad’s ground forces would almost certainly contest
the zone using the 1,980 artillery pieces, 500 rocket launchers,
and hundreds of mortars at their disposal. These weapons
contribute to the large advantage in firepower Assad’s forces
currently enjoy over the rebels. They would surely be used
against a safe zone, were it believed tactically expedient,
since the government would see the area as a launch pad for the
rebel military.  If so, a more robust effort would be needed to protect
civilians and aid organizations. Having declared the region a
safe zone, the burden would fall on coalition aircraft. This
would require moving beyond keeping Syrian  aircraft  out of the
sky to targeting pro-regime ground forces directly and on a
sustained basis.  Identifying targets and directing air strikes would likely
require friendly forces on the ground with the training
necessary to effectively coordinate air-to-ground attack. Syrian
rebels lack this training. Western special forces are the most
likely candidates, meaning a U.S.-backed intervention is
unlikely to stay limited to air power alone. It would require
some boots on the ground.  Rebels’ Role  Syrian rebels could help in forcing Assad’s troops to
concentrate their firepower, thus providing attractive targets
for coalition attacks from the air. But this would entail
continued fighting in and around population centers, with Syrian
 civilians caught  in the crossfire. Even in this era of highly
accurate munitions, some coalition bombs inevitably would fall
on civilians.  Assuming Western air power succeeded in defending a
northern safe zone from Assad’s forces, this would still leave
the regime free to continue its assaults in  Homs , Damascus and
elsewhere. Syria’s humanitarian crisis would continue to worsen
until rebels could organize for significant offensive action.  While rebel forces are substantial, they remain fragmented.
Interventionists hope a safe zone will provide a base for them
to organize. But if rebels struggled to form a cohesive force
capable of offense, pressure to escalate to strategic bombing
against regime targets in Damascus would become intense. What
started as a limited humanitarian operation in the north would
end with the West playing the role of rebel  air force : this time
all the way to Damascus.  Stalemate will inevitably produce wider calls for
intervention. But for outside powers seeking to end Syria’s
civil war, there is no limited option.  (Brian T. Haggerty is a doctoral candidate in political
science and an affiliate of the security studies program at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Venezuela’s high-stakes
election  and on the  fallacy of small business  as job creator;
Stephen L. Carter on why it’s OK to skip the  presidential
debates ; William Pesek on  quantitative easing in the U.S. and
Japan ;  Jonathan Weil  on  running your hedge fund from prison ;
 Paul Hodgson  on recouping bonuses from  bank executives .  To contact the writer of this article:
Brian Haggerty at  bh1@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  