-- Leap Left in Lurch as MetroPCS Picks T-Mobile Merger
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-10-04T15:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/leap-left-in-lurch-as-metropcs-picks-t-mobile-merger.html
Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  is
now left to fend for itself as the combination of MetroPCS
Communications Inc. and T-Mobile USA damps takeover prospects
for the unprofitable wireless carrier.  Leap, which Chief Financial Officer Jerry Elliott said in
August was considering options including a sale, has lost money
every year since 2006 and analysts  estimate  it will keep posting
deficits until 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors are giving little value to its operations, pushing
Leap’s price-sales ratio to 0.15, the lowest among similar-sized
U.S. wireless carriers, the data show.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s deal to merge T-Mobile USA with
MetroPCS to create a bigger No. 4 player in the U.S. wireless
market drove Leap down  18 percent  yesterday. Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said Leap is left without a buyer right now
because the most logical acquirer was  MetroPCS (PCS) , which also
targets prepaid customers using the same network technology. A
deal is unlikely soon because T-Mobile will need time to
integrate the new assets and Leap’s $3.2 billion in long-term
debt may deter  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “The challenge for Leap is that their business just isn’t
all that attractive on a standalone basis,” Craig Moffett, an
analyst at Bernstein in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Right now they’re struggling to grow and they still aren’t
profitable. That asset has always made more sense in the context
of a larger business.”  Greg Lund, a spokesman for San Diego-based Leap, declined
to comment on the company’s takeover prospects.  Eliminate Nothing  Before retreating yesterday, shares of the $494 million
company had rallied 38 percent since Aug. 6. That day, Elliott
was asked on a  conference call  with analysts whether Leap’s
strategic options include selling assets or the entire company.  “There is nothing that you can think of that you should
eliminate right now from the list of possibilities,” he said,
according to a transcript. Michael Mahoney, a senior managing
director at Falcon Point Capital LLC in San Francisco, said
later that week that Leap’s best hope was to be sold.  Deutsche Telekom of Bonn  said  yesterday that it reached an
agreement on the combination of its T-Mobile USA unit, the
fourth-largest U.S. carrier, with Richardson, Texas-based
MetroPCS. The biggest American wireless providers are Verizon
Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Sprint.  The announcement followed an Oct. 2 Bloomberg article that
the companies were in talks.  Germany ’s largest phone company
will own 74 percent of the new business, and MetroPCS
shareholders will get $1.5 billion in cash.  Suitor Removed  “It seems that the only real suitor for Leap was PCS, and
obviously if they do this deal with Deutsche Telekom, they’re
out of the market for awhile,” Scott Schermerhorn, chief
investment officer of Concord, New Hampshire-based Granite
Investment Advisors Inc., which oversees about $560 million
including Sprint shares, said in a phone interview. “I can’t
imagine they’ll do that any time soon.”  The combination has already been approved by Deutsche
Telekom’s supervisory board and MetroPCS’s board of directors.
The transaction is projected to close in the first half of 2013
and is still subject to approval by MetroPCS shareholders and
regulators.  Today, Leap shares dropped 2.1 percent to $6.10 at 11:22
a.m. New York time.  JPMorgan’s  Philip Cusick  cut his Leap  rating  to neutral
from overweight yesterday, saying an acquisition of the company
in the near future seems unlikely. The analyst said in a
research note that while T-Mobile might eventually want to
purchase Leap, the merger with MetroPCS delays that and
regulators might still block a transaction.  No Necessity  “It’s not necessary for any other player to pick them
up,” Chetan Sharma, an independent wireless analyst in
Issaquah,  Washington , said in a phone interview. “The chances
are low. There’s not a significant strategic necessity for AT&T,
Sprint or Verizon to acquire them.”  Leap’s stock has plunged 64 percent from last year’s peak
and 94 percent since an all-time high in 2007. Its long-term
debt has risen to $3.2 billion from $588.3 million at the end of
2005 amid an expansion into new markets and the purchase of
spectrum licenses.  After reporting net losses for the last six years, analysts
are forecasting Leap will remain  unprofitable  through 2015,
according to data and estimates compiled by Bloomberg. It may
post a profit of about $43 million in 2016, according to the
average estimate.  Sales Multiple  Leap now trades at an 85 percent discount to its revenue
from the last 12 months, the lowest valuation among U.S.
wireless carriers that have a market capitalization larger than
$100 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The group’s
median multiple is about 1, the data show.  Leap, which fired Chief Operating Officer Raymond Roman in
July, lost more than 289,000 customers during the second
quarter, almost triple the amount a year earlier. That left Leap
with 5.9 million subscribers at the end of June. T-Mobile had
about 33 million customers, or roughly a third as many as
Verizon Wireless and AT&T, and is adding 9.3 million more by
purchasing MetroPCS. Sprint has 56 million.  Verizon Wireless, Sprint, MetroPCS and Leap all use the
same network technology, called CDMA. AT&T and T-Mobile are on
the GSM standard. The entire industry is moving toward a
technology known as LTE.  ‘More Difficult’  “If one assumes, as I do, that T-Mobile will continue to
try and serve the MetroPCS customer profile, then Leap’s
weakened because they are facing a more powerful and robust
competitor that has more advertising dollars and more scale,”
Charles Golvin, an analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , said in a phone interview. “It’s going
to be more difficult for Leap to compete with these very large
behemoths.”  Golvin said that while Leap may still be acquired, all
potential buyers face impediments.  “Sprint is the most likely acquirer, but they are not in a
good financial position,” he said. Sprint has $21.3 billion in
total debt, more than its entire $15.6 billion market value.
Also, T-Mobile will need time to integrate MetroPCS first, the
analyst said.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment on the company’s acquisition plans.  Bernstein’s Moffett said MetroPCS’s acquisition removes the
most logical near-term buyer of Leap, explaining why its shares
tumbled yesterday by the most in two months.  “Investors assumed that Leap Wireless was destined for its
own acquisition,” he said. Shareholders reversed that stance
yesterday “when they concluded it was going to be hard for
anyone but a T-Mobile to own it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  