-- ECB Holds Interest Rates as Spain Keeps Draghi Waiting
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-04T11:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/ecb-holds-interest-rates-as-spain-keeps-draghi-waiting.html
The European Central Bank kept
interest rates on hold today as President Mario Draghi waits for
Spain to decide if it needs his help.  Policy makers meeting in Ljubljana, Slovenia, left the
 benchmark rate  at a historic low of 0.75 percent, as predicted
by 48 of 52 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Four forecast
a cut to 0.5 percent. Draghi will brief reporters on the
decision, taken at one of the ECB’s twice-yearly meetings
outside  Frankfurt , at 2:30 p.m.  A month after Draghi unveiled an unprecedented plan to buy
the bonds of euro-area countries still mired in the sovereign
debt crisis, Spain, the country most likely to take up the
offer, is still mulling whether it wants to accept the
conditions attached. At the same time, the euro-area economy
probably entered a recession in the third quarter as the crisis
damped spending and investment.  “From an economic perspective, we don’t need another ECB
rate cut,” said Christian Melzer, an economist at Dekabank in
Frankfurt. “The focus isn’t on rate changes but on Spain and a
possible request for aid paving the way for the ECB bond
program. It’s up to Spain to make a move now.”  Spanish Bonds  Spanish bonds fell for a second day as the nation sold 
3.99 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of two-, three- and five-year 
securities today.  Finance Minister Luis de Guindos has said officials are
still considering whether they need European Union aid, which
Draghi has made a condition for ECB intervention. Under his
plan, a country must make a formal request to  Europe ’s bailout
fund to buy its debt on the primary market before the ECB
considers buying bonds on the secondary market.  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti cautioned last week that
aid shouldn’t hinge on more conditions than leaders already
signed up to and the International Monetary Fund shouldn’t need
to police it.  “What people tend to forget is that the ECB’s bond plan is
only complementing the implementation of financing help agreed
by the governments,” said Athanasios Orphanides, who was an ECB
council member until May and now teaches at the MIT Sloan School
of Management in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “So if prime
ministers Rajoy and Monti are not happy about conditionality or
IMF involvement, then they should take it up with their fellow
leaders and not complain about the ECB.”  Bank of England  Spain’s central bank governor, Luis Maria Linde, didn’t
attend the ECB council meeting today due to an appearance before
a parliamentary budget committee. Separately, the Bank of
England held its bond-purchase target at 375 billion pounds
($603 billion) and kept its key rate at 0.5 percent.  While the ECB waits on Spain, the euro-area economy is
deteriorating. Manufacturing contracted for a 14th straight
month in September and  consumer confidence  also declined.  The ECB last month forecast a deeper economic contraction
for 2012 than it did three months earlier, saying gross domestic
product will drop 0.4 percent instead of 0.1 percent. According
to a separate Bloomberg survey, a majority of economists
forecast a benchmark rate cut in December.  Bundesbank Opposition  Draghi is also seeking to sell his bond-buying plan in
 Germany  after Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann objected to it.
In a bid to soothe concerns in Europe’s largest economy, Draghi
pledged to German lawmakers on Sept. 25 that any bond buying
must be “accompanied by reforms from governments that address
deep-rooted issues.”  De Guindos said Oct. 1 that officials are studying the ECB
plan and will make the “best decision for the interests of the
Spanish economy.” That followed the unveiling of a fifth
austerity package in nine months. The government announced plans
to borrow 207.2 billion euros next year, which would increase
its debt load to 90.5 percent of gross domestic product.  “The fears of the Bundesbank now seem to be coming true,
that the governments are finding it very difficult to fulfill
the conditions so that the ECB can act,” said Christoph Kind,
head of asset allocation at Frankfurt Trust, who helps manage
about $20 billion. “I think the ECB had imagined things would
run differently.”  No Conditions, No Deal  While Spain seeks the lightest possible terms from creditor
governments and the ECB as a reward for austerity measures
already implemented, it’s unlikely that Draghi will agree to no-
strings-attached bond purchases, said  Laurent Fransolet , head of
interest-rate strategy at Barclays Plc in London.  “If you don’t have conditionality, you don’t have a
deal,” he said. “It’s very unlikely that the ECB will back
down on conditionality. The markets know that, they also know
that this won’t happen overnight, and that a lot of sequencing
is involved.”  The Spanish 10-year yield reached a euro-era record 7.75
percent on July 25, before Draghi pledged the next day to do
“whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary union. It was at
5.88 percent today. Two-year notes were at 3.34 percent, up from
as low as 2.71 percent on Sept. 7.  Bond yields are unlikely to surge because the ECB’s plan
has quelled investor concern for now, Fransolet said. “People
are not going to short Spain if the ECB is only a phone call
away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  