-- ECB’s Kranjec Says ‘Too Early’ to Say If Slovenia Will Need Aid
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-10-04T14:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/ecb-s-kranjec-says-too-early-to-say-if-slovenia-will-need-aid.html
Marko Kranjec, a member of the
European Central Bank’s Governing Council, said “it’s too
early” to say whether Slovenia will need a financial aid
package.  “If Slovenia adopts decisive measures like the bank
stabilization plan, the pension and the labor market reform,
then the country would not need to apply for a program,”
Kranjec, also the head of Slovenia’s central bank, told
reporters in Brdo, Slovenia, where the ECB council held a
meeting today. “The spreads that you have noticed in the
markets in our opinion do not reflect the fundamentals. The
market for Slovenian government bonds is very shallow.”  Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, is working on the
recapitalization of the banking industry and overhauling
pensions and the labor market to avoid becoming the sixth euro-
region nation to seek a bailout. The yield on the 2021 benchmark
government bond hovered above 7 percent for most of August
before falling.  Notes maturing in January 2021 rallied, pushing the yield
down 39 basis points to 6.24 percent at 3:41 p.m. in Ljubljana,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is a
hundredth of a percentage point.  Lawmakers yesterday endorsed the government’s plan to
stabilize the banking industry. They voted to create a special
agency that will assume lenders’ bad loans and swap them for
government-guaranteed bonds worth as much as 4 billion euros
($5.2 billion), according to Finance Minister Janez Sustersic.  Sustersic has said that the state-backed notes could be
used by banks as collateral with the ECB.  “The ECB hasn’t decided yet on the eligibility of these
bonds, so I can’t tell you if they will be accepted as
collateral or not,” Kranjec said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in Tokyo at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  