-- Edison Seeks to Restart San Onofre Unit, Run Below Capacity
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-10-04T17:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/edison-seeks-to-restart-san-onofre-unit-run-below-capacity-1-.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of
 California ’s second-largest utility, has proposed restarting
Unit 2 at its San Onofre nuclear power plant in California and
running it at 70 percent of capacity to avoid shaking damaged
pipes.  Five months after the restart, Edison will shut Unit 2 to
inspect the steam generator for tube wear, the Rosemead,
California-based company said in a statement today. Unit 3,
which leaked radioactive water from a steam generator, will
remain shut for further study. Edison didn’t propose a restart
date. Both units have been shut since January.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission will review Edison’s
analysis of the cause of the pipe damage that shuttered both
units in January and its restart plans before allowing the
reactor to return to service. The agency will take a “number of
months” for inspections and analysis before deciding on a
restart of Unit 2, Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  said in a
statement today.  Edison’s Unit 2 would produce 800 megawatts at reduced
power, and it’s too early to know if the reactor would be online
by next summer, Pete Dietrich, chief nuclear officer at Southern
California Edison, said today during a call with reporters.  Costly Shutdown  The 2,200-megawatt San Onofre plant was closed after
inspectors found unusual wear on tubes that carry radioactive
water at its Unit 2 and Unit 3 reactors. The shutdown has cost
Edison’s Southern California Edison utility $165 million in
inspection, repair and replacement power costs as of June 30,
the company said in a July 31 presentation to investors.  State regulators may open an investigation into whether the
reactors should be removed from Edison’s utility rates as soon
as next month.  In July, NRC inspectors said faulty computer modeling and
manufacturing issues contributed to the unusual tube wear, which
is more extensive at Unit 3.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) 
built the steam generators, installed in Unit 2 in January 2010
and in Unit 3 in January 2011, according to the NRC.  Steam generators are massive radiator-like assemblies that
transfer heat from the reactor to power-generating turbines.  David Freeman, an adviser to Friends of the Earth, an
environmental group, said in an e-mail statement that operating
the reactor at reduced power without fixing or replacing the
generators “is like driving a car with worn-out breaks but
promising to keep it under 50 miles an hour.”  Unloading Fuel  Independent analysis and more than 170,000 inspections have
led Edison to conclude that it can operate Unit 2 at reduced
power safely, Dietrich said today.  “This is not an experiment,” he said. “We have taken
this seriously.”  Edison is unloading fuel from Unit 3, where leaks and tube
damage were first discovered, and said in August it was laying
off 730 employees, one-third of the plant’s workforce.  The company is considering replacing or repairing Unit 3,
where loose tube supports have contributed to more damage than
Unit 2, Dietrich said.  The nuclear plant is located about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of  Los Angeles  and can produce power for 1.4 million
homes, according to Edison’s website.  The shares rose 1.5 percent to $47.28 at 12:46 p.m. in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  