-- Emerging Stocks Jump as ECB Bond Buying Plan Boosts Risk
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-04T21:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/emerging-stocks-rise-from-one-week-low-on-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed from a
one-week low as the  European Central Bank ’s commitment to buy
government bonds buoyed the outlook for the global economy and
boosted appetite for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.3 percent to
1,005.52, rising for the fifth time in six days. The BSE India
Sensitive  Index (VXEEM)  surpassed 19,000 for the first time since July
2011 as India considers more measures to attract foreign
investment. Equity indexes in Hungary, Colombia and Mexico also
gained. The Micex Index in Moscow slipped 1.1 percent as power
company stocks retreated while the Bovespa stock gauge lost 0.3
percent in Brazil.  The ECB is ready to purchase sovereign debt once necessary
conditions are in place, President  Mario Draghi  said today, as
the pan-European regulator seeks to ease borrowing costs for
debt-saddled nations such as Spain. A less-than-estimated
increase in U.S. jobless claims also supported developing market
equities, as the 21 countries in the MSCI gauge send about 13
percent of exports there, World Trade Organization data show.  “To get a reassuring message from the ECB is viewed as a
solid backdrop for risk,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-
market strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from
London. “If we have growth fundamentals improving in America
it’s a major signal that the global economy may bottom out
soon.”  EM ETF Advances  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, rose 1 percent.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, decreased 1.8 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 9.7 percent
this year, trailing a 12 percent increase in the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge trades
at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa dropped for a third day as  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , Brazil’s
sixth-biggest homebuilder, dropped 7.6 percent to the lowest
since Aug. 17.  Applications for jobless benefits increased 4,000 to
367,000 in the week ended Sept. 29 in the U.S., Labor Department
figures showed today. Economists forecast 370,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
prior week’s reading was the lowest in two months.  Russia, Poland  Russia’s Micex Index dropped for a third straight day. The
benchmark index in Poland also declined.  OAO MRSK Holding lost 3.4 percent to the lowest level in
three weeks after Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady
Dvorkovich  said a decision on merging the nation’s largest
electricity distribution company with Federal Grid Co. would be
delayed.  Polskie Jadlo, a Polish restaurant chain, surged 13
percent, the most since May 10, after saying a foreign investor
seeks to buy a stake.  Lee & Man Paper Manufacturing Ltd. (2314)  surged 7.9 percent, the
most in six months in  Hong Kong , after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
upgraded the stock’s rating.  Woongjin Coway Co. (021240)  jumped 14
percent in Seoul after Korea Economic Daily said that creditor
banks of its parent want MBK Partners Ltd. to buy the company.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
advanced 0.2 percent. Markets in China remain closed today for
holidays.  India Reforms  Indian ministers approved proposals allowing overseas
companies to hold as much as 49 percent in insurance firms, and
for the first time permit foreign investment in pension funds.
The bills will need the consent of lawmakers in parliament.  The government last month threw open retail and aviation
sectors to overseas investment, and cut fuel subsidies, ending a
two-year policy paralysis.  Compal Electronics Inc. (2324)  and  Quanta Computer (2382)  Inc. led Taiwan
computer makers lower in Taipei after customer  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  forecast 2013 profit that missed analysts’ estimates.
Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said
yesterday a turnaround at the computer maker won’t happen soon.  Compal fell 3.6 percent, Quanta Computer declined 4 percent
and  Wistron Corp. (3231)  dropped 4.6 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries slid five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 295, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  