-- Let’s Get Real Clawbacks From the Banks
-- B y   P a u l   H o d g s o n
-- 2012-10-04T22:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/let-s-get-some-real-clawbacks-from-banks-this-time.html
The financial crisis began in 2008.
How many cash bonuses and equity awards have been  reclaimed  from
the most senior banking executives who caused it? None that I
can ascertain from required financial disclosures.  Of course, some executives experienced the ultimate
clawback: losing their jobs and watching their unvested stock
and unexercised  stock options  vanish to bankruptcy, creditors or
worthlessness. But as for all the cash bonuses and stock that
have already been paid out for illusory earnings and revenue
based on valueless investments, little or nothing has been
recouped.  So what can we expect from the latest round of bank-value
destruction and scandals, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
London trading losses;  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Libor manipulation; HSBC
Holdings Plc’s money laundering and mis-selling of payment
protection and interest-rate insurance; and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN) ’s Iran dealings?  Again, some have paid the price with their jobs.  Robert Diamond  resigned as Barclays’s chief executive officer and Ina Drew quit as JPMorgan’s chief investment officer as a direct
result of the events that caused losses or scandal -- or both --
for their former employers.  Both executives lost a significant amount of future
compensation. But neither has had vested compensation clawed
back. Thus far, based on the absence of filings with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission , no senior executive in the
U.S. has had to return compensation that has already been paid
out as a result of excessively risky investments, violations of
ethics codes, or behavior that regulators judged to be illegal.  Executives Remain  Not all CEOs or other executives who might be considered
responsible have left their companies.  Peter Sands  is still at
the helm of  Standard Chartered .  Jamie Dimon  not only remains as
JPMorgan’s CEO, but successfully resisted attempts to strip him
of his chairmanship this year.  At HSBC, the current CEO,  Stuart Gulliver , took over in
2011 -- after the period that, according to a U.S. Senate
investigation, the bank was laundering money. But with 30 years
of international experience at HSBC, more recently at very
senior levels, and a board member of the parent company since
2008, it isn’t credible that Gulliver can escape blame, though
his predecessor,  Stephen Green , currently the U.K. trade and
investment minister, is more culpable.  Given the latest wave of scandals, it seems clear that
increased internal and external oversight and regulation haven’t
lowered levels of risky or illegal behavior in banks. The threat
from  Mitt Romney  that he would  seek  repeal of the Dodd-Frank law
if he were elected should be of major concern to shareholders.
Getting rid of the legislation, which hasn’t yet been fully
enacted, would reduce oversight when it seems clear that banks
need more regulation, not less.  The only way such behavior can be checked is for it to
affect executives’ paychecks. At many institutions, clawbacks
come into play only in the event of a financial restatement. But
the actions that led to the crisis  didn’t lead  to a revision of
financial statements; far worse, the result was massive and, in
some cases, permanent destruction of value. Even though arguably
there should have been restatements, without them no pay has had
to be returned.  Just as with financial restatements, it can be objectively
determined whether banks sold credit-default swaps based on
rotten loans; laundered money; manipulated  interest rates ; and
took excessive risks. There is no reason these actions shouldn’t
be added to the list of what causes a clawback.  The provisions for recouping pay were mandated by the  Dodd-
Frank Act , though the SEC has yet to carry out this part of the
law. Many U.S. companies have voluntarily adopted them, though
most apply only in the event of a financial restatement.  Bank Provisions  The best of the clawback provisions require pay to be
returned even if the executive wasn’t directly responsible for
the accounting fraud that led to a restatement. In the same way,
incentive pay should be returned if it was earned by senior
managers who were in their jobs when negligent risk-taking,
 money laundering  or rate manipulation occurred. This  should be 
the case whether they knew about the behavior or not. Ultimate
responsibility for wrongdoing of this magnitude lies at the top
of an organization, both in the executive suite and on the
board. Even without direct complicity, the actions occurred due
to a lack of oversight.  The recent cases would seem to indicate that banks’
clawback provisions are ineffective, insufficient or
nonexistent. This isn’t so. Though compensation hasn’t been
recouped, all the banks involved -- even JPMorgan, which has
looser governance standards than European banks -- say they can
take back or cancel incentives in the event of illegal or
damaging behavior.  With these provisions in place at  Standard Chartered (STAN) , HSBC,
Barclays and JPMorgan, why are we still waiting for significant
clawbacks to be announced for employees directly involved in
risky behavior and illegal activity, as well as for the managers
supervising them?  ( Paul Hodgson  is the chief research analyst at GMI Ratings,
which evaluates environmental, social, governance and accounting
risk at public companies. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Venezuela’s high-stakes
election  and on the  fallacy of small business  as job creator;
Stephen L. Carter on why it’s OK to skip the  presidential
debates ; William Pesek on  quantitative easing in the U.S. and
Japan ;  Jonathan Weil  on  running your hedge fund from prison ;
Brian T. Haggerty on the perils of  military intervention in
Syria .  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul Hodgson at  phodgson@gmiratings.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  