-- EU Carbon Pares Gains After Parliament Sets Carbon Vote
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-04T17:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/eu-carbon-pares-gains-after-parliament-sets-carbon-vote.html
European Union carbon permits pared
gains after the bloc’s parliament scheduled its first vote on a
legal change that would enable the bloc to curb a glut of
emission allowances later than regulators had planned.  The European Parliament’s environment committee will vote
on the  measure  on Feb. 19 under the “fastest possible
timetable,” Matthias Groote, the chairman of the environment
committee, said today in a telephone interview. The plenary vote
that needs to follow will take place “as soon as possible”
after national governments agree on their position, he said.  EU carbon allowances for December fell to as low as 7.55
euros a metric ton today, a 5.7 percent decline from 8.01 euros
just before the announcement.  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, said in July it expected a decision this year on a draft
strategy to curtail a glut of permits that was at the end of
2011 equal to almost half of the average annual pollution limit
in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program.  “This calendar is clearly not as optimistic as could have
been expected,” Isabelle Curien, a Deutsche Bank analyst in
Paris, said by e-mail. “For now, timing on further steps is
very uncertain.”  The commission proposal seeks to help prices in the carbon
market recover after they sank to a record earlier this year.
The plan, which consists of a proposed change to the EU
emissions trading law and a separate measure to delay sales of
some allowances as of 2013, known as backloading, needs
qualified-majority backing from  member states  to be implemented.
The legal amendment also needs approval by the parliament.  ‘Structural Measures’  The  environment committee  is next scheduled to meet at an
extraordinary gathering on Nov. 12 and will consider a draft
report on the proposed amendment on Dec. 17, two days before a
deadline to suggest changes. The exchange of views is due to
take place on Jan. 23 to Jan. 24.  “We hope that the parliament will look at this as a matter
of urgency so that they can speed up their work,” Isaac Valero- Ladron, climate spokesman for the commission, said by e-mail.
“The commission will also present options for long-term
structural measures before year-end.”  The carbon-permit surplus, which according to the
commission reached 950 million tons of carbon-dioxide equivalent
last year and could double by the end of this year, may be
carried over to the next phase of the EU emissions trading
system from 2013 to 2020, also known as Phase 3.  Phase 3  EU permits ended the session at 7.64 euros, 4.6 percent
down from the level before the announcement on the parliamentary
calendar, and up 0.7 percent from yesterday’s close. The
contract lost 28 percent in the past year, also weakened by
sales of allowances for Phase 3 from this month.  “Phase 3 auctions are likely to have a much more bearish
impact now,” said Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in  London . “The market will need to start
absorbing full auction volumes without even a first official
signal about the viability of backloading.”  Most European governments haven’t decided yet whether to
back the commission proposal, according to the bloc’s
presidency.  Spain  is examining the plan amid concern that it may
undermine the predictability of the EU carbon trading rules,
Federico Ramos de Armas, the nation’s state secretary for
environment, said in Warsaw today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  