-- Spain Says EU Needs Clear Carbon Rules, Examines Backloading
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-04T14:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/eu-needs-clear-stable-rules-on-carbon-trading-spain-says.html
European Union’s draft plan to curb a
glut of carbon permits may endanger the predictability of the
bloc’s trading rules and  Spain  hasn’t decided whether to back
the proposal, Environment Minister Federico Ramos de Armas said.  “What we’re asking for are clear rules for our companies
that are not changing in an unexpected way,” he told reporters
in Warsaw. “We’re studying the proposal, we don’t know the
exact terms yet and we don’t know what our decision will be.”  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, proposed in July a plan to curtail an excess of permits in
the world’s biggest carbon market to help prices recover from a
record low. The strategy, which consists of a draft change to
the EU  emissions trading law  and a separate measure to delay
sales of some allowances as of 2013, known as backloading, needs
qualified-majority backing from  member states  to be implemented.  At stake is the cost of pollution for European companies
that have enjoyed record-low prices for the permits they are
forced to buy in the EU carbon market to offset their emissions.
The economic crisis has hurt industrial output, boosting the
surplus of credits to almost half of the average annual
pollution limit in the so-called cap-and-trade program, and
pushing December carbon to an all-time low of 5.99 euros a ton
on April 4.  EU permits for delivery in December rose 4.5 percent to
7.88 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of
14:10 p.m. in  London , its biggest daily gain since Aug. 31. The
contract has slid 25 percent in the past year.  No Number  The EU hasn’t yet proposed a specific number of permits to
be postponed and plans to do so after finishing work on an
impact assessment, which will be ready “in the coming weeks,”
 Jos Delbeke , director general for climate action at the
commission, said on Sept. 26. The permits would be returned to
the market at a later date in the next trading period, which
runs from 2013 to 2020, the commission has said.  To enter into force, the backloading measure would need 255
out of 345 votes in the EU’s weighted  ballot  system that favors
larger member states. A blocking minority requires 91 votes.
Spain has 27 votes.  Most member states are still scrutinizing the commission’s
proposal after they voiced reservations about the draft change
to the law at two meetings last month, an EU presidency official
said on Sept. 24.  Poland , which relies on coal for more than 90 percent of
its  electricity  needs, has objected to the carbon-permit supply
curbs and Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said in July
there’s no need to “manipulate” the market.  Slovakia, Netherlands  Slovakia also opposed the measure, two EU diplomats with
knowledge of the talks said last month. The Czech Republic’s
Prime Minister Peter Necas said on Sept. 12 his government will
probably not support the commission’s plan.  The Netherlands has also signaled it’s unlikely to back the
backloading strategy, though some politicians including Bas
Eickhout, a Dutch member of the Green group in the European
Parliament, has said the country may change its position after a
new government is formed following Sept. 12 elections.  France and  Belgium  both expressed support for the
backloading plan last month, said the diplomats, who declined to
be identified because the talks were private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  