-- European Tiremakers Get Boost From New Winter-Tire Rules
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-05T10:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/european-tiremakers-get-boost-from-new-winter-tire-rules.html
Michelin & Cie. (ML) ,  Continental AG (CON)  and
other European tiremakers, already steering clear of the
region’s debt crisis, got an early Christmas gift this week when
Luxembourg made snow tires mandatory on the duchy’s roads.  More good news may be on the way with  Poland , Turkey and
 Belgium  also considering requirements that drivers buy tires for
snowy roads and the European Union discussing standardized
winter-tire rules. The moves would give the industry another
hedge against the volatility plaguing carmakers.  “Pricing for the tiremakers is much more favorable” than
for auto manufacturers, said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at
Commerzbank in  Frankfurt .  That has helped boost profits and lift share prices for the
industry. Europe’s four biggest tire companies -- Michelin,
Continental,  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC)  and  Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V)  -- have all
jumped by more than 30 percent this year. Michelin’s 44 percent
increase is double the gain of the 14-member  Stoxx 600 autos and
parts index .  Continental, which returned to  Germany ’s benchmark DAX
index last month, has done even better, surging 66 percent. With
that performance, the Hanover, Germany-based manufacturer is
valued at 7.8 times estimated 2012 earnings, compared with 4.9
times for Europe’s No.1 carmaker,  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Nokian Renkaat  rose  as much as 4.3 percent today, the most
in three weeks, and was up 4 percent at 34.45 euros as of 12:48
p.m. in Helsinki trading.  Additional Revenue  With winter tires costing as much as 25 percent more than
summer tires, Europe-wide regulations could net the industry 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in additional revenue, according to
Lars Holmqvist, a consultant with Kreab Gavin Anderson and the
former head of European auto supplier association Clepa.  Even without the boost, replacement tire sales, which
account for about 75 percent of the industry’s revenue, are
forecast to rise 6 percent in  Europe  in 2013, bouncing back from
a 5.9 percent drop this year, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Car demand, by contrast, is headed for its fifth
consecutive annual decline this year and isn’t expected to reach
pre-crisis levels until after 2017, IHS Automotive forecasts.  The tiremakers have a key advantage over the car
manufacturers in that they can pass on cost increases more
easily, said Erich Hauser, a London-based Credit Suisse analyst.  “How much a Golf or Peugeot 208 costs has great
visibility, whereas people have very little feel for how the
price of a tire changes,” Hauser said. “Ten years ago the tire
industry was about a 5 percent margin business while today it’s
roughly 10 percent. Renault or Peugeot five years ago was also a
5 percent margin business but today it’s zero percent.”  Snowy Rules  Such stealth pricing power helped Continental, the second-
largest European tiremaker after Michelin, boost second-quarter
operating earnings at its tire division to 17.1 percent of sales
from 13.5 percent a year ago.  Even as European automakers were discussing factory
closures, Continental in August raised its 2012 revenue and
profit outlook after second-quarter profit jumped on lower raw
material costs. Michelin last month confirmed its 2012 targets
and raised a 2015 profit goal by 16 percent to 2.9 billion
euros, almost 50 percent more than its 2011 earnings.  Luxembourg slapped a 74-euro penalty on drivers not
complying with its snow-tire rule. Polish lawmakers have
proposed a 500-zloty ($158) fine for drivers not using winter
tires from November through March.  Turkey  and Belgium are
mulling similar laws, and Germany mandated winter tires two
years ago.  Winter tires have deeper treads than regular tires for
better grip and softer rubber that performs better in cold
temperatures but wears more quickly in the summer months. In
 Sweden , which started requiring winter tires in 1999, the tread
must be at least 3 millimeters deep.  Profitable Winter  The European Commission is considering a standard
definition for winter tires throughout the region. The rules
could be finalized next year, said Fazilet Cinaralp, secretary
general of the European Tyre and Rubber Manufacturers’
Association in Brussels.  “As soon as the definition has been clarified, we’d like
to see a broader mandate on winter tires fairly quickly,”
Cinaralp said. “Countries such as Belgium,  Denmark , France,
 Netherlands , Poland and the U.K. should have mandatory winter
tires.”  Winter-tire legislation can mean “double-digit”
percentage growth in sales, said Frank Schuhardt, chief
financial officer at  Delticom AG (DEX) , Europe’s biggest tire dealer,
based in the German city of Hannover.  Mother Nature may also help. The Finnish Meteorological
Institute says Europe has a strong chance of colder-than-normal
weather this year. With a snowy winter, Europe’s tire market may
grow 10 percent, said Kim Gran, chief executive officer at
Finland’s Nokian Renkaat, the biggest winter tire brand in
 Russia  and the Nordic region.  With Europe’s car market this year expected to hit fall to
its lowest level since 1995, growth like that remains a distant
dream for most of the region’s carmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  