-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-10-04T15:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is the text of
European  Central Bank  President Mario Draghi’s comments
from his monthly news conference in Ljubljana, Slovenia,
today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT,  EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK : Can I
- do you mind? Can I start? OK, thank you. Thank you.  Ladies and gentlemen, the vice president and I are
very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. I
would like to thank Governor Kranjec for his kind - more
than kind, fantastic hospitality, and express our special
gratitude to his staff for the excellent organization of
today’s meeting of the Governing Council. We will now
report on the outcome of today’s meeting.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis,
we’ve decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged.
Owing to high energy prices and increases in indirect taxes
in some euro area countries, inflation rates are expected
to remain above 2 percent throughout 2012, but then to fall
below that level again in the course of next year and to
remain in line with  price stability  over the policy-
relevant horizon.  Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains subdued. Inflation expectations
for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line
with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to 2 percent over the medium term. Economic growth in
the euro area is expected to remain weak, with ongoing
tensions in some euro area financial markets and high
uncertainty still weighing on confidence and sentiment.  Our decisions as regards outright monetary
transactions, OMTs, have helped to alleviate such tensions
over the past few weeks, thereby reducing concerns about
the materialization of destructive scenarios. It is now
essential that governments continue to implement the
necessary steps to reduce both fiscal and structural
imbalances and proceed with financial sector restructuring
measures.  The Governing Council remains firmly committed to
preserving the singleness of monetary policy and to
ensuring the proper transmission of the policy stance to
the real economy throughout the euro area. OMTs will enable
us to provide, under appropriate conditions, a fully
effective backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with
potentially severe challenges for price stability in the
euro area.  Let me repeat again what I’ve said in past months. We
act strictly within our mandate to maintain price stability
over the medium term, we act independently in determining
monetary policy, and the euro is irreversible.  We are ready to undertake OMTs once all the
prerequisites are in place. As we said last month, the
Governing Council will consider entering into OMTs to the
extent that they are warranted from a monetary policy
perspective, as long as program conditionality is fully
respected. We would exit from OMTs once their objectives
have been achieved or when there is a failure to comply
with the program. OMTs will not take place while a given
program is under review and would resume after the review
period once program compliance has been assured.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with economic analysis. Euro area real GDP
contracted by 0.2 percent quarter on quarter in the second
quarter of 2012, following flat growth in the previous
quarter. Economic indicators in particular survey results
confirm the continuation of weak economic activity in the
third quarter of 2012, in an environment characterized by
high uncertainty.  We expect the euro area economy to remain weak in the
near term and to recover only very gradually thereafter.
The growth momentum is supported by our standard and
nonstandard monetary policy measures, but is expected to
remain dampened by the necessary process of balance sheet
adjustment in the financial and nonfinancial sectors, the
existence of high unemployment, and an uneven global
recovery.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the
euro area continue to be on the downside. They relate in
particular to ongoing tensions in several euro area
financial markets and the potential spillover to the euro
area real economy. These risks should be contained by
effective action by all policymakers in the euro area.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.7 percent in
September 2012, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate,
compared with 2.6 percent in the previous month. This is
higher than expected and mainly reflects past increases in
indirect taxes and euro-denominated energy prices. On the
basis of current futures prices for oil, inflation rates
could remain at elevated levels before declining to before
2 percent again in the course of next year.  Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of
modest growth in the euro area and well-anchored long-term
inflation expectations, underlying price pressures should
remain moderate. Current levels of inflation should thus
remain transitory and not give rise to second-round
effects. We will continue to monitor closely further
developments in costs, wages and prices.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue
to be broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks
pertain to further increases in indirect taxes owing to the
need for fiscal consolidation. The main downside risks
relate to the impact of weaker-than-expected growth in the
euro area in the event of a renewed intensification of
financial market tensions and its effects on the domestic
components of inflation. If not contained by effective
action by all policymakers in the euro area, such
intensification has the potential to affect the balance of
risks on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm
the subdued underlying pace of monetary expansion. In
August, the annual growth rate of M3 decreased to 2.9
percent, from 3.6 percent in July. While this decline was
mainly due to a base effect, monthly inflows were also
relatively contained. Conversely, strong monthly inflows
into overnight deposits contributed to a further increase
in the annual rate of growth of M1 to 5.1 percent in
August, compared with 4.5 percent in July. This increase
reflects a continuing high preference for liquidity in an
environment of low interest rates and high uncertainty.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
declined in August to minus 0.2 percent, from 0.1 percent
in July, reflecting a decrease in the annual rate of growth
of loans to nonfinancial corporations to minus 0.5 percent
from minus 0.2 percent in July. By contrast, the annual
growth of loans to households remained unchanged, at 1.0
percent in August.  To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the
weak outlook for GDP, heightened  risk aversion , and the
ongoing adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises, all of which weigh on credit demand. At the
same time, in a number of euro area countries, the
segmentation of financial markets and capital constraints
for banks restrict credit supply.  The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a key
factor in facilitating both an appropriate provision of
credit to the economy and the normalization of all funding
channels, thereby contributing to an adequate transmission
of monetary policy to the financing conditions of the
nonfinancial sector in different countries of the euro
area. It is thus essential that the resilience of banks
continues to be strengthened where needed.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability
over the medium term. A cross-check with the signals from
the monetary analysis confirms this picture.  Other economic policy areas need to make substantial
contributions to ensure a further stabilization of
financial markets and an improvement in the outlook for
growth.  As regards fiscal policies, euro area countries are
progressing with consolidation. It is crucial that efforts
are maintained to restore sound fiscal positions in line
with the commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact
and the 2012 European Semester recommendations. A rapid
implementation of the fiscal compact will also play a major
role in strengthening confidence in the soundness of public
finances.  At the same time, structural reforms are as essential
as fiscal consolidation efforts and measures to improve the
functioning of the financial sector. In the countries most
strongly affected by the crisis, noticeable progress is
being made in the correction of unit labor cost and current
account developments. Decisive product and labor market
reforms will further improve the competitiveness of these
countries and their capacity to adjust.  Finally, it is essential to push ahead with European
institution-building. The ECB welcomes the commission
proposal of September 12, 2012, for a single supervisory
mechanism, SSM, involving the ECB, to be established
through a council regulation on the basis of Article 127(6)
of the treaty. The Governing Council considers an SSM to be
one of the fundamental pillars of a financial union and one
of the main building blocks towards a genuine Economic and
Monetary Union.  We will formally issue a legal opinion in which we
will, in particular, take into account the following
principles: a clear and robust separation between
supervisory decision-making and monetary policy;
appropriate accountability channels; a decentralization of
tasks within the Eurosystem; an effective supervisory
framework ensuring coherent oversight of the euro area
banking system; and full compatibility with the single
market framework, including the role and prerogatives of
the European Banking Authority.  As the commission proposal sets out an ambitious - an
ambitious transition schedule towards the SSM, the ECB has
started preparatory work so as to be able to implement the
provisions of the council regulation as soon as it enters
into force.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE) oh, OK. Just a quick reminder. Two
questions per media, no more. And present yourself before
asking your question. Thank you. Let’s go to the second
row, yes, please.  QUESTION: Can you hear me?  STAFF: Yeah, it’s OK.  QUESTION: Stefan Weicker (ph) with Bloomberg. Two
short questions, Mr. Draghi. The first one, you mentioned
downside risks to the economy again. Have there been any
discussions today about a possible rate cut in the months
to come? And the second one on Spain. Do you find the Spain
bond yields appropriate at the moment? Or are they still
hampering your monetary policy transmission? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, on the first question, the answer was
no. And on the second question, I will not comment. Thank
you.  But let me say one thing I forgot. If the - Marko will
answer questions about Slovenia today. So you - you will
just have to ask him about Slovenia. Thank you.  STAFF: OK. Your neighbor, please?  QUESTION: Mansa Renko (ph), MNI (ph). Mr. Draghi, was
the decision to leave rates unchanged unanimous, is the
first question. And the second is, what do you think about
publishing the minutes much sooner than 30 years after the
respective meetings?  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. What is the second question?  QUESTION: What do you think about publishing the
minutes much - much sooner or earlier than 30 years after
the respective meeting? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Yeah. Yeah. Now, on the first - on the first
question, I would say that there was no discussion, so in a
sense, it was a unanimous decision about interest rates.  But on the second question, you see, it’s - clearly,
there have been statements by several Governing Council
members and by myself showing an open mind about this
point. But it’s a complex process. And we are actually
thinking about this, how to proceed.  There are pros and there are cons. But what you have
to keep in mind is that the ECB is already a very
transparent institution. Just think about this press
conference every month, that by itself. And also, there are
hearings in parliament, interviews, speeches, so I think
there may be some benefit as far as communication is
concerned from having greater transparency, at the same
time we have to value and assess what it means in our
specific context, the European context, which is different
from the United States, it’s different from the U.K.  You’re welcome.  STAFF: OK, let’s go to your neighbor.  QUESTION: Tom Fellis (ph) from Dow Jones. Mr. Draghi,
last month, when you announced the OMT, you said that
matters were now effectively in the hands of governments.
How concerned are you at the way that governments have
responded since then? I mean, some finance ministers have
suggested that the ESM might not be covering legacy bank
debts, for instance, and Spain still hasn’t applied for a
bailout.  My second question is on  Greece . And how would - how
would the ECB feel about rescheduling the repayments on the
Greek bonds? And would that qualify as monetary financing?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: On the second question, the answer is, yes, it
would qualify as monetary financing. We’ve said several
times that any voluntary restructuring of our holdings
would be equivalent - would be monetary financing.  On the first question, I could say that today we are
ready with our OMT. We are - we have a fully effective
backstop mechanism in place, once the - all the
prerequisites are in place, as well. And that addresses
your question. Governments have made substantial progress
on a variety of fronts, and we can discuss it later, on a
variety of fronts, both what I call - what I would call
vulnerable countries and countries that are under a full
program of the IMF.  Or you could see actually this progress all across the
board, as far as fiscal consolidation is concerned, as far
as structural reforms are concerned, and also as far as
repairing some of the - some of the flaws of the banking
sector. So at this point, it’s really up to the government
to decide what they want to do. The mechanism is in place.  Now, your question about the ESM, you know, it’s kind
of - we’ll have to assess exactly what it means. And I
don’t want to prejudge the technical discussion that will
take place, but we have to remind that this is not - it’s
not a matter for the ECB. It’s a matter for the governments
concerned. It’s governments’ - it’s taxpayers’ money. So
they will have to discuss and take a stance on exactly what
is meant by legacy assets. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, the same row on the right-hand block, yes,
right.  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone with the Wall Street
Journal. On the - back to the OMT, you mentioned that there
are steps that need to happen before the ECB would active,
that it’s in the government’s hands. Does that weaken the
effectiveness of the OMT because you make yourselves part
of the political process, which can be time-consuming and
complicated?  And my second question is on the continued rise in
youth unemployment in  Europe , the anti-austerity protests.
How concerned are you about unemployment, youth
unemployment? And is austerity making the problem worse?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: The first question is about conditionality.
Conditionality - we view conditionality as an essential
part of the activation of the OMT. And I made this point
since the very beginning.  Conditionality will actually have several roles. First
of all, it will reduce the moral hazard by governments. The
second thing - the second role it will have is that,
really, in a sense, protects the independence of the ECB.
Without conditionality, you would certainly have what
people call fiscal dominance. With conditionality, the
independence of the ECB is protected.  But there’s a third angle to this. You can look at
conditionality as a way to create a credit enhancement on
the bonds of the country that is actually the object of
conditionality. And you can see why. So it’s an - it’s an
incentive to pursue the right economic policies which has
benefits for all parties concerned.  Now, you are saying that the - just also, look at the
- well, certainly there is going to be - rightly so, some
political process. And - but look at this from another
angle. Imagine that you have - you know that one of the
conditions is signing of an MOU with the euro group. And
once you have that, you have unanimity, and you have the
whole of Europe that’s supporting politically this program.
By itself, this is an extremely forceful ingredient in the
program.  The second question was about youth unemployment. It’s
- we completely share the concerns of this situation. And
several times, as a matter of fact, both in independent
speeches, several members of the Governing Council have
raised the issue of youth - of high unemployment and
especially focused on the youth - on the young part of the
population.  It’s - it’s an incredible waste of resources. And it
will have to be addressed, and it can be addressed by
properly reforming the labor market so as to decrease the
dual nature the labor markets have taken on the last, I
would say, 7, 10 years, in some European countries. So you
have to address the dual nature of the labor market, and
you have to keep - the challenge, of course, is to address
the dual nature of the labor market while keeping it
flexible overall.  STAFF: Your neighbor, please?  QUESTION: Michael Seen (ph) from the Financial Times.
Mr. Draghi, is the - would a rate cut even be conceivable
at the moment, given that the transmission mechanism is
broken? I mean, would it - is there any way of - would
there be any point in conducting such a thing until OMT has
been used or there’s been a sustainable and significant
drop in the bond yields of the countries that have got
distressed bond markets? Or is that an overemphasis of - of
the way you see this broken transmission mechanism?  And second question. We’re in Slovenia at the spot
where  George W. Bush  had his first-ever summit with
 Vladimir Putin , after which Bush said he looked into
Putin’s eyes and could see his soul and knew this was a man
he could do business with. I was wondering if there was any
such moment today between you and Mr. Weidmann. Thank you.  (LAUGHTER)  DRAGHI: I would like to know from you who’s Putin,
who’s G.W. Bush.  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION: I’ll leave that to you to decide.  DRAGHI: OK. No, on the - on the first question is, in
a sense, it’s - it’s a purely hypothetical question, in the
sense, but it can be addressed saying non-standard monetary
policy measures are being designed and implemented when the
standard ones are not fully effective. Otherwise, we would
simply stay with the standard policy measures. So this, in
a sense, answers your question.  And the second question is -  QUESTION: But does that mean you can have both at the
same time? Sorry.  DRAGHI: I’m sorry?  QUESTION: Can you have both at the same time?  DRAGHI: You mean both are ineffective?  QUESTION: Can you - can you -  (LAUGHTER)  Can you carry on using standard measures at the same
time as having to deploy non-standard ones?  DRAGHI: Well, we have to see if we can repair the
monetary policy transmission channels. We always - we don’t
speculate on future changes in  interest rate , really. I
think that - well, the Governing Council has assessed that
the - the price level and the rate of change of prices is
in line with the medium-term price stability, according to
our definition. So that is the assessment we made about the
interest rate. And as I said, we - there was no discussion.  But answering your second question, I’m - I can say
that the discussion was - I don’t want to comment on
individual positions, of course, but the discussion was
very constructive all across the board.  QUESTION: Thanks.  STAFF: OK. Let’s go to the row behind, yeah.  QUESTION: Thank you. My name is Maria Novak (ph). I’m
from Reuters. Mr. Draghi, you keep encouraging banks to
repair their balance sheets. And I’m wondering, do you
think that they should be able to use ECM (ph) funds for
that, as for their existing problems, as well?  And my second question regards Spain. Do you think
that a precautionary  credit line  for Spain should be -
should be sufficient to solve Spanish financial problems?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: On the first question, I think - when I said
there has been significant progress, I included - I
included the repairing of the banking system. And the
statement that EBA president made yesterday are that -
basically where he gave the numbers of the recapitalization
that has taken place so far, are reassuring from this
viewpoint, are reassuring.  So the - the capital - or the capitalization gap that
was pretty wide until two years has been significantly
reduced by the - by the European - by the euro area banks -
by the European banks.  On - on Spain, that’s one example where significant
progress has taken place, significant challenges remain
ahead, as well, but the progress on the front of fiscal
consolidation, on the front of structural reforms, with the
announcement of a very large reform program, on the front
of the banking sector, with the conclusion of the  stress
test , is really remarkable, if you think how many measures
have been announced, legislated, and implemented in such a
short time.  STAFF: Your neighbor now, please?  QUESTION: Eva Kuehnen from Reuters. Mr. Draghi, just
to follow up on that question, does that mean - would it be
enough for Spain to continue on its reform progress for the
ECB to start buying bonds? Or would Spain actually commit
to much harsher reforms in order for you to - to intervene?  And my second question would be, about a year ago, you
said in - in a similar press conference that you would make
periodic checks on whether you’re in sync with the
tradition of the Bundesbank or whether you’re deviating
from it. And I was wondering what your assessment is today,
whether you’re in sync, or how close are you?  DRAGHI: Yeah, on the second point, I can answer right
away, that if the tradition of the Bundesbank is to - was
to assure price stability, the ECB is fully in sync with
that tradition.  On the first question, well, you see, there is a
tendency to identify conditionality with harsh conditions,
as you said. Conditions don’t need to be necessarily
punitive. Actually, many of the conditions have to do with
structural reforms, which have both social costs, but also
great social benefits. And if they are well designed, the
second are going to be greater than the first.  So it’s - third, it - is it - is it enough? That’s up
to the Spanish government to decide. And it’s up to the
other euro area governments to decide whether the programs
- whether - you know the conditions. You know that it’s
necessary to make a request to an EFSF/ESM program. We
would actively seek the IMF involvement in the process.  But having said that, we have in place now a mechanism
which is a fully effective backstop, if these requests
come, and the assessment of the Governing Council about the
monetary policy transmission channels grants action.  Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. The row behind, on your left-hand
side? Oh, no, the same row, sorry. And after, the row
behind.  QUESTION: I’m  David Tweed  from Bloomberg Television. I
was wondering whether you could explain your thinking with
regard to  Portugal , because Portugal does look as if it’s
met the prerequisites for the OMT to work. So why hasn’t
the European Central Bank bought Portuguese debt on the
secondary market?  And then one, because we’re in Slovenia, the Slovenian
government is going ahead with the institution to take over
the non-performing loans from the banks in return for
providing them with  government bonds . Will those government
bonds be eligible, if the banks present them, for - as
collateral?  DRAGHI: I will answer - I’ll answer the first
question. You’ll answer the second.  But the - on Portugal, that’s a case where - where -
that’s an example of the significant progress that I’ve
hinted at before. Very, very significant progress has taken
place. The - also, the overall situation, politically
speaking, is a strong situation.  There are serious - obviously, we share completely the
concerns that have been expressed about the difficult
social situation, as well. But the reform agenda is firmly
in place.  The OMT would not apply to countries that are under a
full adjustment program until - and that’s the - that’s
what I think I did say last time - until full  market
access , complete market access will be obtained. And this
is because the OMT is not a replacement for lack of primary
market access.  By the way, on this front, we - we had - among several
- several positive news we had in the last few days, we had
one in Portugal, namely, yesterday, for the first time, a
five-year bond was issued. So it’s -  QUESTION: That’s not full market access under your
definition.  DRAGHI: No, that’s not the complete market access, but
it’s the beginning of - it’s the beginning of a complete
market access. So it’s something that’s actually another
reassuring bit of news.  KRANJEC: Yeah, on Slovenia, you’re right. The
parliament adopted the law on the agency that would try to
carve out bad assets from the banks. But the precise
modality of the eligibility of these bonds has not been
decided yet, so I am not able to tell you whether this
would be acceptable or not.  I can only tell you that pool of collateral, which is
available to Slovenian banks, is at the moment sufficient.
And it’s not an urgent matter. I understand that it will be
elaborated in the further steps on this law.  STAFF: Thank you. The row behind, please. Yes?  QUESTION: Stefan Wolkam (ph),  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung . Have you seen any signs that the pure announcement
of the OMT framework has affected easening of credit
conditions in the weak countries? And second question is,
have you discussed what could be a good measure to decide
what is the acceptable level of fragmentation, financial
fragmentation, and what is an unacceptable level?  DRAGHI: Yeah. On - on - on the first question, the
answer is yes. We had - we had - well, you all saw what
happened.  QUESTION: Excuse me - because I forgot - because the
last - the figures of today, the August figures show that,
especially in Spain, it’s getting worse.  DRAGHI: Well, actually, the - you - also what
happened, there was a substantial significant improvement
all across financial markets. Then there was a correction.
And - and basically now, we - if we take a snapshot now
with respect to, say, the beginning of August, we see that
the various interest rate spreads are still at a level way
below what it was in July.  We see that in - there is another - there are two. One
comforting news (ph) was what I said before about Portugal
having issued the first five-year bond. The second - the
second good news, actually, concerns Spain, that Spain has
completed almost 90 percent of their funding program for
the sovereign.  Can I -  QUESTION: But - but you are not aiming on the -  DRAGHI: Can I finish?  QUESTION: Oh, I’m sorry.  DRAGHI: No, no, no, I’m just saying - I’m just saying
- I’m taking a snapshot of what the credit conditions are.
That was your question. There had been sizable issuance by
corporations and by banks since then, and, frankly,
something that’s dear to our eyes - and we always look at
that - TARGET2 balances or imbalances have somehow
stabilized.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Yes. And so that’s - that’s a good - so all in
all, the - the effect’s been - has been positive. There
have been sizable inflows of  bank deposits  in Italy. The -
Spain recourse (ph) central bank financing has gone down in
the last month. So, not bad.  The second question?  QUESTION: Do you have any measure to tell the
difference between an acceptable level of fragmentation and
an unacceptable -  DRAGHI: Oh, yeah. Now, let me finish. Not bad, but I
think we have to - we have to express also a note of
caution here.  First of all, volatility is still relatively high.
And, second, governments will have to persevere in their
reform action on all fronts, fiscal consolidation,
structural reforms, the banking sector, and more generally,
the financial market sector.  What is an acceptable or level of fragmentation? I -
well, it’s hard to say. But certainly, when you see - when
you see the same - when you see two subsidiaries of the
same company located - located in two different countries,
and paying completely different interest rates for their
borrowing, when you see the - exactly the same individual
borrower, say a young couple that has to buy a flat, and
paying a completely different interest rate in mortgages,
then you start asking yourself, “Maybe there is a problem
here.”  Then you look around, and you see that credit flows
are normal in one part of the euro area and are in -
nonexistent in another part. They’re actually falling
precipitously in other parts and have been falling for a
long time.  When you see that you have widespread credit rationing
in some parts of the euro area, when you see that there is
a correlation between the movements in the exchange rates
and the interest rates, that is a very strange correlation,
namely that the  exchange rate  appreciates when interest
rates go down and vice versa.  When you see that the bid-ask spreads reveal profound
lack of liquidity in certain markets, when you see the
levels of volatility are abnormally high, and when you see
that you have the inversion of the yield curves all of a
sudden and then disappearing right after an announcement,
then you say you have a reasonable and possibly
unacceptable level of fragmentation in the euro area.  But the issue is really - is the - the level of
fragmentation becomes unacceptable when the singleness of
the monetary policy in the euro area is being put into
question, because that is the time when we cannot achieve
our primary objective, namely, maintaining price stability
in the - in the medium term across the euro area.  Thank you.  STAFF: The lady just next to you, and after, the lady
behind, and then we will go the other block.  QUESTION: (inaudible) television of Slovenia. I would
like to return to the question of bad banks. ECB had some
concerns regarding the establishment of this agency or a
bank. And I would like to ask you, Mr. Draghi, if these
remarks still stand or - do you support this, let’s say,
resolution for Slovenia?  And the second question - the question is, what are
your recommendations for Slovenia regarding fiscal
consolidation? Do you think that Slovenia needs a bailout?  DRAGHI: I think Marko will - will respond best to both
questions. But by and large, let me say that we agree with
the assessment of the IMF. That’s in the overall assessment
the IMF has issued.  But, Marko?  MARKO KRANJEC, GOVERNOR, SLOVENIAN CENTRAL BANK: Yeah,
just to say a few sentences. ECB, of course, made an
assessment of the law that was adopted. And we understood
it in a sense that, of course, the view was that the
agency, the government, and the central bank should
cooperate closely in deciding how to make the bank sector
more resilient.  And the second question regarding the bailout I think
is much too early to say anything about it. All
macroeconomic indicators at the moment point out that, if
the country adopts decisive stabilization measures in the
fiscal consolidation, in labor markets, in pension reforms,
and, of course, in banking sector, the country would not
need to apply for the program.  But it is a political decision at the end. As the
president also said, in many countries, it is primarily a
political decision. The central bank cannot operate in an
environment which is inherently unstable from the
macroeconomic point of view.  Thank you.  STAFF: The lady behind, please.  QUESTION: (inaudible) with the Slovenian Business
Daily Finance. Being the member of the Slovenian press, my
question - my question is rather similar. The decision on
the OMT program has contributed enormously to calming of
the situation in the markets. However, the yields on the
Slovenian government bonds remain rather high and
surpassing the Spanish, the yields of the Spanish
government bonds. What do you believe are the factors that
could calm down this situation, which is very worrisome for
the Slovenian citizens?  KRANJEC: Sorry if I have to take over.  DRAGHI: It’s yours. No, no, no.  KRANJEC: Yeah, the spreads have - that you have
noticed in the markets, in our opinion, do not reflect the
fundamentals. You should take into consideration that the
 capital markets  for Slovenian paper is very shallow, the
transactions are rare, and one cannot judge from a single
or double (inaudible) two or three transactions about the
underlying fundamentals.  We believe that with adoption of the measures that I
mentioned before, stabilization measures, spreads will go
down. And I understand (inaudible) understand. You can
verify yourself spreads have gone down. With the adoption
of further measures, I believe that spreads will go down as
they did in other eurozone countries.  STAFF: OK. Let’s go to the first row on the right-hand
block here, yes.  QUESTION: (inaudible) CNBC. Two questions. The first
one. How concerned are you that if (inaudible) actually
comes into action (inaudible) derail (inaudible)
essentially (inaudible) as it were (inaudible) because, as
I said (inaudible) the second one is on the OMT (inaudible)
if the OMT is a purely monetary measure (inaudible)
dysfunctional (inaudible) markets, how can you say - how
can you set political preconditions to it? Is that not a
little bit like my local fire brigade telling me I can only
turn on the water if you show me (inaudible) program?  DRAGHI: Well, on - on the first - on the first point,
we will certainly monitor the strategic response of the
issuers to our program. The OMT is not meant to induce
strategic response in favor of issuing short terms by the -
by the issuers. So this will be monitored.  By the way, I think - but that’s my sort of purely
personal perception - is that many - all these countries -
the countries that may need an OMT have now reached after
many years of, I would say, difficult, very difficult
process, reasonable maturities, reasonable durations in
their stock of public debt.  I think it’s very unlikely they will change these
durations in favor of a short-term issuance, first, because
they have market access. It’s not that they don’t have
market access. These countries do have market access. So
there is no reason, really, to change the duration and
having to do - you know, it’s not only pros. If you change
the duration, you also have some serious cons. So all in
all, I think it’s unlikely. In any event, the ECB will
closely monitor this possible strategic response by
issuers.  The second point is, really, I think it’s just the
other way around. I think I did say something about this
last time we had this press conference. We started thinking
- when the OMT was designed, we had the perception and the
evidence that there were tail risks in the euro area,
namely that there was a bad equilibrium for certain
countries, in certain markets. It means that expectations
were self-feeding and would create in the end disruptive
scenarios.  So that’s what - that’s the case for the policymaker,
which in this case is the ECB, to step in with a program.
At the same time, we shouldn’t forget how these countries
got into a bad equilibrium to begin with, namely, bad
policies or, in some cases, no policies at all for a long
period of time, while the rest of the world was changing
completely.  So the first conclusion was that any monetary policy
will have no effect if the other policies wouldn’t change.
That’s why conditionality is so important. It’s actually -
as I said at the beginning - is what makes the monetary
policy effective, and it’s what protects the independence
of the ECB. So it’s not really - I wouldn’t buy the example
- the example you made. I think it’s really an integral
part of this.  The second question - well, this was the second
question, really. Thank you.  STAFF: Yes, your neighbor. Next question, yes? First
row.  QUESTION: It’s Claudio Penet (ph) from El Pais. Mr.
Draghi, are you comfortable with the current situation with
Spain (inaudible) and even Germany? Or did you expect a
more - a more rapid reaction from the political side? And,
secondly, if I may, do you think that Spain has a
possibility to resolve its crisis without European aid?  DRAGHI: I - unfortunately, I cannot comment on either
of the questions, because it’s very much - the decision
whether to start this process is entirely in the hands of
governments. As - as I said on and on and on, I think the
OMT, the ECB has done what really was possible, and the OMT
would certainly create an environment which is conducive to
reforms, because it could remove the - what we call the re-
denomination risk, so it could remove tail risks, but then,
in the end, the initiative, it’s in the hands of
governments. And I could not comment on the second item,
either. Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor? And after the two last
questions, yeah.  QUESTION: Alessandro Malio (ph) (inaudible) from
Italy. You’ve spoken several times about the risks and now
re-denomination risks. Yields have come down since your
announcement in July and then your further announcement.
How much of these risks have been removed? And do you think
it’s just a temporary effect to a return in case the OMT is
not applied?  And as you’ve made the OMT dependent on - that’s the
second question - on a request and the governments seem to
be extremely reluctant to make this request - and the
monetary policy transmission mechanism is still broken,
have you thought about any other solution that you could
apply in that case?  DRAGHI: Well, for the second question, for the time
being, no. I think we - we have the sense that we - we’ve -
it was a very important decision which has many dimensions.
We had to cope with all this. And it’s now in place. We are
ready, and we have a fully effective backstop mechanism in
place. Now it’s really - it’s really in the hands of
governments. And as I said many, many times, the ECB cannot
replace the action of governments.  The - the other thing is - is your question about the
level of interest rates, whether they reflect re-
denomination risks and so on. As I said last time, we are
considering a variety - a variety of indicators here, one
of which is the interest rates. Then we also consider, as I
said before, the bid-ask spreads, the liquidity, the shape
of the yield curves, the volatility. So there is a variety
of indicators which will certainly inform our monetary
policy assessment.  STAFF: OK, the question in the first row, and after
the last question, we’ll be there.  QUESTION: Marie Carafeo (ph) (inaudible) for the ESM,
about the recapitalization of banks through the ESM, do you
see any possible way out? And if you see it being
discussed, if yes, which one, please?  And then the second question. The markets are already
discussing how - the target at which you could intervene in
the markets once that Spain or another country could ask
for aid. Do you have a special target or range of target?  DRAGHI: Now, to the second question, the answer is no.
We, as I said again, before - just before, we are looking
at a variety of indicators. And we will look at all of
them, because we have to have a monetary policy assessment.  What is the degree of disruption, to go back to the
question I had before? What is the degree of disruption of
our monetary policy transmission channels? That is
certainly a question we have - we have to answer.  The - on the first question, the ESM, as I said
before, it’s really very much in the hands of governments.
They took the initiative a few months ago, a year ago,
year-and-a-half ago, to create the ESM. Now that it’s about
to enter into force, there are certain limitations that are
being brought forward to the table. There is going to be a
political discussion, and I - frankly, it would not be
right for the ECB to prejudge the outcome of this
discussion, expressing views on it.  STAFF: The last question, on the seventh row, please.  QUESTION: Hello, Mr. Draghi (inaudible) from
(inaudible) German television. I’d like to ask you, on the
supervision of banks, I would like -  DRAGHI: Sorry, the -  QUESTION: The supervision of banks.  DRAGHI: Yes.  QUESTION: I would like to ask - to ask how, how would
- do you want to ensure that both tasks of the ECB will be
separated? Because at least in Germany, there are still
important voices who have many concerns about this
potential conflict of interest. And also, Mr. Weidmann
recently in an interview raised these concerns. So what
would be your - your response to that?  DRAGHI: I think - I think they’re very, very important
concerns that we are addressing with the proper internal
organization. The proposal doesn’t leave much option to
this, so we have to organization - if - if in the end will
be the ECB, the institution, we certainly have - and this
is - was - I think one of the principles that I stated at
the very beginning of this - of this - of this discussion,
the - we have to make sure that we have an organization
which de facto assures separation between the monetary
policy and supervision.  And this can be done delegating - fully delegating to
the supervisory board the tasks. So fortunately, the
commission proposals - proposal foresees that possibility
for the Governing Council to delegate all the supervisory
tasks to the supervisory board.  So the means - the - say the management, the -
internal organization means are there. And I - I think I
can - I mean, I believe it can be achieved.  STAFF: Thank you. Thank you for your attention.  DRAGHI: Thank you.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  