-- Euro Rises 6th Day Versus Yen as ECB Ready to Start Buying Bonds
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-04T21:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/euro-rises-for-sixth-day-versus-yen-before-ecb-volatility-wanes.html
The euro rose for a sixth day against
the yen, the longest run since March, as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the currency was irreversible and
that the bank’s decision to purchase bonds helped ease tensions.  The 17-nation currency gained the most in almost three
weeks versus the dollar after Draghi said the ECB was ready to
start buying government debt from nations such as  Spain  as soon
as the necessary conditions are met. The dollar remained lower
after minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed
policy makers saw manageable risks in a third round of U.S. bond
buying. A measure of  volatility  fell to the lowest level in
almost five years. U.S. stocks rose for a fourth day.  “Draghi’s moderately constructive comments today helped
risk-on sentiment,” Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. “Stocks are also up a little bit today.
The euro is firmer and moving up nicely.”  The euro advanced 0.9 percent to 102.17 yen at 5 p.m. in
New York after rising earlier to 102.21 yen, the strongest level
since Sept. 20.  Japan ’s currency depreciated past its 200-day
moving average against the 17-nation currency, 101.76 yen, for
the first time in more than a week.  The shared currency gained 0.9 percent to $1.3018. It
jumped as much as 1 percent, the biggest intraday increase since
Sept. 14. The yen was little changed at 78.48 per dollar after
rising 0.2 percent earlier to 78.30 per dollar and falling 0.3
percent to a two-week low of 78.72. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  ends a
two-day meeting tomorrow.  Low Volatility  Price swings in Group of Seven currencies declined,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index  of volatility. The
gauge touched 7.71 percent, the lowest level since October 2007.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.7 percent.  The euro remained higher as U.S. Labor Department data
showed applications for jobless benefits increased 4,000 to
367,000 in the week ended Sept. 29. A Bloomberg News survey
forecast 370,000 claims.  A government report tomorrow will show U.S. employers hired
115,000 workers in September, more than the prior month, while
the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, according
to Bloomberg survey projections. The  rate  has exceeded 8 percent
since February 2009.  Fed policy makers said they saw manageable risks in a third
round of bond-buying under quantitative easing they began last
month, according to minutes released today of the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s Sept. 12-13 gathering in  Washington . They
decided to purchase $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month until
the economic recovery is well under way.  ‘Make Adjustments’  “Most participants thought these risks could be managed
since the committee could make adjustments to its purchases, as
needed, in response to economic developments or to changes in
its assessment of their efficacy and costs,” the minutes said.  South Africa ’s rand fell versus all of its 16 most-traded
peers as foreign investors  sold  the nation’s bonds and stocks
after strikes spread in its mining and transport industries.  The currency slid 1 percent to 8.5206 per  U.S. dollar  and
touched 8.5466, its weakest level since July 25. The rand
dropped 1.9 percent to 11.0938 per euro and reached 11.1035, the
lowest since Nov. 30.  The Canadian dollar gained versus its U.S. peer after  Bank
of Canada  Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem reiterated policy
makers may withdraw monetary stimulus as the nation’s economy
recovers. The central bank has kept its key  interest rate  at a
record low 1 percent since September 2010 to support growth.  ‘Hawkish Comments’  “The very hawkish comments by the deputy governor have
helped as he reiterated that the Bank of Canada still prefers
higher rates,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened 0.7
percent to 98.04 cents per U.S. dollar.  The ECB is ready to undertake bond purchases under its plan
known as Outright Monetary Transactions “once all the
prerequisites are in place,” Draghi said at a press conference
in Ljubljana, Slovenia. At last month’s conference, Draghi
unveiled the program of unlimited debt buying to cap borrowing
costs for debt-ridden nations in the currency bloc.  The decision has helped lower “concerns about the
materialization of destructive scenarios” in the region’s
economy, he said, calling the shared currency “irreversible.”  The central bank left its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  ‘Declining Expectations’  “The euro up-move likely reflects declining expectations
of further rate cuts from the ECB in the near term,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London .  Spain sold a combined 3.99 billion euros ($5.19 billion) of
two-, three-and five-year notes today as investors debated
whether the nation will ask for an international bailout. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  this week denied he has any immediate
plans to do so.  The nation was told today by  Europe ’s economic overseers
that its 2013 plan to cut the deficit to 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product relies on excessively optimistic assumptions,
two people familiar with the issue said. The 2013 budget assumes
the economy will shrink 0.5 percent, less than the 1.3 percent
contraction predicted by 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Pound Gains  The pound strengthened versus the dollar after the  Bank of
England  left its asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds
($604 billion) at its monthly gathering and kept its main
interest rate at 0.5 percent. Sterling appreciated 0.7 percent
to $1.6191 and declined 0.2 percent to 80.40 pence per euro.  The yen fell versus most of its major peers before the Bank
of Japan announces its policy decision tomorrow. Japanese
reports over the past week have added to the case for the
central bank to expand stimulus to boost growth and achieve its
1 percent inflation goal.  Consumer prices  in August matched the
steepest decline in 16 months and the nation’s biggest
manufacturers grew more pessimistic last quarter.  The yen declined 2.1 percent in the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar dropped 2 percent, while
the euro appreciated 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  