-- Europe Urges Swift Safety Improvements at Nuclear Power Plants
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-04T14:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/europe-urges-swift-safety-improvements-at-nuclear-power-plants.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
called on governments to swiftly enact safety improvements
identified during checks of the bloc’s nuclear reactors that may
cost utilities as much as 25 billion euros ($32.5 billion).  “Member states and we should, together with the operators,
immediately ensure that contracts are awarded for the necessary
retrofitting in order to address the technical shortcomings to
ensure we can have safety standards at the highest possible
level,” EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  told
reporters today in Brussels.  The costs of safety improvements may range from 30 million
euros to 200 million euros per reactor unit, the commission
estimated in a report following checks of atomic  power plants  in
the EU’s 27 member states. The stress tests, conducted in
response to  Japan ’s nuclear accident last year caused by an
earthquake and tsunami, covered threats from natural disasters
as well as plane crashes and explosions close to atomic plants.  “Altogether, the safety situation in  Europe  is at a good,
satisfactory level,” Oettinger said. “There’s no nuclear power
plant that must be shut down immediately due to safety reasons.
However, nearly everywhere there’s a major potential for
improvement.”  Today’s report showed that 54 out of 145 checked reactors
didn’t apply current standards for calculating earthquake risk
and 62 reactors were below standards related to estimating
flooding risk. On-site seismic instruments to measure and alert
for possible earthquakes should be installed or improved in 121
reactors, it said.  Severe Accidents  Other “lessons from Fukushima” relate to storing
equipment to fight severe accidents, backup emergency control
rooms and installing containment filtered venting systems, the
commission said today.  Oettinger also said he was “convinced” that the EU should
impose regulation on nuclear insurance and liability,
introducing potential obligations that could make utilities
“recalculate” prices.  Environmental lobby Greenpeace, which has called on the EU
to phase out nuclear power in favor of renewable energy and
efficiency measures, said the tests revealed “hundreds of
problems” while dodging the threat from terrorism or off-site
emergency plans.  “EU governments must act fast by shutting down the oldest
and most risky plants and by ordering more thorough testing on
the remaining plants,” Greenpeace spokesperson Mark Breddy said
in an e-mailed statement.  Stress Tests  Eurelectric, the Brussels-based power industry association,
said the commission’s assessment of nuclear facilities does not
adequately reflect the results of the stress tests. Today’s
report “risks stoking disproportionate and unbalanced concerns
that could severely damage the prospects of a carbon-neutral
electricity sector by 2050,” the group said.  The commission recommendations will be communicated to EU
leaders at a summit on Oct. 18-19 in Brussels. The bloc’s
regulatory arm will report on the implementation of the
recommended measures in June 2014, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  