-- Europe Weighs More Sanctions as Iran’s Currency Plummets
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-10-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/europe-weighs-more-sanctions-as-iran-s-currency-plummets.html
The U.K.,  France  and  Germany  are
pressing for new sanctions to bring  Iran ’s economy to its knees
and curb its nuclear ambitions, according to several European
diplomats, as rioting over the country’s tumbling currency
suggests the existing sanctions are taking a toll.  In a confidential letter to the 27 EU member states,
portions of which were provided to  Bloomberg News , the foreign
ministers of  Europe ’s three largest economies criticized Iran
for its lack of openness over its nuclear program and called for
raising the cost to Iran’s leaders of refusing to abandon what
the U.S., Europe and  Israel  say is a covert nuclear weapons
program. Iran says its program is solely for civilian energy and
medical research.  “So far, Iran has not reacted positively to our
proposal,” the British, French and German ministers wrote in
their Sept. 20 letter, referring to a proposal for Iran to
abandon medium-enriched uranium in exchange for aviation and
energy incentives.  “On the contrary: Our concerns have once again
increased,” the letter says, referring to an Aug. 30 report by
the  United Nations ’  International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna
that found Iran had increased its stockpiles of enriched
uranium, which -- if diverted from safeguards and further
enriched -- could be used to produce a weapon.  Ahead of the next EU foreign ministers’ meeting Oct. 15 in
Luxembourg, European diplomats and finance officials are
discussing proposals to tighten the vise on Iran in the energy,
finance, trade and transportation sectors, according to four
European officials who all spoke on condition of anonymity
because of diplomatic protocol.  More Pressure  The U.K., France and Germany believe a diplomatic solution
is possible, the EU diplomats said, though they think more
pressure is needed to force Iran to cooperate. Along with the
U.S.,  Russia  and  China , the three European nations have engaged
in nuclear negotiations with Iran since April that so far
haven’t produced an agreement.  U.S. Undersecretary of the Treasury  David Cohen  is visiting
France, Germany,  Italy  and the U.K. this week to discuss
coordinating efforts to increase the pressure on the Iranian
government.  Among the proposals under discussion in European capitals
are measures to close the loopholes that have allowed Iran to
circumvent existing sanctions, according to the four EU
diplomats. Those would include limiting exceptions to the freeze
on Iranian central bank assets under European jurisdiction, a
move that would further complicate efforts by Iran to access its
hard currency reserves to stabilize the Iranian rial, the
diplomats said.  Other Proposals  Other proposals from the British, French and German
governments include working more closely with the maritime
industry to halt the reflagging of Iranian ships and tightening
bans on sales of potential dual-use technology that might have
nuclear or missile applications, the EU diplomats said.  Further financial penalties might include blocking more
Iranian central  bank transactions  with European banks and
halting so-called U-turn transactions for Iran that begin and
end with a non-Iranian bank, according to the EU officials. Such
measures would severely limit EU trade with Iran, proponents
say.  Although the EU imposed an Iranian oil embargo on July 1,
Europe continues to export billions of dollars of worth of goods
and services to Iran, said  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of
the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a  Washington  research
group that advocates tougher sanctions.  European Imports  According to figures compiled by FDD from EU government
sources, Germany exported 1.4 billion euros of goods to Iran
between January and July of this year, and Italy exported 550
million euros worth between January and May 2012, Dubowitz said.  One senior European diplomat who called the existing
sanctions unprecedented in their scale said the aim of new
measures would be to bring Iran’s economy to its knees in a way
that hurts the regime rather than the people.  Iran’s rial is already in a tailspin, dropping 18 percent
on Oct. 1, reaching a record low of 35,000 to the dollar on the
unofficial market, and losing more than half its value against
the dollar in street trading in the past two months.  Iran’s free-falling currency has turned meat into a luxury,
sparking overnight price surges and spurring shoppers to
stockpile goods, Tehran shopkeepers said in interviews. Riot
police yesterday fired tear gas and sealed off parts of downtown
Tehran after the currency’s plunge triggered street protests.  Rising Inflation  The inflation rate, which Iran’s Parliament Speaker  Ali Larijani  last week estimated at 29 percent, sent the price of
milk in Tehran up 9 percent yesterday.  The financial and oil sanctions now in place may be
triggering a balance of payments crisis that could cripple the
Iranian government’s ability to pay for essential imports,
according to European and U.S. officials who spoke on condition
of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  The plummeting Iranian currency is making imports
prohibitively expensive. Combined with insufficient foreign
exchange reserves that limit the euros and dollars available to
pay for imported goods and services, new “EU sanctions that
restrict Iran’s ability to import critical European goods and
services could combine to push Iran to economic collapse,”
Dubowitz said in an interview.  U.S. and European officials also credit the sanctions -- in
conjunction with poor economic management in Iran -- for
spurring capital flight from Iran and a crisis of confidence in
the currency.  Cartoon Bomb  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s speech at the
United Nations’ General Assembly last week, in which he
dramatized the threat from the Iranian nuclear program with a
cartoon of a nuclear bomb and underscored Israel’s readiness to
take preemptive military action, gives added impetus to the push
for additional sanctions, according to the European diplomats.  Netanyahu, who’s expressed skepticism about the efficacy of
U.S. and European sanctions, now seems to be more open to them.  An Israeli official said a foreign ministry analysis found
sanctions are hobbling Iran’s economy, even though they haven’t
prompted Iran to abandon its nuclear program. Israeli officials
think further sanctions need to be more targeted, according to
the foreign ministry official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  Netanyahu “really has no choice if the U.S. is dead-set
against” a military attack, Shmuel Sandler, a political
scientist at Bar Ilan University near  Tel Aviv , said in a
telephone interview. “For now, it looks like he’s going to have
to wait and see if the sanctions work.”  ‘Cripple Date’  Bijan Khajehpour, an Iranian economist and strategic
consultant now based in Vienna, said he disagrees “with those
who say the Iranian economy is collapsing or that there’s an
economic ‘cripple’ date.”  The Iranian economy, he said, is too big and too complex
for that, with ample domestic industry to replace foreign
imports. Iran has been under a variety of sanctions long enough
that its leaders have found illicit workarounds for most
obstacles, he said.  Sanctions, he said in an interview during a visit to
Washington yesterday, “are not achieving their goal” to
persuade Iran’s leaders to abandon their nuclear program.
Government and government-affiliated businesses are “actually
benefiting” from restrictions on legal trade and from the
currency crash, he said, by engaging in arbitrage and black-
market activities, hiding assets and not being accountable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  