-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Credit Trader Cornut Said to Plan Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-04T14:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/ex-deutsche-bank-credit-trader-cornut-said-to-plan-hedge-fund.html
Antoine Cornut, who led flow-credit
trading in the Americas and  Europe  for Deutsche Bank AG, plans
to start his own hedge fund, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Cornut, 37, will likely begin raising money next year for
his fund, which will focus on European credit, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because his plans are private.
Cornut applied to register his firm, Camares Capital LLP, in
August with the U.K.’s Companies House, according to a
regulatory filing.  Cornut resigned from Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank in July,
joining a growing group of traders who’ve left firms including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. as banks reduce risk
following the 2008 credit crunch. Lenders have responded to
tighter regulation by reducing their holdings of corporate  debt .  Askin Aziz, 38, is among Deutche Bank employees who plan to
join Cornut at Camares Capital, according to the Companies House
filing.  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , Europe’s biggest bank by assets, hired
Aziz in September 2010 as a high-yield credit analyst from
London-based hedge fund James Caird Asset Management LP,
according to a press release issued by the bank at the time.  Cornut declined to comment. Flow trading typically consists
of market-making transactions done on behalf of clients,
involving liquid corporate debt and derivatives.  Aziz didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  At least 10 credit traders have left Deutsche Bank since
the beginning of 2011 as the lender limited cash bonuses.  Other traders who have left banks for hedge funds include
Sutesh Sharma, who resigned from Citigroup Inc. in 2011 to found
Portman Square Capital LLP, and Pierre-Henri Flamand, who
stepped down from Goldman Sachs in 2010 to start Edoma Partners
LLP. They departed amid the U.S. Congress’ approval of the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act, which restricts banks with government-backed
customer deposits from using the firm’s money to wager on
markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  