-- Texas Farmers Urge Appeals Court to Block Keystone Pipeline
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-04T18:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/texas-farmers-urge-appeals-court-to-block-keystone-pipeline-1-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  should be barred
from building the Keystone XL pipeline to transport Canadian
tar-sands crude to Gulf Coast refineries, pipeline opponents
urged a Texas appeals court, citing a new state-court precedent.  Landowners opposing Keystone XL argued in a state appellate
court in Beaumont today that TransCanada doesn’t meet the
definition of a “common carrier” under a 2011 Texas Supreme
Court ruling and shouldn’t be allowed to use state eminent-
domain laws to obtain easements across their properties.  “The Texas Supreme Court ruling said the ownership of land
is connected to our very freedom,” Anthony Brocato, the
landowners’ lawyer, said at the hearing. “If someone, for their
private profit, comes to take what belongs to you, they have to
follow the letter of every law and show precisely and
specifically that they have the right.”  Pipeline opponents claim last year’s high-court decision
withholds condemnation powers from interstate pipelines that
transport out-of-state crude into Texas. Only intrastate
pipelines transporting hydrocarbons within state borders should
be allowed to use eminent domain, the landowners, known as
Rhinoceros Ventures Group Inc., have said in court filings.  Pipeline Hub  If the appeals court agrees with that interpretation,
Calgary-based TransCanada and other companies may lose
condemnation powers that were used to install about 44,000 miles
(70,800 kilometers) of interstate pipelines in Texas since 1917,
according to state regulatory commission records.  Tom Zabal, TransCanada’s lawyer, has argued that the high-
court ruling doesn’t apply to the Keystone XL, which will carry
some West Texas crude to coastal refineries via a pipeline hub
in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  “Will this pipeline carry Canadian crude? Ultimately, it
might,” Zabal told the judges today. “But first we’re
bringing oil that’s produced in Texas back into Texas.”  He said landowners who want to change eminent-domain laws
should lobby lawmakers in the state capital rather than litigate
condemnation cases one at a time.  “Appellants can go make their arguments in Austin to the
Legislature,” Zabal said in court filings. “It is not this
court’s job to take that drastic step of rewriting Texas’s
common-carrier eminent-domain statutes in that manner.”  Refining Industry  Zabal told the judges that a ruling in the landowners’
favor could endanger the Texas refining industry, which supports
thousands of jobs.  “If we cut off the arteries of these oil and gas pipelines
to the heart of the  Texas  refining industry, which is right here
in Jefferson County, they’re not going to have any feedstocks to
operate those refineries,” he said. “Are we going to shut them
down because we can’t bring in oil from outside of Texas? That’s
where their argument leads.”  Brocato replied that Texans voted in 2010 to amend the
state constitution to bolster private property rights and
specifically prevent eminent domain laws from being used just to
create jobs or boost the general economy. He said if pipelines
like the Keystone are allowed to “flood the market” with out-
of-state crude, regional oil prices might collapse and harm the
Texas mineral owners and producers that state pipeline
regulations were designed to protect.  Court Permission  In lawsuits all along the Keystone XL’s route through East
Texas, TransCanada has consistently won court permission to
start building the southernmost leg of its 2,151-mile pipeline
between western  Canada  and the U.S. refining industry complex on
the Texas coast. State law lets pipelines begin construction
while landowners protest the condemnations in court.  In addition to Rhinoceros, four other groups of Texas
landowners are also fighting TransCanada’s attempts to cross
their lands. Those challenges are in various stages of the
condemnation process.  Some of these landowners sued TransCanada after
negotiations broke down over the price the pipeline offered for
the easements. Others sued over concerns the pipeline would
contaminate delicate aquifers or restrict how farmers and
ranchers can use their own lands.  Four of the remaining Keystone condemnation cases,
including the Rhinoceros case, involve parcels in Jefferson
County, near Beaumont. The fifth involves a family farm in Lamar
County, in northeast Texas.  The case is Rhinoceros Ventures Group Inc. v. TransCanada
Keystone Pipeline LP, 09-12-00128, Court of Appeals, Ninth
District of Texas (Beaumont).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in state court in Beaumont, Texas, at
   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  