-- Exxon, BP Estimate Alaska LNG Export Project at $65 Billion
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-10-04T18:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/exxon-bp-estimate-alaska-lng-export-project-at-65-billion.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , ConocoPhillips,  BP
Plc (BP/)  and TransCanada Corp. said a project to liquefy and export
natural gas from Alaska will cost as much as $65 billion and
take more than 10 years to construct.  The venture includes an 800-mile (1,300-kilometer) pipeline
from the North Slope to Alaska’s southern coast as well as a
liquefaction plant and storage tanks, the companies said in an
Oct. 1  letter  received by Alaskan Governor Sean Parnell’s office
yesterday. The governor had asked the companies to “harden the
numbers” on the project by the end of September, Parnell said
in a statement.  As oil output from the North Slope has dropped, energy
companies and Alaska’s government are  seeking ways  to sell the
area’s gas, which may generate as much as $20 billion in annual
revenue as demand from Asia increases. The North Slope may hold
35 trillion cubic feet of reserves and more than 200 trillion
cubic feet of undiscovered, technically recoverable gas, making
it one of the largest sources in the world, according to the
governor.  “This will be a game-changer for global LNG trade because
it will be one of the largest projects ever,” Dan Sullivan,
Alaska’s natural resources commissioner, said today in a
telephone interview. Plans call for exports of 3.5 billion cubic
feet of natural gas per day, he said. “Knowing this project has
to compete globally, we’ll be working with these companies to
make this the most cost-competitive project there is.”  ‘Mega-Project’  The pipeline and liquefaction facility would be “a mega-
project of unprecedented scale and challenge,” executives of
 Exxon Mobil ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , BP and TransCanada said in the
letter to Parnell. “The opportunity is challenged by its cost,
scale, long project lead times and reliance upon independent oil
and gas operations with declining production.”  BP and ConocoPhillips joined with TransCanada and Exxon
after deciding last year to halt a competing $35 billion
pipeline proposal known as Denali. The companies are cooperating
with a smaller state-backed pipeline project which would deliver
North Slope gas to Alaska customers.  The bigger project, which will also include a plant to
remove carbon dioxide from the gas and marine facilities, would
require 1.7 million metric tons of steel and as many as 15,000
people at peak construction, the companies said. The venture
would compete with global supplies of liquefied natural gas, or
LNG, coming into the market in the next 20 years from  Australia ,
East Africa, the U.S. Gulf Coast and  Canada .  TransCanada’s Role  TransCanada (TRP)  will build the North Slope pipeline to carry
gas to the export terminals.  “I’m encouraged that the companies have made significant
progress in advancing a project and an associated schedule,”
Parnell said in the statement. “They have fully shifted their
efforts to an Alaska LNG project.”  The companies have yet to make a final decision on whether
to proceed with the project. Design, engineering and
construction may take 10-and-a-half years, barring permitting
and financing delays, the companies said.  Alaska agreed to incentives should the final decision to
build the project be completed in 2016, Sullivan said in today’s
interview. Based on the timeline submitted yesterday, that would
peg first shipments in 2021 or 2022, he said.  Reimbursing TransCanada  The state has agreed to reimburse TransCanada $500 million
for development costs, he said. Other incentives might include
expedited permitting, tax breaks or state-backed low-interest
financing, Sullivan added.  “This is good progress,” Sullivan said. “Alaska is fully
motivated to keep the pedal to the metal on it.”  The companies made clear in their letter that they want
signed LNG sales and shipping agreements before making a final
decision to proceed with the project, Sullivan said. The
arrangement would be similar to other global LNG works.  The initial cost estimate is $45 billion to $65 billion.
Estimated cost by  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  for the Gorgon liquefied natural
gas project off Australia, scheduled for first shipments in
2014, is $45 billion. Deutsche Bank AG estimated Sept. 14 Gorgon
may cost A$50 billion ($51.3 billion).  Plans to export gas from the North Slope come as companies
are proposing to build LNG facilities on Canada’s West Coast to
send the fuel to Asia.  Apache Corp. (APA) ’s Kitimat LNG project, which
has  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  as partners, is
estimated to cost $15 billion for the plant, pipeline and wells.  Increased production from shale-gas resources in the U.S.
has also led to proposals to export LNG from facilities on the
Gulf Coast.  Alaska, the only U.S. state operating an LNG export plant,
is seeking to parlay its more than 40-year history of sending
fuel to Asia from ConocoPhillips’s terminal near Kenai into an
advantage for expanding shipments.  The state’s coast provides one of the closest routes to
Asian markets, potentially giving it lower shipping costs than
competing projects from western Canada,  Robert Brooks , founder
of RBAC Inc., an energy data company, said in an interview
before yesterday’s announcement.  Asian Demand  Asian demand will lead a 17 percent increase in global gas
demand by 2017 from 2011, the  International Energy Agency 
forecast in June. China’s annual gas consumption will more than
double to 273 billion cubic meters in the period, the IEA said.
Chinese gas consumption in 2017 would equal about 28 percent of
the reserves identified on Alaska’s North Slope.  By 2025, the four largest consumers of LNG will be  Japan ,
China, India and South Korea, according to a presentation by  BG
Group Plc. (BG/)  In 2011, the top four countries were Japan,  South
Korea , the U.K. and  Spain , BG said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  