-- FDIC Insurance End May Spark Money-Market Turbulence, Pimco Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-04T16:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/fdic-insurance-end-may-spark-money-market-turbulence-pimco-says.html
A potential flood of cash into the
U.S. money markets if unlimited Federal  Deposit Insurance  Corp.
coverage is allowed to lapse in December  is creating investor 
concern and may lower short-term  interest rates , according
Pacific Investment Management Co.  An emergency 2008 government provision providing unlimited
insurance on certain bank accounts during the U.S. financial
crisis to help prevent sudden withdrawals will expire at the end
of the year unless Congress extends it. There is about $1.4
trillion sitting in banks’ non-interest-bearing transactions
accounts holding more than $250,000, the previous insurance
ceiling, which would become uninsured in January if Congress
doesn’t act, FDIC  data  show.  “Dec. 31 could likely be a significant pivot point and
potential time for turbulence in the short-term markets,”
Jerome Schneider, head of the short-term strategies and money
markets desk at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co. wrote in a note posted on its website
today. Money-market mutual funds “could be overwhelmed by the
approximately $1.4 trillion in previously FDIC-insured deposits
looking for a new home.”  Money Flows  The potential inflows related to the lapse of the FDIC
unlimited insurance, typical year-end seasonal factors, and a
declining supply of securities eligible for money-market funds
to invest “could make near-term liquidity even more expensive
than it already is,” wrote Schneider, referring to already
close to zero rates on many money-market instruments.  The flow of cash into U.S. money markets could heighten the
$2.3 trillion money-fund industries’ struggles for positive
returns and also hurt savers who have seen diminished payouts
from fixed-income investments since the Federal Reserve cut is
benchmark overnight rate to almost zero percent in 2008.  The seven-day compound yield of the average taxable money-
market fund was  0.03 percent  as of Oct. 2, according to
IMoneyNet, a research firm based in Westborough,  Massachusetts ,
that tracks money funds.  The FDIC’s expanded deposit insurance is part of the
Transaction Account Guarantee Program, known as TAG. Business
and trade groups are appealing to Congress for a temporary
extension of the unlimited insurance coverage.  “While there is a possibility that the deadline will be
extended” before year-end, “we believe given Congressional
approval required, such a compromise is unlikely,” Schneider
wrote in the note. “First-movers willing to move quickly and
look beyond the traditional playbook of money-market funds will
likely gain the advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  