-- Florida May Purge Voter Rolls of Noncitizens, Judge Says
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/florida-may-keep-purging-voter-rolls-of-noncitizens-judge-says.html
Florida  election officials were
allowed by a federal judge to continue purging 198 people that
the state has determined aren’t U.S. citizens from voter
registration rolls.  U.S. District Judge William J. Zloch in  Fort Lauderdale 
ruled yesterday in a lawsuit filed in June by a labor union, two
voters and four voter-protection groups. The plaintiffs claimed
the state violated a federal law prohibiting states from purging
rolls within 90 days of a federal election.  “The court finds no reason to conclude that the 90-day
provision applies to anything other than removals of registrants
based on a change in residence,” Zloch said his 24-page ruling.  Voter access in the state has been the source of several
lawsuits as Florida is a so-called swing state that both
presidential campaigns believe they can win. Florida, with 29
electoral votes, combines with Pennsylvania and  Ohio  to make up
almost 25 percent of the 270 needed to secure the presidency. In
2000, the presidential race between Republican  George W. Bush 
and Democrat  Al Gore  was decided by 537 votes out of almost 6
million cast in Florida.  There are at least 15 cases pending nationwide over voter
registration and identification and limits on early voting. Much
of the litigation stems from revisions of election
procedures Republican lawmakers passed after President  Barack Obama ’s election in 2008. Proponents argue the laws are needed
to prevent fraud and help elections run smoothly. Democrats and
voter advocacy groups claim the measures are aimed at
disenfranchising probable Democratic voters in a veiled effort
to limit turnout for Obama.  Florida List  Florida initially instructed the elections supervisors in
all 67 counties to verify that 2,600 people on the voting rolls
were citizens. The list the state gave the supervisors was
compiled from drivers’ license records and included many people
who had become citizens after they got their licenses. The two
individual voters who sued were among the citizens on the
earlier, longer list.  “This court’s decision ignores the law that Congress wrote
based on a policy view of what the court believed Congress
should have written,” said Marc Goldman, an attorney for the
plaintiffs. Goldman said there are other co-counsel in the case
and a decision hasn’t been made as to whether to seek an
emergency appeal.  In August, the state agreed to check the voting rolls
against a U.S. Department of Homeland Security database that is
more up to date.  Ineligible Voters  “We’re very pleased another federal court has ruled that
Florida’s efforts to remove non-citizens from the voter rolls
are lawful and in the best interest of Florida voters,” Ken Detzner, Florida’s secretary of state, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Ensuring ineligible voters can’t cast a ballot is a
fundamental aspect of conducting fair elections.”  At an Oct. 1 hearing, Goldman told Zloch that the risk of
eligible voters being purged in the program was “too high.”  Dale Richard Ewart, vice president of a union representing
25,000 Florida health-care workers, said three of its members
wrongly appeared on the first purge list. He testified Oct. 1
that the union feared the purge would discourage citizens from
voting.  Florida argued that noncitizens don’t have any
constitutional  voting rights .  The parties in a similar lawsuit filed by the U.S. Justice
Department in Tallahassee last month asked to put that case on
hold until after the Nov. 6 general election. The judge in that
case rejected a request for a preliminary injunction on June 28
because the state had abandoned the program.  The case is Arcia v. Secretary of State, 12-cv-22282, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, at
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  