-- Food Prices Jump to Six-Month High as Dairy Costs Rise
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-04T10:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/food-prices-jump-to-six-month-high-as-dairy-costs-rise.html
World food prices  rose in September
to the highest in six months as dairy and meat producers passed
on higher feed costs to consumers, the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization said.  An index of 55 food items tracked by the FAO rose to 215.8
points from a restated 212.8 points in August, the Rome-based
agency reported on its website today. Dairy costs jumped the
most in more than two years.  Livestock breeders and dairy farmers are passing on the
higher cost of feed, after grain prices jumped in June and July,
according to Abdolreza Abbassian, an economist at the FAO in the
Italian capital. Higher prices don’t mean a food crisis is
imminent, he said today by phone.  “Despite a very difficult market, the fundamentals that
suggest a food crisis are just not there,” Abbassian said.
“Market sentiment is now accepting high prices more as a rule
than as an exception.”  The FAO dairy-price index jumped 6.9 percent to 187.7
points from 175.6 in August, the biggest advance since April
2010, the data showed. The index for meat prices rose 2.1
percent to 175, climbing for a second month.  The world cereal-price index rose to 262.6 points from
259.9 points the previous month to reach the highest level since
April last year. The index for grain prices in July surged 17
percent, the biggest jump since February 2008.  “We expected this for both meat and dairy, you have a lag
with this big increase in input cost from the grain sector,”
Abbassian said. “There will be a limit to how much it goes up.
By how much you can raise prices without consumers cutting
consumption remains an issue.”  Milk Futures  U.S. Class III milk futures gained 5.6 percent in  Chicago 
last month after climbing 7.9 percent in August, rising for a
fifth month. They’re up 23 percent since the start of the year.  The FAO had no reason to expect a food crisis, Director-
General Jose Graziano da Silva said last month, after food
prices leveled off following a 6.2 percent jump in July, the
biggest gain since November 2009. The food index last month was
little changed from the start of the year, and has dropped from
a record 237.9 points in February 2011.  High food costs last year contributed to civil unrest
across the  Middle East  and North Africa, toppling governments in
Tunisia and  Egypt . The U.S. State Department estimates that
surging food prices triggered more than 60 riots worldwide from
2007 to 2009.  “Obviously costs are going up, and for some of the poorer
countries this is always a problem,” Abbassian said. “Domestic
prices have not gone up anywhere as fast as in international
markets.”  Grain Production  The FAO forecast world grain production will fall to 2.29
billion metric tons this year from 2.35 billion tons in 2011,
cutting its expectation by 8.8 million tons from a month ago on
lower output of coarse grains, the agency wrote in a separate
statement today.  “The cereal situation seems to have become more
predictable than it was over the summer period, so hopefully
that means less instability in cereals in coming weeks,”
Abbassian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  