-- Ford Takes on Toyota Prius in Ad Campaign for C-Max
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-10-04T20:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/ford-takes-on-toyota-prius-in-ad-campaign-for-c-max-hybrid-wagon.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , introducing its first
hybrid-only model, is targeting  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s market-
leading Prius in a series of advertisements starting today.  The C-Max wagon, a vehicle Ford brought from  Europe  and
equipped with a gasoline-electric propulsion system, arrived in
showrooms last month. The model will be promoted in an animated
ad campaign debuting on  CNN ’s TV network that features line
drawings of a character driving a C-Max past a rendering of a
Prius V wagon as an announcer extols the Ford over the Toyota.  The C-Max is among six new hybrids and electric cars
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford is fielding this year and next in
an effort to advance in a market dominated by Toyota. The Prius
line of four models accounted for 51 percent of U.S. hybrid
sales this year through August, while Ford had 4 percent,
according to researcher LMC Automotive.  “The challenge is that the Prius has such a strong brand
in the hybrid space,” Michael Omotoso, senior manager of global
powertrain research at LMC Automotive in Troy,  Michigan , said in
an interview. “The C-Max is new so it faces a challenge in
consumer awareness and in convincing people interested in a
Toyota to consider a Ford instead.”  Ford is using the animation to draw attention to the C-Max
ads, Jim Farley, the company’s global marketing chief and a
former Toyota executive, said in an interview.  “When you’re a challenger brand like we are, you have to
break through with your message to get noticed,” Farley said.
“Two-D animation is not something you’re used to seeing. It’s
to get people’s attention to say, ‘There’s something new.’”  Higher Mileage  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally has made fuel economy
a cornerstone of his turnaround plan. The C-Max is rated at 47
miles (76 kilometers) per gallon both in the city and on the
highway, Ford said in a statement today. That exceeds the 44 mpg
city and 40 mpg highway for the Prius V wagon, though the C-Max
trails the original Prius car, which is rated at 51 mpg in the
city and 48 mpg on the highway.  Ford has also priced the C-Max to start at $25,995. That’s
below the Prius V’s base price of $27,345, according to
researcher Edmunds.com. Ford also said the C-Max can generate
188 horsepower, more than the Prius V’s 134 horsepower.  As an animated C-Max zips by a drawing of a Prius V in the
ads, an announcer says: “C-Max has lots more horsepower than
Prius V, a hybrid that C-Max also bests in mpg.”  Ford declined to say how much it is spending on the ad
campaign. Wes Sherwood, a spokesman, described it as “a major
launch” that “will extend over a longer period of time to help
establish the new name.”  Ford’s Strategy  Ford, which had 9.5 percent of the U.S. hybrid market last
year, expects to recover some of the share it lost with the C-
Max and Fusion hybrids coming this year, said  Matt VanDyke ,
director of U.S. marketing for the automaker.  “With the C-Max, you’ll see our share and volume
increasing in the hybrid market,” VanDyke told reporters today
in Dearborn. “We absolutely expect that to continue next
year.”  Ford will introduce a plug-in hybrid version of the C-Max
later this year and a plug-in Fusion early next year, VanDyke
said. Ford doesn’t have a specific share target, he said.  The automaker took a light-hearted approach to taking on
the Prius in its ads to avoid offending loyal owners of the
Toyota model, said  Toby Barlow , chief creative officer of  Team
Detroit , Ford’s ad agency, which is owned by  WPP Plc. (WPP)   “You don’t want to walk into a party and walk up to the
most popular guy and say, ‘You’re a jerk,’ even if he is,”
Barlow said in an interview. “You want to be as charming as
possible so that you don’t put people off before they hear you
out.”  Multiple Hybrids  By targeting the Prius V, Ford avoids the “800-pound
gorilla” that the original Prius car has become, said Omotoso,
the LMC Automotive manager.  “The Prius V is only going to sell 10,000 to 15,000 units
a year, versus the more than 100,000 the regular Prius does,”
he said. “So if Ford sells 20,000 to 25,000 units of the C-Max,
they’ll be happy.”  Toyota sold 32,218 of the Prius V through September period,
the company said in an e-mail.  Ford sold about 27,000 hybrids last year and had only sold
14,000 this year through August, Omotoso said. Ford’s hybrid
sales have fallen this year as Toyota and Honda Motor Co. have
restocked their inventory after losing production because of
 Japan ’s 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Ford also lost hybrid sales
from dropping its Escape hybrid earlier this year, Omotoso said.  “It will be tough for a domestic automaker to have the
same level of recognition” as the Prius, Omotoso said. “But
Ford is spreading their risk over several hybrid models. Even if
none of them are particularly successful, Ford won’t lose its
shirt.”  Ford gained 1.7 percent to $10.11 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  