-- Foreign Funds Boost Korean Bond, Stock Holdings in September
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/foreign-funds-boost-korean-bond-stock-holdings-in-september.html
Foreign funds increased holdings of
South Korean local-currency bonds by the most in six months in
September, lured by credit-rating upgrades, according to data
from the financial regulator.  The value of debt held by offshore investors rose by 1.5
trillion won ($1.3 billion) to 88.3 trillion won, the  Financial
Supervisory Service  said in an e-mailed statement today. Global
funds bought 3.1 trillion won more local equities than they sold
last month, according to the statement, following record net
buying of 6.6 trillion won in August.  Standard & Poor’s  raised South  Korea ’s ranking to its
fifth-highest investment grade of A+ on Sept. 14, following
upgrades by Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings in the
previous three weeks. The prospect of lower borrowing costs also
attracted inflows, with eight of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecasting the  Bank of Korea  will cut its benchmark
 rate  to 2.75 percent from 3 percent on Oct. 11.  French funds were the biggest net investors in won-
denominated debt, increasing their holdings by 643 billion won.
Investors from the U.S. were the second-largest, adding 296
billion won, followed by those from  Norway . Thai funds were the
top sellers, followed by the U.K. and  Malaysia , according to the
financial watchdog.  Foreign ownership of local shares rose to 406 trillion won
at the end of last month, according to the statement. That’s
equivalent to 31.8 percent of shares listed on the Korean stock
exchange. Funds based in the U.K. were the top buyers, with net
purchases amounting to 1.2 trillion won, followed by  France  and
the U.S., the statement showed. Investors from the Netherlands
were the biggest sellers, ahead of those in Canada and Kuwait.  The  yield  on the government’s benchmark three-year bonds
climbed three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, in
September to 2.79 percent, after declining in each of the
previous five months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi  index  of stocks rallied 4.8 percent, the most since
January. The won appreciated 2.1 percent to 1,111.38 per dollar,
the biggest gain in four months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  -- Editors: Andrew Janes, Amit Prakash  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  