-- Former Oppenheimer Broker Likely Fabricated Investor
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-04T22:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/former-oppenheimer-broker-likely-fabricated-investor.html
Paul Abrams, a purported investor
whose sudden death helped scuttle the $12 million Broadway
musical “ Rebecca ,” seems to have been invented by former
Oppenheimer & Co. broker Mark Christopher Hotton, according to a
lawyer for the show’s producer.  “Based on everything I know and who Mark Hotton is, it
appears Paul Abrams is a fiction,” said  Ron Russo , a lawyer and
former federal prosecutor who represents the lead producer of
“Rebecca.”  Unlike Abrams, Hotton left traces of his existence.  He filed for bankruptcy protection last year in federal
court on New York’s Long Island and has a 42-page disciplinary
 record  from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Reached on his mobile phone today, Hotton asked a reporter
to call him back and hung up. He didn’t return subsequent
messages left on his voicemail. Stephen Wexler, a lawyer for
Hotton, declined to comment yesterday and didn’t return a call
today.  Hotton worked at Oppenheimer in Jericho, New York, from
November 2005 to February 2009, according to the Finra report.
In March 2010, a customer accused him of doing excessive,
unsuitable and unauthorized trading, according to the report.
The allegation was settled for $113,500, with Oppenheimer and
Hotton splitting the penalty, according to the report.  Civil Litigation  In December 2009, about 10 months after he left,
allegations that he misrepresented the value and safety of
investments were settled for $2.25 million, according to the
Finra report. Hotton was responsible for $225,000, the firm the
rest, according to the report. In both cases, Hotton denied
wrongdoing. Brian Maddox, an Oppenheimer spokesman, didn’t
return a call and e-mail today seeking comment.  The disciplinary record on Finra’s website includes
references to 11 customer disputes as well as civil litigation
and his February 2011 bankruptcy filing. The collapse of
“Rebecca” and Hotton are the subject of two unrelated federal
fraud probes, the New York Times reported, citing unnamed
sources.  Peter Donald, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York, declined to comment on the existence
of a probe.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Financial ‘Guy’  Russo said his client, Ben Sprecher, the lead producer of
“Rebecca” with Louise Forlenza, met Hotton through an
intermediary. Hotton claimed to be bringing in investors for the
show, Russo said.  “He appeared to be a legitimate financial guy,” Russo
said of Hotten. “If you meet a guy from Oppenheimer and he’s a
stock broker, you think he’s legitimate.”  Russo said he didn’t know why Hotton would have fabricated
Abrams. His supposed death from malaria left the producers
lurching into the arms of another investor who also dropped out
after receiving what Sprecher had previously described as a
“vicious” e-mail. The e-mail said Abrams was made-up months
ago to defraud other investors “while Mr. Sprecher continued to
try and raise money.”  The musical, based on Daphne du Maurier’s murder mystery,
was to have opened in November with direction by Michael Blakemore and Francesca Zambello.  Sprecher declined in a telephone interview to discuss
anything except the musical itself, which he said he remains
determined to stage in New York.  “The show is great,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net  