-- French Economy Stagnates as State Spending Prevents Recession
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-10-04T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/french-economy-stagnates-as-state-spending-prevents-recession.html
The French economy will fail to grow
in the second half,  extending stagnation  to five quarters,
national statistics office Insee predicted yesterday.  Gross domestic product will be unchanged in the third and
fourth quarters, with corporate investment, household spending
and foreign trade all broadly flat,  Insee  said in a report.
Government spending is preventing the nation from falling into
recession.  The report, entitled “At a Standstill,” underlines the
challenge to President  Francois Hollande  as he struggles both to
contain the  budget deficit  and improve competitiveness in
 Europe ’s second-largest economy. After two more quarters in
which GDP has stalled,  France  will have posted five with no
growth following two with expansions of 0.2 percent or less.  “The business climate remains morose, both in industry and
services,” Insee economist  Jean-Francois Ouvrard  told
journalists in Paris. “Investment has been losing momentum
since last year and will drop off toward the end of the year.”  Under such a scenario, the French economy will post an
annual gain of 0.2 percent in all of 2012, less than the 0.3
percent predicted by the government.  In order to achieve Hollande’s 2013 growth forecast of 0.8
percent, growth will have to be about 0.3 percent in each of the
four quarters next year, a rate of expansion not achieved since
the first quarter of 2011.  The principal support for the economy in the final quarters
of this year will be  government spending , according to Insee
forecasts. State expenditure will add 0.3 percentage points to
GDP in both quarters as the nation’s welfare system compensates
for rising joblessness.  Hollande has promised to hold spending growth over the next
five years to 0.7 percent annually, less than over the previous
decade. “Government spending continues to increase, though less
quickly than in the past,” Insee’s economist  Cedric Audenis 
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  