-- French Nuclear Reliance to Drop Without Reactor Halts, EDF Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-04T13:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/french-nuclear-reliance-to-drop-without-reactor-halts-edf-says.html
Forecasts for rising power use will
curb  Electricite de France’s  ability to satisfy domestic demand
even without the closure of more nuclear reactors, Chief
Executive Officer Henri Proglio said.  That would see the country’s reliance on nuclear power
dropping to 50 percent of power production by about 2025 from
more than 75 percent now, he said. That would meet President
Francois Hollande’s campaign pledge to reduce France’s
dependence on nuclear generation.  Progio’s comments come ahead of a national debate on energy
which the government has said will lay the groundwork for
legislation that could determine EDF’s spending plans on its
reactors for decades. Hollande’s promise to cut dependence on
nuclear energy stemmed from an electoral pact with the Greens
party and marked a departure from previous backing of atomic
power from the main Socialist and conservative parties in
 France .  “We won’t have sufficient energy production to satisfy
demand,” Proglio said today on RTL radio. “We will have to
find the means to satisfy demand.”  Projections for rising power demand by 2025 are based on a
combination of a jump in France’s population by 6 million,
economic growth and consumer demand fed by increasing use of
electronic devices and electricity-powered modes of transport,
the CEO said.  Electric Cars  French power demand fell 6.8 percent last year to 478.2
terawatt hours while nuclear output of 421.1 terawatt hours
provided 78 percent of France’s total power production,
according to grid operator RTE data. The country’s power
generator lobby UFE has forecast demand could rise to 555 to 625
terawatt-hours by 2030, depending on the level of energy savings
and economic growth. The increase will be driven partly by
demand from electric cars and fast trains.  Hollande last month announced the permanent halt of EDF’s
oldest plant at Fessenheim in eastern France by the end of 2016
as part of his election manifesto. The two 900-megawatt
reactors, which began operations in 1977, came under scrutiny
following last year’s Fukushima disaster in  Japan  as being not
strong enough to withstand earthquakes and flooding. The
regulator has asked EDF to bolster defenses by the middle of
next year.  EDF’s new 1,650-megawatt EPR being built in Flamanville in
Normandy is scheduled to begin commercial power production in
2016, the same year Fessenheim will close.  New Means  The Greens’ electoral pact with the Socialist Party, which
was never published, was for the shutting down of 24 of France’s
58 nuclear reactors by 2025. During the campaign Hollande
distanced himself from the policy, pledging closure of
Fessenheim and a lowering of nuclear reliance instead.  Proglio’s comments today indicate that the utility’s
existing reactors may be spared as the government formulates
policy.  “We could do everything,” he said today. “We could keep
existing production for the most part, which is what the
government is planning, and add new means.”  Proglio’s position at the helm of the utility was made
uncertain with the May election of Hollande. The president’s
campaign communications chief, Manuel Valls, who is now interior
minister, in February questioned Proglio’s support of incumbent
Nicolas Sarkozy and said his attitude during the campaign had
been “totally abnormal.” France holds 84 percent of EDF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  