-- Gasoline Surges as Refinery Shutdowns Reduce U.S. Supply
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-04T20:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/gasoline-surges-as-refinery-shutdowns-reduce-u-s-supply.html
Gasoline surged as refinery and
pipeline shutdowns increased concern that supplies aren’t
adequate to meet demand.  Futures rose 5.1 percent as Valero Energy Corp. halted spot
sales in  California , citing tight supplies.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
reduced output at its Baytown, Texas, plant, the largest in the
U.S., after a fire. Colonial Pipeline Co., operator of the
largest conduit between U.S. Gulf Coast oil refiners and East
Coast markets, said today it shut two fuel lines after a leak.  “There’s no supply and it’s obvious, especially in
California,” said  Andrew Lebow , senior vice president for
energy at Jefferies Bache LLC in New York. “If something else
goes wrong, we’ll be in an even more precarious position.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 14.34 cents, or 5.1
percent, to settle at $2.9429 a gallon on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. It was the first increase this week.  Stockpiles on the East Coast, which includes New York
Harbor, the delivery point for futures contracts, fell 1.4
percent to the lowest since October 2008 last week, Energy
Department data show.  California-blend gasoline inventories held by refiners in
that state last week were 9.1 percent below a year earlier,
state data show.  Costco Wholesale Corp.’s warehouse store in Simi Valley, 40
miles (64 kilometers) northwest of Los Angeles, ran out of
regular gasoline yesterday and was selling premium fuel at the
price of regular, Jeff Cole, Costco’s vice president of
gasoline, said in an interview. The company hasn’t been able to
find enough unbranded summer-grade gasoline to keep its stations
supplied, he said.  Exxon Baytown  In  Texas , Exxon shut a diesel hydrotreater after
yesterday’s fire at its Baytown refinery. Colonial said today it
shut two fuel lines between Atlanta and Nashville,  Tennessee ,
after a leak. November gasoline’s premium to December widened
2.71 cents to 14.45 cents a gallon.  “Both events served to remind traders how fragile the
balance is for refined products,” Lebow said.  Futures also gained after European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said the bank is ready to buy government bonds and
European policy makers held the  benchmark rate  at a historic low
of 0.75 percent. Draghi, speaking today at a press conference in
Ljubljana, Slovenia, also said the euro is “irreversible.”  “While there’s still ongoing concerns about what’s going
on in  Europe , Draghi gave the market a little bit of a boost
today,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price Futures
Group in  Chicago .  Euro Rises  Draghi’s remarks boosted the euro and it advanced 0.8
percent against the dollar at 3:35 p.m. New York time. A weaker
dollar increases the investment appeal of commodities. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials jumped 2.5
percent.  November-delivery heating oil advanced 12.2 cents, or 4
percent, to $3.1884 a gallon, the highest settlement for the
front-month contract since Sept. 14.  “With that diesel hydrotreater down, heating oil is more
at risk,” Flynn said.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.2
cent to $3.784 a gallon yesterday, AAA data show. It was the
second straight increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  