-- Spanish Bonds Fall Second Day as Nation Resists Seeking Bailout
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-10-04T16:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/german-bunds-little-changed-before-ecb-rate-decision-spain-sale.html
Spain’s  government bonds  fell for a
second day as the nation resists seeking a bailout and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the country still faces
significant challenges.  Spanish securities declined after the country sold 3.99
billion euros ($5.17 billion) of two-, three- and five-year
notes, while holding back from seeking financial aid that would
trigger ECB purchases of its debt. German two-year notes fell
after Draghi said policy makers didn’t discuss an  interest-rate 
cut at their policy meeting today, where they kept the
refinancing rate at a record-low 0.75 percent. Top-rated Finnish
bonds also slipped as the ECB chief said the euro is
“irreversible.”  “The market wants to see a request for aid and this is
pressuring Spanish bonds,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The auction went
quite well in terms of the demand because the bonds were sold in
the area where the ECB may buy, if  Spain  asks for help.”  Spanish  two-year yields  climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage points, to 3.29 percent at 4:25 p.m. London time. The
4.75 percent security due July 2014 fell 0.115, or 1.15 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.515. The 10-year yield rose
nine basis points to 5.90 percent.  Spain sold 2015 notes at an average yield of 3.956 percent,
up from 3.845 percent at the previous sale on Sept. 20. The
country auctioned securities due in October 2014 at a yield of
3.282 percent and July 2017 debt at 4.766 percent. Investors bid
for 1.98 times the number of three-year notes allotted, up from
1.56 times last month.  Optimistic Assumptions  Spain was told by  Europe ’s economic overseers that its 2013
plan to cut the deficit to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
relies on excessively optimistic assumptions, two people
familiar with the issue said.  Olli Rehn, the European commissioner in charge of policing
budget rules, delivered the preliminary assessment to Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos at a meeting in  Madrid  on Oct.
1, said the people, who declined to be named because the talks
weren’t public.  The 10-year  bund yielded  1.44 percent, erasing a five-basis
point gain. It touched 1.42 percent on Sept. 28, the lowest
level since Sept. 5. The two-year note yield rose one basis
point to 0.04 percent.  The ECB is ready to undertake bond purchases “once all the
prerequisites are in place,” Draghi said today at a press
conference in Ljubljana, Slovenia. De Guindos has said that
officials are still considering whether they need European Union
aid. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said last week that aid
shouldn’t hinge on more conditions than leaders already signed
up to.  ‘Weak’ Growth  The region’s economic growth “is expected to remain weak,
with ongoing tensions in some euro-area financial markets and
high uncertainty still weighing on confidence and sentiment,”
Draghi said. Still, policy makers didn’t discuss cutting rates.  German bunds fell after the ECB’s last meeting on Sept. 6
as Draghi unveiled the Outright Monetary Transactions program.
The ECB would act if countries applied for aid to the euro
region’s bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, which
would then purchase government bonds in the primary market.  “The euro-zone situation is far from resolved,”  John Wraith , a London-based fixed-income strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s
Countdown with  Mark Barton . “We think it will get worse before
it gets better again, with the market forcing Spain to take a
bailout.”  Haven Support  The safest government assets, including German bunds, will
remain supported, he predicted. Finnish 10-year yields rose one
basis point to 1.75 percent.  Analysts have raised their year-end bund-yield forecasts by
15 basis points since August. The 10-year bund yield will end
the year at 1.65 percent, according to the Bloomberg weighted
average of 34 analyst estimates, up from a prediction of 1.5
percent in August.  Volatility on Irish bonds was the highest in euro-region
markets today, followed by Portuguese securities, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps.  German bonds have returned 3.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spain’s
securities gained 1.4 percent and  France ’s rose 7.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  