-- Germany Said to Back Adding Non-Euro States to Bank Plan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/germany-said-to-support-enticing-non-euro-states-into-bank-plan.html
Germany  is urging the European Union
to improve proposals for a euro-area bank supervisor so that
countries outside the currency bloc might be enticed to join,
said two European officials familiar with the matter.  The EU is seeking input from the European Commission and
the European Central Bank on ways to give non-euro nations a
bigger voice on supervision matters at the ECB, which will
provide oversight under the plan, according to the officials who
are tracking the deliberations. The EU also has asked its
lawyers for ways to give non-euro states more say at the London-
based European Banking Authority, said the people who asked not
to be named because the discussions are private.  Germany favors ECB-based ways to give a voice to non-euro
nations that take part in the banking union, rather than
referring all of their concerns to the EBA or some other avenue,
one of the people said. EU officials have asked for suggested
policy options as soon as workable, the people said.  The EBA is a London-based agency that settles disputes
among European regulators.  EU leaders called for the single supervisor in June as a
condition for allowing euro-area banks direct access to the 500
billion-euro ($650 billion) permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
led criticism that the project may be moving too quickly,
prompting reassurances from EU Financial Services Commissioner
Michel Barnier that Germany was not resisting the plan.  Pivotal Role  ECB President Mario Draghi said yesterday the central bank
is preparing a legal opinion on the single-supervisor proposal
to spell out accountability channels and ensure a “clear and
robust” separation of bank oversight and monetary policy
decisions. He said the central bank welcomes the plan, seeing it
as “one of the fundamental pillars of a financial union” and
an important building block for the euro area.  The issue is likely to play a pivotal role on whether the
ESM is able to aid banks directly and free countries such as
Spain and Ireland from the burden of propping up their financial
sectors. When EU leaders announced plans to create the single
supervisor in June, they explicitly said the goal was to combat
the crisis by breaking the link between banks and sovereigns.  Germany’s Finance Ministry declined to comment.  Officials are not trying to entice the U.K., home to
 Europe ’s biggest financial centre, into the ECB-housed
supervisor because it has already said it doesn’t want to join.
It will press to change the proposed EBA voting procedures and
other technical issues as a condition of allowing the euro
region to proceed.  Banking Plan  EU finance ministers are due to discuss the bank supervisor
plans informally when they meet in Luxembourg next week, one of
the people said.  Luxembourg’s Luc Frieden said the EU must study the effects
a joint supervisor would have across the 27-nation EU, including
on countries within the region’s single market that won’t take
part in the banking plan. He predicted at least six months of
technical work would be required.  “We should watch out that there’s no discrimination
between banks outside the euro zone and inside,” Frieden said
in an interview yesterday. “That issue in our view has not been
dealt with sufficiently so far.”  Sweden, Poland and  Hungary  have voiced objections to the
bank-supervision plan, saying its current design would require
them to give up power without gaining a clear voice in decision-
making. As currently proposed, non-euro nations can volunteer to
join the ECB and would agree to follow ECB rules and exchange
data without getting a vote on supervisory panels.  Swedish Issue  “We of course have to make sure that those who join this
bank union also will get influence on the same terms,” Swedish
Finance Minister Anders Borg told reporters in Stockholm
yesterday. He also said Swedish taxpayers shouldn’t have to pay
for the cost of bailouts to  Greece  or another euro country.  The EU could get around some objections by creating a two-
tiered governing structure at the ECB, Nicolas Veron of the
Brussels-based Bruegel research group said in a report
yesterday. He recommended a five- to seven-member supervisory
executive board augmented by a larger “prudential council”
that would include representatives of national supervisors. Non-
euro supervisors could participate in this larger council,
perhaps with a reduced voting weight.  National Interests  As EU authorities grapple with the new supervisor’s design,
they will need to make clear how they’ll handle the transition
to the new system, especially for banks and nations already
under strain from the financial crisis.  Financial markets have sought further details since a joint
German-Finnish-Dutch statement on Sept. 25 that raised concerns
about “legacy” assets.  The ECB’s Draghi said yesterday that defining these assets
and what happens to them is a political matter.  “This is a real credibility test,” Irish Prime Minister
Enda Kenny said in a speech in Brussels on Oct. 3. Ireland in
January will take up the EU’s six-month rotating presidency and
will play a central role in negotiations to craft a bank-
supervisor deal.  “Be in no doubt, we will be punished for any back-sliding
or stepping away from what has been agreed,” Kenny said. ‘It is
infinitely better that we press ahead with implementation.”  Luxembourg’s Frieden disagreed that delays would put the
EU’s credibility on the line. He said yesterday the bloc needs
to proceed “very seriously” and consider all questions about
possible effects of its proposal.  Frieden said the EU needs to be more specific about what
problems will be handled at the joint level and what will remain
with national authorities.  -- With assistance from Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm , Rainer Buergin in Berlin and Jeff Black in  Frankfurt . Editors: Peter Chapman, Patrick Henry  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 