-- GMA Network Declines as Talks With PLDT End: Manila Mover
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-10-04T09:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/gma-network-falls-as-purchase-talks-with-pldt-end-manila-mover.html
GMA Network Inc. (GMA7)  fell the most in
eight months after a  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL) 
retirement fund venture ended talks to buy a majority stake in
the nation’s largest broadcaster by market value.  GMA plunged 8.3 percent, its biggest drop since Feb. 7, to
8.27 pesos at the close in Manila trading. “Parties have been
unable to arrive at mutually acceptable terms despite the
continual discussions and efforts exerted in good faith,” PLDT
and GMA said in separate disclosures to the stock exchange.  PLDT will pursue its media strategy by building on its
investments in TV 5, the nation’s third-largest television
network, and in Cignal TV, a satellite television service,  PLDT
Chairman  Manuel Pangilinan  said today in a statement. The
carrier had said in June it was discussing the acquisition price
with GMA Network’s three main shareholders.  “GMA’s run-up was in anticipation of an event that it will
be taken over,” said Alex Pomento, head of research at
Macquarie Securities’ Manila unit. “Unfortunately, that didn’t
happen.” There were concerns the deal was expensive, he said.  GMA has gained 25 percent so far this year, matching the 25
percent advance in the benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange PSEi
Index. PLDT rose 0.4 percent to 2,756 pesos today.  GMA said it was unable to come to agreement with PLDT,
without elaborating on what was being negotiated.  “It was our inability to resolve certain issues which have
nothing to do with the price,” GMA Chairman Felipe Gozon said
in a mobile-phone text message.  “The termination of the GMA acquisition initiative is not
expected to adversely impact the PLDT Group’s strategy of
evolving from a traditional telecommunications company into a
multimedia service company,” Pangilinan said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  