-- Gold One Suspends Workers as South African Strikes Continue
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-04T11:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/gold-one-suspends-workers-as-south-african-strikes-continue.html
Gold One International Ltd. (GDO)  issued
suspension notices to striking employees at a mine in South
 Africa , where thousands of workers have walked off the job,
demanding pay increases of as much as four times inflation.  A “large number” of Ezulwini workers didn’t report for
work on Oct. 1 even after the Labour Court issued an order
against the illegal strike, the Johannesburg-based company said
today. “We are therefore without any option but to suspend
these striking employees,” it said.  Strikes have stalled mines owned by Africa’s three largest
gold producers and the world’s largest platinum producer, and
delaying deliveries of goods including motor fuels as truck
drivers protest for more pay. August inflation was 5 percent.
About 12 percent of global platinum production was halted after
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  workers went on strike, according
to Bloomberg calculations.  About 46 people died in protests last month at Lonmin’s
Marikana mine. Workers ended a six-week illegal strike after
securing pay increases ranging from 11 percent and 22 percent.
Protesters blocked the entrance to  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ’s
Kusasalethu mine with burning tires this week.  Security was tightened near Amplats’s Khuseleka mine after
roads were barricaded with rocks and burning tires, and a
hawker’s store was set alight during violent protests linked to
the strike, the South African Press Association reported.
Amplats declined to respond to a request for comment.  Trucks Burned  Trucks were torched and traffic was blocked yesterday when
a protected strike by more than 20,000 drivers spread from
Johannesburg to other provinces. Near George, in the south of
the country, a truck was hijacked and set alight, SAPA reported,
citing police.  The strike added pressure on fuel stations’ stock, MC
Lamprecht, chairman of the 900-member South African Petroleum
Retailers’ Association, said on Oct. 2. He didn’t immediately
respond to two messages on his mobile phone today.  About 300 workers began a strike at  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) ,
the Pretoria-based company said yesterday. Anglo American
Platinum’s Rustenburg and Union mines are on strike. All of
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) ’s South African mines are down, as well
as Gold Fields Ltd’s KDC West and Beatrix mines. Together the
gold mines account for about 39 percent of the nation’s
production of the precious metal.  Strikes in South Africa, producer of three-quarters of
global platinum output, helped boost prices of the metal 18
percent since Aug. 1, Nomura Bank International Plc said in a
note today. Platinum rose as much as 0.8 percent to $1,701.49 an
ounce in  London .  Divesting Report  Long-term investors are divesting from South Africa gold
stocks because of the strikes, Johannesburg-based Business Day
reported, citing  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  Chief Executive Officer Nick Holland.  “The impact of the truck strike on the South African
wholesale and retail industry is being felt,” the Consumer
Goods Council of South Africa said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Workers are making demands directly to management and
through labor unions. The Chamber of Mines, representing large
mining companies, and the National Union of Mineworkers met
yesterday to discuss workers’ demands. They’ll meet again on
Oct. 9, NUM said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  