-- Golden Week Boom Buoys Airlines as ADRs Climb: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-04T21:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/golden-week-boom-buoys-airlines-as-adrs-climb-china-overnight.html
Air carriers led the benchmark  index 
of Chinese stocks in  New York  to a two-week high after Bank of
America Corp. said a surge in tourism revenue during the holiday
week signals concern over a slowdown is overdone.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 0.8 percent to 92.62
yesterday, the strongest level since Sept. 19.  China Southern
Airlines Co. (ZNH)  soared to a six-week high while  China Eastern 
Airlines Corp. jumped to the highest level in a month. Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. traded at the biggest premium over its  Hong Kong 
stock in three weeks as  China  cut coal imports.  Tourism revenue at China’s 119 major attractions in the
first five days of the so-called Golden Week holiday increased
30 percent from a year ago, while tourists rose 26 percent, the
industry regulator  said  on its website yesterday. The data
indicates  China’s economy , which grew at the slowest pace since
2009 in the second quarter, probably isn’t headed for a “hard
landing” according to Bank of America economist Ting Lu.  “China is experiencing a well-achieved soft landing and we
are more constructive than some other people on the street,”
Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of
 emerging markets  at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  in London, said by
phone yesterday. “Growth will slow, but bump along at the level
of 7 to 7.5 percent.”  China’s economy, the world’s second-largest, expanded 7.6
percent in the three months to June 30, the slowest pace in
three years. The government is targeting growth of 7.5 percent
in 2012.  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 0.7 percent to 35.16,
the highest close since Sept. 14. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  rose for a fourth day, gaining 0.7 percent to 1,461.40 as
the  European Central Bank  said it is ready to buy  government
bonds  once certain conditions are met and as a report showed
U.S. jobless claims increased less than economists forecast.  American depositary receipts of China Southern jumped 3.8
percent to $22.96, the highest level since Aug. 24. China
Eastern, the nation’s second-largest domestic airline, climbed
2.6 percent to $15.80, the most since Sept. 12.  Sales at major tourist attractions across China totaled
307.3 million  yuan  ($49 million) in the five days through
yesterday, the National Tourism Administration said in the
statement. Total number of tourists reached 5.7 million, up 26
percent from the same period last year, the body said.  Coal Supplies  Yanzhou Coal (YZC) , China’s fourth-largest coal miner, surged 4.2
percent to $15.63, the biggest increase in three weeks. The
ADRs, each representing 10 underlying shares in the company,
traded 1.8 percent higher than its Hong Kong stock, the widest
premium since Sept. 14.  China is currently in the process of destocking coke coal
supplies and imports of the fuel have dropped to their lowest
levels in more than 15 months, suggesting supply and demand have
aligned more closely, according to an Oct. 3 report by Bloomberg
Industries.  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, the
benchmark for  Asia , may rise to more than $100 a metric ton in
the three months ending Dec. 31 from $84.25 a ton as of Sept.
28, after four straight quarters of declines, according to UBS
AG.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the largest online book
retailer in China, rebounded 6.6 percent to $4.66 in New York in
its first gain in five days. The stock plunged to the lowest
level this year on Oct. 3.  Solars Soar  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. the sixth-largest silicon-
based solar module producer in the world, jumped 9.8 percent to
$1.79, the biggest rally since March 20. LDK Solar Co., the
world’s second-biggest solar-wafer manufacturer, surged 6.9
percent to $1.09, gaining the most since Aug. 20. Suntech Power
Holdings Ltd. added 5.6 percent to 94 cents while  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  advanced 6.4 percent to $4.8.  “Investors should be shorting these Chinese solar stocks
heading into the third-quarter earnings season, which should
really be called the third-quarter cash burn season,”  Pavel Molchanov , analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
Houston, said by phone yesterday.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  -- which operates gambling
establishments in Macau, the only Chinese city where casinos are
legal -- dropped 4.2 percent to $12.98, the steepest loss since
July 24 in the U.S. Melco’s ADRs traded at a 4.1 percent
discount to its Hong Kong shares, the biggest gap since July 23.  Ambow Sinks  Macau’s gambling revenue rose 12 percent in September to
23.9 billion patacas ($3 billion), the city’s Gaming Inspection
and Coordination Bureau said in a statement yesterday. That was
below the 15 percent to 20 percent growth rate predicted by Bank
of America and the 19 percent increase forecast by Citigroup
Inc.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a private tutoring service
provider in China, tumbled 11 percent to $2.56, the biggest
slump in a month.  The decline triggered a short-selling restriction by the
Securities and Exchange Commission that forces traders who want
to bet on further declines to wait until stocks fall 10 percent
from the prior day’s closing level.  The Beijing-based company issued a statement on Sept. 6
saying all tutoring centers operated by its one-on-one service
unit are legally registered with local regulators and tax
bureaus, after China’s state television reported three days
earlier that the unit exaggerated training results and the
schools’ registrations were incomplete.  Ambow is yet to  announce  financial results for the April-
June period. Chief Strategy Officer Jenny Zhan said in a phone
interview on Sept. 5 that she expected second-quarter results to
be released in September. The company reported on July 4 a net
loss of $12.7 million for the first quarter.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong added 0.2 percent to 9,848.53 yesterday.
Markets in mainland China are closed this week for the holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  