-- Oracle, Google Plan Appeals of Verdict in Java-Android Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-04T23:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/google-to-appeal-copyright-infringement-finding-in-oracle-trial.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  both
said they will appeal a jury’s findings that Google infringed
copyrights and didn’t steal patents when it developed Android
software for mobile devices.  A federal jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-
based Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed
Android software for mobile devices. The jury also deadlocked on
whether Google’s copying was a permissible “fair use.” The
jury found May 23 that Google didn’t infringe two Oracle
patents.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
said in a filing today in  San Francisco  federal court that it
will appeal the trial judge’s decision not to set aside a jury’s
copyright verdict or order a new trial. Oracle said in a filing
today that it would appeal a judgment in favor of Google on
patent infringement.  Google’s attorneys said in earlier court filings that the
jury found the company had infringed just nine out of millions
of lines of code in a Java programming language platform, which
they said was legally insignificant.  The appeals will be filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit in Washington, Google and Oracle attorneys
said in the filings. The trial was held in San Francisco.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, is the largest
maker of database software.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-cv-3561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  