-- Google Reaches Digital-Book Deal With Publishers Group
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-04T18:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/google-reaches-digital-book-accord-with-publishers-group.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the world’s
biggest Internet search engine, announced a settlement of a
lawsuit with five publishers over the digital scanning of books.
The deal doesn’t resolve litigation by authors.  The agreement ends the publishers’ portion of a copyright
infringement suit filed in federal court in  New York  in 2005,
Google and the Association of American Publishers said today in
a statement. U.S. publishers can now choose whether to make
their books and articles available for scanning or have them
removed, according to the statement.  Google disclosed a plan in 2004 to digitally scan millions
of books from public and university libraries to provide
snippets of text on its search engine.  The Authors Guild ,
individual authors and publishing companies sued, claiming
Google hadn’t sought authorization from the owners of the works.
They accused  Mountain View , California-based Google of
infringing copyrights on a massive scale.  “We are pleased that this settlement addresses the issues
that led to the litigation,” Tom Allen, chief executive officer
of the publishers’ association, said. “It shows that digital
services can provide innovative means to discover content while
still respecting the rights of copyright-holders.”  The agreement is with The McGraw-Hill Cos., Pearson
Education Inc., Penguin Group USA Inc.,  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A) 
and Simon & Schuster Inc., which is owned by CBS Inc.  ‘Private Settlement’  “The publishers’ private settlement, whatever its terms,
does not resolve the authors’ copyright infringement claims
against Google,” Paul Aiken, the executive director of the
Authors Guild, said in an e-mailed statement. “Google continues
to profit from its use of millions of copyright-protected books
without regard to authors’ rights, and our class-action lawsuit
on behalf of U.S. authors continues.”  Although the settlement is with the five publishers who
filed the suit, it “provides that U.S. publishers who belong to
associations will be able to take advantage of it,” Allen said
in a phone interview.  “We have begun signing separate deals with some of our
publishing partners,” Tom Turvey, the director of strategic
partnerships for Google, said.  Earlier Settlement  In 2009, Google reached an initial settlement of the class,
or group, lawsuit by the authors and publishers that was valued
at $125 million. U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin , sitting as a
trial judge in the case, rejected that agreement last year,
saying it permitted a “forward-looking business arrangement
that would grant Google significant rights to exploit entire
books, without permission of the copyright owners.”  While talks between Google and the authors on revising the
proposed settlement collapsed, the publishers continued
negotiating.              The deal announced today doesn’t
require court approval because it’s not an agreement with the
class, Allen said.  “We couldn’t work out a satisfactory class-action
settlement,” Allen said. “This is a private settlement.”  Its financial terms are confidential, he said.  “Many of our publishers have longstanding retail
relationships with Google,” Turvey said in a phone interview.
“The industry has changed so much. It just made sense to work
out some of the practical issues of the litigation.”  Appeal Pending  In the continuing litigation by the authors, Google
appealed a ruling by Chin that granted the class certification.
The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  granted Google’s request
to put the lower-court case on hold until it rules on the class-
action issue.  Google has scanned more than 20 million books, Turvey said.
The project began with the digitizing of books from the
libraries of the  University of Michigan ,  Harvard University ,
 Stanford University , Oxford University and the  New York Public
Library .  “By putting this litigation with the publishers behind us,
we can stay focused on our core mission and work to increase the
number of books available to educate, excite and entertain our
users,”  David Drummond , Google’s chief legal officer, said in
the statement.  Google rose $4.18 to $766.68 at 1:06 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  A related lawsuit was filed by several organizations
representing visual artists.  The writers’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-cv-08136,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The visual artists’ case is The American Society of Media
Photographers v. Google, 10-cv-02977, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The appeals case is
Authors Guild v. Google, 12-3200,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  