-- Google Street View Added to Mobile Browser Maps on IPhone
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-10-04T20:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/google-street-view-added-to-mobile-browser-maps-on-iphone.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  added Street View to its
maps feature for mobile browsers, enhancing the navigation
service available to iPhone users who don’t have the tool built
in to their handsets.  Users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone can get quick access to Street
View, which offers panoramic images of locations, by saving a
Web bookmark to the home screen of the phone, Mountain View,
California-based Google said on a  blog  post.  “Starting today, use Street View on your mobile browser to
check out a new shop across town or get a feel for the ambiance
at a restaurant before you arrive,” Google said on the blog.  Apple’s decision to build its own navigation application
reflects a widening rift with Google, which had provided its
Google Maps program since the iPhone debuted in 2007. While
Apple’s new software adds features such as turn-by-turn
navigation, it is widely faulted for unreliable landmark
searches, routes that get users lost and a lack of public
transit directions.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized last week
for the iPhone mapping software, vowing to improve the feature.
In the meantime, he encouraged customers to download mapping
applications such as Microsoft Corp.’s Bing, Waze and MapQuest
from the company’s  App Store . He said users also could use the
iPhone’s Internet browser to use Google’s mapping application.  ‘Extremely Sorry’  “We are extremely sorry for the frustration this has
caused our customers and we are doing everything we can to make
Maps better,” Cook said in a  letter  posted Sept. 28 on Apple’s
website. “The more our customers use our Maps the better it
will get.”  Apple’s mapping application was released as part of the new
iOS 6 software, which runs the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Even
as Apple’s maps were criticized, the company sold a record 5
million iPhones during the handset’s debut weekend. Apple also
said that the software with its new mapping feature was being
used on more than 100 million mobile devices.  Google has been building out its online mapping software
since 2005, using cars and satellites to accumulate data that
helps improve its accuracy and reliability.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said on Sept. 25 that Apple
should have stuck with Google Maps. “It would have been better
if they had kept ours,” Schmidt said at a press event in  Tokyo .
“What were we going to do, force them not to change their mind?
It’s their call.”  Nate Tyler, a spokesman for Google, didn’t respond to a
request for comment on whether the company plans to make a
Google Maps app for Apple devices.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell less than 1
percent to $666.80 at the close in New York, while Google rose
less 1 percent to $768.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  