-- Libya Probe Slow to Start as Clinton Vows to Find Killers
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-10-04T20:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/libya-attack-probe-slow-to-start-as-clinton-vows-to-find-killers.html
A U.S. probe of the Sept. 11 attack
in Benghazi, Libya, that killed the American ambassador and
three colleagues faces hurdles including a contaminated crime
scene and incomplete intelligence on the assault.  An Federal Bureau of Investigation team visited the burned
and looted U.S. diplomatic outpost for the first time today,
according to Pentagon spokesman George Little. A U.S. panel on
the incident, a so-called Accountability Review Board, held an
initial organizational meeting at the State Department,
according to State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.  In Istanbul, two suspects in the consulate attack,
identified as Tunisians, were detained late yesterday at the
Ataturk International Airport as they attempted to enter the
country using fake passports, Kanal D television said. Neither
Turkish authorities nor the U.S. State Department had any
immediate comment.  Separately, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said today in
Washington that he is “satisfied with the progress” the
Justice Department has made in its investigation.  The probe has provided U.S. officials with a better
understanding of the incident, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said yesterday, vowing that the U.S. would find those
responsible for the attack.  ‘Continuing Questions’  “There are continuing questions about what exactly
happened in Benghazi on that night three weeks ago,” Clinton
said. “We will not rest until we answer those questions and
until we track down the terrorists who killed our people.”  Republicans, including presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ,
have faulted President  Barack Obama ’s administration over its
shifting account of the attack. They also say the administration
failed to prepare adequately for the possibility of violence on
the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  U.S. House Republicans have set a hearing for Oct. 10 on
“security failures” in Benghazi. Representative Darrell Issa
of  California , chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, has cited unnamed officials as saying that
requests for more protection before the attack had been turned
down.  ‘Work to Do’  The assault on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, in which
Ambassador Chris Stevens died, coincided with a wave of protests
in Muslim countries over an anti-Islam film made in the U.S. The
Obama administration initially tied the attack to a mob action
provoked by the film, then later characterized the incident as a
terrorist attack.  “We have a lot of work to do to give complete and accurate
responses to all the questions and statements that are swirling
out there,” Clinton said. “Let’s establish all the facts
before we jump to any conclusions.”  While investigators from the FBI had earlier reached
Tripoli, the Libyan capital, they didn’t make it until today to
Benghazi, where the crime scene was left exposed to
contamination and looting for days.  “We’ve had some challenges” securing the site since the
attack, Nuland said today.  Members of the FBI team were transported to Benghazi by a
U.S. military support team, Little said today.  “They came with six cars with Americans and a lot of
police,” Hamid Idris, one of two guards employed by the private
Libyan owners of the consulate building, said in an interview
today outside the compound. “They arrived at 10 and stayed all
the time until six.”  Review Board  The Americans spent time examining the burned buildings and
used a cutting tool to remove small pieces from two burned-out
jeeps in the compound,he said.  In  Washington , the State Department Accountability Review
Board headed by veteran U.S. diplomat Thomas R. Pickering, now
vice chairman at Hills & Co., isn’t expected to press its own
investigation until after the Nov. 6 election, said an official
with knowledge of the board’s likely schedule. The official
spoke on the condition of anonymity because no one is authorized
to speak for the board, which is just getting organized.  One factor the board will have to consider is Stevens’s
highly-regarded outreach to ordinary citizens while in Libya,
said two State Department officials who worked with him at
different times. That personal touch may have exposed the
Arabic-speaking envoy to greater risk of attack.  Not Specific  The two officials said that, as some Republicans in
Congress have alleged, the State Department, the Defense
Department and U.S. intelligence agencies received numerous
warnings of Islamic radical stirrings in Benghazi before the
Sept. 11 assault. None of the alerts was specific about the time
or target, they said.  Still, the warnings included reliable reports to U.S.
security officials in Benghazi that Western facilities were
under surveillance. It also was well-known that weapons are
scattered all over the city, a legacy of the uprising Benghazi
helped lead against the late dictator, Muammar Qaddafi.  Nevertheless, the two officials, along with a former State
Department official who worked with Stevens for two years, said
the ambassador wasn’t the sort of diplomat who coveted dinner
party invitations and insisted on having a cordon of bodyguards.  The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because
they have been forbidden to discuss the Benghazi attack
publicly.  Republican Charges  Two Republican lawmakers said in an Oct. 2 letter to
Clinton that U.S. officials in Libya had sought more security in
Benghazi before the attacks and were spurned by counterparts in
Washington. Issa and Representative  Jason Chaffetz  of Utah wrote
that the information came from “multiple U.S. federal
government officials” they didn’t name.  Republican vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan said the
administration’s handling of the incident epitomized its flawed
policies. “It is part of a bigger picture of the fact that the
Obama foreign policy is unraveling literally before our eyes on
our TV screens,” Ryan said Sept. 30 on “Fox News Sunday.”  Some Republicans have charged that security at two U.S.
compounds in Benghazi was insufficient, especially when Stevens
was making a public visit there. The three officials said that
Stevens, like many other American diplomats, didn’t think he
could do his job from behind the walls of a fortress.  Libyans in Benghazi and U.S. intelligence officials say
they already have convincing evidence that a local militia
group, Ansar al-Shariah, carried out the assault. A spokesman
for the group denied responsibility for the attack to a
Bloomberg reporter in Benghazi.  Al-Qaeda Questions  At least four suspects are in Libyan custody, and three
U.S. officials said yesterday the country’s new government has
good reason to pursue them and dismantle Ansar, which advocates
an Islamic state and opposes the elected National Congress. Two
of the officials said it may be better for both Libya and the
U.S. to leave prosecution of the attackers to the Libyan
government, with the U.S. remaining offstage.  What isn’t clear, the three officials said, is whether the
Libyan group has any operational ties to al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb, a loose-knit and self-sufficient extremist group that
has made inroads in Niger,  Mali  and other North African nations.  Two other U.S. officials said that there is no compelling
evidence so far from communications intercepts or human sources
showing that the North African group played an operational role
in the Benghazi attack. The officials spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss classified information.  Intelligence Reports  Both officials said some known militants, including
Muhammed Jamal abu Ahmad, an Egyptian who they said has ties to
al-Qaeda groups in Pakistan and Yemen, may have participated in
the attack. Still, they said that doesn’t constitute evidence
the attack was an al-Qaeda operation, as some Republicans have
alleged.  Initial intelligence reports sent to the White House after
the attack emphasized their fragmentary and inconclusive nature,
according to these two U.S. officials, who are familiar with the
documents. Still, officials at the National Security Council who
were directing the Obama administration’s public response
ignored those cautionary notes.  Instead, both said, U.S. officials, including United
Nations Ambassador Susan Rice, publicly described the assault as
“spontaneous.” The administration was then slow to correct
that assertion, despite newer intelligence that supported
Republican claims, some of them overblown, that a terrorist
attack had killed Stevens, the  two officials said.  On Sept. 21, White House spokesman Jay Carney called the
assault a “terrorist attack,” and a week later Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper’s office said the attacks
appeared to have been deliberate, organized and “carried out by
extremists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  