-- Micex Overhaul Signals 25% Volume Surge to VTB: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-10-04T07:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/micex-overhaul-signals-25-volume-surge-to-vtb-russia-overnight.html
Russia’s  stock market , where volumes
are three times less than in  Brazil (IBOV) , will grow by as much as 25
percent as the exchange moves to a system of settling trades in
line with international standards, according to VTB Group.  The Micex-RTS intends to transition by next year from
immediate settlement of transactions to a system where traders
are allowed a number of days to complete deals, conforming with
norms at exchanges such as Deutsche Borse AG. Volume totaled
$900 million on Russia’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  yesterday,
compared with $2.91 billion for  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index, which
has 68 members and allows trades to be  settled  over three days.  “Once you have delivery not right now but in a few days’
time, you have time to expedite the stock,” Oleg Achkasov, head
of equity trading at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of
 Russia ’s second-largest lender, said in an interview in Moscow
yesterday. “The volumes will pick up from all those companies
that aren’t really trading.”  Russia is reforming its stock exchange and revamping
capital markets to lure more foreign investors and transform
Moscow into an international financial center. The bourse will
introduce a central securities depositary this year, Deputy
Finance Minister Alexei Moiseev said on Sept. 25. The move will
allow foreign custodian banks to open accounts in local
depositaries, boosting the ability of overseas investors such as
pension funds to buy Russian equities.  The Micex Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,476.08 by 10:52 a.m.
in Moscow. Futures expiring in December on Russia’s RTS Index,
which merged with the Micex last year, dropped 0.4 percent to
147,820 in New York. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the
most-traded Russian stocks listed in the U.S. also fell,
declining 0.4 percent to 99.52 as commodities and oil, Russia’s
biggest export earner, tumbled yesterday.  ‘Right Direction’  The settlement reform is “a big step in the right
direction, which has been long awaited by investors,” Ilya Kravets, who helps manage $100 million of investments at ED
Capital, said by phone in New York yesterday. “It will fuel
appetite for Russian shares and boost liquidity in the market.”  The transition from immediate, or so-called T+0 settlement
on the Micex to T+2 or T+3, the mode used for U.S. and Brazilian
equities, will take place in the first half of next year, Nikita Bekasov, spokesman for the  Micex-RTS (MOSX) , said by phone from Moscow
yesterday.  “The system that we have today is from yesterday,”
Bekasov said. “We need to adopt the same format that is used by
other exchanges to make foreign investors comfortable on the
Russian exchange.”  Mechel Sinks  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, retreated 1.1
percent to $29.02 yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 28.
The RTS Volatility Index, which measures swings in the index
futures, slumped 0.8 percent to 28.46.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest producer of steelmaking coal,
dropped 3.6 percent to $6.78 in the U.S. yesterday, the lowest
level since Sept. 10. Mechel was the biggest decliner on the
Russia-US Index. The company’s Moscow-traded  stock  rose 0.1
percent to 215.50 rubles, or $6.93.  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s biggest producer of renewable
energy, decreased 2.2 percent to $2.65 in New York. The American
depositary receipts closed at a 4.3 percent discount versus the
company’s Moscow-listed shares, the most this month. RusHydro
 stock  on the Micex rose 0.6 percent to 86.85 kopeks. One New
York-listed ADR equals 100 Moscow-traded shares.  Crude oil for November delivery rose 0.4 percent to $88.46
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Brent oil for November settlement increased 0.5 percent to
$108.73 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, sank 3.1 percent
to $106.1 per barrel yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  