-- IFC Plans to Boost Africa Investment to $4.3 Billion in 2013
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-10-04T10:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/ifc-plans-to-boost-africa-investments-to-4-3-billion-in-2013.html
The International Finance Corp.
expects to invest at least $4.3 billion in sub-Saharan Africa in
2013 with a focus on energy and transportation, said Jin-Yong Cai, executive vice president and chief executive officer.  That’s an increase from a record $4 billion put into the
region this year, he said in an interview in Dakar,  Senegal ’s
capital, yesterday.  The  World Bank ’s lending unit aims to be “the key
facilitators or catalysts for private-sector development which
is the fundamental driver for economic growth,” said Jin-Yong,
a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner who was appointed to
the IFC post in August. “Africa is our priority globally,” he
said.  The IFC has invested across the continent this year, from a
hotel in  Burundi  to power projects in  Kenya . Growth in the
region of 840 million people is forecast at 5.4 percent this
year and 5.3 percent in 2013, outpacing global projections,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  In Senegal, where electricity shortages caused riots in
2011, key impediments to economic growth include the cost and
supply of energy, Jin-Yong said. Senelec, the country’s national
power utility, has debts of 150 billion  CFA francs  ($294
million), according to a company report.  Economic Bottlenecks  “I don’t know any other places where the electricity price
is so high, but even with that high price the supply is not
sufficient,” he said.  Jin-Yong met with Senegalese government officials to
discuss areas where investment can improve growth.  “We are looking at several key sectors, not only private-
sector participation, but to fundamentally deal with some of the
key bottlenecks in this economy.”  The IFC also plans to invest in agribusiness and
transportation, Jin-Yong said. “Unless you have decent
infrastructure, you can’t have scale, and if you don’t have
scale, you can’t really achieve any competitiveness in the
business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  