-- Miguel Cabrera’s Triple Crown Won’t Mean Home Run From Endorsers
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/miguel-cabrera-s-triple-crown-won-t-mean-home-run-from-endorsers.html
The  Triple Crown  won’t bring an
instant payoff for  Miguel Cabrera . He needs to overcome playing
outside a major market, spotty English and a history of trouble,
sports marketers said.  Cabrera, the 29-year-old third baseman for the playoff-
bound  Detroit Tigers , ended the regular season last night with
44 home runs, 139 runs batted in and a .330 batting average. By
leading the  American League  in all three statistics, he became
the first Triple Crown winner since the  Boston Red Sox ’s Carl Yastrzemski, nicknamed Yaz, in 1967.  Cabrera is a Venezuelan playing in a small market who,
according to teammate and reigning AL Most Valuable Player
 Justin Verlander , “has been relatively under the radar for what
he’s done.” He also has a history of alcohol abuse and will
need to build his brand carefully and display his skills during
the postseason to make the most money -- from around $500,000 to
possibly over $1 million -- from the Triple Crown feat, said
people who work in sports marketing and memorabilia.  “It’s probably going to be maybe a mid-six-figure boost,”
said Bob Dorfman, executive creative director at San Francisco-
based Baker Street Advertising. “English isn’t his first
language, he’s playing in  Detroit  and baseball is extremely
regional, so unless you are a big-name star consistently making
the postseason in a major market, it’s very tough to get big-
time deals.”  World Series  A seven-time All-Star who won his second straight batting
title, Cabrera is in his fifth season in Detroit after playing
his first five with the  Florida Marlins , where he helped win the
World Series as a rookie in 2003.  Hall of Famers Yastrzemski and Frank Robinson, the only
living Triple Crown winners, said Cabrera has the chance to
participate in baseball’s most exciting month.  “I am glad that he accomplished this while leading his
team to the American League Central title,” Yastrzemski said.  Cabrera signed an eight-year, $152 million contract with
Detroit that expires in 2015, according to  Baseball Prospectus .
After making $21 million this season, Cabrera is set to make the
same amount next year and $22 million annually in 2014 and 2015.  With $20.8 million in earnings, Cabrera was the 59th
highest-paid athlete as of June, according to Forbes magazine,
which listed his endorsement income at $200,000.  Cabrera has equipment deals with Wilson Sporting Goods Co.
and New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc., as well as a partnership
with memorabilia seller DetroitCitySports, according to Cesar
Sanchez, his marketing agent with SFX Baseball Group.  Public Persona  The publicity from winning the Triple Crown should help
Cabrera showcase a more personable demeanor, which doesn’t come
through while playing, Sanchez said in a telephone interview.  “He does have personality, it’s just that people don’t see
it when he’s on the field,” Sanchez said.  From a memorabilia perspective, Cabrera would profit best
from offering reasonably priced products and building his brand
rather than trying for fast money by over-pricing items such as
autographed baseballs, said Brandon Steiner, president of
Steiner Sports Marketing.  “A lot of guys, they get this moment to grab the brass
ring and instead of using it to get the ball rolling with their
brand they do something really quick for the most amount of
money they can make,” Steiner said in a telephone interview.
“It’s usually a quick beginning and end.”  Memorabilia Collections  Steiner cited perfect-game pitchers Don Larsen and David Wells and Hall of Fame catcher Carlton Fisk, who made the most
by building a collection of autographed photos and balls around
their big baseball moments. The memorabilia market for players
such as Philadelphia Phillies pitcher  Roy Halladay , who failed
to build his brand after throwing a postseason no-hitter, has
dried up, Steiner said.  “Yaz still sells Triple Crown, as there’s been a
collection put together around him,” Steiner said. “If
Cabrera’s extremely reasonable and doesn’t get crazy, this can
be a seven-figure ride he can get on.”  MLB already has a clear acrylic plaque containing
“authenticated batter box dirt” to commemorate Cabrera’s
Triple Crown on sale for $39.99 in the novelties and
collectibles section of its online store.  The Triple Crown might bring Cabrera interest from Detroit-
area corporations, though his best opportunity to profit comes
through memorabilia signings and appearance fees, according to
Peter Raskin, a sports marketer and partner at the Legacy Agency
in  New York .  “The Triple Crown is a great accomplishment but doesn’t
always equal marketing success,” Raskin said in an e-mail.  Legal Issues  Cabrera has had nine straight years of at least 30 homers
and 100 RBI while posting a .318 career batting average. He’s
also had some run-ins with the law.  He was arrested and charged with driving under the
influence in February 2011 after police spotted him drinking
from a bottle of Scotch as he sat in his car alongside a Florida
road. In March 2010 Cabrera said he was finished with alcohol.
Five months earlier Tigers General Manager Dave Dombrowski
picked him up at a police station following a fight between
Cabrera and his wife that followed a night of drinking,
according to the  Associated Press .  Despite the off-field issues, Cabrera’s endorsement
potential “actually ranks higher than what I anticipated,”
said Darin David, an account director with Dallas-based
Marketing Arm, which uses the Davie Brown Index that measures
U.S. celebrity status.  Celebrity Rank  His endorsement score, measuring the degree to which
consumers identify him as being an effective product spokesman,
ranks 907th of about 2,500 celebrities, on par with Los Angeles
Lakers guard  Steve Nash , ESPN college football analyst Kirk Herbstreit and New England Patriots wide receiver  Wes Welker ,
David said in a telephone interview.  “At least in Herbstreit’s and Nash’s case, they do
endorsements and get a lot of attention from brands,” David
said. “The question is, Cabrera’s not getting the same level of
attention from brands. I wonder if this will do it for him?”
  With more baseball to play -- the Central division-champion  Tigers open the postseason against the  Oakland Athletics  --  Cabrera will have a chance to perhaps double the profits
surrounding his Triple Crown by further introducing himself to a  broader audience, said Dorfman.  “An MVP-caliber performance and a  World Series  ring could
easily turn a mid-six-figure windfall into the low seven
figures,” Dorfman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  