-- IIF’s Dallara Says Urges Easing of Greek Bailout
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-04T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/iif-s-dallara-says-urges-easing-of-greek-bailout.html
The  Institute of International
Finance  urged global policy leaders to revive economic growth
with measures including more public investment in  Greece  and
easing terms of the nation’s bailout.  “Urgent policy adjustments are needed to avoid the
stalling global recovery and address the strong negative
spillover effects of national or regional developments on other
parts of the world,”  Charles Dallara , IIF managing director,
wrote today in a letter to the International Monetary Fund’s
steering committee.  Greece is trying to reach an agreement on austerity
measures with officials from the European Union and IMF for the
release of 31 billion euros ($40 billion) under the country’s
bailouts. The Washington-based IIF, which represents more than
460 financial companies, said Greece should be given more time
to meet deficit targets and lenders could accommodate the nation
with lower interest payments.  “In the period immediately ahead, euro area leaders need
to move more decisively to implement the announced measures in a
timely manner to avoid a reversal of the recent broadly positive
 market sentiment ,” Dallara wrote. That includes establishment
of a single bank supervisor to recapitalize banks by the
European Stability Mechanism and a new European Central Bank
bond purchasing program.  IMF Meeting  Dallara’s letter comes before IMF and World Bank annual
meetings in  Tokyo  Oct. 9-14 where officials will focus on
implementation of the euro zone programs. Dallara said the
meetings will take place at a “time of weakening global
economic growth, high or rising unemployment and substantial
downside risks.”  “The global economy is at a crossroads,” Dallara wrote.
“Urgent policy adjustments are needed to avoid the stalling
global recovery and address the strong negative spillover
effects of national or regional developments on other parts of
the world.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today that the bank is ready
to start buying  government bonds  as soon as the necessary
conditions are fulfilled by any countries needing assistance.
The ECB is ready to undertake Outright Monetary Transactions
“once all the prerequisites are in place,” Draghi said at a
press conference in Ljubljana, Slovenia, after policy makers
left the benchmark rate at a historic low of 0.75 percent.  Lower Yields  A month after Draghi unveiled the unprecedented bond-
purchase plan to lower yields on government debt,  Spain , the
country most likely to take up the offer, is still mulling
whether it wants to accept the conditions attached. At the same
time, the euro-area economy probably entered a recession in the
third quarter as the sovereign debt crisis damped spending and
investment.  Dallara said euro member countries should agree to
appropriate conditionality to allow the ESM and ECB to begin
purchasing their bonds.  The European Union last month unveiled proposals for euro-
area bank oversight. The IIF urged “a clear roadmap” on
measures for the single bank resolution and a common deposit
insurance framework to have an “immediate salutary effect on
market confidence.”  Fiscal Cliff  For the U.S., the IIF urged action to avoid the “fiscal
cliff” and said a lack of consensus has weakened market
confidence and deterred business and consumer spending. If
current law remains unchanged, the IIF estimated that there
would be a fiscal contraction of about 4 percent of GDP.  “The immediate priority is to reach a transparent,
bipartisan agreement to avoid the ‘fiscal cliff’ and raise the
debt ceiling, in the context of a balanced, credible and
comprehensive multi-year fiscal consolidation plan, rather than
piecemeal temporary measures that only prolong policy
uncertainties,” Dallara wrote.  The IIF also said the  Federal Reserve ’s recent quantitative
easing is “broadly welcome.” Dallara cautioned that its effect
may be limited without fiscal policy action and a new regulatory
framework to facilitate bank credit expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  