-- Small Business Is Not a Job Engine
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-04T22:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/time-to-debunk-the-myth-of-small-business-as-job-engine.html
The biggest winner of this week’s
presidential debate was not Republican presidential nominee  Mitt
Romney  or President  Barack Obama . It was  small business .  Each candidate  claimed  his economic policies would do more
to help small companies prosper. Romney went further when he
swatted down Obama’s proposal to raise income taxes on the rich
by claiming it would hurt small-business owners and thus snuff
out job creation.  Yet to portray small businesses as the engine of job growth
is to vastly overstate their role. The  argument  that raising tax
rates on upper-income individuals would harm entrepreneurs is
likewise flawed. We love small business as much as anyone. But
with the U.S. facing unsustainable budget  deficits  that will
require many Americans to pay higher taxes, it’s worth
separating fact from fiction.  First, small businesses destroy almost as many jobs as they
create. Second, only about  3 percent  of small-business owners
fall into the upper-income  tax brackets  that would increase if,
as Obama has proposed, the Bush tax cuts are allowed to expire.
And third, many businesses counted as small aren’t engaged in
traditional small-business activity. Instead, they are  partners 
in  hedge funds , law firms and private-equity shops, or they are
highly paid actors, athletes, speakers and authors.  Taxes Avoided  Small businesses are being drawn into the political
discussion because of the way they are structured. To avoid
paying corporate income taxes, many small-business owners report
profits on their individual tax returns. These “pass-through”
entities include sole proprietorships, partnerships, limited
liability companies and S corporations. Some of them are very
profitable, but a large number aren’t what most of us would
consider a small business, such as a dry cleaner or coffee shop.  One reason for the confusion is that there is no universal
definition. The U.S. Small Business Administration counts
companies with as much as $35.5 million in sales and 1,500
employees, depending on the industry. Outside government,
companies with less than $7 million in sales and fewer than 500
employees are widely considered small businesses.  Two recent reports by Ernst & Young LLP -- one  commissioned 
by the S Corporation Association and another by the  National
Federation of Independent Business  -- took the broad view. They
concluded that pass-through companies accounted for almost 95
percent of all business entities in 2008 and employed 54 percent
of the private-sector workforce. Romney’s debate-night assertion
that the tax increase would cost 700,000 jobs stems from these
studies.  Such findings, though, are at odds with those of several
 other   studies , including  one  in 2011 by the U.S. Treasury
Department. It attempted to better define small business by
looking at criteria such as income, labor, and other business
expenses and tax deductions. Its conclusion: “Many filers are
not engaged in business activity as it is traditionally
understood.” Just 20 million of the 34.7 million filers
reporting pass-through income qualified as a small business,
Treasury said. Of those, about one-fifth qualified as an
employer.  True, most small-business wealth is accumulated at the top.
The 3 percent of filers with pass-through income in the upper
brackets account for half of all pass-through income. Owners of
small businesses that employ workers are also more concentrated
in the top two brackets -- accounting for 10 percent of owners
-- supporting the argument that a tax increase would cost jobs.  Tax Deductions  Yet it isn’t at all clear that raising taxes on the high-
income group would depress hiring and investment. For one thing,
small businesses enjoy a host of  tax breaks , including the
ability to immediately  deduct  many costs as a business expense.  More important, recent economic research  shows  that small
companies play no greater role in  job creation  than large ones
do. What matters more is age: New businesses account for the
biggest share of job gains. Those companies tend to be small yet
unprofitable. They would be largely unaffected by an upper-
income tax increase.  And once most startups pass the five-year mark, they
destroy more jobs than they create.  University of Maryland  economist John Haltiwanger  found ,
for example, that small mature businesses have “negative net job
creation” and that the bigger contributors to job growth are
startups, which account for roughly 3 percent of employment in
most years.  Alan Viard , a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute ,  says  the argument that small business creates jobs
“does not stand up under scrutiny.”  Small business is important and the U.S. should continue
policies that enable entrepreneurs to bring their ideas to life,
including tax breaks for hiring new workers and deductions for
expenses.  Robert Litan , director of research at Bloomberg
Government,  favors  “entrepreneurs’ visas” and green cards for
those with degrees in science, technology, engineering and math.  The U.S. faces a serious financial shortfall that will
require many Americans, including the wealthiest, to pay higher
taxes. Republicans can argue against tax increases for many
reasons, but hampering small business isn’t one of them.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Today’s highlights: the editors on
 Venezuela’s high-stakes election ; Stephen L. Carter on why it’s
OK to skip the  presidential debates ; William Pesek on
 quantitative easing in the U.S. and Japan ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 running your hedge fund from prison ; Brian T. Haggerty on the
perils of  military intervention in Syria ;  Paul Hodgson  on
recouping bonuses from  bank executives .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 