-- IMF Won’t Disburse Greek Loan If Debt Not Sustainable
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-04T15:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/imf-s-rice-says-greek-program-must-be-fully-funded-to-disburse.html
The  International Monetary Fund  won’t
disburse its share of the Greek bailout if the country’s debt is
not deemed sustainable or if other creditors don’t pledge to
fill a financing gap in the aid package, a fund spokesman said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  last week warned
that the level of Greek debt would have “to be addressed,”
pushing European policy makers to consider writing off some of
the aid to the country. While the fund is sticking to a target
of 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, the Greek
government forecast this week that public debt will climb to
179.3 percent of GDP in 2013.  For the loan “to move forward, we need two key elements --
we need the debt sustainability and the financing assurances and
both of those things need to be in place,” IMF spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in Washington today. “As to how these
requirements will be fulfilled in the context of the current
review, we still have to discuss this with the Greek authorities
and the European partners.”  While Lagarde also said last week  Greece  faces a financing
shortfall that won’t be solved with just the budget measures
currently being discussed, the IMF has indicated that any
additional aid will have to come from Europe.  Rice said today he couldn’t give a date for the end of
talks taking place in Athens, even though “urgency is of the
essence.” His comments on the IMF’s requirements for
disbursement suggest that an agreement on measures to reduce the
deficit won’t suffice to unblock the funds as part of the 130
billion-euro package ($169 billion)  Regarding  Spain , Rice said that an IMF team will visit
 Madrid  from Oct. 15 to Oct. 26 to monitor the country’s banking
bailout and will submit its report to the government and the
European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  