-- Linde Says Spain May Miss Deficit Goal, Optimistic on Growth
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-10-04T13:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/linde-says-spain-may-miss-deficit-goal-optimistic-on-growth-1-.html
Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde said the government risks missing its deficit goal this
year, is overly optimistic about the economy in 2013 and faces a
“serious” decision on increasing pension payouts.  “The information available -- for the central government
through August -- shows there is a risk of missing the objective
set for this year,” Linde said in testimony to the Spanish
parliament’s budget committee in  Madrid  today. “Given the
importance of achieving this, additional measures that would
make it possible should be considered.”  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s forecast for the economy to
contract 0.5 percent is “optimistic” and may lead to further
corrective budget measures if it’s overshot, Linde said.  Unsustainable borrowing costs may force Spain to request a
second European bailout after securing as much as 100 billion
euros ($129 billion) in loans for its banks. Rajoy is struggling
to tackle the euro area’s third-largest budget deficit amid a
deepening recession that has pushed the  unemployment  rate to 25
percent.  The government faces a “very serious” decision regarding
pensions this year and it should weigh the impact of maintaining
the buying power of retirees with the effect on the deficit in
2012 and in the following years, Linde said. “This is another
risk that exists to comply with 6.3 percent this year.”  Spain has promised its euro-region partners it will limit
its budget shortfall to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product
this year, compared with 8.96 percent in 2011. The central
government’s shortfall was 4.8 percent of GDP in the first eight
months of the year. That’s more than the full-year target of 4.5
percent. The rest of the total deficit comes from the budget
gaps of the regional governments, municipalities and the social-
security system.  Restoring market confidence in the credibility of Spanish
finances is crucial to return to growth in 2014, Linde said.
“Basically our economy has a funding problem that comes from a
problem of confidence,” Linde said. Overhauls of the economy
should also aim to increase competitiveness, he said.  Budget plans must be made available for all levels of
government at the same time, Linde said.  “We lack a document that would enable an analysis of all
public administrations’ budget plans and their compatibility
with targets,” he said.  The creation of a fiscal authority announced by the
government last month will be useful provided the body is
independent and has as much authority and resources as similar
institutions in other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  