-- India Clears FDI in Insurance, Pensions in Economy Reboot
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-10-05T05:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/india-clears-fdi-in-insurance-pensions-as-singh-reboots-economy.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet unveiled a second wave of policy changes
intended to bolster a slumping  economy  as he seeks to restore
faith in his leadership and establish a platform for his party
less than two years before the next general election.  In a move that signaled the  Congress party -led government’s
intent to push ahead with the biggest opening of the economy to
global investors since 2004, ministers approved proposals
allowing overseas companies to hold as much as 49 percent in
insurance firms, and for the first time permit foreign
investment in pension funds. The bills will need the consent of
lawmakers in Parliament.  “We have gone from a situation where we had lost faith in
the government to suddenly where it is doing all the right
things,” said Pauli Laursen, an Aabenraa, Denmark-based fund
manager at SydInvest Asset Management, who manages about $700
million in shares of BRIC companies, including Indian power
producer  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  “But for money to keep going to  India , we
need to have a continuous strong news flow of good decisions.”  Spurred to take action by an economy growing close to its
slowest pace in three years and warnings that India’s credit
rating faced being downgraded to junk status amid stalled policy
making, Singh’s widening embrace of foreign investment risks
further protests in the streets and in  Parliament . His biggest
ally quit the ruling coalition last month over the Sept. 14
proposals to allow foreign supermarket chains to open stores,
while opposition parties called a daylong strike.  Aviva, ING  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  are among global
insurers that will be able to further invest in their Indian
ventures if lawmakers approve the proposals when Parliament
resumes next month. The votes may provide the first test of
Singh’s ability to drum up the support among regional
powerbrokers and opposition groups that his minority
administration will need to pass legislation.  Indian  stocks  have rallied since speculation mounted Sept.
14 the government would open the economy to more foreign
investment. The rupee is headed for its best week since June.  Rejecting a parliamentary panel, which in December said a
further increase may not be in the interest of the country’s
insurance industry, the government will present a bill proposing
to  lift  the cap on foreign investment in  insurance  to 49 percent
from 26 percent currently. The limit on overseas investment in
the  pension  sector will be aligned with that for insurance,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said.  Banerjee Exit  Last month, Singh’s cabinet allowed overseas retailers such
as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to own as much as 51
percent in supermarket ventures. The government also said
foreign airlines can own as much as 49 percent in local
carriers, and permitted overseas investment of up to 49 percent
in power exchanges.  The second round of big-ticket policy changes announced
yesterday may be harder to enforce because unlike foreign
investment in retail and aviation, which are enacted by a
cabinet decision, opening insurance and pensions requires
parliamentary approval. Since the exit of Mamata Banerjee’s
Trinamool Congress from the ruling coalition two weeks ago, the
government has been reduced to a minority in both chambers of
parliament.  “So far they have decided to take the low-hanging fruit,”
Laursen said in a phone interview before yesterday’s cabinet
meeting. “It is going to be much harder for them to pass the
pensions and insurance bills because they don’t have the allies
in Parliament.”  Buffett Venture  Singh’s government has in the past been rebuffed in its
efforts to lift the caps on insurance and pensions by rival
political parties. Both bills have been introduced in Parliament
before, with the government unable to win the support of groups
ideologically opposed to private companies investing in pension
or insurance funds, many of them state run.  Chidambaram said the government will reach out to political
parties, especially the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party ,
to seek their support. “Legislation making in a Parliament
where government does not have majority is a process of
discussion and negotiations,” he said.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said last year during a visit to India that the
prior limit on overseas ownership of local insurers made
investments in the country less attractive. Berkshire began
selling auto coverage in the country last year after forging an
agreement with Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.  “India would be more attractive if we could buy more than
26 percent,” Buffett said at a media conference in Bangalore in
March 2011. “That is a factor in the decision of not
investing.”  U.S. Interest  U.S. insurers have been seeking to add sales in India as
they look to emerging nations for expansion. New York-based
 MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, announced a deal
last year for  Punjab National Bank (PNB)  to distribute its products.  “MetLife has long spoken out in support of the expansion
of foreign direct investment opportunities in India,” Peter Stack, a company spokesman, wrote in an e-mail. “We are
encouraged by these developments and will continue to watch the
bill’s progress through Parliament closely.”  In May, Michel Khalaf, MetLife’s president of  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa , contrasted the limits in India with
opportunities in  Brazil , South America’s largest economy.  In India, “there are restrictions in terms of foreign
ownership, a challenging regulatory environment,” Khalaf said.
“Brazil is a different case in the sense that Brazil is an
attractive market.”  Liberty Mutual Holding Co. struck a deal with  Videocon
Industries Ltd. (VCLF)  in 2010 to form a company that would sell both
personal and commercial insurance. The Boston-based insurer said
in July that it received approval to begin writing coverage in
the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  