-- Indian 10-Year Bond Yield at Two-Month Low on Easing Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-04T12:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/indian-10-year-bond-yield-at-two-month-low-on-easing-speculation.html
India ’s 10-year bonds were little
changed, with yields holding at the lowest level in almost two
months, on optimism the central bank will cut interest rates to
support the government’s efforts to boost economic growth.  Indian ministers are scheduled to consider proposals to
lift caps on foreign holdings in the nation’s insurance and
pension industries today. The government cut energy subsidies
and allowed more overseas investment in retailing and aviation
last month. The central bank, which cut the repurchase  rate  by
50 basis points in April, kept it unchanged at 8 percent at the
last three policy meetings.  “The proposed reform measures suggest that the RBI will
supplement the government’s effort in pushing growth,” said
Srinivasa Raghavan, an executive vice president of treasury at
 Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd. (DHLBK)  in Mumbai. “We can see some monetary easing
in the coming months.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes scheduled June 2022 was
little changed at 8.15 percent in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system. That matched the level touched
yesterday, which was the lowest since Aug. 9.  Yields retreated, after falling as much as two basis points
earlier, as central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
 inflation  was still holding above the RBI’s “comfort zone.”  Headline inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in August,
the fastest pace  in the BRIC group of largest emerging nations,
which includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The Indian  economy  expanded 5.5 percent in the three months
ended June 30, government data show. Growth was 5.3 percent in
the previous quarter, the least since 2009.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose one basis
point to 7.60 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  