-- Informatica Plunges as Earnings Fall Short on Europe
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-04T16:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/informatica-plunges-as-earnings-fall-short-san-francisco-mover.html
Informatica Corp. (INFA)  tumbled the most in
three months after the maker of data-integration software
reported preliminary third-quarter earnings and sales that
missed analysts’ estimates, citing challenges in  Europe 
operations.  Informatica  fell  26 percent to $24.97 at 12:25 p.m. in  New
York , for the biggest intraday decline since July 6. Through
yesterday, the  Redwood City , California-based company had lost
8.9 percent this year.  The company, which gets  about a quarter  of its revenue from
Europe, said that an unexpected sales decline on that continent
during the period offset improvements in the U.S. and Asia
Pacific region.  “Most of our revenue shortfall in the third quarter was in
Europe, where we fell well short of our own expectations,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sohaib Abbasi said in a
statement today. The company is taking “aggressive steps to
address” those “continued operational challenges,” he said.  Third-quarter profit was probably 25 cents to 27 cents a
share, while revenue was likely $189 million to $191 million,
Informatica said. Analysts projected profit of 34 cents a share
on sales of $200.9 million, according to the average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Informatica’s third-quarter shortcomings may be linked to
sales-execution problems, especially in Europe, Derrick Wood, an
analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group, said in an interview
today. The company replaced its head of global sales in recent
months, he said.  Management Change  “It’s probably being felt more in Europe because of macro
issues there and management disruption,” said Wood, who rates
the shares hold. “But there has been management disruption
across the board.”  FBN Securities analyst Shebly Seyrafi kept a buy rating on
the stock, while lowering his price target to $32 from $45
today, citing the weakness in Europe.  “Informatica made several sales force changes recently,
and it generally takes a few quarters for these changes to bear
fruit,” Seyrafi wrote in a note to clients today.  Informatica named John McGee as executive vice president of
worldwide field operations in July, succeeding Paul Hoffman, who
the company said is retiring.  Debbie O’Brien, an Informatica spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether the executive change affected the company’s
third quarter results.  Informatica is scheduled to report full results for the
third quarter on Oct. 25.  Qlik Technologies Inc. (QLIK) , which competes with Informatica,
fell 8.3 percent to $19.11, after earlier trading as low as
$18.25, for the biggest decline since July 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  