-- Inherited Diseases Found Sooner in Newborns With DNA Scan
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/inherited-diseases-found-sooner-in-newborns-with-dna-scan.html
Gene sequencing can speed the
diagnosis of rare genetic disorders in newborns and find causes
of mental retardation in cases with unknown origins, according
to two studies that move DNA mapping closer to clinical use.  Researchers at Children’s Mercy Hospitals and Clinics in
Kansas City,  Missouri , scanned the DNA of sick infants using a
new speed-reading method to diagnose rare genetic illnesses in
two days instead of weeks, results published in Science
Translational Medicine found. Dutch scientists reported in the
 New England Journal of Medicine  how they found genetic answers
for 16 of 100 patients with mental retardation of unknown cause.  The new research supports an effort to bring gene-
sequencing technology, mostly used in academic, government and
company laboratories, into hospitals and doctors’ offices for
diagnostic purposes. The studies were made possible in part by
technology from San Diego-based  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and Carlsbad,
California-based  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , the two biggest makers
of gene-sequencing machines.  “This is the biggest breakthrough in this technology for
clinical applications we have seen in a few years,” said  David
Dimmock , a geneticist at the Medical College of  Wisconsin  and
Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin in  Milwaukee , about the study
of newborns. “The ability to sequence and interpret a genome in
less than week is huge.”  The researchers at  Children’s Mercy Hospitals and Clinics 
created software that takes raw data from DNA scanning machines
and combs though hundreds of genetic disorders to spot disease-
causing mutations. The system provided likely diagnoses for
three of four sick babies in about two days.  Practical Use  The new method has the potential to make genome sequencing
practical for neonatal intensive care units, enabling doctors to
diagnose mysterious genetic diseases more quickly, said  Stephen
Kingsmore , director of the Center for Pediatric Genomic Medicine
at Children’s Mercy and a study senior author. Fast diagnoses of
sick babies may lead to life-extending treatments sooner in some
or help avoid futile, costly therapies in others.  Dimmock, who wasn’t involved in the study, said researchers
at his institution were working on a similar fast genome
interpretation system, but hadn’t published the results yet.
“They beat us to the punch,” he said.  The colossal volume of raw data generated from gene
sequencing must be analyzed by expert genetic researchers, a
process that previously has taken weeks or months.  Smart Software  Kingsmore and his team tackled that issue by devising smart
software that allows treating doctors to enter in a sick baby’s
symptoms. The software then matches these reported symptoms to
known genetic diseases that have similar symptoms, and scans
through the baby’s genome results for likely harmful mutations
in relevant genes.  “We think this is going to transform the world of
neonatology,” Kingsmore said during a conference call with
reporters. “Until now, this was just not possible” to get
whole genome scan results quickly enough to help sick newborns
in intensive care units, he said. “Babies either died or else
got better and were discharged home before the results of a gene
test were returned.”  For cases in which treatments are available, spotting the
cause of a disease sooner may allow treatments to be started
before it is too late, he said. Kingsmore estimated the total
cost of the test to be about $13,500.  More Data  The software so far includes 600 genetic diseases that
affect children, Kingsmore said in a telephone interview. His
team plans to have all 3,500 genetic diseases where the precise
genetic cause is known entered in the system by the end of the
year. There are thousands more genetic diseases where the causes
are still unknown.  The projected two-day turnaround for the test doesn’t
include the time to express-mail DNA samples to Illumina and for
the company to send back the results on a hard drive. Including
this transit time, the process took about a week, Kingsmore
said. Kingsmore said he hopes to achieve the two-day time after
Children’s Mercy gets its own copy of the new Illumina machine
later this fall.  Though results from the newborn study “push the
envelope,” the two-day turnaround represented a “best-case
scenario,” that is unlikely to be achieved in most real-world
circumstances, said  Wendy Chung , a molecular and clinical
geneticist at Columbia University.  A more realistic time for genome results would be a week,
given practical considerations such as the fact that most
hospital labs close over the weekend, she said. This still would
be a big improvement over current methods, she said.  Few Solutions  Chung also cautioned that there only are a minority of
cases in which super-fast gene scans will lead to life-saving
treatments. Most severe genetic diseases don’t have good
treatments, and the ones that do often can be diagnosed by other
methods that don’t require every gene to be scanned.  The study was sponsored by Children’s Mercy and the Marion
Merrell Dow Foundation. Illumina provided free DNA sequencing
for the babies in the study and several of the company’s
researchers were co-authors on the study.  In a separate study, Dutch scientists sequenced the genomes
of 100 individuals with mental retardation with no known cause
and found genetic reasons for 16 of them.  While more than 400 genetic mutations are known to cause
intellectual disability, they are responsible for less than half
of the cases, said  Han Brunner , a study author and head of human
genetics at Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre in the
Netherlands.  Improved Diagnoses  The study shows how gene sequencing can improve diagnosis
in patients with mental disabilities. Knowing the genetic origin
can help patients and families understand the prognoses and may
lead to specific treatment options, the authors said in the
study.  “Half of the children and adults with intellectual
disability never have an explanation of why they are retarded --
that’s a big problem,” leading many parents on a quest to
numerous doctors looking for answers, Brunner said in a
telephone interview. “This is what people call the diagnostic
odyssey, and people can put that to rest,” by using genetic
sequencing, he said.  Researchers scanned the DNA of children with mental
retardation, defined as having an IQ of less than 50, as well as
their parents, and looked for differences. While all children
have some mutations, few lead to intellectual disability,
Brunner said. Once the culprits are known, it can help direct
some therapies or dietary changes.  “We had two cases where the type of mutation would suggest
that you might try a treatment for a metabolic disorder, and
another with epilepsy,” he said.  For instance, patients with a mutation in the PDHA1 gene
would benefit from a ketogenic diet, which is high in fat, and
those with SCN2A mutation should avoid sodium-channel blockers
to better control their epileptic episodes and improve cognitive
function, according to the study, which was sponsored by the
European Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  