-- Ipswich Player Chopra, Jockey Heffernan Accused Over Race-Fixing
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-04T13:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/ipswich-player-chopra-jockey-heffernan-accused-over-race-fixing.html
The  British Horseracing Authority 
charged nine people, including one jockey and three professional
soccer players, over alleged race-fixing.  Ipswich Town’s Michael Chopra, ex-Doncaster Rovers player
Mark Wilson, James Coppinger of Nottingham Forest and jockey
Andrew Heffernan are accused of “serious breaches of the rules
of racing,” the BHA said in a  statement  on its website today.  The non-criminal charges follow an investigation into
suspicious betting activity on races that took place between
Nov. 1, 2010, and March 31, 2011, and focus on wagers on betting
exchanges that horses would lose, the BHA said.  Chopra, Wilson and three others have been charged with
offering bribes to Heffernan, who now rides in Australia and
used to be licensed in the U.K.  Heffernan was charged with “communicating directly or
indirectly to one or more betting exchange account holders”
information relating to the prospects of horses in races, as
well as intentionally failing to ensure that horses ridden by
him were run on their merits.  The police “will be informed, but whether they pursue it
or not is completely a matter for them,” BHA spokesman Robin
Mounsey said in an interview.  If found guilty, Heffernan may be disqualified from racing
for up to 25 years, Mounsey said. The other eight may be banned
from the sport, including dealing with any licensed individual
connected to horse racing, for three years.  Phone calls to Ipswich Town, Nottingham Forest and the
Australian Racing Board, seeking comment from those accused,
weren’t picked up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  