-- Tehran Currency Traders Shut Shops as Police Patrol Streets
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-10-04T14:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/iran-s-currency-traders-shut-shops-as-riot-police-patrol-tehran.html
Most foreign currency shops and
outlets in Tehran’s Grand Bazaar were shuttered today while
hundreds of Iranian riot police patrolled in the downtown area a
day after protests over the tumbling national currency.  Police units were visible around Ferdowsi and Manouchehri
streets, near one of the main areas for currency traders in the
capital, as well as roads surrounding the Grand Bazaar further
south. The minority of exchange houses that did open failed to
display prices or carry out transactions.  The rial fell to a record low of 35,000 to the dollar on
Oct. 1, an 18 percent drop, on the unofficial market. The
currency has plummeted since November when it traded at 13,200
to the greenback.  President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who in recent days has come
under increasing criticism including from fellow politicians for
his economic policies, has blamed the U.S. and European Union
for fighting a “psychological war” against his nation.
Tightening trade and financial restrictions, aimed at curbing
 Iran ’s nuclear program, have limited Iran’s ability to sell oil,
its biggest export, and other goods in return for currencies
such as dollars and euros.  The U.K.,  France  and  Germany  are pressing the EU to agree
to new measures to bring Iran’s economy to its knees and bar its
nuclear ambitions, according to several European diplomats.  Black Market  U.S. Undersecretary of the Treasury David Cohen is visiting
France, Germany,  Italy  and the U.K. this week to discuss
coordinating efforts to increase the pressure on the Iranian
government. EU foreign ministers meet in Luxembourg on Oct. 15.  It was possible to purchase dollars on the black market at
a price of 33,000 rials in Tehran today from a number of
independent money changers stationed with their motorbikes along
Ferdowsi and Hafez streets, an unofficial transaction which
would be punishable by the authorities.  Several of the closed shops in the bazaar had a sign saying
the site had been sealed “by order of the law.”  Khalil Helali, a police commander, warned yesterday that
the closure of shops “with a view to creating economic
disruption is unlawful,” and will be punished. If merchants go
on strike, the police will seal their shops with approval from
the judiciary, Helali said in a report today, according to the
Tehran-based newspaper.  ‘Destructive Effects’  Riot police were deployed yesterday after some shopkeepers
didn’t open and trash cans were set alight in the streets, in
the first visible signs of discontent since accelerating
inflation and the rial’s slide in recent months.  Iranian authorities have  arrested  16 people accused of
fueling unrest in the currency markets, the state-run Mehr news
agency said today.  Business associations held a meeting today and agreed to
resume activity at the Grand Bazaar on Oct. 6 after the Iranian
weekend, Mehr  said . Their leaders said that the government’s
policies and their destructive effects on the economy were
responsible for the disruption, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  