-- Tissue Regenix Stock Jumps on Wound-Healing Test Results
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-10-04T15:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/tissue-regenix-stock-jumps-on-wound-healing-test-results.html
Tissue Regenix Group Plc (TRX)  climbed to
the highest price in more than four months after the maker of
replacement body parts said its dCELL Dermis technology showed
encouraging interim test results for healing chronic wounds.  The trial involving 20 patients with conditions such as
venous leg ulcers showed a “significant reduction in surface
area of chronic wounds after just six weeks,” York, England-
based Tissue Regenix said today in a statement.  Tissue Regenix rose 12 percent to 12.625 pence, the highest
since May 25 in  London . The company had the second-biggest gain
among the 51 stocks on the  FTSE AIM Health Care Index. (AXHEAL)   “The results are impressive, although they will need to be
confirmed in larger controlled studies to achieve widespread
commercial adoption,” Paul Cuddon, an analyst at Peel Hunt,
said in a note today. “Full results from the ongoing wound-care
trial are expected by the end of the year.”  The dCELL technology involves taking animal tissue and
removing cellular material from it that would cause humans to
reject the implant. Nine of the people in the trial have been
completely healed, while all ulcers were reduced in surface area
by an average of 50 percent, the company said.  The treatment allows doctors to use the stripped tissue
without anti-rejection drugs to replace worn out or diseased
body parts. Once implanted, the cellular scaffold is repopulated
with the patient’s own stem cells.  Vascular Patch  Among products Tissue Regenix is working on is a material
from pigs to produce abundant quantities of tissue that may be
used to fix injuries such as a torn meniscus in the knees, a
tiny tissue tear common to athletes. Tissue Regenix received
European approval in August 2010 for its first product, a
vascular patch that replaces tissue removed during
open-heart surgery.  The operating loss totaled 2.1 million pounds ($3.4
million) in the fiscal first half ended July 31, Tissue Regenix
said in a separate statement. The company said it has a “strong
pipeline” of products, and it expects the commercialization of
some of them next year.  Of the three  analysts  who share their recommendations on
Tissue Regenix with Bloomberg, all advise investors to buy the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  