-- Mitsubishi UFJ Lease to Purchase Jackson Square Aviation
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-10-04T16:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/mitsubishi-ufj-lease-to-buy-jackson-square-for-1-3-bln.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Co. (8593) 
agreed to buy  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ’s Jackson Square
Aviation LCC for 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) to add about 70
planes to its commercial-aircraft fleet.  The purchase will be completed in December, Tokyo-based
Mitsubishi UFJ Lease said in a statement today. The lessor, an
affiliate of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s
biggest publicly traded bank, will do the deal by buying Jackson
Square’s parent JSA International Holdings LP.  Japanese banks are targeting plane-leasing and expansion
overseas as a shrinking population saps demand at home and
because a stronger yen has made foreign assets cheaper to buy.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  completed the $1.2 billion
purchase of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s plane-leasing
unit in June.  “Expansion prospects in Japan are limited,” said Shiro Yoshioka, a Tokyo-based analyst at Japaninvest Group Plc. “The
stronger yen is also helping boost purchasing power.”  Jackson Square has 76 planes valued at more than
$4 billion, the San Francisco-based lessor said in a statement.
The jets are in service with carriers including  Air France-KLM
Group (AF) , Emirates and Virgin America Inc., according to aviation-
data provider Ascend. The company’s fleet is predominately
narrow-body Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS planes, Ascend said.  Management Team  The lessor has “at the core of its business, a management
team with expertise in the industry,” Mitsubishi UFJ Lease
said. Jackson Square, named after the San Francisco district
where it’s based, began operating in 2010 after Oaktree
committed $500 million in equity to Richard Wiley, Toby Bright
and Scott Weiss.  The trio founded Pegasus Aviation Finance Co., sold it in
2007 to Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. and then created Sky
Holding Co., which was renamed Jackson Square with Oaktree’s
involvement. Wiley had worked with Oaktree since the mid-1990s,
doing more than $6 billion in aircraft transactions through
Pegasus. Bright had been Boeing’s commercial-plane sales chief.  “Having the support of another major international
financial services company enables us to continue to provide our
airline customers with new capital to finance their next-
generation deliveries,” Wiley said in the  statement .  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease owns four Boeing planes, according to
Ascend. The company leases assets including machine tools,
computers, cars and real estate, according to its website.  Shares Rise  The lessor jumped 3 percent to 3,395 yen at the close in
 Tokyo . The shares have gained 11 percent this year. Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial holds a 9.2 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal “is in line with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group’s
business strategy to expand global assets,” said Hironori Imafuku, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based bank. Leasing “is one
of our business pillars in addition to banking, brokerage, trust
banking and credit-card services.”  Japanese companies announced $51.7 billion of overseas
takeovers last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This year, $31.1 billion of deals have been announced, led by
Marubeni Corp.’s $5.6 billion purchase of U.S. grain
merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC. The yen has gained 6 percent
against the dollar in the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Lease Expansion  The jet-leasing industry has been growing since its birth
in the 1970s, and about 35 percent of the global fleet is now
leased rather than owned, up from 25 percent in 2000, according
to a Fitch Ratings report in July. Airlines will take 34,000 new
planes valued at $4.5 trillion through 2031, according to
Boeing. That’s a 1.5 percent increase from a 33,500-jet estimate
a year earlier.  Jackson Square specializes in sale-leaseback deals,
functioning as a third-party financier. In such transactions,
airlines order jets, getting discounts off the purchase price,
and then seek to preserve cash by selling the planes to lessors
and signing operating leases instead.  Competitors include units of  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , as well as
independent companies such as  Air Lease Corp. (AL)  and  AerCap
Holdings NV. (AER)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  