-- Japan Minister to Attend BOJ Meeting as Pressure to Ease Mounts
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-04T09:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/japan-minister-to-attend-boj-meeting-as-pressure-to-ease-mounts.html
Japan ’s Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  said he will attend a central bank policy meeting
tomorrow, the first cabinet minister to do so in nearly a
decade, as he presses for more easing.  “I am preparing to attend,” Maehara, 50, said in a group
interview in Tokyo today, without commenting on what he’ll say
at the meeting. “I want to go as often as possible.”  While the BOJ is projected to leave policy unchanged at the
two-day meeting ending tomorrow, Maehara’s move ratchets up
pressure on the bank to do more to spur the world’s third-
largest economy. Morgan Stanley and BNP Paribas forecast two
straight quarters of contraction through year-end, and the
minister’s efforts may boost expectations for easing at the next
gathering on Oct. 30.  “He’s hoping his attendance will make a difference,” said
 Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at  JPMorgan Securities  in
Tokyo and a former central bank official. “It will probably
have a limited impact. If the BOJ acts on the day a high-ranking
politician comes to the meeting, it will make people think the
BOJ is affected by political pressure.”  Earlier this week, Maehara suggested that the bank could
buy foreign bonds as one easing option, and vowed closer
scrutiny to ensure it meets its 1 percent inflation target.
Maehara said today that purchases of overseas debt by the bank
are a tool for monetary adjustment, not currency intervention.  BOJ's Decision  “I hope the BOJ will pursue powerful monetary easing to
achieve its Feb. 14 pledge of 1 percent price goal as soon as
possible,” Maehara said today.  When asked today about possible extra policy options beside
foreign bond purchases, he declined to comment, saying the BOJ
must decide. Monetary tools will be decided by the central bank,
“taking the BOJ’s independence into account, after discussions
with the government,” he said.  A BOJ spokesman said that Maehara’s attendance at the
meeting tomorrow would be the first by a government minister
since former Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister Heizo Takenaka
on April 8, 2003. At that meeting, the BOJ left policy unchanged
before deciding to add more cash to the economy at a gathering
later that month.  Senior finance ministry and cabinet office officials
normally attend BOJ meetings, with four vice-ministers present
at the most recent Sept. 18-19 gathering.  None of 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect the
BOJ to take further easing measures tomorrow. Nomura Securities
Co., RBS Securities Japan Ltd., and Citigroup Inc. are among
those forecasting more stimulus at the bank’s meeting on Oct.
30.  Surprise Move  The BOJ last month unexpectedly expanded its asset-purchase
fund by 10 trillion yen ($127 billion), seeking to counter the
yen’s advance and stem economic contraction.  With the action, the BOJ joined counterparts from the
 Federal Reserve  to the  European Central Bank  in taking steps to
address persistent risks to growth, five years after the U.S.
mortgage meltdown derailed the global economy.  Newly appointed Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said that
foreign asset purchases would “require cautious handling and
consideration,” suggesting he may have less enthusiasm for the
idea than Maehara.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  