-- Johnson & Johnson Agrees to Settle Five Rispersal Suits
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-04T16:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/johnson-johnson-agrees-to-settle-five-rispersal-suits.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to settle
five lawsuits over claims that its antipsychotic drug Risperdal
caused increased breast-tissue growth in boys.  Terms of the settlements weren’t disclosed at a hearing
today in Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas.  “Our clients are very pleased,” Steve Sheller, a
plaintiffs’ attorney, said after the settlement was announced.
“I’ll never be truly satisfied because of what happened here
with these kids. It’s a sad commentary on what goes on with
 prescription drugs  and their use in children.”  The lawsuits are among more than 400 in which J&J and its
Janssen unit were accused of personal injuries caused by
Risperdal, the company said in an August  regulatory filing . More
than 100 involve claims that the drug caused young males to grow
breasts, Sheller said.  The settlement covers cases that were planned for trial
this year in Philadelphia, Janssen said in a statement e-mailed
by spokeswoman Teresa Mueller.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  gave its approval to
Risperdal for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia in
1993. It was later approved for other uses. J&J has denied any
wrongdoing.  “Since the early 1990s, Risperdal has improved the lives
of countless people throughout the world who suffer from the
devastating effects of serious mental illness,” according to
the statement from Janssen.  ‘Illegally Marketed’  Global  sales  of Risperdal peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007
and declined to $527 million in 2010 after the company lost
patent protection.  J&J hid the fact that Risperdal could increase hormone
levels that prompted breast development in males and trained
salespeople to downplay the information in calls to doctors, Bob Hilliard, a plaintiff’s lawyer, told a jury on Sept. 24 in the
first case to go to trial.  “A drug that was never meant for kids was illegally
marketed to kids,” Hilliard said.  J&J’s lawyers countered that the boy’s breast development
was normal for a teen going through puberty and Risperdal played
no role in it.  Laura Smith, an attorney for J&J, told jurors the breast
growth “was totally consistent with” the idea that the teen
developed breasts as part of puberty. She said the company
didn’t illegally market the drug.  U.S. Probe  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations the company marketed the drug
for unapproved uses, J&J said in a regulatory filing.  J&J officials reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department to pay as much as $2.2 billion to resolve probes of
its sales of drugs, including Risperdal, according to people
familiar with the matter,  Bloomberg News  reported earlier this
year.  The company agreed to pay $181 million to resolve claims by
36 states that it improperly marketed and advertised Risperdal
and Invega, another antipsychotic.  In April, a judge in  Arkansas  ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in  Texas  over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement. The Texas case
included claims that the company marketed the drug for children
while lacking approval by regulators for such use.  In June 2011, a judge in  South Carolina  ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. The company on Aug. 31 lost a bid to have a Louisiana
appeals court throw out an award of almost $258 million that a
jury ordered it to pay over Risperdal marketing in that state.  The Risperdal cases include A.B., a minor v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 00649, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas,
January Term 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  