-- U.S. Retailers’ September Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-04T20:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/tjx-september-sales-top-estimates-as-kohl-s-disappoints.html
U.S. retailers’ September same-store
sales topped analysts’ estimates, led by discount and specialty-
apparel chains that benefited from back-to-school shopping,
while department stores trailed projections.  Sales at  TJX Cos. (TJX)  climbed 6 percent, beating the average
estimate for a 4.4 percent gain from analysts surveyed by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discounter, posted a 2.1 percent increase in same-store
sales, topping the 2 percent projection.  Retailers benefited from back-to-school promotions that
drove traffic early in September before tapering off in the
middle of the month. Sales in the current environment may wane
when customers don’t have an “event” to get them shopping,
Jennifer Davis, an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in New
York, wrote in a note before the report.  “The winner of the group is TJX,” Ron Friedman, head of
retail and consumer products at accounting firm Marcum LLP, said
in an interview today. “They’re where everyone was last year,
but they’re still there, and nobody else is there really. They
had the right product, they hit the kids for back to school.”  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Retail Metrics rose 3.9 percent, excluding drugstores. That
topped analysts’ average estimate of a 3.7 percent gain, the
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based firm said today. Sales increased
5.9 percent in August. Specialty-apparel chains led the gains
with a 5.6 percent increase, while discounters rose 4.3 percent
and department-store sales increased 1.4 percent.  TJX, based in Framingham,  Massachusetts , rose 0.6 percent
to $45.50 at the close in New York. Minneapolis-based Target
gained 0.9 percent to $63.65.  Department Stores  “It’s slow, steady, growth,” said Barbara Kahn, a
marketing professor at the Wharton School of the University of
Pennsylvania, said by phone from Philadelphia. “The retailers
understand the market much better now, they plan inventories
better now, they understand you have to do something interesting
to bring people into the store.”  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, reported a 2.5 percent increase, trailing analysts’
estimates for a 3.3 percent gain. The Cincinnati-based company’s
shares rose 0.5 percent to $39.67.  Kohl’s Misses  “You’re going to continue to see this bifurcation in
performance between those companies that have it right and those
companies that are struggling,” Michael Appel, a director with
consulting firm AlixPartners, said by phone from New York. “The
winners are those that are going to be able to combine value
with fashion and have the goods that consumers want on their
shelves, appropriately priced.”  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  U.S. students typically start school in August or at the
beginning of September after two to three months of summer
vacation. Most back-to-school sales take place in August and
September.  Shopping Events  “Sales slow when the customer does not have a ‘need’ to go
to the mall,” Lazard’s Davis wrote. “We expect sales to pick
up again when the weather cools.”  Consumers may limit shopping trips as they stay in tune
with daily political commentary before the Nov. 6 election,
 Charles Grom , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, wrote
in a note before the report.  In the past four presidential elections, same-store sales
in the third quarter of an election year were lower than the
first half average, on a one- and two-year stacked basis, Grom
wrote in a Sept. 21 report. The effect was biggest for
department stores, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  