-- Kaiser Permanente’s CEO Halvorson to Retire in 2013
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-04T18:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/kaiser-permanente-s-ceo-halvorson-to-retire-in-2013.html
George C. Halvorson, the chief
executive officer who built  Kaiser Permanente  into the U.S.’s
biggest nonprofit health insurer by revenue, will retire at the
end of next year.  Halvorson, 65, who also served as chairman of the board at
the Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Health Plan, will leave in
December 2013, the Oakland, California-based company said in a
statement today. Halvorson was named CEO and chairman in 2002,
Kaiser said.  Kaiser covered 9 million people last year, mostly in the
western U.S., and generated $47.9 billion in revenue, according
to its  website . It also runs 37 hospitals and employs 17,000
physicians. The blended system of insurer and providers that
Halvorson helped build is often cited as a model for how the
rest of the U.S. could cut health-care costs and improve
quality, said Sheryl Skolnick, a hospital analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut  “When he arrived at Kaiser, it was still under-invested in
technology and really only worked in one market, the San
Francisco Bay area,” Skolnick said. “Now, it’s a force to be
reckoned with throughout  California , has caught up in technology
and has a model that is widely regarded as one of the ways to
solve the health-care crisis.”  Halvorson said Kaiser’s integrated system encourages teams
of doctors to work together to keep patients healthy, rather
than rewarding physicians for doing as many procedures as
possible. The system became the template for experiments
with new payment systems in the U.S. health-care overhaul law
passed by Congress in 2010, he said.  “We can focus on the needs of patients and not on the
opportunities to generate a bill,” Halvorson said in a
telephone interview. “It’s liberating.”  The Kaiser Foundation board will “go through a process
that will result in the selection of a successor,” the health
system said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  