-- Kenya’s M-KOPA Gives Phone-Loans to Put Solar Power in Reach
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-10-05T08:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/kenya-s-m-kopa-offers-cheaper-solar-power-to-off-grid-villages.html
M-KOPA LLC, a mobile-technology
startup, is extending credit to low-income earners in  Kenya  to
buy solar-power systems that are otherwise out of their
financial reach, Managing Director Jesse Moore said.  The company, whose name means to borrow in Swahili, has
sold 1,000 units since it began offering the product
commercially in June, Moore said in a phone interview yesterday
from Nairobi, the capital. The target is to reach sales of
“tens of thousands” of units within a year, he said.  “We are giving people a modern, cleaner and longer-lasting
technology for less than what they would spend on kerosene or
another inefficient substitute,” Moore said.  About 80 percent of Kenyan households rely on kerosene for
lighting because they aren’t linked to the national electricity
grid, which doesn’t reach many rural communities and requires a
connection fee of at least 35,000 shillings ($412). Inhaling
fumes from fuels, including the coal and biomass used to power
stoves and lamps in many developing nations, has the same
effects on an individual’s health as smoking two packs of
 cigarettes  a day, according to the  World Health Organization .  M-KOPA’s product isn’t the only pre-paid solar-power system
being geared for the poor in Kenya. Azuri Technologies Ltd., a
Cambridge, England-based company, plans to install 4,000 of its
Indigo solar pay-as-you-go units in Kenya by year-end, Chief
Executive Officer Simon Bransfield-Garth said in a phone
interview yesterday. He declined to specify the number of units
the company has already sold in the country.  Free Power  The M-KOPA system, which is marketed by dealers in Nairobi
and western Kenya, comprises a 4-watt rooftop solar panel, a
control box that attaches to the wall of a home or business,
three lamps and mobile-phone chargers.  Under the payment plan, the system costs 16,900 shillings,
or about $199, in a country where the annual per-capita income
is $820. Clients make a down-payment of 2,500 shillings and then
daily installments of 40 shillings until it’s paid off.  After that, the owners get power for free. By comparison,
Kenyan families spend an average of 50 shillings a day on
kerosene to light their homes and fees to have their mobile
phones charged at places that have electricity, according to
research by M-KOPA.  George Miruka, a 36-year-old father of four, said he
stopped worrying about the fire-risk from kerosene lamps after
outfitting his mud-walled hut with an M-KOPA system last month.
“My children are safe,” Miruka said.  ‘Bulk Payments’  He earns 5,000 shillings a month sterilizing an operating
theater and cleaning a local hospital in Oyugis town, 248
kilometers (154 miles) northeast of Nairobi. “The solar system
works when I have credit in my account, so I make bulk payments
to ensure the system always keeps going,” Miruka said by phone.
“I have 264 days remaining to complete my payment.”  Payments for M-KOPA are processed by  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  East
Africa ’s largest telecommunications provider, through its
mobile-phone money-transfer platform known as M-PESA, at rates
of as low as 5 shillings, Moore said.  That allows M-KOPA to tap into M-PESA’s 15.1 million
customers, comprising almost a third of Kenya’s population. An
estimated 33 percent of Kenyans are “financially excluded” and
don’t have  savings accounts , credit cards or access to loans,
according to the  Kenya Financial Sector Deepening  program in
Nairobi.  ‘Economic Pyramid’  “This system addresses some fundamental issues at the
bottom of the economic pyramid with 70 to 80 percent of the
country living without grid electricity,” Bob Collymore, chief
executive officer of Safaricom, said in an interview on Oct. 3.
“Children can’t do homework at night without light, and the use
of kerosene also concerns us at an environmental level. We can
use our technology to address these issues.”  M-KOPA’s director of strategy and co-founder, Nick Hughes,
is the former head of global payments at U.K.-based Vodafone
Plc, where he helped start M-PESA in 2004. Vodafone has a 40
percent stake in Safaricom. Competitors  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,
Telkom Kenya Ltd. and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd. have since
started operating mobile phone-based banking systems in the
country.  The solar-power unit is manufactured by d.light Energy Pvt
Ltd., a U.S.-based lighting-product designer. Funders of the
project include Gray Ghost Ventures in Atlanta,  Georgia ;  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Shell Foundation; and the British Department
for International Development.  M-KOPA is considering offering other “pay-as-you-go”
products to markets in  developing countries  including irrigation
systems, refrigerators for shop-owners to cool drinks and
snacks, as well as sewing machines, Moore said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  