-- Kingfisher Air Extends Flight Shutdown Amid Strike
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-10-05T11:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/kingfisher-air-extends-flight-shutdown-amid-strike.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  extended a
shutdown through Oct. 12 after striking pilots and engineers at
the cash-strapped Indian carrier refused to resume services
until seven months of unpaid salaries are settled.  “We regret that the illegal strike has still not been
withdrawn and normalcy has not been restored in the company,
thereby continuing to cripple and paralyze the working of the
entire airline,” Kingfisher Air said in a statement yesterday.  The airline regulator is considering revoking Kingfisher’s
license because of safety concerns and the strike, Aviation
Minister Ajit Singh said in an interview today. The shutdown
adds pressure on Chairman Vijay Mallya as he seeks investments
needed to avert the collapse of his airline struggling with 86
billion rupees ($1.6 billion) of debt and years of losses.  On Oct. 1, Kingfisher announced flight suspensions through
Oct. 4 after some employees refrained from attending work. A
group of pilots and engineers said in Mumbai on Oct. 3 after a
meeting with the management that they would resume services only
after seven months of salary due is paid.  Kingfisher Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal asked
for 10 days to pay March salaries and didn’t give a timeframe
for settling subsequent months, according to Vikrant Patkar, a
Kingfisher captain who said he represented 250 pilots and 270
engineers.  Legal Advice  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation is seeking legal
advice on issuing a notice to Kingfisher about canceling its
license, Minister Singh said today. The regulator isn’t
satisfied with the carrier’s safety standards following the
delayed salaries and strike, he said.  Kingfisher defaulted on loan and interest payments on
several occasions in the year ended March 31, the company’s
auditor said in the annual report. The carrier had also delayed
payments to banks, airports, tax authorities and fuel suppliers.  Mallya has said he is in discussions with overseas airlines
to sell a stake in Kingfisher, after  India ’s government last
month eased investment rules. The billionaire is also in talks
to sell a stake in  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the largest distiller in
India, to  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   Kingfisher’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
since April 1, Mallya told shareholders on Sept. 26. He also
gave personal guarantees totaling 59 billion rupees for loans
taken by Kingfisher, according to the annual report. It didn’t
give the terms for the guarantees. Assets worth 89 billion
rupees, including brand, planes and office furniture, have also
been pledged to back the airline’s loans.  Share Performance  The  carrier  fell by the daily limit of about 5 percent for
the fifth straight day to 13.25 rupees. The  stock  has dropped 37
percent this year. Jet Airways (India) Ltd., the nation’s
largest listed carrier, and budget operator  SpiceJet (SJET)  Ltd. have
both more than doubled this year.  Kingfisher has 10 planes, comprising seven A320s and three
Avions de Transport Regional turboprop aircraft, Arun Mishra,
India’s Director General of Civil Aviation, said Oct. 2. It has
enough staff for 60 planes, he said. The number of employees at
the carrier fell to 5,696 in the year ended March 31 from 7,317
in the previous 12-month period, according to the company’s
annual report.  Bharath Raghavan, company secretary of Kingfisher, resigned
effective Sept. 30, the carrier said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday.  Kingfisher, named after Mallya’s flagship beer brand, has
slumped to sixth from second in terms of domestic market share
after paring services and losing passengers. It had a 3.2
percent share in August, the lowest among six carriers.  The airline has a long-term debt-to-total capital ratio of
162 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 58 percent at Jet Airways and 76 percent at
SpiceJet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  