-- Korean Bond Yields Hit Record Lows on Rate-Cut Bets: Seoul Mover
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-04T06:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/korean-bond-yields-hit-record-lows-on-rate-cut-bets-seoul-mover.html
South  Korea ’s government bond yields
fell to record lows amid speculation the central bank will cut
 interest rates  at a policy meeting next week.  The Bank of Korea will lower its benchmark  rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent at an Oct. 11
review, according to eight out of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Australia ’s central bank cut borrowing costs two days
ago to the lowest level since 2009, seeking to spur domestic
demand as  China’s economy  slows.  China  is the No. 1 export
destination for Australia and South Korea.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due September 2017 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.80 percent at
the close in Seoul, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. That is the
lowest level for a five-year  note  in Bloomberg data going back
to 2000. The 3.25 percent notes due June 2015 fell two basis
points to 2.74 percent, matching the Sept. 5 level for the
benchmark three-year  rate  that was a record-low.  “Rate-cut bets in Korea are continuing after the
Australian central bank’s action,” said Moon Hong Cheol, a
Seoul-based fixed income analyst at Dongbu Securities Co.
“Remarks made in the  Bank of Korea ’s September minutes aren’t
enough to harm this sentiment.”  Some board members at the Bank of Korea stressed the need
to preserve policy firepower at their September meeting and
noted that a rate cut has limited effect, according to minutes
released Oct. 2. The central bank left its seven-day repurchase
rate at 3 percent last month, a decision forecast by only one of
16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The remainder predicted a
25 basis point reduction.  Interest-Rate Swaps  The one-year interest-rate swap slid two basis points from
its Oct. 2 close to 2.80 percent. Local financial markets were
closed yesterday for a holiday.  South Korea’s bonds will benefit from a possible decline in
interest rates and capital inflows from sovereign-wealth funds,
Ramin Toloui, global co-head of  emerging markets  portfolio
management at Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday.  The won weakened 0.1 percent from Oct. 2 to 1,113.75,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, declined 12 basis points to 6.10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  