-- N.J. Senate Tries Anew on Health Exchange That Met Christie Veto
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-10-04T19:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/n-j-senate-tries-anew-on-health-exchange-that-met-christie-veto.html
The Democratic-controlled New Jersey
Senate approved legislation to create a health-coverage
purchasing pool for the uninsured, after Republican Governor
 Chris Christie  vetoed a similar measure in May.  The bill, passed 21-17, still must go before the Assembly.
It would create an online marketplace, called an insurance
exchange, required of all states under the federal Affordable
Care Act signed by U.S. President  Barack Obama  in March 2010.
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has vowed to
dismantle the act if elected, and Christie has deferred a
decision on an exchange until after the Nov. 6 election.  The exchanges, where consumers may compare providers and
buy coverage, are to start operating in 2014. The federal
government will establish the markets in states that haven’t
created them.  Senator Nia Gill, a Democrat from Montclair who sponsored
the bill, said letting the federal government move in may be
good for some states, “but not so good for  New Jersey .”  Christie, 50, who may run for a second term next year, said
the issue has been the topic of staff meetings for six to eight
weeks. A decision will be made within the executive branch, he
told reporters Oct. 1 at a Dover clinic that provides care to
people without insurance.  ’New Bureaucracy’  “Ultimately, the Obama health-care plan is the law of the
land and we’re working to comply,” he said. “We don’t have a
whole lot of other choice.”  Before today’s vote, Tom Kean Jr., a Republican from
Westfield who is his party’s minority leader in the Senate, said
the New Jersey bill “creates new bureaucracy” that promises to
be unwieldy.  Christie has advocated repeal of the health-care act and
said it may benefit a small segment of the population at the
expense of the whole. New Jersey has 8.8 million residents, with
an average 1.3 million uninsured from 2009 to 2011, according to
U.S. Census data.  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana,  Rick Perry  of Texas, Nikki Haley
of  South Carolina  and  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin are among the
Republican governors who haven’t established the exchanges,
saying they violate states’ rights. Democratic Governor  John
Lynch  of New Hampshire has blocked the market’s creation over
fears of taxpayer liability.  Christie vetoed an earlier version of the bill May 10,
saying approval would be premature as the U.S. Supreme Court was
weighing the federal law’s constitutional merits. The justices
voted 5-4 to uphold the act in a decision released June 28.  Christie also had objected to $50,000 salaries for part-
time board members overseeing an exchange. The compensation was
dropped from the bill passed today.  Thirty-four states have received federal grants to create
exchanges, according to a Sept. 27 news  release  from the  U.S.
Department of Health  and Human Services. States that miss a Nov.
16 deadline to submit plans will have their exchanges designed
by the federal government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  