-- N.Y.Mortgage Probe Said to Get Extension to Sue 12 Firms
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-05T01:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/n-y-mortgage-probe-said-to-get-extension-to-sue-12-firms.html
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is looking into the mortgage securities practices
of at least a dozen financial institutions that have agreed to
suspend a deadline for him to bring fraud claims, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Schneiderman, who sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  this week for
defrauding mortgage bond investors, has so-called tolling
agreements with 12 institutions that preserve claims that could
expire during a state investigation, according to the person,
who declined to be named because the matter isn’t public.  Schneiderman is the co-chairman of a state-federal
taskforce that is investigating misconduct in the bundling of
 mortgage loans  into securities in the run-up to the financial
crisis. The group includes the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Justice Department , and the JPMorgan case was
its first legal action.  The tolling agreements, reached this year, stop the clock
on the six-year statute of limitations and ensure Schneiderman
can bring civil fraud claims against banks for conduct going as
far back as 2006, said the person. The agreements don’t
necessarily mean that suits will be filed, the person said.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , is one of the 12 financial
institutions that have tolling agreements. The names of the
others couldn’t be learned.  Monumental Losses  In the lawsuit against JPMorgan, Schneiderman said Bear
Stearns, which JPMorgan took over in 2008, deceived investors
about defective loans backing mortgage bonds, resulting in
“monumental losses.”  The attorney general said in a conference call with
reporters after the JPMorgan lawsuit was filed that
investigations continue and that other cases would be filed over
mortgage securities.  “We do expect this to be a matter of very significant
liability, and there are others to come that will also reflect
the same quantum of damages,” Schneiderman said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. “We’re looking at tens of billions
of dollars, not just by one institution, but by quite a few.”  The top five issuers of mortgage securities without
government backing in 2006 included  Bank of America  Corp.’s
Countrywide Financial unit, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual,
also since acquired by JPMorgan, according to trade publication
Inside MBS & ABS.  Credit Suisse Sued  A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  unit was sued yesterday by a
national credit union regulator that accused the bank of selling
faulty mortgage-backed securities to three credit unions,
causing them to collapse.  Credit Suisse Securities misrepresented the securities’
risks, leading the credit unions to believe there was little
chance of losing money when they bought $715 million worth of
them, the  National Credit Union Administration  said in a
complaint filed in federal court in Kansas City, Kansas.  The securities were sold to U.S.  Central Federal (CFBK)  Credit
Union, Western Corporate Federal Credit Union and Southwest
Corporate Federal Credit Union. All three failed and resulting
losses are paid by a fund supported by assessments on all
federally insured  credit unions , NCUA said in a statement.  Jack Grone, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in New York,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  