-- NHL Cancels Regular-Season Games Through Oct. 24 Due to Lockout
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/nhl-cancels-regular-season-games-through-oct-24-in-lockout.html
With negotiations stalled on a new
labor accord, the  National Hockey League  canceled the first 82
games of the season -- the second time in eight years that
regular-season contests have been lost to lockouts.  League owners shut down on Sept. 16 after failing to agree
with the  National Hockey League Players’ Association  on how to
split revenue, which reached a record $3.2 billion last season.
The league, which announced on Oct. 2 that the cancellation of
the 107 preseason games cost it $100 million in revenue,
yesterday canceled every regular-season game through Oct. 24.  The NHL became the first North American sports league to
lose an entire season due to labor strife when a lockout
canceled the 2004-05 campaign. The 2012-13 season was scheduled
to begin on Oct. 11.  “We’re looking for a long-term deal that’s fair for the
players, fair for the teams and good for the fans,” NHL Deputy
Commissioner Bill Daly said this week after a negotiating
session.  It’s the second time in less than a year that regular-
season games were eliminated by labor strife in one of  North
America ’s four major professional sports leagues. The  National
Basketball Association  shortened last season to 66 games from 82
after reaching a collective bargaining agreement with its
locked-out players.  Yesterday’s decision was the “unilateral choice” of NHL
owners, union Executive Director Donald Fehr said in a
statement.  ‘Last Resort’  “If the owners truly cared about the game and the fans,
they would lift the lockout and allow the season to begin on
time while negotiations continue,” Fehr said. “A lockout
should be the last resort in bargaining, not the strategy of
first resort.”  The two sides in the NHL dispute met for two hours on Oct.
2, breaking off with no progress to report and no further
negotiations scheduled, according to Daly. Fehr, who disputes
the NHL’s estimate on lost revenue, said that he wants talks to
continue.  “You should be constantly talking, even if you’re
disagreeing and not making progress,” Fehr said earlier this
week. “You never know when someone will say something to spark
an idea that will allow you to progress.”  14 Percent  The 189 games that have been canceled so far this year,
including preseason and regular season, account for about 14
percent of the 1,337 total games on the NHL schedule.  On Sept. 12, owners offered players 47 percent of hockey-
related revenue, with a loss of about $256 million in player
salaries next year. Under the labor deal that expired last
month, players received 57 percent.  The union’s final plan prior to the lockout proposed tying
the players’ share to overall revenue growth. Under the offer,
should league revenue grow at the same rate as the past 10
years, the players’ share would decrease to 54.3 percent in the
first year, then 52.5 percent and 52 percent before rising to
52.3 percent in the fourth year.  Recent negotiations have focused on secondary issues, not
the economic differences at the heart of the disagreement,
according to the  New York Times . Other disputed topics include
salary arbitration and the length of unrestricted free agency.  Stanley Cup  The league’s previous lockout lasted 10 months and six
days. It was the first time since 1919 that the  Stanley Cup , the
NHL’s championship trophy, wasn’t awarded.  Negotiations eight years ago centered on many of the same
issues as this year’s lockout, including player compensation and
revenue sharing among clubs. The league announced the
cancellation of the full season in mid-February 2005 and a new
deal wasn’t reached until July, when the two sides agreed on a
salary cap and a 24 percent reduction in player pay.  “Players are not at all happy with the notion that at this
stage, after all the concession made the last time, in the
billions of dollars, plus seven years of record revenue, that
the response seems to be, ‘You gave us a lot of money last time
so give us another big sack full of money this time,’” Fehr
said this week.  More than 300 NHL players competed in  Europe  during the
missed 2004-05 season. Over 80 players have already agreed to
play overseas during this work stoppage, including Evgeni Malkin
of the  Pittsburgh Penguins , the league’s 2012 Most Valuable
Player, and  New Jersey Devils  forward  Ilya Kovalchuk , a three-
time All-Star.  Television Money  The league’s revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion
television contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to a
record $3.2 billion last season from $2.2 billion in the first
year following the lockout, according to the NHL. Growing player
salaries have kept many teams from turning a profit, the NHL has
argued.  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million when
the agreement began at the start of the 2005-06 season.  The average NBA player salary was $5.15 million, the
highest among the U.S.’s four major sports leagues, for 2011-12.
The average salary for a National Football League player was
$1.9 million, the lowest of the four leagues, with  Major League
Baseball ’s $3.3 million average ranking second behind the NBA.  The NFL, the most popular U.S. sport with more than $9
billion in annual income, missed one preseason game while
negotiating a new labor accord last year. It also locked out
field officials for the first four weeks this season in a
dispute over pensions and management control.  NHL players staged a 10-day strike in April 1992 in which
no games were lost. The league’s 1994-95 campaign was shortened
to 48 games following a lockout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  