-- Obama-Romney Debate Attracts 28% More Viewers at 67.2 Million
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/nielsen-says-67-2-million-watched-first-obama-romney-debate.html
The first debate between President
Barack Obama and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  attracted
67.2 million TV viewers, 28 percent more than the first
presidential face-off of the campaign four years ago.  The event, held Oct. 3 at Denver University in Colorado and
moderated by Jim Lehrer, was carried live on 11 broadcast and
cable television networks and tape-delayed on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
Telemundo, Nielsen said on its  website .  The larger TV audience saw a debate that many Obama
supporters judged disappointing. Seeking to hold his narrow lead
in the presidential race, Obama yesterday went on the attack in
his first post-debate appearance, accusing Romney of hiding his
true stances. Romney made a surprise appearance before party
activists at a gathering of the Colorado Conservative Political
Action Committee.  The contest marked the first of three presidential debates
scheduled before the Nov. 4 general election. Coverage on  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC drew 11.3 million viewers, the most of any
network, while  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News averaged 10.4 million
viewers to lead cable networks, according to Nielsen data.  Comcast’s NBC attracted 11.1 million, while  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
broadcast network averaged 10.6 million viewers and News Corp.’s
Fox Broadcasting network drew 6.9 million.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN drew 6.05 million to its debate
coverage, the second-most of cable channels. Comcast’s MSNBC
drew 4.71 million.  2008 Campaign  Four years ago, the first debate between then-candidate
Obama and Republican  John McCain  drew an audience of 52.4
million, according to Nielsen. The most-watched debate in 2008
was between the vice-presidential candidates, Democrat Joe Biden
and Republican Sarah Palin, which attracted 69.9 million
viewers.  Vice President Biden and his GOP challenger Paul Ryan meet
for a debate at 9 p.m. New York time on Oct. 11 at Centre
College in Danville, Kentucky. Martha Raddatz of ABC News is the
moderator.  The next  presidential debate  is scheduled for 9 p.m. New
York time on Oct. 16 at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New
York. Candy Crowley of CNN will moderate the event in a town-
meeting format that will feature citizens asking questions about
domestic and foreign policy.  The final meeting between Obama and Romney takes place Oct.
22 at Lynn University in  Boca Raton , Florida. Bob Schieffer of
CBS will moderate the discussion of foreign policy issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  