-- Nigeria Targets More Than $20 Billion Investment Within 3 Years
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-10-04T14:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/nigeria-targets-more-than-20-billion-investment-within-3-years.html
Nigeria ,  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer biggest oil producer, wants to attract more than $20
billion in foreign direct investment within three years, Trade
and Investment Minister Olusegun Aganga said.  The West African nation increased the amount of investment
to $8.9 billion last year from $6 billion in 2010, Aganga told
reporters today in Lagos, the commercial capital.  “Yesterday, I spoke to three companies coming to invest in
the country,” he said. In  New York , “I met about eight or 10
of them and on my way back the ambassador in Dubai, for example,
called me and said there’s a group in Qatar and they want to
invest $19 million.”  Economic growth in Africa’s most populous nation
accelerated to 6.6 percent in the second quarter as farming
output rose, the  Central Bank of Nigeria  said on Aug. 29. The
country is seeking investment in areas such as power generation.
Nigeria produces about 4,000 megawatts of electricity for its
160 million people, about a tenth of the amount  South Africa 
generates for a population a third of the size.  Attacks and operational damage by Islamist militants
against companies operating in the north of the country are
“specific and isolated cases,” said Aganga. “That is an
isolated new development that can be curtailed very soon.”  Base stations and transmission towers belonging to
telecommunication companies in the north, including MTN Group
Ltd. and Bharti Airtel Ltd., were burnt down and attacked last
month by suspected members of Boko Haram, which says it’s
campaigning to establish an Islamic state in Nigeria.  Security Concerns  Heineken NV’s local  unit  and  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC)  have this year
attributed declining sales to security issues in the north.  “We’re fully aware of the complaints made by the telecoms
sector and the minister of ICT is working with the security
agencies, so we are addressing it,” said Aganga.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  said Oct. 1 that a surge of
Boko Haram bomb and gun attacks in the mainly Muslim north and
the capital, Abuja, in the past two years is seeing “a
significant decline” because of “proactive measures” by
security forces.  “I have not had a big issue of security talking to
investors,” Aganda said. “I hear it more at conferences; I
hear it more talking to Nigerians. What I’m saying is, I have
very different conversations when I’m talking to investors and
they’re looking for where to put their money to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  