-- Nippon Life Considers Dollar Bonds as Debt Risk Drops
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-10-05T03:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/nippon-life-considers-dollar-bonds-as-asia-debt-risk-decreases.html
(Corrects record-low figure for Asian corporate bond
yields in third paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Nippon Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s
biggest life insurer, is considering selling dollar-denominated
debt as Asian bond risk falls.  Nippon Life is planning meetings with fixed-income
investors and may offer 30-year subordinated bonds that can be
bought back by the company after 10 years, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
terms aren’t set. An index of credit-default swaps on borrowers
in  Asia  outside Japan is poised to decline for sixth straight
trading day, according to  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and CMA data.  Borrowing costs for Asian companies in dollars fell to a
record low of 3.48 percent yesterday, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc indexes, as benchmark  interest rates  in the U.S. hold near
zero for a fourth year. Worldwide corporate issuance reached
$986 billion in the three months ended Sept. 30, the busiest
third quarter ever, as global central bank stimulus prompted
investors to reach for higher-yielding assets.  “The favorable sentiment towards the primary market is
still rife,” said Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst
at HSBC. “With U.S. interest rates at historic lows, Asia’s
companies will seize the window to raise funds, so issuance will
continue into October.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 1 basis point to 131 basis points
as of 8:13 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Credit Agricole prices show.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index declined 2 basis points
to 154 as of 10:12 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  The measure is on course for the lowest close since Sept.
21, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index  dropped 4 basis points to
219 as of 9:11 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
gauge is on track for the lowest close since Sept. 24, according
to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  