-- Nobel Biocare Cuts Earnings Forecast on Japanese Market
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-10-04T16:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/nobel-biocare-cuts-earnings-forecast-on-japanese-market.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of dental implants, cut its profit forecast
as the market for its products in Japan shrank, adding to woes
caused by stagnation in  Europe . The stock fell the most in
three months.  Earnings before interest and taxes will probably be
67 million euros ($87 million) to 70 million euros this year
as revenue declines by a “modest” single-digit percentage at
constant exchange rates, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland based-
company said in a statement today. Nobel Biocare said in August
that full-year profit would be near the level of last year,
which was 76.6 million euros, excluding certain items.  “Adverse media reporting on implant treatments has
impacted patient flow in Japan,” the company said. “The
development is difficult to predict at this point in time, but
the company does not anticipate any improvement in the coming
months.”  Nobel and its larger rival,  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , have been
suffering from slow economic growth and high unemployment.
Dental implants typically aren’t covered by health insurance, so
demand is affected by swings in the economy. The market for
implants will “decline modestly” this year, and the company’s
revenue will move in line with that, Nobel said today.  Nobel Biocare said it gets about 13 percent of  sales  from
Japan, where it’s the market leader. Third-quarter revenue fell
5.1 percent excluding currency shifts, bringing the nine-month
decline to 2.4 percent, it said today.  Media Coverage  Sales in Japan have been hurt by media coverage about
improperly placed implants that caused health problems, Chief
Executive Officer Richard Laube said on a conference call with
analysts about second-quarter results on Aug. 22. Nobel
Biocare’s sales in  Japan , which represented two-thirds of its
revenue in the Asia-Pacific region, shrank a year earlier
following the March 2011 tsunami.  Nobel Biocare fell 4.3 percent to 9.03 Swiss francs at the
close of trading in Zurich for the biggest decline since June
25. The stock dropped as much as 8.9 percent earlier in the day.
Straumann lost 3.3 percent to 119.90 francs.  The profit forecast is now 10 percent lower than consensus
estimates, Ingeborg Oie, an analyst with Jefferies International
Ltd., said in an interview today. She had forecast 76.8 million
euros for the year.  “The effect definitely seems disproportionate,” she said.
“They mentioned it at second quarter but it wasn’t a huge thing
that would hold back profit. The situation seems to have
deteriorated.”  Straumann said in August that the European implant market
would be stable at best compared with last year, and may
contract in the second half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net . 