-- Localities Beating States as More Pain Brings Gain: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/localities-beating-states-as-more-pain-brings-gain-muni-credit.html
Debt of U.S. cities and towns is
poised to beat state securities for the first time since 2009 as
localities’ higher yields and efforts to cut workers lure
investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market.  School districts, counties and cities have been more
aggressive than states in cutting employees to lower costs in
the past four years following the worst recession since the
1930s. They also tend to have higher bond yields even for
similarly rated securities, drawing buyers contending with the
lowest  interest rates  since the 1960s.  Local debt yields 3.1 percent on average, about 0.7
percentage point more than state borrowings, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes that track each segment and
have the same credit grade. City and town debt has earned 6.2
percent this year, compared with 4.9 percent for state bonds,
the bank’s data show.  “It’s just a natural reaction of ‘Ok what’s left, where
can we get some yield?’” said Patrick Morrissey, who helps
manage $2 billion of munis at Great Lakes Advisors in  Chicago .
Bond buyers are “starting to look at smaller deals and more
things that typically trade much wider.”  Still Rebounding  Localities are still recovering from the 18-month recession
that ended in 2009 and a housing foreclosure crisis that sapped
property-tax collections. Since peak levels in 2008, local
municipalities have reduced payrolls by a combined 549,000
workers, or 3.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a drop of 167,000, or 3.2 percent, for states.  While states can balance their budgets by cutting aid to
localities and school districts or delaying payments, cities and
towns must operate with the revenue they have, said Neil Klein,
who helps manage $1.2 billion of fixed income at Carret Asset
Management in New York.  California ’s Governor  Jerry Brown  this year scrapped about
400 municipal redevelopment agencies and redirected their tax
funds to help balance the state budget.  Local municipalities “do have to find ways at the ground
level to make their finances work,” Klein said.  Risk Factor  City and town debt does carry greater risk than state
borrowings, Morrissey and Klein said.  In California, three municipalities have filed for
 bankruptcy protection  since June. States may cut local aid
further to help absorb potential federal-spending reductions
that are set to start in January unless Congress acts.  With California local debt, “there’s a guilty-by-
association impact,” said Burt Mulford, a portfolio manager in
 St. Petersburg ,  Florida , at Eagle Asset Management Inc. Among
California localities, Eagle opts for those with per capita
income that is above average, such as  Beverly Hills , he said.  Mulford spoke yesterday at the State & Municipal Finance
conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New York.  Yields on tax-exempt debt have dropped this year as
investors sought a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Yields on
general obligations due in 20 years and rated Aa2, Moody’s
Investors Service’s third-highest grade, were  3.67 percent  Sept.
27, according to a Bond Buyer index. The index touched 3.60
percent in January, the lowest level since 1967.  ‘Huge’ Boost  As a result, investors have sought out lower-rated credits
for their additional yield. A local-government borrowing can
sometimes yield as much as 40 basis points more than other debt
sales, Morrissey said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “A 30 or 40 basis-point pickup relative to the rest of the
market is huge,” Morrissey said.  In one example, Hamden,  Connecticut , located about 85 miles
(137 kilometers) from  New York  City with a population of about
60,000, sold $24.7 million of tax-exempt, general-obligation
debt in August.  Debt maturing in 10 years and rated A2, Moody’s sixth-
highest level, priced to yield 3.01 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. On Sept. 21, Connecticut, rated two grades
higher, issued 10-year general obligations with a yield of 2.09
percent.  In a boost to local debt, property-tax revenue, a major
revenue source for cities and towns, may be improving.  Local governments’ property-tax collections increased 6.2
percent in the second quarter from the same period last year,
U.S. Census data show. U.S. home prices in July climbed 1.2
percent from the same month in 2011, the most since August 2010,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities.  In muni trading yesterday, the yield on 10-year AAAs fell
0.02 percentage point to 1.67 percent, the lowest since Aug. 1.
It touched 1.63 percent July 27, the lowest since at least
January 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following are pending sales:  CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU plans to offer $925 million of
tax-exempt debt as soon as this month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. (Added Oct. 4)  GUAM POWER AUTHORITY is set to sell $354 million of revenue
bonds as soon as today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
sale will refund debt and will be enhanced with bond insurance,
according to offering documents. (Updated Oct. 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  