-- Hodgson Signals Ferdinand’s England End on Tube Journey: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-04T06:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/hodgson-signals-ferdinand-s-england-end-on-tube-journey-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Tube Talk  England manager  Roy Hodgson  told passengers on a London
Underground train that the international career of  Manchester
United  defender Rio Ferdinand is over, the  Dail Mail reported .  Hodgson is scheduled to discuss his squad for this month’s
 World Cup  qualifiers against San Marino and Poland today and is
said to have told members of the public last night that
Ferdinand had reached “the end of the road,” the Mail added.  Ferdinand, 33, hadn’t given up on an England recall, and
his hopes were raised following  John Terry ’s retirement from the
national team, the newspaper said.  New Contract  Ferdinand will be offered a new contract at Manchester
United and manager  Alex Ferguson  wants the defender to focus his
energies on his club role, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “He could do the job for England, I have no doubt about
that,” the Mirror cited Ferguson as saying. “But I don’t see
why he should. I think he should concentrate on his career here.
I would prefer that, though I wouldn’t stand in his way.”  Agger’s Deal  Liverpool defender  Daniel Agger , who was linked with a move
to Manchester City in the offseason, is close to signing a new
four-year contract worth 75,000 pounds ($120,727) a week, the
 Mirror reported .  Midfielder Suso, 18, in whom Real Madrid has been showing
interest, is also set to sign a new deal with Liverpool; the
club wants to tie the Spaniard to a five-year agreement, the
Mirror added.  Belgian Bid  Everton is lining up a new January bid for Bruges
midfielder Vadis Odjidja-Ofoe, who’s rated at 5 million pounds,
the  Sun reported .  Toffees manager  David Moyes  tried to buy the 23-year-old
Belgian in August, though FIFA refused to ratify the transfer
saying paperwork was submitted late, the newspaper added.  Fair Price  Blackpool manager  Ian Holloway  warned Manchester United
that it won’t get 6 million pound-rated forward Thomas Ince,
who’s scored six goals in the Championship this season, on the
cheap, the  Mail reported .  “If we are not successful this year, do I want to stand in
his way? Probably not,” the Mail cited Holloway as saying.
“But we deserve a fair amount of money for him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  