-- Officials Erred in Preventing Wallabies Substitute, IRB Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-04T07:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/officials-erred-in-preventing-wallabies-substitution-irb-says.html
Match officials wrongly prevented
 Australia  from making a substitution in last week’s Rugby
Championship defeat in South Africa, a decision that forced the
Wallabies to finish the match with 14 players.  Referee Alain Rolland prevented Saia Fainga’a from
replacing injured Tatafu Polota-Nau in the 66th minute, when the
move should have been allowed as a technical substitution, the
International Rugby Board said yesterday in a statement.  The officials ruled that Australia had already used its
seven replacements, two of them involving the same player,  Benn
Robinson , who had replaced fellow injured prop  Ben Alexander 
after previously having been substituted himself. Following a
review, the IRB said the officials acknowledged they failed to
recognize an exception when managing substitutions.  According to the IRB, Fainga’a should have been able to
come on under law 3.12 (Exception 2) which states: “a
substituted player may replace a front row player when injured,
temporarily suspended or sent off unless the referee has ordered
uncontested scrums prior to the event which led to the front row
player leaving the field of play and the team has used all the
permitted replacements and substitutions.”  Human Error  “The area of substitution management is a team effort,”
John Jeffrey, chairman of the IRB’s match official committee,
said in the governing body’s statement. “This was an
unfortunate case of human error by the match officials who fully
recognize and accept that they made a mistake in the application
of the substitution law.”  South Africa ’s 31-8 victory took it ahead of Australia into
second place in the southern hemisphere championship standings
behind  New Zealand , which secured the inaugural title last
weekend by routing  Argentina . The Springboks also moved above
the Wallabies into second place in the IRB’s  world rankings .  The Australian Rugby Union said today that as the sole
judge of fact as per the IRB’s laws, referee Rolland was
ultimately responsible for the mistake. None of the officiating
during the match in Pretoria had affected the result, ARU Chief
Executive Officer John O’Neill said in a statement.  “That is not up for debate at all,” O’Neill said.
“However, given the circumstances where the Wallabies were
dealing with a massive and mounting injury toll, it was
frustrating and unfair for the team to carry additional burdens.
The ARU hopes the referee has learnt from this error.”  The Rugby Championship concludes in two days as Australia
visits Argentina and South Africa hosts New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 