-- Oil Rises Most in Two Months on Euro Strength
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-10-04T19:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/oil-rises-from-two-month-low-on-euro-strength.html
Oil climbed the most in two months as
the euro rose against the dollar and tension between Syria and
 Turkey  fanned concern that  Middle East  output will be disrupted.  Prices jumped $3.57, erasing almost all of yesterday’s
$3.75 loss. The euro advanced to a two-week high after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the common currency is
“irreversible.” Turkey’s parliament authorized the government
to order military action in Syria. A mortar bomb fired across
the border yesterday killed five Turks.  “The euro is showing some strength and that’s helping to
push  oil prices  higher,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.
“You’ve got a new front in the tensions in the Middle East plus
the weakness of the dollar and that’s all adding up to the
strength in crude.”  Crude for November delivery gained 4.1 percent to settle at
$91.71 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest increase since Aug. 3. Futures plunged 4.1 percent
yesterday after the Energy Department reported U.S. production
climbed to the highest level in more than 15 years while fuel
usage decreased. Futures have risen 21 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for November settlement advanced $4.41, or 4.1
percent, to $112.58 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The euro gained the most in almost three weeks versus the
dollar after Draghi said the ECB is ready to start buying
 government bonds  as soon as the necessary conditions are
fulfilled. He spoke at a press conference today in Ljubljana,
Slovenia, after policy makers left the  benchmark rate  at a
historic low of 0.75 percent.  Euro Advances  “The more Draghi speaks, the weaker the dollar gets,”
Armstrong said. “We had a strong selloff yesterday and it’s
normal we should have a rebound.”  The euro increased as much as 1 percent to $1.3032, the
highest level since Sept. 21. A stronger euro and weaker dollar
increase oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “The possibility of the ECB getting something done is
making people a little more bullish,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “The Turkey-Syria tension is a big part of
today’s story. Anything like this in that region tends to make
traders nervous.”  The killings yesterday in the Turkish town of Akcakale
highlight the risk that neighboring countries could be drawn
into Syria’s civil war. Turkey has backed the rebels fighting to
oust President Bashar al-Assad and allowed them to use bases
inside Turkey. Turkish artillery units fired yesterday and today
at Syrian military targets.  Pipeline Exports  The fighting also raised concern that the Kirkuk-Ceyhan
pipeline will be disrupted. Iraq, the second-largest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , exports oil through the line, which runs through Iraq
and southern Turkey near the Syrian border.  “Traders are focusing on the situation in the Middle
East,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an
energy-research firm in London, Arkansas. “There may be an
occasional attack on the pipeline but I don’t see that causing a
major problem.”  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 52
percent of proved reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  ‘Reasonable’ Prices  Saudi Arabia is trying to keep oil prices at a “reasonable
level” and sees no difficulty in meeting demand, Oil Minister
 Ali al-Naimi  said today at a conference in Ankara, Turkey.  Current prices make it unlikely the Obama administration
will release crude from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, said
 Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates, in an interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  Oil also increased as U.S. stocks rallied after a report
showed American jobless claims rose less than economists
estimated. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained for a fourth
day, up as much as 0.8 percent.  Applications for  jobless benefits  increased to 367,000 in
the week ended Sept. 29, Labor Department figures showed today
in Washington. Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show employers took
on 115,000 workers in September, more than the prior month,
while the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  U.S. Employment  “The market is a little optimistic on the employment
numbers tomorrow and equities are higher,” said Carl Larry,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in  New York . “It’s a
correction after yesterday’s free fall.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 469,061
contracts as of 2:41 p.m. Volume totaled 661,524 contracts
yesterday, the most since Sept. 19 and 26 percent above the
three-month average. Open interest was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  