-- Tokyo Star Bank Targets Aircraft Deals on Dollar Deposits
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-10-05T04:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/tokyo-star-bank-targets-aircraft-deals-on-dollar-deposits.html
Tokyo  Star Bank Ltd., the Japanese
lender backed by investors including Orix Corp., plans to expand
foreign-currency lending for planes and other assets because of
rising domestic demand for non-yen  savings accounts .  The bank aims to more than double foreign-currency
financing to about 5 percent of assets over a decade, from less
than 2 percent, Chris Taniguchi, a managing director, said in an
Oct. 3 interview in Tokyo. The lender had more than 100 billion
yen ($1.3 billion) in overseas-currency savings at the end of
July, he said.  Individual savers in  Japan  have almost doubled their
foreign currency holdings over the past five years amid the
yen’s 40 percent rise against the dollar and as the country’s
central bank holds  interest rates  near zero percent. Tokyo Star
follows Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. in seeking higher-yielding markets left by
European banks retrenching amid the region’s debt crisis.  “Our retail deposits in foreign currencies are quite
large,” he said. “Savers are doing this because the yen has
been strengthening, Japanese  interest rates  tend to be lower
than those in other countries, and it provides diversification
for such investors.”  Currency Accounts Surge  The yen gained 0.2 percent to 78.32 per dollar as of 1:17
p.m. in Tokyo from 78.48 yesterday. It touched a postwar high of
75.35 last year.  Foreign currency accounts held at Japanese banks by
individuals surged to 5.2 trillion yen ($66 billion) at the end
of March, from 2.8 trillion yen five years earlier, according to
 Bank of Japan  data.  Tokyo Star’s assets increased to  2.3 trillion yen  at the
end of March, from 1.8 trillion yen three years earlier,
according to the company.  “The bank needed to come up with a new long-term
sustainable growth strategy,” Taniguchi said. Financing
aircraft, which are priced in dollars, using U.S. currency
deposits, helps Tokyo Star avoid foreign-exchange risk,
Taniguchi said. The bank is also targeting export credit agency
and quasi-sovereign deals, he said.  Aircraft Financing Deals  The lender has completed four aircraft-financing deals this
year, up from one in 2011 when it decided to build an aviation-
financing business, he said. Tokyo Star has also helped finance
nine export credit agency and quasi-sovereign debt deals, he
said.  Japanese banks are targeting aircraft financing and
overseas lending as a shrinking population saps growth at home.
Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Co., an affiliate of Mitsubishi
UFJ, Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, yesterday agreed to
buy  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ’s Jackson Square Aviation LCC for
100 billion yen to add about 70 planes to its commercial fleet.  That deal follows Sumitomo Mitsui Financial’s purchase of
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s plane-leasing unit in June.  European banks such as BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale
SA have retreated from dollar-linked aircraft financing after
U.S. short-term funding evaporated last year.  Emirates  Debt guarantees from the U.S. Export-Import Bank have also
made it easier for non-U.S. airlines to access capital markets.
Dubai-based Emirates had raised $1.46 billion as of last month
under Ex-Im’s bond program, the most of any airline since the
program began, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tokyo Star has helped finance the purchase of a Boeing Co.
777 on lease to Emirates and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ’s purchase of an
Airbus SAS A320 this year, Fintan Smyth, marketing director for
the global business group at Tokyo Star said in the same
interview.  “We’re entering the market at a time where we can really
choose what deals to focus on,” said Smyth. “European banks
may have done the whole deal before, but now they’re
distributing more. They are trying to manage their dollar
exposure.”  Tokyo Star is  owned  by a consortium of Japanese and U.S.
banks and financial firms after creditors took control of the
company last year from Advantage Partners LLP. Orix, a Tokyo-
based financing and leasing company, owns 200,000 preferred
shares in Tokyo Star, accounting for 22 percent of outstanding
equity, according to the bank’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  