-- Hollande Party Whip Demands Discipline on Fiscal Treaty Vote
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-10-04T09:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/hollande-party-whip-demands-discipline-on-fiscal-treaty-vote.html
France ’s ruling  Socialist Party whip ,
Bruno Le Roux, called on lawmakers from President  Francois
Hollande ’s bloc to follow party orders and back the European
fiscal treaty in a parliamentary vote next week.  Some Socialist lawmakers and their Green and Communist
allies have said they oppose the treaty since it was crafted by
former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , who backed Sarkozy over Hollande in this year’s
presidential ballot. The treaty will be put to a vote at the
National Assembly in Paris on Oct. 9 and Oct. 10.  “I am sure that at the start of this mandate you will want
to support our group and help make this vote a show of
strength,” Le Roux said in a letter sent to Socialist
lawmakers, according to a copy published on  Europe 1 radio web
site  and confirmed by his office. He reminded them that, under
article 17 of party statutes, “unity on a vote is the rule.”  Hollande, who campaigned on spurring growth and revising
 Europe ’s fiscal treaty to loosen its terms, may secure
ratification thanks to the votes of opposition lawmakers from
Sarkozy’s party. Hollande eventually agreed to the budget pact
in June as part of a European package of measures intended to
put an end to the three-year-old crisis in the euro area.  Image Damage  When the vote is on a political issue rather than a moral
one, then “discipline is required,” the Socialist group’s
spokesman, Xavier Jullien, said by telephone. “The treaty is a
political vote” and so rejecting it “would damage our image,
because others in France and abroad are watching us.”  In 2005, Socialist Party leaders supported Europe’s
Constitutional Treaty, only for a majority of party supporters
to reject it in a referendum later that year. A minority of the
party leadership also voted against it, including Hollande’s
current foreign and European affairs ministers, Laurent Fabius
and Bernard Cazeneuve respectively.  The fiscal treaty needs 12 of the euro region’s 17 members
to back it for it to come into force. So far, eight countries
including Germany, Spain and  Italy  have done so. Finland is also
facing opposition to the treaty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  