-- Hong Kong Luxury Sales Fall as Chinese Curb Spending
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-05T10:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/hong-kong-luxury-sales-fall-as-chinese-shoppers-spend-less-1-.html
Shoppers from China’s mainland curbed
spending at Hong Kong luxury stores during the Golden Week
holiday, reflecting growing pressure on the city’s economy from
faltering tourist demand.  Purchase of luxury goods by mainland visitors in Hong Kong
is set to fall at least 10 percent from a year ago during this
week’s holiday, said Joseph Tung, executive director of the
Travel Industry Council. The decline comes even as the number of
tourists coming from China increases.  Lower spending in Hong Kong hurts consumer companies from
U.K.’s  Burberry Group Plc. (BRBY)  to luxury watchseller  Hengdeli
Holdings Ltd. (3389)  that have invested in stores to profit from
Chinese visitors to the city. Weaker retail sales add to the
risk of a recession in Hong Kong, where the economy shrank 0.1
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months on
declining exports.  “The number of big-ticket transactions has shrunk,” said
CCB International Securities Ltd. analyst Forrest Chan,
referring to holiday spending. “Fewer people will spend several
hundred thousand bucks for a luxury watch. The macro-economic
situation is dreadful.”  The eight-day Golden Week national holiday, a shopping and
travel season for Chinese consumers, began on Sept. 30. Shoppers
are pulling back amid a slump in  exports  and a contraction in
 manufacturing  in the world’s second largest economy.  Consumer stocks fell in Hong Kong today even as the
benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 0.5 percent. Lipstick and make-
up seller  Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd. (178)  lost 1.9 percent at
the noon break and jeweler  Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. (590) 
fell 2.7 percent. Hengdeli slid 1.8 percent and  Oriental Watch
Holdings (398)  dropped 1.3 percent.  Fewer Watches  It is “highly likely” Golden Week sales could fall from a
year earlier, Caroline Mak, chairman of the Hong Kong Retail
Management Association, said on a conference call with reporters
yesterday.  The number of mainland tourists to Hong Kong rose about 6
percent to 412,501 on the first three days of October, according
to calculations by Bloomberg based on data from the city’s
immigration department.  Still, mainland tourists are spending less this holiday,
with average expenditures of HK$5,000 ($645) to HK$6,000 falling
below last year’s HK$7,000 to HK$8,000, Tung estimated.  “Golden Week sales this year so far are more or less the
same as last year,” said Joseph Chu, an executive director of
Prince Jewellery & Watch which runs 13 stores in Hong Kong.
“The number of mainland shoppers didn’t decrease but the
average spending of each visitor has dropped.”  His Chinese customers on average spent about HK$60,000 per
bill during Golden Week this year, compared with HK$80,000 last
year.  China ’s non-manufacturing industries in September expanded
at the weakest pace since at least March 2011.  Sa Sa expects “double-digit” growth for Golden Week,
compared with last year’s 30 percent, according to Janette Lo, a
spokeswoman at iPR Ogilvy, the public relations agency
representing Sa Sa.  Negative Retail Sales  Retail sales in Hong Kong, which attracts mainland tourists
because of its lower taxes, have this year grown at the slowest
pace since the global financial crisis. Retail sales rose 4.5
percent by value in August, below the median 5.8 percent
estimate from 10 economists, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales rose 3.9 percent in July, the least since September
2009. The Hong Kong Retail Management Association yesterday cut
its forecast for full-year sales growth to 7 percent from a
previous estimate of 10 percent to 13 percent.  “Some of the jewelry sellers in Hong Kong have posted
negative growth in same-store sales since July,” said Chan, the
analyst. “This trend is very likely to continue through the
Golden Week.”  European Bargains  Some Chinese shoppers are hunting for bargains in  Europe 
instead of Hong Kong as the euro has fallen about 2.5 percent
against the  yuan  over the past twelve months.  Outside a Dior store this week in Hong Kong’s Central
District, Vivian Pan, an entrepreneur from  Shanghai , said she
planned to visit stores of high-end brands such as Hermes and
Chanel. Pan, who visits Hong Kong four or five times a year,
said she is starting to see better shopping choices in other
parts of the world. “We like to shop in Europe more these
days,” she said.  Wu Hong, a 26-year-old tourist from Hunan province, said
she planned to spend HK$30,000 to HK$40,000, about HK$10,000
lower than what she would have spent last year when the economy
was more robust.  Recession Risks  Hong Kong’s risk of a “technical recession” may increase
after declines in exports and a slowdown in retail sales,
Financial Secretary John Tsang said in September.  The economic slowdown in Greater China has rippled through
the global retail industry.  Hengdeli, the partner of  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  in China, in
August said it expects sales growth to slow in the second half.
The company gets about 28 percent of annual revenue from Hong
Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit for the 12 months through March will be at the lower
end of analyst estimates after sales growth slowed globally,
London-based Burberry said last month. The U.K.’s largest luxury
goods maker gets about 37 percent of sales from the Asia Pacific
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The global economic downturn has affected China’s economy
and subsequently taken a toll on the demand of goods,” said
Tung. “The falling trend of luxury goods demand is visible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  