-- Mongolia Keeping Rio Tinto Deal Puts Focus on Tavan Tolgoi Coal
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-10-04T02:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/mongolia-keeping-rio-tinto-deal-puts-focus-on-tavan-tolgoi-coal.html
Mongolia ’s new government will ignore
calls for the nation to take a larger share of Rio Tinto Group's
Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine, focusing instead on attracting 
overseas investors to the country's biggest coal field, the 
foreign minister said.  The four-party ruling coalition of Mongolia, which the
 World Bank  said was the world’s fastest growing economy last
year, hopes to name “within months” who will develop part of
the 6-billion-metric-ton Tavan Tolgoi coal field, Luvsanvandan Bold said in an interview in  Tokyo  on Oct. 2. The project, which
has the U.S.,  China ,  Japan ,  Russia  and  South Korea  interested,
is a priority, he said.  Mongolia is “pro foreign investment, pro economic
freedom,” said Bold. Parliament last month voted down a
proposal by some lawmakers to seek immediate renegotiation of
the $6 billion Oyu Tolgoi accord that gives the nation 34
percent of the project and a Rio Tinto unit the rest, he said.  Mongolia’s new government led by Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag is trying to balance growing nationalism and wealth
disparity with support for foreign investors at a time when the
economy of its biggest trading partner, China, slows the most in
three years. That slowdown caused a 39 percent drop in
Mongolia’s exports in August from a year earlier, the biggest
fall since at least February 2009, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on the National Statistical Office of
Mongolia data.  Third Neighbors  Bold is the first official from Mongolia’s new government
to visit Japan, which offers the best new economic partnership
in the Asia region, he said. An ex-defense minister and a former
chairman of Golomt Bank of Mongolia LLC, the nation’s second-
largest lender, Bold is a member of the  Democratic Party , which
won the June elections and went on to form the ruling coalition.  “Our priority is third-neighbor relations,” Bold said,
referring to landlocked Mongolia’s effort to develop ties with
nations outside its two main neighbors China and Russia. “We
expect our cooperation with Japan to go up a level. We want to
broaden it, especially with Japanese banks and companies.”  China absorbed more than 90 percent of Mongolia’s exports
in the first quarter, with most of the trade being in coal and
copper, Mongolian statistics agency data show.  Coal Sign  The first sign of how Mongolia balances its foreign
relations between China, Russia, and Japan, as well as South
Korea and the U.S., may come in the way the country splits the
Tavan Tolgoi coal project, which also needs new rail lines and
roads, as well as  power plants .  Mongolia first announced and then said it would review an
accord in July 2011 that planned to give China’s  Shenhua Group  a
40 percent stake in the coking-coal-rich West Tsankhi area of
Tavan Tolgoi, with  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  of the U.S. taking 24
percent and a Russian group the rest.  The initial shortlist of companies seeking to mine coal at
West Tsankhi and build the infrastructure around it involved
also a number of South Korean companies, such as steelmaker
 Posco (005490) , and the trading houses of Japan led by  Itochu Corp. (8001)   Mongolia would like to see Japanese companies making more
investments and also bringing their technology to Asia’s most
sparsely populated nation, Bold said.  Japan has invested in Mongolia outside of mining. Trading
house  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and Japan’s second-largest telephone
operator  KDDI Corp. (9433)  joined with a local partner in 1996 to set
up Mobicom Corp., Mongolia’s first mobile phone operator.  Open Door  Mongolia, which is almost three times the size of  France ,
in May passed a law restricting the buying of assets in
strategic industries by foreign state-owned companies.  As a result, state-run  Aluminum Corp. (2600)  of China Ltd. walked
away from two Mongolia-linked purchases jointly worth more than
$1.2 billion in the last month as the company said it did not
expect to secure Mongolian government approval.  “We’re not closing the door on any country or any
company,” Bold said. “There’ll be a policy towards balancing,
but nothing that will hinder Chinese investment. There is
already a high level of Chinese investment in mining and there
will be in the future.”  With no sea ports to export to new Asian markets, Mongolia
must rely on its neighbors for transit. The Tavan Tolgoi area is
more than 1,000 kilometers away from ports in China and at least
5,000 kilometers from ocean hubs in Russia.  Japan’s trading houses  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  and Itochu, and Korean
Resources Corp. agreed last year to start importing coal from
Mongolia via Aluminum Corp. of China. The state company buys all
the output from the East Tsankhi side of Tavan Tolgoi and re-
sells 30 percent of the volume to Japan and Korea. Sumitomo has
run trials shipments of coal through Russia.  Gold Mine  Still, Mongolia’s biggest single foreign investor is Rio
Tinto.  The Oyu Tolgoi mine, one of the world’s biggest copper and
gold discoveries, is due to start commercial operation during
the first half next year. It will have an average annual output
of 425,000 tons of copper and 460,000 ounces of gold, based on
Rio estimates. Rio produced 520,000 tons of copper last year,
according to its annual report.  The mine is now owned by Oyu Tolgoi LLC, in which Rio
Tinto’s  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ)  owns 66 percent and
Mongolia the rest. The agreement between the two allows for
Mongolia to increase its shareholding to 50 percent in 30 years
from March 31, 2010, said Rio spokeswoman Karen Halbert in
Melbourne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  