-- Oracle Can Continue to Grow With Data and Cloud, CFO Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-10-04T22:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/oracle-says-business-data-needs-will-grow-50-fold-by-2020.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  co-President and Chief
Financial Officer Safra Catz said the company can sustain its
growth rate by offering products for businesses to analyze
information and do more of their computing over the Internet.  Oracle, the world’s largest supplier of  database software 
and second-largest maker of business applications, can continue
profit growth of 20 percent seen during the past seven years,
Catz said at a meeting with financial analysts in  San Francisco .  “We’re extremely confident about the different product
lines we have and their ability to grow fast,” Catz said at the
end of OpenWorld, Oracle’s annual convention.  After spending more than $50 billion on more than 80 deals
in an  acquisition  spree since the middle of last decade, fueling
an expansion in sales and earnings, Oracle is betting that
growth will come from its array of products. Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  unveiled a high-end server this week with
more memory and the first update of its flagship database in
five years.  While Oracle’s earnings per share, excluding some items,
 grew  an average of 20 percent from 2006 to 2012, and sales rose
18 percent on average, analysts are expecting a period of slower
gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the next two
fiscal years through May 2014, per-share profit is expected to
increase less than 10 percent. Revenue is expected to grow no
more than 7 percent in each of those years.  Compound Growth  “For the last seven years it’s been a 20 percent
compounded annual growth rate. There’s nothing standing between
us now and doing that again,” Catz said, referring to earnings
per share.  Ellison said earlier this week in an interview with CNBC
Oracle would eschew large acquisitions in the near term while it
concentrates on organic growth.  “They want to be a double-digit grower, but without large
deals it’s going to be tough,”  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS
AG in San Francisco, said in an interview at the event,
referring to revenue. Thill has a buy rating on the shares.  In an address earlier today at the company’s OpenWorld
conference here, co-President  Mark Hurd  said the volume of data
around the world could multiply by 50 times before 2020,
creating an opportunity for the database maker to sell to
businesses that want to control the cost of analyzing
information.  Big Data  More than 100,000 organizations will be storing at least
one petabyte of data -- that’s 1,000 terabytes -- eight years
from now, Hurd said in an address at the conference. During a
demonstration on stage, he showed how Oracle software can
aggregate police data with information on social media sites to
improve  law enforcement .  “This is a good example of merging unstructured and
structured data together, doing it in real time,” Hurd told the
audience. He said the analysis can be performed by “average
folks -- we didn’t have power analysts.”  Shares of  Redwood City , California-based Oracle rose less
than 1 percent to $31.90 at the close in  New York . The stock is
up 24 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  