-- Orders to U.S. Factories Plunge on Airplanes, Computers
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-04T15:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/orders-to-u-s-factories-plunged-in-august-on-planes-computers.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
fell in August by the most in more than three years, signaling
that slowdowns in business investment and exports restrained the
economic expansion.  The 5.2 percent decrease in  bookings  was the biggest since
January 2009 and followed a revised 2.6 percent increase in
July, the Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a decline of 5.9 percent. Demand for durable goods dropped
13.2 percent, the same as reported last week, while shipments of
non-durables, which includes such things as petroleum and
chemicals and often reflect swings in price, climbed 2.2
percent.  Factories are feeling the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis
and a slowdown in  China  and other Asian markets. In the U.S.,
concerns about a fiscal cliff of tax increases and  government
spending  cuts set for January also are putting the brakes on
business investment, which has been a mainstay of the expansion.  “These data indicate that the recent softness in
manufacturing activity and  capital spending  is likely to
continue, at least for several more months,”  Steven Wood ,
president of Insight Economics LLC in Danville,  California , said
in a note to clients.  Economists’ forecasts in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
declines of 1.2 percent to 8 percent.  Jobless Claims  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments rose last week, highlighting an
uneven improvement in the labor market, figures from the Labor
Department also showed today. Applications for  jobless benefits 
increased 4,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Sept. 29.
Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The prior week’s reading was the
lowest in two months.  Stocks held earlier gains after the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 1,459.82 at 11:16 a.m.
in  New York  as investors awaited tomorrow’s employment data for
September.  The drop in factory orders was paced by a 101.8 percent
plunge in demand for commercial aircraft, the same as reported
last week, and a 3.4 percent drop in computers and electrical
equipment, today’s Commerce Department report showed.  Excluding the volatile transportation category, factory
orders increased 0.7 percent in August for a second month.  Durable Goods  Orders for durable goods represent demand for items made to
last at least three years and make up more than half of total
factory bookings. The increase in demand for non-durable goods,
the only part of today’s report that hasn’t been previously
reported, reflected a 6.9 percent gain in petroleum and coal
products and an 11.8 percent jump in tobacco.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment increased 1.1
percent, the same as reported last week and following declines
of 5.6 percent and 2.7 percent in the prior two months.
Shipments of those goods, which are used in calculating gross
domestic product, decreased 0.7 percent after dropping 1.6
percent in July.  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, said yesterday it plans to eliminate 900 to 1,300
jobs, or 6 percent to 9 percent of its worldwide workforce.  Computer Demand  Applied Materials’ customers, such as  Intel Corp ., are
struggling with slowing orders for personal-computer components,
reducing their appetite for spending on increasing output.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest U.S. maker of memory
chips, last week reported a wider fourth-quarter loss and lower
revenue as lackluster demand for personal computers reduced
sales of components.  Another report this week indicated the slump in
manufacturing may be easing. Factories unexpectedly expanded in
September as orders and production improved, according to data
from the Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management.  Automakers have been one source of strength, with cars and
light trucks selling at an  annualized rate  of 14.9 million last
month, the industry’s best sales since March 2008.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  reported the biggest September gain, with sales surging 42
percent from the same time last year, more than the average
estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Chrysler Group LLC
posted a 12 percent gain over September 2011, its 30th month of
year-over-year sales growth.  Auto Sales  The U.S. averaged a 14.5 million annualized sales rate in
the third quarter, the fastest since the 15.3 million pace set
in 2008’s first quarter, according to researcher Autodata Corp.,
based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  “The stiffest headwinds are uncertainty, some of which
is related to the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and concerns
about the pace of growth here at home,” Kurt McNeil, vice
president of U.S. sales operations at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said
on an Oct. 2 call with analysts. “‘Still, we believe all of the
factors are net positive. In other words, autos will continue to
be a bright spot for the  U.S. economy .”  Factory inventories increased 0.6 percent in August for a
second month, today’s Commerce Department report showed, while
shipments fell 0.3 percent, bringing the inventory-to-shipments
ratio up to 1.28 months from 1.27 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  