-- Orphanides Says ECB Would Struggle to End Government-Bond Buying
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-04T10:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/orphanides-says-ecb-would-struggle-to-end-government-bond-buying.html
Former European Central Bank
Governing Council member Athanasios Orphanides said the central
bank would face fierce political opposition on any decision to
stop purchasing  government bonds  if a government fell behind on
conditionality.  “The real concern for the ECB is not how to kickstart the
program, it’s the exit,” Orphanides, who now teaches at the  MIT
Sloan School of Management  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in
a telephone interview. If an agreement is reached “with a
government and it reneges on it in six months time, the ECB will
face tremendous pressure not to stop its bond purchases,” he
said.  Investors will be looking for clues on any progress on a
Spanish aid request from ECB President  Mario Draghi  today. After
months of lobbying from  Spain  and Italy, Draghi last month
unveiled the details of ECB’s new bond purchase program. Under
the plan, a country must make a formal request to  Europe ’s
bailout fund to buy its debt on the primary market before the
ECB considers buying bonds on the secondary market.  So far, no country has asked for aid, with Spain saying it
is still studying the conditionality attached to the program.  ‘Convenient’  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  cautioned last week that
aid shouldn’t hinge on more conditions than leaders already
signed up to and the  International Monetary Fund  shouldn’t need
to police it.  “It may be convenient for politicians to harp on about ECB
conditionality, but people should realize that the
conditionality is set via the Eurogroup and the European
Stability Mechanism,” said Orphanides, who sat on the ECB’s
Governing Council until May.  Trying to assuage any concerns that countries’ reform
efforts will weaken as soon as bond purchases manage to bring
down yields, ECB officials including Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen and Belgium’s Luc Coene have said that the
central bank will immediately stop buying if a country slips on
its commitments.  Still, Orphanides said it will be very hard for the ECB to
follow through on that threat.  German Opposition  “As long as a government is seen as credible by the other
governments and the ESM continues to buy its bonds, it will be
difficult for the ECB to stop,” he said.  Orphanides also said he was surprised that German
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann was the only objector to the
plan. “I would have expected more than one dissent on the
Governing Council on the OMT.”  ECB officials are meeting in Slovenia today for their
monthly policy meeting. The central bank will publish its
decision on  interest rates  at 1:45 p.m. local time and Draghi
will hold a press conference 45 minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  