-- House Prices in Italy’s Tourist Spots Fall Amid Recession, Taxes
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-04T14:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/house-prices-in-italy-s-tourist-spots-fall-amid-recession-taxes.html
House prices  in  recession -hit  Italy ’s
tourist resorts such as Capri fell more than in the biggest
cities this year as investors grew concerned about the economic
outlook and higher property taxes, a research institute said.  Prices of residential properties in 31 resorts across the
country fell an average 4.4 percent in the 12 months through
September, the Bologna-based institute  Nomisma  said in an e-
mailed report today. That compares with a 3.4 percent decline in
Italy’s 13 biggest cities, the report said.  “The severe fall in Italian and foreign demand prompted
the sellers to review their asking prices,” the report said. As
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  introduced a new property tax last
year, expectations of more levies on real estate “pushed some
owners to shorten the timing of their de-investments and this
led to a downward trend that doesn’t seem” likely to end in the
short term, Nomisma said.  The euro region’s third-biggest economy will shrink 2.4
percent this year as rising joblessness and Monti’s austerity
drive weigh on demand, employers’ association Confindustria
estimates. The government matched that projection in its growth
forecasts released on Sept. 20 as  Europe ’s second most-indebted
economy grapples with the sovereign-debt crisis.  Some of the biggest decreases in prices of resort
properties were recorded on the island of Capri, the ski
destination of Cortina D’Ampezzo and the village of Positano on
the Amalfi coast, where prices fell 5.7 percent, 6.4 percent and
7 percent respectively, today’s report showed.  Home sales in the second quarter posted the biggest drop
since data collection began in 2004, the  Finance Ministry ’s
Agenzia del Territorio said on Sept. 27. A property levy,
marking the return of taxation on first homes after four years,
“won’t be an incentive for the market” in coming months, the
agency said in a separate report on June 19.  Prices may keep falling in coming months amid a
“widespread perception that the investment in real estates is
the primary target of any budget adjustments,” Nomisma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  