-- How a Corporation Legally Bought an Election
-- B y   R o b e r t   E .   W r i g h t
-- 2012-10-04T15:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/how-a-corporation-legally-bought-an-election.html
Recent changes in campaign-finance
laws, prompted by the  Supreme Court ’s decision in the Citizens
United case of 2010, have some people worried that corporations
can now legally buy a presidential election.  Of course, directly paying citizens to vote for a certain
candidate seems unlikely. Ballots are secret and can’t easily be
traded, and voting contracts couldn’t be monitored for
compliance, much less enforced in court. Under certain
conditions, however, companies can almost buy votes outright --
and it has happened before.  Any fifth-grader worthy of promotion can tell you the
capital of South Dakota is Pierre. What few people of any grade
can tell you is why, in 1889 and 1890, South Dakotans voted to
make that tiny hamlet their temporary, and then their permanent,
state capital. The story of these two obscure plebiscites in
 South Dakota  is one of the oddest in the annals of campaign
finance.  Pierre was located at the geographical center of the state,
more or less, but was in the far western part demographically as
most South Dakotans, then as now, lived in the eastern third of
the state. In fact, Pierre was at the end of the Chicago and
North Western line, directly across the Missouri River from a
huge Indian reservation that still bubbled with trouble. (The
massacre at Wounded Knee occurred in late December 1890.)  Money Pours In  Pierre’s main rival for the capital, Huron, was also on the
Chicago and North Western line but lay 110 miles to the east,
far from potentially dangerous natives and close to the
prospective state’s demographic center. Huron was voted the
temporary capital in 1885 and by 1890 was its de facto
convention center due to its location. Even denizens of the
Black Hills, in the far western part of the region, found it
easier to get to Huron than to Pierre, which from the west was
accessible only by horse and wagon through desolate tracts.
Moreover, Huron was larger than Pierre and better appointed with
hotels, newspapers and  telephone exchanges .  Money soon poured into the campaign. The winning town was
sure to experience a real-estate boom as the state government
built a governor’s mansion, statehouse, court building and other
offices. Moreover, government employment would bring with it
long-term local economic stability.  Much of the campaign money canceled itself out as boosters
of both towns competed to outdo each other with banners,
buttons, newspaper puff pieces, parades, rallies and songs. Some
resources, however, were used more effectively by aligning the
interests of voters statewide with one of the two cities.  Enter the Woonsocket Investment Co., or WIC, named for a
small town south of Huron. In an era before the Securities and
Exchange Commission or even state “blue sky” laws, WIC was able
to sell shares of itself to some 10,000 South Dakotans, about a
fifth of the electorate. Although the historical record is
sketchy, the company probably sold the shares via direct public
offering, not intermediated by an investment bank, a common
practice at the time.  WIC’s executives initially asked the town of Huron for land
grants, hopeful that the local government would realize that WIC
stockholders would then have a strong incentive to vote for
Huron in the plebiscite. After being rebuffed there, they
solicited Pierre, which wisely granted the company a number of
city lots. Realizing that the value of those lots would increase
if Pierre won, WIC’s thousands of stockholders turned out en
masse, clinching the election for the tiny hamlet on the big
river in 1889, the year South Dakota officially became a state.
The following year, with taxpayer resources already sunk into
Pierre, and WIC stockholders still eager to boost the isolated
outpost for their own gain, Huron lost the election to be the
permanent capital, too.  Sharing Profits  Huronites were enraged by WIC’s actions, but it was all
legal. What WIC did, in a sense, was to share the  profits 
created by the selection of a state capital with the broad
segment of the population astute enough to buy its shares.  The consequences of this episode may seem minor. With fewer
than 14,000 people, Pierre remains the second-least-populous
state capital in the nation. But there was a more important
legacy: South Dakota responded to WIC’s shenanigans by
implementing a number of Progressive electoral reforms and
became the first state to adopt initiative-and-referendum
legislation, which allows citizens to force a vote on specific
issues.  Today, with independent groups empowered by  Citizens United 
to spend unlimited amounts on unrestricted attack ads and other
political speech, the corporate ability to influence voters’
intentions seems ever more powerful. About 122 years after WIC
cleverly swayed the South Dakota electorate to its shareholders’
advantage, how will the country respond to similar threats to
its democracy?  (Robert E. Wright is the Nef Family Chair of Political
Economy at Augustana College in South Dakota and the author of
numerous books, including, with David Cowen, “Financial Founding
Fathers: The Men Who Made America Rich.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Robert E. Wright at
 robert.wright@augie.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 