-- How to Run Your Hedge Fund From a Prison Cell
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-10-04T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/how-to-run-your-hedge-fund-from-a-prison-cell.html
As if America’s hedge-fund elite
didn’t have enough crises to worry about -- riots in  Spain , the
 fiscal cliff , Lindsay Lohan’s hotel  brawl  -- the parade of
underlings copping pleas to insider-trading crimes just keeps
growing. Every week it seems another one flips, promising to
turn state’s evidence.  Time is money, as they say. And it would take a true genius
to make money out of the kind of time some of these people are
facing. Still, you don’t get to work at a $14 billion hedge fund
like SAC Capital Advisors without abundant self-confidence and
inner drive. So if you are someone like Jon Horvath, now isn’t
the time to give up on your dreams, just because you face the
prospect of years in the slammer.  Horvath, 42, is the former SAC analyst who pleaded guilty
last week to securities-fraud charges after admitting to
participating in an insider-trading ring. Soon he will probably
join former Galleon Group kingpin Raj Rajaratnam and dozens of
other recently convicted hedge-fund masters and tipsters now
populating America’s minimum-security prisons.  We can imagine what the fittest among them might be
thinking: “Now that I’m truly on the inside, how can I use this
opportunity to make as much money as I did on the outside?”
Perhaps the greatest profits could go to those with the longest
sentences. Call this the ultimate lockup agreement.  Criminal Minds  All it takes is some  imagination . Suppose you are a skilled
hedge-fund veteran who has just reported to prison. A little-
appreciated fact is that there is no U.S. law preventing a
convicted felon from managing a hedge fund, as long as that
person isn’t required to be registered under the  Investment
Advisers Act . Or at least that is what the attorney who lost
your case at trial once told you.  Fortunately, it is understood that there are two kinds of
crooks in this business: those who get rich by  cheating  their
clients, and those who make their clients richer by cheating
everyone else. You are the latter kind. Your clients’ faith in
you remains unshaken. You traded on inside information -- for
them! You risked going to prison -- for them! You were doing
 God’s work  -- for them!  They stood to make money even if you got caught. And sure
enough, you did. Your clients’ interests always come first. (And
unlike  Goldman Sachs  you really mean it.) Now they owe you.
Judging by all those kind  letters  they wrote begging the judge
in your case for leniency, they know it.  You pull out the rock you smuggled in to mark the passing
days on your cell’s walls, and proceed to carve out a plan,
which goes something like this: In these troubled economic
times, when the stock market is soaring yet the only thing
keeping the financial system alive are empty speeches from an
 Italian central banker , investors need the safety and security
that can only come with having no ability to access their money
for anything.  That’s right, you will tell them: They should park their
money with you -- someone they can trust who, due to extenuating
circumstances, won’t be able to touch it, either.  You figure the  standard hedge-fund-industry fees  shall
apply: 2 percent of assets and 20 percent of annual returns, to
protect your clients from doing anything with their money
themselves, like losing it on shares of  Facebook . Except there
will be no profits to speak of at your new fund, Long Sentence
Capital Management.  Black Box  All money will be placed in ordinary deposit accounts at a
 Cayman Islands branch  of a U.S. too-big-to-fail financial
institution such as JPMorgan Chase. (For clients who want to
feel like you are doing actual work, tell them: “The algorithms
will take care of the rest.”) A brilliant strategy, you tell
yourself. When the rest of the world is down 90 percent, your
clients will still be rich. Who needs  Nassim Nicholas Taleb  and
his  black swans  when they have you and your black box?  Now for the hard part: What to do with the rest of your
time? Sure, you could spend years feeling sorry for yourself,
when you aren’t busy selling your insider knowledge of the
prison industry to an  expert-network  service. But think about
poor Jon Horvath. He passed along insider tips from an employee
at  Dell Inc. (DELL)  The government  called  this a crime.  Imagine that. Dell and its founder,  Michael Dell , committed
accounting fraud, if we are to believe what the Securities and
Exchange Commission  claimed  in a 2010 civil lawsuit. Only a fool
would trade Dell without inside information. Otherwise the risk
of loss is too great because, as the SEC made crystal clear, you
can’t believe anything the company says. Yet Horvath is going to
jail. And the SEC let Michael Dell stay as Dell’s chief
executive officer! He didn’t even admit anything under the
settlement. Who does the SEC think this guy is?  Steve Jobs ?  There is nothing you can do for Horvath. You have urgent
matters to consider and no time to waste.  A guard knocks on your door. He has a message from the
associate warden. Good news: Your request for  e-mail  privileges
has been granted.  Tomorrow will be the start of a new, glorious future.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Venezuela’s high-stakes
election  and on the  fallacy of small business  as job creator;
Stephen L. Carter on why it’s OK to skip the  presidential
debates ; William Pesek on  quantitative easing in the U.S. and
Japan ; Brian T. Haggerty on the perils of  military intervention
in Syria ;  Paul Hodgson  on recouping bonuses from  bank
executives .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  