-- Lloyds Remains Committed to Swiss Wealth Hub as Assets Decline
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-10-04T12:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/lloyds-remains-committed-to-swiss-wealth-hub-as-assets-decline.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said it will
continue to build its international private-banking business
from Switzerland instead of  Singapore , even after client assets
at its Geneva unit declined 15 percent and as Swiss banking
secrecy erodes.  Lloyds, the London-based bank that received a 20.3 billion-
pound ($32.7 billion) government rescue following the 2008
credit crisis, has shifted Swiss employees into offices for as
many as 400 people outside Geneva and may hire as many as 40
staff next year, according to Russell Galley, managing director
for international businesses.  “Switzerland is a strategic priority, and it’s somewhere
where we are investing,” Galley, who is based in Geneva, told
reporters in Nyon, Switzerland today. “We’re not struggling at
all.”  Swiss banks are trying to cut expenses after an
appreciation of the nation’s currency and as investors’
reluctance to take risks in turbulent financial markets crimps
profitability. Assets under management at Lloyds’s Geneva
private bank dropped to 12.1 billion pounds at the end of June
from 14.3 billion pounds a year earlier, according to a July
 financial report .  International wealth managers including Bank of America
Corp. in the U.S. and Coutts, a subsidiary of the U.K.’s Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, have exited smaller cross-border
businesses in some  emerging markets  amid growing compliance
costs for offshore clients.  Asset Sales  Lloyds, 40 percent owned by the U.K. government, has sold
182 billion pounds of non-core assets since 2008. The Geneva
unit closed private-banking offices in Paraguay, Colombia and
 Guatemala  this year and also lost client funds with departing
relationship managers and after checking compliance procedures,
Galley said.  The new Swiss offices for employees in asset management,
wealth structuring, credit and operations are surrounded by a
construction site, farming fields and vineyards north of Lake
Geneva. Almost 300 people were required to relocate from a
building in downtown Geneva next to the main offices of Pictet &
Cie., Switzerland’s largest closely held private bank.  Lloyds “faced difficulties” in moving employees away from
Geneva and 12 people left the company, Guy Healey, who oversaw
the move, told reporters today. Relationship managers will
continue to meet clients in premises housing 130 employees in
central Geneva by the banks of the River Rhone.  Singapore’s Costs  Lloyds was established in  Switzerland  in 1919 and provides
services for Britons, Latin Americans and people from the  Middle
East . The Geneva  private bank  has kept offices in Miami and
Montevideo and had positive new money flows since Galley took
over in June last year, he said.  The firm considered investing in Singapore before
concluding the wealth market was “significantly overheating”
with “ridiculous costs to open and a mobile client base with
very little stability in the market,” Galley said. He expects
Singapore and  Hong Kong  “to mature in the next 10 years or
more.”  Wealth management in the two Asian cities may surpass
Switzerland in size in the next 15 to 20 years, according to a
May report by  Boston Consulting Group .  Switzerland’s weakening of secrecy rules established in
1934 is encouraging some offshore customers to repatriate assets
to home countries. The Alpine country may introduce due
diligence obligations requiring banks to obtain self-
declarations from foreign customers ensuring they are tax-
compliant in their home countries, the federal government said
in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  