-- Toys ‘R’ Us Continues Digital Push With Movie Streaming
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/toys-r-us-continues-digital-push-with-movie-streaming.html
Toys “R” Us Inc. (TOYS) , the world’s
largest toy chain, announced a video-distribution service less
than a month after unveiling its entry into the surging tablet
market with a device geared for children.  More than 4,000 movies and television shows curated for
families will be available via the Web beginning tomorrow, the
Wayne, New Jersey-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
The site, www.ToysrusMovies.com, features such titles as Walt
Disney Co.’s “Marvel’s The Avengers.”  Users buy or rent content and watch it by streaming or
downloading it to a computer. The service, powered by  Rovi
Corp. (ROVI) , will expand to more Internet-enabled devices and mobile
applications, including one for its tabeo tablet, the
company said.  The tabeo, which begins selling exclusively at Toys “R”
Us stores on Oct. 21 for $149.99, is the retailer’s attempt to
gain a piece of the growing market for such devices and digital
content that’s dominated by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and  Amazon.com
Inc (AMZN) ’s Kindle. The tablet offers electronics books and
applications. It also has parental controls, just like the movie
service.  Movies start at $2.99 for a 24-hour rental and $5.99 for
digital download or streaming. Television shows begin at 99
cents, with most priced at $1.99.  The closely held retailer, owned by KKR & Co., Bain Capital
LLC and Vornado Realty Trust, has been offering more exclusive
products in a bid to fend off competition. The chain has also
tried to increase visits by adding in-store services, such as a
reservation list for top-selling toys and the ability to pick up
online orders at physical locations.  The company, which also runs the Babies “R” Us brand,
filed for an initial public offering in May 2010 to repay debt,
and the listing is pending.  Since then, sales have slowed, including a decline during
last year’s holiday season when it generated 43 percent of its
annual revenue. Most of that drop came from falling demand for
video-game titles and hardware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  