-- Palm Oil Little Changed as Tax Proposal Counters Price Forecast
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-04T11:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/palm-oil-advances-as-malaysian-tax-proposal-may-boost-shipments.html
Palm oil  closed little changed as
speculation that Malaysian shipments may increase after a
proposed export-tax cut countered a bearish price prediction
from Dorab Mistry, director of Godrej International Ltd.  The contract for December delivery ended at 2,352 ringgit
($769) a metric ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange.
Futures swung between gains of 2.3 percent and losses of 1.3
percent. Prices are heading for a 7.6 percent drop this week.  A plan to cut export taxes on crude palm oil to between 8
percent and 10 percent from 23 percent will be presented to the
Malaysian cabinet tomorrow, said Plantations Industries and
Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok yesterday. Unused duty-free
export quota will be redistributed, he said.  The  tax cut  “would help boost exports of CPO, reducing
stockpiles and cushioning prices from falling further,” Chye Wen Fei, an analyst at Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in
a report today, referring to crude palm oil.  Futures declined earlier after Mistry said the bounce
probably wouldn’t last and the market would decline to $749 a
ton for cargoes delivered in Rotterdam. The price was $800  in
Rotterdam  yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indonesia  will maintain its export-tax policy, Deputy Trade
Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi told reporters in Jakarta today. The
country reduced taxes last year to boost shipments of processed
oil, increasing competition for Malaysia.  Palm oil has plunged 22 percent since the end of August as
the global slowdown hurt demand for the oil used in everything
from candy to biofuel amid an increase in production in
Indonesia and Malaysia.  Stockpiles in Malaysia may have jumped to 2.6 million tons
at end-September, Ivy Ng, an analyst at  CIMB Group Holdings
Bhd. (CIMB) , said yesterday. Inventories reached an all-time high of
2.27 million tons in November 2008, said the Malaysian Palm Oil
Board. The agency is set to release September data on Oct. 10.  Soybean oil  for December delivery climbed 0.5 percent to
50.96 cents a pound on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for
November delivery gained 0.8 percent to $15.445 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  