-- Palm Oil Poised to Decline After Rebound, Mistry Predicts
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-04T11:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/palm-oil-poised-to-resume-decline-after-rally-mistry-predicts.html
Palm oil , the most-used cooking oil,
is set to resume its decline in the next few days after a
bounce, said Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  Prices may decline to $749 a metric ton for cargoes
delivered in Rotterdam because the export tax in  Indonesia , the
biggest producer, drops to zero at that level, said Mistry in
response to e-mailed questions from Bloomberg. He correctly
predicted a slump in futures in July. Crude palm oil was at $800
in Rotterdam yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the global
benchmark, have plunged 22 percent since the end of August as
slowing demand increased stockpiles in Indonesia and Malaysia,
the biggest producers. Declining prices may reduce revenues for
companies including  Sime Darby Bhd (SIME)  and IOI Corp. and help cap
increases in global food costs.  “A bounce is to be expected and natural,” said Mistry.
“The market should resume its journey to $749 cif Rotterdam in
the next few days. I’m pessimistic about the macro scenario.”  With a decline to $749 and no export tax, palm oil
producers in Indonesia would be “better off than at present,”
said Mistry. “It also means that Malaysian refiners become
competitive once again.”  The contract for December delivery ended little changed at
2,352 ringgit after trading between a 2.3 percent gain and a 1.3
percent loss. Futures fell 8.5 percent to close at a three-year
low of 2,255 ringgit on Oct. 2. That was the biggest drop for
the most-active contract since October 2008.  Tax Proposal  Indonesia reduced taxes last year to boost exports of
processed oil, increasing competition for refiners in  Malaysia .
When prices of crude and refined palm oil and olein drop below
$750 a ton, no export duty is imposed. The country will maintain
its export-tax policy, Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi
told reporters in Jakarta today.  A proposal to cut export taxes on crude palm oil to between
8 percent and 10 percent from the current 23 percent will be
presented to the Malaysian cabinet tomorrow, Plantations
Minister Bernard Dompok said late yesterday.  “Indonesian refineries’ competitive advantage comes from
their ability to buy CPO cheaper” because the domestic price is
reduced by the amount of the export duty, Alvin Tai, an analyst
at OSK Investment Bank Bhd., said today.  The price plunge will give some relief to Malaysian
refiners in the short term,said Mohammad Jaaffar Ahmad, chief
executive of Palm Oil Refiners Association of Malaysia. Even at
these prices, Indonesian refiners had an advantage of at least
$40 a ton in production costs, he said.  Stockpiles in Malaysia will continue to expand in October,
November and December and may reach as high as 3 million tons by
January, Mistry said Sept. 23. Inventories in Indonesia have
hovered between 3.5 million tons and 4 million tons since 2010
as against popular estimates of 1.5 million tons to 2 million
tons, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  