-- Pan Pacific to Offer 15% Cut in Copper Premium for China
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2012-10-04T07:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/pan-pacific-said-to-offer-15-cut-in-copper-premium-for-china.html
Pan Pacific Copper Co.,  Japan ’s
largest producer, offered a 15 percent cut in next year’s
premium for refined metal supplied to clients in  China  and
 Taiwan , said two executives with knowledge of the pricing.  The Tokyo-based company is proposing to reduce the fee to
$85 a metric ton over the price of metal for immediate delivery
on the London Metal Exchange, said the executives, who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Pan Pacific’s offers for 2013 came before  Codelco , the
world’s largest copper producer, sets its annual sales premiums
for buyers in Europe,  South Korea  and China. Premiums of copper
cathode sales decline when the market sees more supply. The
premium includes shipping and insurance costs.  “The decline is largely within our expectation as supply
will exceed demand next year,” said Syusaku Nishikawa, an
analyst at Daiwa Securities Co. “Concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis and China’s slowing growth has dimmed the global demand
outlook.”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. expects
Codelco’s annual premiums for Europe to decline to around $85
and $87 a ton in 2013 from $90 a ton this year, the bank said
Oct. 1. Codelco was offering Chinese buyers a $5 cut on 2013
annual premiums to around $105 a ton, ANZ said.  Pan Pacific’s negotiations for annual supply contracts with
customers in China and Taiwan have been delayed this year
following recent tension over disputed islands known as Senkaku
in Japan and Diaoyu in China, the executives said. The company
is a venture between JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corp. and  Mitsui
Mining & Smelting Co. (5706)   Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose 0.4 percent to $8,325 a ton at 4 p.m. Tokyo time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  