-- Paulson Funds Said to Further Cut 2012 Losses Last Month
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/paulson-s-gold-advantage-said-to-pare-losses-in-september-1-.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager coming off record losses in 2011, further pared
declines in his Gold and Advantage funds last month, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  Paulson’s Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related investments, rose 13 percent in September as
bullion rallied, cutting losses this year to 3.9 percent, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the information is
private. The Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns, gained 3.6 percent last month,
reducing losses since the start of the year to 14 percent.  Bullion and companies that mine for it, which had been the
main drivers of losses in the Gold and Advantage funds this
year, rallied last month as the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a
third round of monetary stimulus, boosting demand for the
precious metal as a store of value.  Paulson, 56, who became a billionaire by betting against
the U.S. subprime-mortgage market, told clients in February that
gold was his best long-term bet, serving as protection against
currency debasement, rising inflation and a possible breakup of
the euro currency.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for $20 billion Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment.  The Advantage Plus fund’s gold share class rose 6.8 percent
in September and fell 5.2 percent for the year. Investors can
choose between gold- and dollar-denominated versions for most of
New York-based Paulson & Co.’s funds.  Reduced Hedges  Paulson’s Advantage Fund, which employs a similar strategy
to Advantage Plus, gained 2.6 percent in September, reducing its
2012 decline to 11 percent. Its gold shares climbed 6 percent
last month and 0.8 percent this year.  Paulson told clients in a letter sent yesterday that his
firm decreased its hedges, or offsetting trades, after the Fed
outlined additional steps to boost the economy and the  European
Central Bank  took measures to guard against a sovereign default,
according to one of the people who saw the memo. Paulson told
investors in April that he was shorting, or betting against,
European sovereign bonds and buying credit-default swaps on the
region’s debt as protection. In February, he said the euro was
“structurally flawed,” and would eventually fall apart.  Paulson’s credit and recovery funds fell in September,
primarily because of hedges, he said in the letter, according to
the people. The Credit Opportunities Fund dropped 1.5 percent
last month and rose 2 percent year-to-date. Its gold shares
gained 1.9 percent in September and 10 percent this year. The
fund jumped almost sevenfold in 2007, largely because of
Paulson’s bets against the U.S. subprime-mortgage market.  Recovery Fund  The Recovery Fund, which bets on assets Paulson believes
will benefit from a long-term economic advance, it declined 1.2
percent last month and rose 0.5 percent in 2012, the people
said. The gold share class climbed 2.8 percent in September and
10 percent this year.  Paulson’s Enhanced fund, which invests in shares of
companies that are involved in mergers, didn’t make or lose
money in September. This year, it’s up 9.1 percent. The gold
share class rose 3.7 percent last month and 16 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  