-- Pemex Said to Strike Second Perdido Find Near U.S. Border
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-10-04T23:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/pemex-said-to-strike-second-perdido-discovery-near-u-s-border.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest crude producer, found a new ultra-deepwater field
with about 200 million barrels of oil in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
according to one person with knowledge of the nation’s second
area discovery in five weeks.  Final tests at Supremus-1 well at the end of September
confirmed crude reserves, said three people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential until the company
known as Pemex makes an official announcement. The exploratory
equipment used in Supremus is now being sent to a different
project, one of the people said.  The well, which is about 9,500 feet (2,900 meters) deep, is
part of Pemex’s $1.1 billion spending plan this year on deep-
water exploratory projects. On Aug. 29, the company said it
found oil at the Trion-1 exploration well, also located in the
Perdido Basin, an area about 200 miles (320 kilometers) off the
Texas coast that stretches across the U.S.-Mexican border.  Pemex, based in  Mexico  City, estimates it has 26.5 billion
barrels of untapped crude in deep-water fields in the Gulf.
About 10 billion barrels are from the Mexican side of Perdido.  Officials at Pemex’s press office, who can’t be named
because of company policy, declined to comment. The company will
hold an event tomorrow with President  Felipe Calderon  to make an
announcement, the official said.  The Bicentenario exploratory deep-water rig used in
Supremus is being sent to the Maximino 1 well, according to
Pemex’s exploration plans. Maximino, which originally was
scheduled for exploration in November 2010, is “the jewel in
the crown of our deepwater projects -- we have high
expectations,” Jose Antonio Escalera, deputy director for
technical exploration, told reporters last year.  Easing Pressure  The Perdido discoveries ease pressure on Pemex after the
company failed to find commercially viable deep-water crude in
its first 23 attempts.  Mexico’s state-owned company has invested almost $10
billion in exploration since 2009. Pemex is counting on deep-
water Gulf of Mexico deposits to increase production by a third
in the next dozen years.  Pemex may start developing the Perdido wells as soon as
five years,  Carlos Morales , head of exploration and production
at the state oil company, said in an Aug. 29 interview. The
Mexico City-based oil company is mulling partnering with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil company, to ship the crude
through facilities to U.S. refineries or installing a floating
production system in the Mexican side, he said.  Pemex dollar-denominated perpetual bonds rose 0.10 cents to
106.19 cents per dollar, the highest since the bond was first
sold. The yield on the bond issued Sept. 2010 fell 1 basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.197 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  