-- Portugal Eyes Private Placement in Plotting Return to Market
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-10-04T16:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/portugal-scouts-private-placements-in-plotting-return-to-markets.html
Portugal , shut out of bond markets
for more than a year as it relies on aid to stay solvent, is
scouting private placements after a debt exchange yesterday, the
head of the nation’s debt agency said.  “We will always be attentive to opportunities for doing
private placements and, depending on the rate, we will not
hesitate to take advantage of good opportunities,” Joao Moreira Rato, chairman of the Lisbon-based debt agency, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “At this moment we’re starting
our plan of roadshows through the various geographic areas in
which we have potential investors.”  The debt agency has seen more than 30 European investors in
recent weeks and plans visits in the U.S., Moreira Rato said.
“This process will allow us to have a clearer idea about the
potential demand for our bonds,” he said.  Junk-rated Portugal, which aims to regain access to bond
markets by September 2013, hasn’t sold bonds since requesting a
bailout in April 2011. It has continued to sell Treasury bills.  The debt agency, known as IGCP, exchanged bonds maturing
next year for securities due in 2015, reducing its 2013
repayment burden. It bought 3.76 billion euros ($4.89 billion)
of bonds due in September 2013. Portugal has to meet the 2013
bond redemption without relying on the European Union-led rescue
program, which extends until the middle of 2014.  ‘Positive Development’  More than 60 percent of the primary dealers participated in
the swap, said Moreira Rato, who became IGCP chairman this year
and previously worked at Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The IGCP may consider
more opportunities to do bond exchanges and it’s not considering
buying back debt securities at this moment, he said.  “Portugal’s bond exchange is a step towards regaining bond
 market access , which is a positive development,”  Fitch Ratings 
said in a statement today. “The weak economic outlook in
Portugal, the size of the fiscal adjustment and fragile nature
of the  euro zone  sovereign-debt market means there would need to
be a significant improvement in sentiment for it to return to
the market in full next year.”  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6
said bond purchases may be considered for euro-area countries
currently under bailout programs, such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, when they regain bond-market access.  Outright Monetary Transactions “would not apply to
countries that are under a full adjustment program until full
market access will be obtained,” Draghi said today. “The OMT
is not a replacement for lack of primary market access.”  Sale Plans  The IGCP yesterday said it plans to sell as much as 5.75
billion euros of bills with maturities of as much as 18 months
in auctions during the fourth quarter.  Portuguese debt has this year returned 44 percent,
including reinvested interest, the most of 26 markets tracked by
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Irish debt, the second-best
performer in the euro region, has handed investors 25 percent,
while German bund gains are 3.2 percent in 2012.  Portugal’s  debt , which will peak below 124 percent of gross
domestic product, “remains sustainable and will be on a firm
downward trajectory after 2014,” the  International Monetary
Fund , the European Commission and the European Central Bank said
in a joint statement on Sept. 11.  Debt Level  The IMF in July said it projected Portugal’s debt would
peak at about 118.5 percent of GDP in 2013. The projection
assumed annual  economic growth  of 2 percent and medium and long-
term borrowing costs of 7 percent when the country regains
access to markets in 2013, declining gradually to 5 percent over
the next four years.  The government projects GDP will shrink 1 percent in 2013
after a contraction of 3 percent this year. Economic growth has
averaged less than 1 percent a year for the past decade, placing
Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  The country has been given more time to narrow its budget
shortfall after  tax revenue  missed forecasts and the economy
heads for a third year of contraction in 2013. Portugal aims to
reach a deficit of 5 percent in 2012 instead of the previous
goal of 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  