-- Prison Phones Prove Captive Market for Private Equity
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/prison-phones-prove-captive-market-for-private-equity.html
U.S. prisoners pay as much as $17 for
a 15-minute call with their families in a jailhouse phone market
dominated by two private equity-backed companies, and that cost
now is drawing scrutiny from regulators.  Global Tel*Link Corp., Securus Technologies Inc. and
smaller competitors in the $1.2 billion inmate-phone industry
bid for exclusive contracts to provide telephone service,
agreeing to pay as much as  two-thirds  of calling charges to
government or private prison operators. Those commissions can
drive fees to levels that make it difficult for prisoners to
maintain contact with spouses, children and parents.  “Hello, does anybody hear me out there?” David Wrobleski,
serving a life sentence in a Michigan prison, wrote July 15 to
U.S. Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski . “Over the years, I have lost most of my contact
with my family and friends due to the increased cost of a
telephone call from the prison setting. I come from a very poor
family.”  In an online question-and-answer exchange last month,
Genachowski, a Democrat,  called  prison phone rates a “serious
issue for families, communities, security” and said the FCC is
“preparing next steps.” He didn’t provide details.  A collection of civil rights, religious groups and members
of Congress is pressing the FCC to act on a petition filed in
2003 by prisoners and family members to cut “exorbitant”
rates. Representatives from the Leadership Conference on Civil
and Human Rights, the United Church of Christ, the National
Urban League and other organizations  met with  Genachowski in
September and asked for a clear date for action.  Singapore Cheaper  “It is cheaper to call  Singapore  at 12 cents a minute from
a cell phone than it would be to speak to someone in prison in
this country,” a group of 30 organizations and individuals said
in a May 18 filing asking the FCC to cap interstate rates. The
current system, they said, provides “every incentive to choose
bids that maximize fees.”  Global Tel*Link, based in Mobile,  Alabama , has about 50
percent of the correctional phone services market, followed by
Securus with almost 30 percent, according to Standard & Poor’s.  Global Tel*Link directed questions to its owner, American
Securities LLC, a Park Avenue private equity firm. Caroline Harris, a spokeswoman for American Securities, declined to
comment. So did Michael Millican, a spokesman for New York-based
Castle Harlan Inc., which owns Securus.  Commission Criticism  Prison phone charges vary by location. A 15-minute call
through Global Tel*Link costs $2.36 in  Massachusetts  and more
than $17 in  Georgia , according to a  study  released Sept. 11 by
the Prison Policy Initiative, an advocacy group in Easthampton,
Massachusetts. In New York, where commissions aren’t allowed,
Global Tel*Link charges about 5 cents a minute, according to the
study.  The commissions phone companies pay to prison operators
“are the product of a public policy decision made by
correctional authorities, and in some cases state
legislatures,” which may use their share of phone fees to fund
prison operations and inmate welfare funds, Dallas-based Securus
said in a filing with the FCC.  Prison calls cost more than residential telephone service
for reasons that include security requirements and bad debts,
according to Securus, which said in a  filing  that it has about
1,400 contracts in 46 states.  Extra Security  Prison calling services include security capabilities such
as preventing call-forwarding and conference calls, and caller
identification based on voice analysis, Global Tel*Link said in
an Oct. 3 filing at the FCC. Chief Executive Officer Brian Oliver discussed inmate calling in a meeting with Commissioner
Ajit Pai, a member of the agency’s Republican minority,
according to the filing.  Prisoners make collect calls or set up prepaid accounts
funded by relatives or by their earnings from prison jobs that
pay cents per hour. Service providers may collect per-call fees
in addition to time-based charges, according to the Prison
Policy Initiative.  Forty-two states got commissions from phone companies in
2008, averaging 42 percent of the charges and reaching as much
as 66 percent, according to a July filing by groups asking the
FCC to set a benchmark rate of 20 cents or 25 cents a minute.  Until recently, charges from Global Tel*Link ran about $100
a month for Tom and Dora Pickles, 79-year-old retirees in Wake
Forest, North Carolina. Their son, Scott, is serving a life
sentence in  Connecticut  after killing his wife and two children.  “We have counted that as an expense that was just there --
we didn’t care what it was, were going to live with it, and pay
it,” Dora Pickles said in a telephone interview.  Reducing Recidivism  After Connecticut rebid the contract and switched providers
this year to Securus, charges dropped to less than $4 from about
$13 for 15 minutes, the longest call allowed, Tom Pickles said.  “It certainly was a big break when it changed,” he said.
“And by the way, that’s the quickest 15 minutes of the week.”  Connecticut reduced long-distance calling rates for most of
its 16,000 inmates in 15 institutions, Brian Garnett, a
spokesman for the Connecticut Department of Correction, said in
an interview. “We are very cognizant of the strain that phone
rates can place on family support of an inmate,” he said.  Keeping prisoners in contact with family reduces repeat
incarcerations,  Nancy La Vigne , director of the Justice Policy
Center at the Urban Institute in  Washington ,  told  Congress in a
May 2010 hearing. Contact while in prison reinforces ties
between fathers and children, giving prisoners a greater stake
in good behavior, La Vigne said.  Private Equity  Global Tel*Link was bought in December by its management
and American Securities, a private-equity firm with  investments
that include  Oreck Corp., a vacuum-cleaner maker, and the
Potbelly Sandwich Works restaurant chain. Terms weren’t
disclosed for the acquisition from Veritas Capital and GS Direct
LLC, the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  investing unit.  Castle Harlan acquired Securus from HIG Capital LLC in May
2011 for $450 million, according to a  video  posted on Castle
Harlan’s website. Securus was headed toward $80 million of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in 2012, up from $62 million at the time of the purchase,
William Pruellage, co-president of Castle Harlan, said on the
video.  Corrections Corp. of America, the largest private prison
operator, said in a regulatory filing that an FCC decision to
bar commissions would have a material adverse effect on its
results. The company gets commission revenue “in some
instances,” though not all, Steve Owen, a spokesman for the
Nashville, Tennessee-based company, said in an interview.  Call Monitoring  Eight states, including New Mexico, have banned prison
phone commissions and as a result the cost of calls in those
states has dropped, the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission,
which oversees phone services, said in a resolution adopted
Sept. 25.  The  National Sheriff’s Association  told the FCC in a 2008
filing that capping rates for interstate calls would “seriously
hamper the ability of sheriffs to effectively manage our
nation’s jails.” Inmate charges help cover the cost of
monitoring calls,  Fred Wilson , a spokesman for the Alexandria,
Virginia-based group, said in an interview.  If commissions are cut, localities could face a choice on
whether to have taxpayers make up the difference, Wilson said.
“Is that still going to get picked up, or is that program going
to go away?” he said.  Money from commissions goes toward programs such as
recreational and library supplies in Massachusetts, maintenance
of county jails in  Arkansas , and a victim compensation fund in
 Texas , Global Tel*Link said in its Oct. 3 filing.  ‘National Priority’  Mignon Clyburn, a Democrat on the five-member FCC, supports
limiting fees. “Connecting husbands to wives, parents to
children, and grandparents to grandchildren should be a national
priority,” she said in a statement.  Democratic Representatives Bobby Rush of  Illinois  and Henry Waxman of  California  urged the FCC Sept. 12 to act “as soon as
possible” on the petition from 2003.  “It shouldn’t take the FCC one more decade to ensure that
prison phone services are priced in line with their true costs
and made more affordable,” Rush said in an e-mailed release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  