-- Public Theater Glows With $40 Million Makeover: Interview
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/public-theater-glows-with-40-million-makeover-interview.html
Today when the doors open on the
spectacularly transformed  Public Theater  in downtown New York,
Oskar Eustis can take a place in the spotlight.  In this slash and discard economy, Eustis, 54, has overseen
a subtle, $40 million renovation of the theater’s grim public
spaces, most dramatically the lobby and Joe’s Pub.  That’s named after Joe Papp, who turned an abandoned 19th-
century relic into the country’s most important theater complex.  Over the last seven years Eustis -- who resembles a modern
dress Wotan (or stylish Amish farmer) in his signature dark,
double-breasted blazers over band-collar shirts -- has burnished
the history, making this landmarked building in New York’s East
Village a magnet for hipsters and cultural cognoscenti.  We met last week on Lafayette Street outside the Public, as
workers prepared for today’s opening.  Hoelterhoff: Great steps.  Eustis: They’re already serving like a fantastic gathering
spot. The moment we finished, people started sitting on them.
That sense of a place to congregate is exactly what we want at
the Public.  Hoelterhoff: This is an old building. Any surprises?
Challenges?  No Beams  Eustis: You had no idea what you were going to find when
you opened up the walls. There are no architectural drawings
left from the 1850s. Where we thought there were beams, there
were none. It’s a miracle that this building hasn’t collapsed.  Hoelterhoff: The glass canopy is a handsome addition.  Eustis: If you’ve ever been to the Public on an inclement
night, you will know the necessity of this. You’ll be able to
stand under here and then move into a central lobby.  Hoelterhoff: Wow. The inside looks much bigger. How did
that happen?  Eustis: By restoring these doors to their full height, we
got both the visibility into the lobby and slightly more
majestic sense of presence.  Hoelterhoff: What’s under the drape up there?  Eustis: Once those drapes come off, it will be magic. This
is the Shakespeare Machine by Ben Rubin. Each of those 37 blades
is dedicated to one of Shakespeare’s 37 plays. The entire text
of that play is inscribed on each of these blades.  They will, with a series of complicated algorithms, play
the text of Shakespeare’s plays. He’s got one algorithm, for
example, where every sentence that begins with O in the canon
comes out.  High Bar  Hoelterhoff: Could that be a bar?  Eustis: This is a bar, which will have food and beverage
service from 10 every morning till 1 the next morning. So it’s
part of the idea to make a central gathering place for eating
and drinking in the lobby, not just when you come to see a show.  Hoelterhoff: Looking up, I see there’s another surprise, a
new mezzanine.  Eustis: This is a new floor which serves as a dual
function. First of all, you’ll be able to cross through the
building in a way you never could before.  It also serves a social gathering function because, as you
will have noticed, it’s a wonderful feeling in the theater to
lean over and look at the audience gathering below. This theater
didn’t use to acknowledge that the audience comes here to be
part of an audience, not just to see what’s in the building.  New Boundaries  Hoelterhoff: You’re wearing a t-shirt that says “stretch
your boundaries.” Is that a model for you?  Eustis: Absolutely. I have often linked the health of the
American theater to the health of American democracy because I
think they’re intimately connected.  Every period of great theatrical explosion and creativity
has been a period of increased democratic enfranchisement.
That’s what the theater feeds off of -- just as I believe there
is a penumbra in the Bill of Rights that leads to an ever-
expanding sense of who is entitled to have their story told.  That’s what the theater should be doing. It should be
constantly expanding not only who gets to be in the audience,
but who gets to tell their story.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 