-- Qatar Said to Be Close to Buying Stake in Batista’s AUX
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-04T14:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/qatar-said-to-be-close-to-buying-stake-in-batista-s-aux.html
Eike Batista ,  Brazil ’s richest man,
plans to announce as soon as this month the sale of a 49 percent
stake in his AUX gold business to Qatar for about $2 billion, a
person with direct knowledge of the negotiations said.  The announcement will probably come at the end of this
month or the beginning of November, according to the person, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private. Qatar
Mining Co. may make the acquisition, though the government is
also considering using its sovereign fund, the Qatar Investment
Authority, the person said.  EBX Group Co., Batista’s Rio de Janeiro-based holding
company, decided to sell a stake in AUX, which mines for gold in
 Colombia , after shelving plans to take the company public.
Batista told reporters on June 21 that he had sold 49 percent of
the business, without disclosing the buyer or the price. He said
the acquirer wasn’t a gold company.  Batista, 55, said last year that AUX was worth $5 billion
after purchasing Vancouver-based Ventana Gold Corp. in March
2011 for C$1.08 billion ($1.1 billion). The company has 11
million ounces of gold, he said on May 22. AUX’s La Bodega mine,
located about 400 kilometers (249 miles) northeast of Bogota,
also has copper and silver deposits.  An EBX official in Rio said EBX doesn’t comment on market
rumors, and asked not to be identified in keeping with company
policy. A Qatar official in Doha, who also asked not to be
identified, declined to comment on EBX talks.  ‘Studying It’  “We are studying it,” Qatar Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr Al-Thani said in an interview with CNBC
television last week. “There is no commitment from our side,
but this is one of the things our people are studying. It still
needs to come to the board to see the details of it.”  Batista’s net worth has dropped 7.1 percent this year to
$20.9 billion, making him the 28th-richest person in the world,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , a daily ranking
of the wealthiest individuals.  Declining share prices for some of his companies and the
tougher outlook for  emerging markets  are making Batista adjust
his priorities, Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, an analyst at
Eurasia Group in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.  “He is trying to display a strategy for a less-favorable
global moment,” Neves said. “This is the reaction of a
businessman to quite an unfavorable moment for the global
economy.”  Qatar Holding LLC, the investment arm of the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, released a statement on Sept. 26 denying
“speculation in international media” that it was near an
agreement to buy a minority stake in AUX.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  