-- Treasuries Snap Four-Day Rally on Fed Minutes, Jobs Forecast
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-04T21:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/treasuries-extend-losses-as-jobless-claims-lower-than-forecast.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose for
the first time in five days before a government report tomorrow
that’s forecast to show job growth in the U.S. increased amid
accommodative monetary policy from the  Federal Reserve .  The benchmark securities fell as a government report showed
U.S. initial jobless claims were lower than forecast, a sign the
employment market may be recovering. They extended losses as Fed
policy makers said risks in their latest bond-buying program are
manageable, according to minutes from their most recent meeting.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the bank is
ready to start buying euro-area  government bonds  after it left
the key lending rate unchanged.  “The Fed is uber-dovish right now,” said Aaron Kohli, an
interest-rate strategist in  New York  at BNP Paribas SA, one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “The Fed’s
going to be very focused on its  job creation  given they feel
they have a very strong hold on their inflation mandate.”  The  yield  on 10-year notes rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.67 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched 1.68
percent, the highest level in a week as it crossed its 50-day
moving average of 1.6658 percent. The 1.625 percent security due
August 2022 slipped 17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to
99 18/32.  Applications for jobless benefits increased 4,000 to
367,000 in the week ended Sept. 29, Labor Department figures
showed today. The median forecast of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a rise in initial jobless claims
to 370,000.  Fed Minutes  “Most participants thought these risks could be managed
since the committee could make adjustments to its purchases, as
needed, in response to economic developments or to changes in
its assessment of their efficacy and costs,” according to the
Federal Open Market Committee’s record of its Sept. 12-13
meeting released today in  Washington .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making
colleagues announced the central bank will buy $40 billion a
month of mortgage bonds in a third round of quantitative easing.
The FOMC aims through its newest phase of record stimulus to
spur economic growth and bring down an  unemployment rate  stuck
above 8 percent for 43 months.  The central bank now  holds  $2.49 trillion of mortgages and
 Treasury securities , down from a peak of $2.54 trillion in
September 2011. the central bank’s  balance sheet  totals $2.81
trillion, down from a high of $2.94 trillion in February.  ‘Risk Off’  “We’re at the upper end of the range in prices and, with
payrolls tomorrow, people are taking a little bit of risk off,”
 Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at primary dealer
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in New York. “Given the policies of
quantitative easing and the weak economy, the market has
basically stopped trading.”  Orders placed with  U.S. factories  fell 5.2 percent in
August, the biggest drop in more than three years, following a
revised 2.6 percent increase in July, the Commerce Department
said today in Washington. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a decline of 5.9 percent.  Payrolls likely increased by 115,000 in September, the
Labor Department may report tomorrow, according to the median
forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobless
rate may have increased to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in
August, according to the median forecast of 87 economists in a
separate Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Better Prepared’  Bearish sentiment was boosted as polls showed Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  won last night’s first presidential
debate with President  Barack Obama  at the University of Denver,
which featured the labor market as a key issue. Polls conducted
in the debate’s immediate aftermath by  CNN  and  CBS News  both
indicated voters, by margins of more than two-to-one, thought
Romney had won the encounter.  Treasuries were weaker as investors speculated that a
Romney victory would boost growth and undermine political
support for the accommodative monetary policy of the Fed.  “The takeaway was Romney was better prepared,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New
York. Traders expect that, as president, Romney would continue
to oppose additional central-bank asset purchases and take
measures to foster growth, which “weighs on the back-end”
because it implies a reduction in demand for the securities,
Murphy said. “Guys like to read into it and say he’s not in
favor of quantitative easing.”  Cheaper Debt  The U.S. government’s interest expense fell to the lowest
in seven years as yields on Treasury debt dropped to records
even as debt soared beyond $16 trillion for the first time,
aided by a one-time accounting change.  The U.S. paid $359.8 billion in interest on $16.1 trillion
of debt in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, according to the
Treasury Department’s  TreasuryDirect website . That’s down from
$454.4 billion for the 2011 fiscal year and the least since
$352.4 billion in fiscal 2005.  The fiscal 2012 interest bill was reduced by a change in
Department of Defense accounting methods for market-based
securities, a one-time adjustment of $75 billion for the month
of July. Without the adjustment, the interest bill would have
been the lowest since $414 billion in fiscal 2010.  “That reflects not only low  interest rates , it also
reflects important debt-management principles,” said  Jim Vogel ,
head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,
Tennessee. “The Treasury has rebuilt its access across the debt
spectrum” so that it can sell bonds without dislocating other
borrowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  