-- Red Sox Fire Manager Valentine After Worst Record Since 1965
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/red-sox-fire-bobby-valentine-after-worst-record-in-47-years-1-.html
The  Boston  Red Sox fired first-year
manager Bobby Valentine after “a season of agony” yielded the
team’s worst record since 1965.  Valentine, 62, was let go yesterday one day after the team
completed its first losing season since 1997. Boston’s record of
69-93 was its worst since a 62-100 mark 47 years ago.  “This year’s won-loss record reflects a season of agony,”
Larry Lucchino, the team’s president and chief executive
officer, said in a statement announcing the firing. “It begs
for changes, some of which have already transpired. More will
come. We are determined to fix that which is broken and return
the Red Sox to the level of success we have experienced over the
past decade.”  Red Sox General Manager  Ben Cherington  will lead the search
for the team’s next manager. Among the  candidates  to fill the
vacancy are Toronto Blue Jays manager and former Boston pitching
coach John Farrell, Red Sox bench coach Tim Bogar, Cleveland
Indians bench coach Sandy Alomar Jr. and San Diego Padres
special assistant Brad Ausmus, according to the Boston Globe.  “Our 2012 season was disappointing for many reasons,”
Cherington said in the statement. “No single issue is the
reason, and no single individual is to blame. We’ve been making
personnel changes since August, and we will continue to do so as
we build a contending club.”  Valentine, who is 1,186-1,165 as a Major League Baseball
manager, said in the statement: “I understand this decision.”  Disappointed Nation  “This year in Boston has been an incredible experience for
me, but I am as disappointed in the results as are ownership and
the great fans of Red Sox Nation,” he said. “It was a
privilege to be part of the 100-year anniversary of Fenway Park
and an honor to be in uniform with such great players and
coaches. My best to the organization. I’m sure next year will be
a turnaround year.”  Valentine signed a two-year contract on Nov. 30 to succeed
Terry Francona after the 2011 Red Sox collapsed in September,
blowing a nine-game wild-card lead to miss the playoffs for the
second straight year.  Player Complaints  Early in the season, he alienated third baseman Kevin Youkilis by telling Boston’s 7NEWS: “I don’t think he’s as
physically or emotionally into the game as he has been in the
past for some reason.”  Youkilis, who helped the Red Sox win World Series titles in
2004 and 2007, was traded to the Chicago White Sox in June.  A group of players, including All-Stars Dustin Pedroia and
Adrian Gonzalez, met with Red Sox ownership in July to complain
about Valentine, with some saying they no longer wanted to play
for him, according to Yahoo! Sports. Gonzalez was traded to the
Los Angeles Dodgers in July.  The Red Sox yesterday acquired right-handed pitcher Rubby
De La Rosa and outfielder/first baseman Jerry Sands from the
Dodgers to complete the nine-player trade that sent Gonzalez,
pitcher Josh Beckett, outfielder Carl Crawford and infielder
Nick Punto to the Dodgers.  Even on the final day of the season, which ended with the
Red Sox losing their eighth straight game, off-field trouble
swirled around Valentine when he was asked in an interview with
WEEI radio if his coaches had been loyal during the season.  Loyalty Questioned  “No,” he responded. “You asked me what I feel; that’s
how I feel.”  Boston started the season 4-10, in one game blowing a 9-0
lead in a 15-9 defeat by the  New York  Yankees. Valentine said on
April 23 that the team had “hit bottom.”  A six-game winning streak evened Boston’s record at 10-10
and the Red Sox eventually got to five games over .500. After
being at 42-37 following a July 1 win, the team went 27-56 to
finish the season, losing 12 of its final 13 games, including a
14-2 loss to the Yankees in the season finale. The Yankees
celebrated in front of their biggest rivals after winning the AL
East division and posting the league’s best record.  Plagued by injuries, the 56 players the Red Sox used this
season were the most in franchise history, the team said.  Injured Players  Valentine “lost the clubhouse” with his comments about
Youkilis and never was able to overcome the stream of injuries,
said Kevin Millar, a member of the 2004 World Series-winning
team and now a commentator with the MLB Network.  “He had to try to get it back, but it never went in that
direction because losing doesn’t help,” Millar said on the
network. “The city deserves better than that. Ultimately, it is
one of those seasons you have to cross off of the board and hope
they do better in 2013.”  John Henry, the Red Sox’s owner, said yesterday the team’s
commitment to improvement is “unwavering.”  “Ultimately, we as owners are responsible for arming our
organization with the resources -- intellectual, physical and
financial -- to return to the levels of competitiveness to which
we aspire and to which our fans are accustomed,” Henry said in
a statement.  Valentine managed the Texas Rangers from 1985 to 1992, then
led the New York Mets from 1996 to 2002, winning the National
League pennant in 2000. The team fell to the Yankees in a five-
game World Series.  He was fired two years later and then managed  Japan ’s Chiba
Lotte Marines from 2004-2009, becoming the only manager to have
teams reach championship rounds in the U.S. and Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  