-- Rio Rents Reaching $9,300 Mask Sputtering Real Estate Market
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-04T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/rio-rents-reaching-9-300-mask-sputtering-real-estate-market.html
Lucia Faro is working harder these
days. For the past three years, the realtor was flooded with
unsolicited calls from clients eager to buy apartments in  Rio de
Janeiro , the beachfront metropolis that will host the 2016
Olympics and some of  Brazil ’s 2014 World Cup games. Now, she is
doing the calling, working her four phones most of the day, then
organizing happy hours and advertising on social media sites to
find potential clients.  “Buyers would just pour in until not too long ago,” says
Faro, who has been selling new apartments in Rio’s beachside
Barra da Tijuca neighborhood for five years. “Now, I have to
chase them, and I’m offering bonuses in some cases to convince
them to buy a unit.”  Rio, which occupies a narrow strip of land between lush,
forest-covered hills and the Atlantic Ocean, is one of the
world’s richest real estate markets. Prices to buy and rent
houses and apartments in the city’s most sought-after
neighborhoods have jumped six-fold in the past decade, making
Rio property as expensive as that in  New York  and Paris,
according to data from  Secovi , an association of Brazilian real
estate agencies.  The discovery of vast deep-water oil deposits in 2008
boosted demand for residential and office space. Then the
announcement in 2009 that Rio would host the 2016  Olympic Games 
sent the city into a building frenzy, with government officials
scrambling to double hotel capacity, extend subway lines and
renovate airports.  At the same time, a surge in world demand for Brazil’s
commodities, together with the oil boom, created a new middle
class eager to buy its own homes, while banks eased up on
mortgage requirements.  Slower Growth  No one is saying the boom has gone bust. Yet, the  property
market  is cooling. The volume of mortgage lending slowed to a
two-and-a-half-year low in July.  “We don’t expect to see over the next six months the same
exuberance we’ve seen in real estate over the past five years,”
says Marcio Guedes, head of  investment banking  at J. Safra Banco
de Investimento.  One reason is that the broader economy has decelerated.
Brazil expanded at an annualized rate of 1.6 percent in the
second quarter amid weak demand for exports. That’s down from
2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010. Brazil is growing
slower than all three of the other BRIC countries -- Russia,
India and  China .  Manufacturing Decline  Industrial production fell 2.9 percent in July from a year
earlier on declines in manufacturing and construction. Brazil’s
 Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index, which soared 84 percent from Jan. 1, 2009,
to Dec. 31, 2010, has risen just 4.35 percent this year as of
Oct. 2. And Brazilian consumers, who took advantage of a huge
spike in bank lending, are hurting. Personal-loan defaults stood
at 7.9 percent in August, a 30-month high.  The government of President  Dilma Rousseff  has deployed a
combination of interest-rate cuts and tax reductions on cars and
appliances to try to kick-start the economy. Officials project
growth of at least 4 percent next year.  Experts say the excesses of the real estate market are
self-correcting.  “In practice, the market is sort of healing itself,” says
Thomas Shapiro, president of New York-based real estate
investment company GTIS Partners, which has several projects
under way in Rio. If planned developments in Brazil don’t
attract enough buyers before construction, he says, they get
canceled.  “It will get weaker before it gets better, but we don’t
expect to see a crash similar to what you saw in the U.S.,”
Shapiro says.  Brazil Opens Up  Rio’s real estate boom coincided with Brazil’s emergence as
a global business center. The stage was set by former President
 Fernando Henrique Cardoso , who, starting in 1995, opened the
country up to foreign investment and tamed the rampant inflation
that had plagued the economy for decades. Then the discovery of
billions of barrels of offshore oil during the administration of
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  lured hundreds of new
companies, from construction to asset management, to both Rio
and  Sao Paulo . They brought with them executives and service
workers needing places to work and live.  The influx continues.  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., or Pimco, the world’s biggest
bond trader, announced in April it would open its first Latin
American office in Rio in September.  Yokohama-based Nissan Motor Co. and Paris-based PSA Peugeot
Citroen are expanding existing operations in the state of Rio de
Janeiro. British oil giant BP Plc has enlarged its Rio staff and
is moving to bigger offices after buying exploration acreage off
the coast in 2011.  13th Most Expensive  Ron Radnik has watched firsthand the rise, and recent
leveling off, of rental prices in Rio’s best neighborhoods. A
Chicago native, he owns Focal Point Relocation Services, which
caters to foreigners moving to Brazil to work in the oil
industry. In August, he rented a 330-square-meter (3,550-square-
foot) apartment in the seaside neighborhood of Alto Leblon for
19,000 reais ($9,300) a month.  “Five years ago, maybe it would go for 11,000, 12,000
reais,” he says. “I’ve seen apartments that even the expats
can’t rent because they’re so expensive.”  Rio is the 13th-most-expensive city in the world for
expatriates, according to a June survey by consulting firm
Mercer. Sao Paulo is 12th, making it the most costly city for
foreigners in the Americas.  Prices Easing  Prices are now easing even in Rio’s most exclusive
neighborhoods, Radnik says. Still, it’s not easy for newcomers.
In August, one couple was looking for a modern 150-square-meter
apartment in Ipanema, Rio’s most famous seaside enclave, for up
to 8,000 reais a month. They couldn’t find one.  “It just doesn’t exist in Ipanema and Leblon,” Radnik
says.  The good news for companies moving to Rio is that the price
of  office space  is on the decline, falling 3.2 percent from the
first to the second quarter of this year, according to a study
by broker Colliers International UK Plc that looked at 53
buildings across six districts.  Rossano Nonino heads a new real estate fund launched by
Gavea Investimentos Ltd., an asset manager founded by former
Brazil central bank president Arminio Fraga. Nonino says the
fund plans to raise $500 million this year, and he sees better
opportunities in malls and warehouses than in residential
housing.  He notes that the Olympics “will throw into the market
thousands of units at the same time. We really need to be more
conservative and assume a stabilization in residential rents and
prices.”  Olympics Preening  New York-based real estate giant Equity International Inc.,
which has investments in Brazilian home building, logistics and
personal storage, is now looking for opportunities in large
retail stores and hotels.  One likely damper on Rio real estate prices is the preening
of the city for the Olympics. City, state and federal
governments plan to spend $88.4 billion to expand highways,
trains and dedicated bus lanes leading up to the Olympics, and
that will work against property speculators by making run-down
and inaccessible parts of the city more attractive to
homeowners, says Julio Bueno, Rio state’s economic development
secretary.  “In 2016, we’ll have a milestone in transportation,”
Bueno says. “Prices will be lower because you’ll have several
options of places to live in Rio de Janeiro.”  Barra da Tijuca  One up-and-coming neighborhood is Barra da Tijuca, the
locale for the Olympic Village. The area, which spreads out
before forest-covered mountains, is a former wetland. Developers
have built dozens of apartment complexes in the district during
the past five years, along with hotels and shopping malls. The
city and state are installing new metro lines and express bus
lanes.  Lucia Faro and other real estate agents took advantage of a
buying frenzy in Barra da Tijuca. Now, reality has set in, says
Luiz Carlos Torres, who’s been selling property in the
neighborhood for 10 years.  “People were betting prices would explode here, and they
did rise a lot, but now I think buyers are starting to realize
many projects were overvalued,” Torres says, leaning against
his white Volkswagen Golf one afternoon in dusty Recreio dos
Bandeirantes, a neighborhood west of Barra where construction of
a ring road around the Olympic Park is proceeding at full speed.  “I have clients who bought two-bedroom apartments here for
195,000 reais in 2010,” Torres says. “They’ve been trying to
sell them for around 480,000, but everyone thinks that’s way too
much.”  Donald Trump  One market is still very hot: the area around Rio’s port in
the center of the city. Sergio Lopes Cabral, the finance
director of an 8 billion-reais project to refurbish downtown
ahead of the Olympics, is turning the run-down port area -- best
known as a crime-ridden barrio for the homeless -- into a modern
business and residential district. In his offices, he paces
around a 3-meter-long conference table where a satellite map of
the city’s center is spread out, and he points to an empty plot
of land.  “Over here, we’re negotiating two office towers with
 Donald Trump ,” Cabral says.  Cabral has been selling city land to developers such as
Trump and using the proceeds to build infrastructure. A new
highway and three tunnels will be constructed, along with a
cable car that will connect Rio’s oldest hillside slum, or
favela, with a subway and light rail system now under
construction.  Port Development  Across the street from the prospective Trump properties,
Solace, a consortium of Brazilian construction and engineering
firms, is building a 1,330-apartment residential tower that will
house visiting media and staff for the Olympics and then be sold
to private buyers, with city employees getting first dibs.  “It’s the first big residential development near the
port,” Cabral says. “I think there’s a lot of pent-up
demand.”  Apartments are being marketed in the area for 5,000 reais a
square meter, not much less than they go for in the exclusive
Zona Sul, which includes Leblon and Ipanema.  Shapiro’s GTIS Partners is building two office towers near
the port.  “We’ve always been a big believer in downtown Rio,” he
says. For companies seeking Rio office space, he adds, “there
is no place else to go.”  Even if the port area offices and apartments are hot
sellers, for most of Rio the boom may be over -- four years
before the Olympics get under way.  “It seems the market has matured,” Faro says. “Consumers
are no longer willing to buy anything at any price.” For both
Rio real estate and the rest of Brazil’s overheated economy,
that can’t be bad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Santiago at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net .
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 