-- Roach Says Fed Is Playing ‘Dangerous Game’ on Stimulus: Keene
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-04T12:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/roach-says-fed-is-playing-dangerous-game-on-stimulus-keene.html
Yale University professor  Stephen Roach  said the  Federal Reserve  is playing a “dangerous game”
in promising to sustain record levels of stimulus until the
labor market improves markedly.  The Federal Open Market Committee said last month it will
keep the main  interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2015
and buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month in a third round of
quantitative easing. Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said Oct. 1 that
the support for the economy will be maintained even once growth
picks up.  The problem with the strategy, in Roach’s view, is that the
central bank’s funds are being channeled into asset prices
rather than the real economy.  Lack of growth or questions about government actions
“doesn’t mean the Fed should come in with untested experimental
medicine,” Roach said today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene .  By adding “excess liquidity into the economy that
is not absorbed and that spills over into asset markets, the Fed
is creating destabilizing dangerous” situation.  Roach repeated his call for Bernanke to be replaced when
his term ends in January 2014 and urged U.S. policy makers to
find a way to reduce both fiscal and monetary stimulus.  “We really need to think much tougher about getting 
policy settings, both fiscal and monetary back to more normal,
sustainable level,” he said. Policy makers need “the courage
of implementing an exit strategy has to do with political will
and this central bank has none of that.”  Speaking after the  European Central Bank  decided to keep
its benchmark interest rate on hold at a historic low of 0.75
percent, Roach endorsed the decision, saying a cut would do
little to spur growth in the 17-nation euro area.  “What are they going to get from that?” Roach asked,
referring to the possibility of a rate cut. The euro “does
suffer from the obvious missing pieces of fiscal and political
union,” he said. “That’s going to overhang the monetary union,
monetary policy and the economy for the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  