-- Tropical Storm Nadine Breaks Up After Tying Modern Age Record
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-04T15:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/tropical-storm-nadine-breaks-up-after-tying-modern-age-record.html
Tropical Storm Nadine, a three-time
hurricane, broke up in the Atlantic north of the Azores after
more than 21 days wandering the ocean, securing a spot in the
record books.  Nadine was born as a tropical depression on Sept. 11 and
strengthened to a named tropical storm with winds of 39 miles
(63 kilometers) per hour later that day, according to the
 National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  Since then, the storm grew into a hurricane three times,
lost its tropical status once,  made two loops  and brushed the
Azores twice on a twisting path around the central Atlantic as
the basin’s 14th storm of the 2012 season. The center issued 88
advisories on the system.  “Bye bye Nadine, what a long strange trip it’s been,” the
hurricane center said in an advisory posted on its website at
about 11 a.m.  New York  time.  Nadine ties Ginger in 1971 as the second-longest tropical
cyclone on record, with a life span of 21.25 days, according to
the hurricane center.  “The all-time longevity record is the ‘San Ciraco’
hurricane, which was a tropical cyclone from Aug. 3 to Sept. 4,
1899, traveling nearly 8,600 miles,” said  Dennis Feltgen , a
spokesman for the center.  Nadine and Ginger are the longest-lasting storms since
1950, which is considered the modern era, according to  Phil Klotzbach , a hurricane researcher at  Colorado State University .  Opportunistic Storm  Klotzbach said the storm’s longevity was in part due to its
ability to keep finding favorable conditions in its trek across
the Atlantic. Dry air and wind shear can destroy storms.  “It managed to find little pockets,” Klotzbach said. “It
has been pretty opportunistic.”  Elsewhere in the Atlantic, forecasters are tracking
Tropical Storm Oscar, which formed earlier today and is about
1,205 miles west-northwest of  Cape Verde  with top winds of 45
mph, moving north-northeast at 9 mph.  Klotzbach said Oscar won’t be a threat to land and probably
won’t last very long.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  