-- HRT Joins Batista’s OGX as Worst Brazil Stocks: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-04T15:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/hrt-joins-batista-s-ogx-as-worst-brazil-stocks-corporate-brazil.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  is
joining billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil startup as the biggest
disappointments in  Brazil ’s stock market this year.  HRT’s 63 percent plunge in Sao Paulo trading in 2012 makes
it the worst-performing stock on the BM&FBovespa Small Cap
index, topping the 57 percent drop for Batista’s  OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , which is the biggest decline on the
benchmark Bovespa index.  Rio de Janeiro-based HRT, a company backed by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and BlackRock Inc., needs more cash to finish
exploring Amazon fields that it said could hold as much as 357
million barrels of crude. Investors aren’t as optimistic after
HRT failed to find oil and delayed drilling at exploration
blocks from  Namibia  to Brazil’s Solimoes Basin.  “It’s complicated to invest in a company where you don’t
know how they will transform the product into money,” said
Lucas Brendler, who helps manage about 6 billion reais ($2.97
billion) at Banco Geracao Futuro de Investimento in Porto
Alegre, Brazil. “HRT doesn’t show the market a reasonable form
of monetizing those gas volumes in the Solimoes Basin. The
Namibia prospects are very frontier.”  HRT dropped 2.9 percent to 4.05 reais at 12:35 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, while OGX declined 0.2 percent.  HRT said this week it may sell a stake in onshore
exploration blocks in Brazil’s northern Solimoes Basin after
$804 million of spending since 2011 turned up no commercial oil.
In an e-mailed response to questions, company officials said HRT
slowed down drilling to carry out more research and has enough
cash to cover exploration costs through the first half of 2014.  ‘Greater Potential’  “The area east of the Solimoes Basin has greater potential
to produce oil,” Chief Executive Officer Marcio Rocha Mello
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Discoveries made
until now, together with seismic studies of the area in the
southern basin, are positive factors for partners.”  OGX cut oil production targets as much as 75 percent at its
first oil project in a June 26 report, causing shares to slump
40 percent in two days and prompting Batista to replace four top
executives, including Chief Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca.
Each of its first two wells pumped about 5,000 barrels a day,
compared with original plans to pump 20,000 daily.  HRT raised about $1.5 billion in an initial public offering
two years ago, estimating at the time that its blocks in Brazil
and Namibia may hold a combined 1.53 billion barrels of oil and
equivalents.  The company has made five natural gas discoveries, which is
more complicated to transport because it has no pipelines in the
area. It also reported a dry hole in June.  Bad Location  “The areas they have in Brazil have a lot of potential for
gas and not much for oil,” said  Adriano Pires , head of the
Brazilian Center for Infrastructure, a research firm known CBIE.
“And Namibia hasn’t shown any good results.”  HRT’s plan to diversify and hedge any exploration risks
have been undermined by Brazilian government delays in offering
new exploration tracts, Pires said. HRT is interested in bidding
for licenses under the so-called Round 11 auction the government
plans to hold in May, Mello has said. Brazil hasn’t offered any
exploration areas since 2008.  “HRT, if it enters a bidding round and buys something, it
could have a different outlook,” Pires said in a telephone
interview from Rio.  Transportation  Mello said in April that HRT and its partner TNK-BP,
 Russia ’s third-largest oil producer, are studying plans to use a
liquefied natural gas tanker to transport the fuel from its
Solimoes blocks or could build a nearby fertilizer plant that
would use gas as a feedstock. The companies plan to complete a
study for the so-called gas-to-liquids project by the end of the
first quarter of 2013, TNK-BP senior vice president Chris
Einchcomb said in Moscow on Sept. 27.  “I am very frustrated every second of my life, but we’ll
get there because we’ll persevere,” Mello said in an Aug. 10
conference call. “We just need to perform and deliver what we
promised and we will, but this takes time.”  HRT, which previously said it would start drilling at its
Namibian blocks in 2011, now plans to begin next year.  Chariot
Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR) , a U.K. oil exploration company, announced it
drilled its second dry hole off Namibia’s coast early last month
in an area about 100 kilometers (62 miles) away from HRT’s
assets.  Chariot’s dry wells don’t reduce the chances of success at
HRT’s areas, Mello said on Sept. 10. Namibia’s geology is
similar to Brazil’s Campos and Santos offshore basins that hold
the largest discoveries in the Americas since  Mexico  found
Cantarell in 1976, he said.  “If they find oil in Namibia it will be worth a lot of
money,” Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Banco Bradesco SA, said
in an interview from Sao Paulo. “Otherwise it will be worth
zero.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  