-- Rupee Seen Rallying 4.4% as Options Turn Bullish: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-10-04T04:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/rupee-seen-rallying-4-4-as-options-turn-bullish-india-credit.html
India ’s rupee will extend its best
rally in three years and strengthen past 50 per dollar in 12
months as the government’s biggest policy push since 2009 lures
investors, according to the most-accurate forecaster.  The rupee will rise 4.4 percent in a year to 49.70,
according to Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., which had the
closest estimates in the last six quarters as measured by
Bloomberg Rankings. One-month contracts offering the right to
buy the rupee are costlier than those to sell for the first time
in three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The so-called
risk reversal rate is below zero compared with 25 basis points
for  China ’s  yuan  and 49 for the South Korean won.  Overseas funds bought a combined $4.3 billion of Indian
bonds and shares last month, after global central banks added
monetary stimulus and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  eased rules
for foreign investment in retail and airlines and cut fuel
subsidies. The measures will give the  Reserve Bank  of India room
to reduce borrowing costs, boosting inflows and the rupee,
according to second-ranked Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Recent moves to contain the fiscal deficit have been
relatively well received by investors and steps to open up
various industries to foreign participation are also perceived
to be supportive,” Emmanuel Ng, a strategist at OCBC in
 Singapore , said in an interview yesterday. “It’s a matter of
implementation, conviction and follow-through on the policy
reforms.”  The rupee rallied 5.3 percent last quarter, the most since
2009, to become  Asia ’s best-performing currency from its worst
in the preceding three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It rose 0.5 percent to 51.8825 a dollar today.  Policy Changes  India increased state-controlled diesel prices on Sept. 13
after a 14-month freeze, reducing the government’s fuel-subsidy
burden and underpinning plans to curb the widest  budget deficit 
among the largest  emerging markets . The shortfall, which was 5.8
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months ended March
31, may be contained at about 5.3 percent this fiscal year, two
officials with knowledge of the estimate said last month.  Singh’s cabinet on Sept. 14 allowed overseas retailers such
as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open outlets with 51 percent
ownership, said foreign airlines can own minority stakes in
local carriers and approved stake sales in four state companies
including National Aluminium Co. On Sept. 21, the government cut
the so-called withholding tax, a levy on interest earned by
overseas investors and lenders from foreign-currency bonds and
loans of Indian companies, to 5 percent from 20 percent for
three years starting July 1, 2012.  Capital Inflows  Global funds responded by pumping $4.1 billion into
holdings of Indian shares last month, the biggest inflow since
February, while investments in debt increased $262 million,
according to data from the securities regulator.  A stronger rupee makes oil imports cheaper for the nation
that buys 80 percent of its crude overseas. This helps narrow
the  current-account deficit , further boosting the currency,
according to Credit Suisse, which predicts an appreciation to
around 50 a dollar in the next three or four months.  “The economic reforms are likely to make it easier to
finance the deficit,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist
with Credit Suisse in Singapore, said by e-mail yesterday. “By
opening up more sectors to foreigners, inward direct investment
should improve in time. This will enhance the quality of the
inflows, hopefully improving the stability of the rupee.”  The Swiss bank predicts the gap in the broadest measure of
trade will be 3.3 percent of GDP in the year through March 2013,
compared with a record 4.2 percent the previous 12 months. The
current-account deficit narrowed to $16.6 billion in the quarter
ended June 30, from $21.8 billion in the preceding three months,
official data showed Sept. 28.  Political Risk  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 5.5 percent in the
three months ended June 30, government data show. Growth was 5.3
percent in the previous quarter, the least since 2009. GDP
increased an average 7.9 percent in the previous five years.  The biggest risk to rupee forecasts is the possibility that
implementation of Singh’s policies will be hindered by political
opposition, according to OCBC,  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
banking group. The measures prompted one of Singh’s main
political allies to quit the ruling coalition and opposition
parties held a nationwide strike on Sept. 20.  The rupee will touch 53 per dollar in the next 12 months
and forward contracts will see slower appreciation than the spot
rate, according to Morgan Stanley, the fourth-ranked forecaster.
The  U.S. bank  said in a Sept. 28 research note it is “mildly
bullish” on the rupee and “bullish” on China’s yuan.  ‘Prospects Positive’  “Long-term prospects remain positive as long as funding
markets remain liquid and the government remains committed to
reform,” strategists at Morgan Stanley, including  New York- 
based Ronald Leven, wrote in the report.  Credit risk is falling for government-controlled  State Bank 
of India, considered a proxy for the sovereign by some
investors. The cost of insuring the Mumbai-based lender’s debt
for five years against non-payment using credit-default swaps
has dropped 121 basis points from a five-month high of 389 in
June, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should the
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender and the third-
most accurate rupee forecaster, predicts India’s currency will
strengthen to 48 against the dollar in 12 months as investors
buy more of the nation’s bonds. The benchmark 10-year note
offers an  extra  651 basis points over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rupee-denominated
debt returned 7.5 percent this year, the best performance among
10 Asian markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Yield, Volatility  The yield on the 8.15 percent note due June 2022 fell one
basis point today to 8.14 percent. The rupee’s one-month implied
volatility has fallen 95 basis points in 2012 and touched 8.5
percent on Sept. 13, the lowest level in a year, reducing the
risk that currency swings will wipe out profits.  Dollar-based investors who buy rupee-denominated assets
will earn 7.7 percent in a year, including interest, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, the best gain among the 11 most-
traded Asian currencies.  “The rupee is one of the highest yielding currencies in
the emerging-market universe, and in this low volatility
environment investors are chasing the yield,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market analyst at Nordea in Copenhagen,
said by e-mail yesterday. “The rupee was one of the most
harshly punished over the past few years, and has room to
recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  