-- Russia Set to Pause on Rates as Inflation Breaches Target
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-10-04T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/russia-set-to-pause-on-rates-as-inflation-breaches-target.html
Russia’s central bank will probably
hold back from raising  interest rates  after a surprise increase
last month, a pause that may prove brief after inflation
quickened past the target range to the fastest in 10 months.  Bank Rossii will hold the  refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent
at a meeting today after a quarter-point increase in September,
according to 19 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Three
predict a boost to 8.5 percent. The regulator’s main short-term
lending and deposit rates will remain at 5.5 percent and 4.25
percent, two separate surveys showed.  While economists project the central bank will raise
borrowing costs again before the end of this year, policy makers
may delay further increases as they gauge the impact of higher
rates on a slowing economy and the government steps up efforts
to hold down grain prices.  Russia  is planning to start sales of
wheat from state reserves, with export restrictions remaining in
the government toolkit for fighting inflation.  “The central bank will simply wait to see what happens
with inflation and how much the pressure is rising,” said
Sergey Aleksashenko, director of macroeconomic research at the
Higher School of Economics in Moscow and a former first deputy
chairman of Bank Rossii. “That would require at least two
months. Why go and raise rates again after just a couple of
weeks?”  Three-month borrowing costs may grow 21 basis points, or
0.21 percentage point, in the next three months, up from
expectations of 14 basis points of increases before last month’s
rate meeting, according to forward-rate agreements tracked by
Bloomberg. The cost to fix floating interest payments in rubles
for a year using rate swaps was 7.59 percent yesterday.  Putin’s Priority  Russia, the only major emerging market to raise interest
rates this year, is struggling to keep a lid on prices after
droughts in the U.S. and locally drove up food costs. The
government’s top priority is fighting inflation, even at the
expense of short-term growth, President  Vladimir Putin  said Oct.
2 at an investment conference in Moscow.  Consumer prices rose 6.6 percent in September from a year
earlier, led by the cost of bread, meat and alcohol, exceeding
the median forecast of 6.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey, the
Federal Statistics Service said yesterday.  The government may resort to “alternative means” of
subduing inflation without monetary-policy tightening, according
to Eurasia Group in  Washington . The authorities may instead
impose price caps or limit exports of grain in a bid to reverse
the slump in approval ratings for Putin and Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev , the research group said last month.  No Reason  “The central bank isn’t likely to raise twice in a row,”
Andrey Kostin, chief executive officer of state-run VTB Group,
Russia’s second-biggest bank, said in an interview. “I don’t
see any reason to raise rates, and I think a fairly sharp
increase in rates would lead to a fairly sharp rise in rates for
loans and deposits. That wouldn’t really be right for the
economy.”  The world’s largest energy exporter will probably grow 3.5
percent this year, less than the 4.3 percent pace in the
previous two years, according to the  Economy Ministry . Retail
sales, a measure of the household consumption that accounts for
about half the Russian economy, advanced 4.3 percent in August,
the weakest level in 29 months.  Bank Rossii is now targeting an inflation range of 5
percent to 6 percent for next year, the same as for 2012 and a
half-point higher than the earlier target, according to a
medium-term monetary-policy strategy published yesterday. Policy
makers will seek to contain consumer-price growth at 4 percent
to 5 percent in 2014 and 2015.  New Policy?  “The next meeting will be very important in signaling
whether it was just a one-off increase as a reaction to the
observed inflation or it’s a new policy,” said Vladimir Potapov, global head of  portfolio management  at VTB Capital
Investment Management in Moscow, adding that he doesn’t expect
any change. “We may see some short-term profit taking on fixed
income if they increase.”  Central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  sparked
speculation among investors that policy makers may raise rates
again after saying Oct. 2 that inflation risks remain greater
than dangers to the economy.  Inflation Credentials  Even so, the regulator’s improving credibility on fighting
price growth is bolstering investor sentiment, which might spur
demand for longer-term bonds to profit from a reduced inflation
premium, Potapov said in an interview at an investment forum
organized by VTB Capital.  The central bank may consider raising the overnight deposit
rate, reducing the difference from the main lending rates to 1
percentage point from 1.25 percentage points now, analysts at
ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow said yesterday in a research note.  “Given the disappointing macro data, we think a pause in
raising rates or an increase of just the deposit rates in
October would look more justified,” they said. “The central
bank may note a drop in consumer activity in its October
statement, though the focus will probably remain on inflation
risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  