-- Russia Stocks Fall Third Day as Power Stocks Drop on Dvorkovich
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-04T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/russia-stocks-fall-third-day-as-power-stocks-drop-on-dvorkovich.html
Russian stocks dropped for a third
day as power companies OAO MRSK Holding and Federal Grid Co.
retreated on concern the government will delay a decision on
merging the companies.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 1.1 percent to 1,456.74 by the close
in Moscow, the biggest drop since Sept. 26. MRSK Holding
retreated 3.4 percent and Federal Grid lost 2.3 percent. OAO
Raspadskaya slumped 2.8 percent after rallying as much as 12
percent as Evraz Plc, the Russian steelmaker part-owned by
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , said it’s buying a controlling
stake in the coal producer.  Federal Grid and MRSK slumped after Dvorkovich told an
investment forum in Moscow yesterday the government would
determine the details of the power companies’ merger by the
middle of 2013. The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of
England  kept their  interest rates  on hold. Applications from
jobless benefits in the U.S. increased 4,000 to 367,000 in the
week ended Sept. 29, Labor Department figures showed today.  “There’s too much uncertainty out there right now for
Russia to outperform,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global in
Moscow, said by e-mail.  The ECB is ready to start buying  government bonds  as soon
as the necessary conditions are fulfilled, President  Mario
Draghi  said today.  The Micex rose as much as 0.4 percent earlier as a private
report yesterday showed better-than-expected employment gains in
the U.S., while service industries expanded more than forecast
in September. Oil, Russia’s main export earner, rose 1.3 percent
to $89.32 a barrel in New York.  Russian stocks fell yesterday after Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said he has no plans to request rescue funds in
the near term.  Rates Meeting  Raspadskaya dropped 2.8 percent to 79.03 rubles after
surging 12 percent earlier. Evraz will raise its stake in
Raspadskaya to 82 percent by buying out management and will
complete the acquisition by the end of the year, according to a
company statement. Evraz fell 0.3 percent to 246.50 pence in
London.  Bank Rossii doesn’t rule out raising interest rates or
keeping them unchanged tomorrow, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said at a Moscow investment forum on Oct. 2.
“Inflationary risks are higher” than the threat of an economic
slowdown, he said.  The Russian central bank raised the refinancing rate for
the first time in 16 months last month. Consumer prices rose 6.6
percent from a year earlier after a 5.9 percent increase in
August, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-
mailed statement today. Inflation quickened to the fastest in 10
months in September, exceeding the bank’s target and economist
forecasts as droughts pushed up food prices and utility tariffs
were raised after a delay.  Major Catalysts  “We view the news as negative for both MRSK Holding and
Federal Grid,” Alexander Kornilov, an analyst at  Alfa Bank  in
Moscow, said in an e-mailed report. “One of the major catalysts
is now being postponed, while the persisting uncertainty over
the scheme of the merger will continue to weigh on both stocks,
undermining investors’ interests.”  AFK Sistema rose 1.3 percent to 24.86 rubles, the biggest
gainer.  The Micex trades at 5.5 times  estimated earnings . The
benchmark index has rallied 3.9 percent this year. That compares
with a multiple of 10 times and a 9.6 percent advance for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
projected earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  