-- Russia Wants Assad’s Promise to Prevent Clashes on Border
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-10-04T14:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/russia-wants-assad-s-promise-to-prevent-clashes-on-border.html
Russia wants Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to declare publicly his commitment to preventing armed
clashes on the Turkish border, Foreign Affairs Minister Sergei Lavrov said during a meeting with his Pakistani counterpart,
according to Alexander Lukashevich, a ministry spokesman.  Mortar bombs fired across the Turkish-Syrian border killed
five Turks in the town of Akcakale yesterday. Turkish artillery
retaliated yesterday and today, killing 14 Syrian soldiers,
according to Al Arabiya television.  “Of course we are very concerned about what happened,”
Lukashevich told journalists in Moscow today. Syrian authorities
assured Russia the shooting was accidental and “we hope it
really was so,” he said, adding that the incident sends a
“very alarming signal” that the conflict is spreading beyond
 Syria ’s borders.  Turkey ’s parliament approved a motion today allowing the
government to order military action in Syria. The motion cites
the Syrian artillery fire as a “serious threat to our national
security” and says Turkish troops can be “deployed and given
missions in foreign countries” in response.  Russia wants everyone involved in the Syrian violence to
avoid measures that could worsen the situation, Lukashevich
said. “This is an absolutely clear message to everyone whose
trigger fingers are itching,” he said.  Syrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said authorities
are investigating the source of the cross-border incident and
offered condolences to the Turkish people, the state-run Syrian
Arab News Agency reported.  Turkey also called an emergency meeting of its North
Atlantic Treaty Organization allies and wrote to the United
Nations Security Council demanding action, as it sought to drum
up international condemnation. The UN body has been unable to
take action against Assad because of vetoes by Russia and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  