-- Salad Becomes Syrian Luxury as Prices Surge in Wartime Economy
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-04T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/salad-becomes-syrian-luxury-as-prices-surge-in-wartime-economy.html
Syrian concierge Jameel Abdul-Razzak
says he can no longer afford to buy cucumbers, tomatoes and
lettuce for the daily salad his family is used to.  The price of some vegetables in Damascus has jumped
fivefold since the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad
began in March last year, according to official figures. Busing
workers to the fields and transporting the produce to market has
become risky and expensive. For people like Abdul-Razzak, who
said in a phone interview he makes about $200 a month, that
means changing spending habits.  Syrians across the country are being squeezed by inflation,
as the violence makes food and other staples harder to obtain.
Sanctions on oil sales have hurt  Syria ’s ability to earn foreign
currency that can be used to buy imports. Gross domestic product
is set to shrink 10.2 percent this year, according to the
Economist Intelligence Unit, as growing numbers of people see
their lifestyles pared to subsistence levels.  “This is a survival economy now,” said  Ibrahim Saif , an
economist who is a resident scholar at the  Carnegie Middle East
Center in Beirut . “You give up on many things during times of
crisis, you stop going to restaurants, you stop lending money.”  Agriculture Minister Subhi al-Abdullah urged Syrians to
“plant whatever they can plant and raise whatever animals and
poultry they can raise,” state-run newspaper Al-Thawra reported
Sept. 24. He said Syria is “in a state of war and we should all
pool our resources.”  Only Essentials  The economy alone probably won’t bring down the Assad
government, said Ayesha Sabavala, an economist at the EIU.  “They’ve managed to go along with low foreign exchange
reserves by reducing their imports and by getting only essential
imports,” she said in a phone interview.  The EIU estimates that Syria’s currency reserves will
shrink to $3 billion, equivalent to 4.2 months of imports, by
the end of next year, from $19.5 billion at the end of 2010. The
country is getting financial support from allies Russia and
 Iran , Sabavala said.  Cities and towns throughout Syria have been devastated by
the conflict, especially the commercial hub Aleppo, scene of the
most intense fighting in recent months as it was subjected to
air and artillery bombardment.  More than 30,000 people have died nationwide, according to
opposition groups. Syria’s Prime Minister Wael al-Halqi has
estimated damage at 2 trillion Syrian pounds ($29 billion).
That’s equal to about half of 2010 GDP, according to IMF
estimates. Official inflation was above 36 percent in July.  Computer Repairs  The retreat from economic activity extends from big-ticket
items down to basic groceries.  Auto dealer Samir Tarbeen said by phone from Damascus that
he hasn’t made a sale in more than four months. “Banks have
stopped lending and this made things worse for us,” he said.  About 30,000 cars were sold in the first half of this year,
a drop from 103,000 a year earlier, according to the pro-
government Al-Watan newspaper.  “People aren’t even bringing their computers for repair as
much as they used to,” never mind buying new ones, said Nour
Assa, who has a technology store in the capital. “They want to
keep their money for food and drinks.”  Abboud Mardini said customers in his shop are buying one-
third of their usual quantities of pasta, sugar and canned food.  The government, which says the rebels are foreign-backed
terrorists, has been urging the continuation of normal business
life since early in the revolt.  ‘Most Dangerous Thing’  “The most dangerous thing we will face is the weakness or
the collapse of the Syrian economy,” Assad said in a June 2011
speech at Damascus University. “We should defeat the problem by
returning to normal life.”  Recovery plans include boosting tourism and attracting
investors from friendly countries such as China and  Russia ,
Zuhair Ardarmouli, a top official at the Tourism Ministry, told
Tishrin newspaper last month. Tourism income slumped by three-
quarters from a year earlier to 12.8 billion pounds in the first
quarter of 2012, Al-Thawra said.  One obstacle is the danger of traveling in much of the
country. Roads have been blocked, taken over by rival factions
or controlled by highwaymen, and the rail network has been
attacked.  It’s the same problem that has hit farmers and a previously
thriving agro-industry, which produced goods such as jams,
pickles and canned vegetables, according to Carnegie’s Saif.  Many Syrians typically make their own preserves. Abdul-
Razzak said his wife pickled only 10 kilograms of makdous,
aubergine stuffed with walnuts and chilli, this year instead of
her usual 30 kilograms, because of the high prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  