-- Sanofi Defends Lyxumia Under Scrutiny at Diabetes Meeting
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-04T13:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/sanofi-defends-lyxumia-under-scrutiny-at-diabetes-meeting-2-.html
Sanofi (SAN)  defended its experimental drug
Lyxumia after some scientists questioned the medicine’s novelty
at a diabetes conference.  Lyxumia isn’t “at all” an imitation of  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Byetta, Pierre Chancel, who heads Sanofi Diabetes,
said yesterday in Berlin, where he attended the  European
Association for the Study of Diabetes  conference. The drug is
“as effective as Byetta with one injection a day, super simple
to use and super safe,” he said in an interview.  Sanofi needs to show Lyxumia helps patients who suffer from
the most common form of diabetes, known as type 2, control the
level of sugar in their blood with one injection a day to gain
an edge over Byetta, which requires two shots, and other drugs
from the same class. At the conference this week, participants
questioned whether Lyxumia really requires only one shot.  “One concern is that it is not a once-daily drug and the
regulators may pick on that,” Sam Fazeli, an analyst for
Bloomberg Industries in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments after
attending the Lyxumia presentation at the meeting. Others
wondered whether Lyxumia is too similar to Byetta, even beyond
the question of how often it’s administered.  The drugs both belong to a class known as GLP-1 analogues,
which mimick the function of a digestive hormone that stimulates
the pancreas to produce insulin after meals. Diabetics lack the
insulin they need to convert blood sugar into energy.  ‘Vital for Sanofi’  If regulators approve Lyxumia, also known as lixisenatide,
it will probably be the fourth GLP-1 to enter the market. Sanofi
also makes Lantus, a best-selling insulin that could be used in
combination with Lyxumia.  “Lyxumia is taking time to clearly stand out,” Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, wrote in
a Sept. 28 note. “It is vital for Sanofi to successfully launch
Lyxumia in order to build on and around Lantus.”  Discussions with regulators about the new medicine are
moving ahead, according to Chancel. The filing is “well
advanced” and dosing “isn’t an issue,” he said. The treatment
causes less nausea than Byetta, Chancel said.  The combination with Lantus is the most promising use of
Lyxumia, according to analysts. When patients use the two
together, “benefit is everywhere,” Chancel said.  In early studies, Lyxumia was tested both as a once-daily
and as a twice-daily treatment, with no difference in blood-
sugar reduction, Riccardo Perfetti, who heads medical affairs at
Sanofi’s diabetes unit, said in Berlin.  A panel recommendation from European Union regulatory
advisors is expected this quarter, according to  David Solomon ,
chief executive officer of  Zealand Pharma A/S (ZEAL) , the Danish
company from which Sanofi licensed Lyxumia. The U.S. regulatory
filing is scheduled for December, he said in an interview.  Solomon said that late-stage tests of Lyxumia in
combination with Lantus using a new pen device called “fix-
flex” will start by the middle of next year.  Lyxumia works differently from other GLP-1s once inside the
body, according to Solomon.  “Physicians figure out pretty fast which patient needs
what medicine,” he said. “We like the fact that medicines are
differentiated, simply because that’s how you address individual
patient needs and that’s where medicine is going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Berlin at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  