-- Sany Affiliate May Lose $20 Million on U.S. Wind-Farm Ban
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-10-04T02:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/sany-affiliate-may-lose-20-million-on-u-s-wind-farm-ban.html
Sany Group Co. , China’s biggest
machinery maker, said an affiliate may lose about $20 million
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  blocked a planned Oregon wind-
farm project because of national-security concerns.  The sum includes design and construction costs, Zhou Qing,
Sany’s in-house lawyer, said by phone yesterday. The Oregon
project poses no threat to U.S. security and the wind-farm
operator was unaware of a nearby navy facility, he said.  Obama’s veto is “extremely unfair,” Zhou said. “We are
definitely not spies and this is purely a business proposal.”  The rejection threatens Sany’s push to expand in the U.S.,
Zhou said, as China’s slower economic growth damps domestic
demand at its main construction and mining equipment businesses.
Wind-farm owner Ralls Corp. is suing Obama in a bid to reverse
the ban, the first imposed by a U.S. president in 22 years on
national-security grounds.  Ralls, based in  Delaware , is “actually controlled” by
Sany, even though the listed legal owners are two of the group’s
executives, Zhou said. He declined to say why wind-farm company
had been set up this way.  The Oregon project received no funding from the Chinese
government and all design and construction work was done by U.S.
companies controlled by Americans, he said. Closely-held Sany
Group isn’t state-controlled.  The loss estimate excludes legal fees from challenging the
U.S. ruling and money the company could raise from selling the
project. Ralls will also miss out on $25 million in federal
investment tax incentives if the wind farms aren’t in service by
Dec. 31, according to a court filing.  Texas Projects  Sany reported the case to  China ’s Foreign Affairs Ministry
and Ministry of Commerce after it received an order from the
 Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. , known as CFIUS, in
August. The government offered some support, Zhou said without
elaboration. Sany also has interests in two wind-power projects
in  Texas , he said.  Obama on Sept. 28 ordered Ralls to remove all property and
installations from its sites within two weeks and to divest all
of its interests in the wind-farm project within 90 days. Ralls
added the president on Oct. 1 to a lawsuit filed Sept. 12 that
challenged a ruling by CFIUS blocking the project.  Navy Airspace  Ralls was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights
earlier this year. The assets consist of four locations, all of
which are near or within restricted Navy airspace, according to
the U.S. Treasury Department. Ralls didn’t report the
acquisitions to CFIUS, according to a U.S. filing in the case.  The Navy conducts training for bombing, electronic combat
maneuvers and develops drones in areas nearby, according to the
website of Naval Weapons Systems Training Facility Boardman.  Sany Group controls Shanghai-listed  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) ,
China’s biggest construction-equipment maker. The group’s Chief
Financial Officer Duan Dawei and Vice President Wu Jialiang own
Ralls, according to court filings. Sany, based in Changsha city,
 Hunan province , is run by Chinese billionaire Liang Wengen.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  ( Washington .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  