-- Saved by the Internet: Last-Minute Shopping Options
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-10-04T13:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/saved-by-the-internet-last-minute-shopping-options.html
     Relax, procrastinators. You don't have to resort to
shopping for gifts at 7-Eleven on the night before the big
holiday. The Internet has unwrapped several options for buying
presents at the last minute.  Many popular online services sell gift cards toward
subscriptions, digital goods or real goods. These can be
bought in stores or, even better, with just a few clicks on
your computer. Your friends and family members will likely
appreciate this more than that V-neck sweater.  Apple iTunes  While those pastel-colored iTunes gift cards can be found
near the checkout stands at supermarkets and retail
chains, consumers can also print or e-mail their own by
ordering through Apple Inc.'s online store.  For those with an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch, the iTunes
certificates will let them download music, movies, TV shows
and apps including games. If your friend or family member
doesn't own one of those devices, the credit can still be used
to buy songs that are playable on a computer with the iTunes
software. For a more personal touch, handpick the music you
want to give.
Full Special Report: Tech Gift Guide: 2012  Apple sells certificates that range from $15 to $100. A
$25 gift card is enough to give someone a year of iTunes
Match, which allows owners of multiple Apple devices to access
their music library over the Internet without having to
download songs to each of their gadgets.  ITunes cards aren't accepted at Apple retail stores. So
don't expect to be able to use one toward an iPhone 5.  Netflix Subscription  Couch potatoes might enjoy a subscription to Netflix
Inc.'s streaming video service. That should be especially true
for fans of actor Kevin Spacey or the sitcom “Arrested
Development,” both of which will have exclusive runs on
Netflix.  The movies and TV shows can be accessed from a
computer, smartphone, tablet or a television connected to an
Internet-enabled device such as Microsoft Corp.'s Xbox
360, Nintendo Co. Ltd.'s Wii or some types of Blu-ray players.
Many TVs with built-in online access can also play Netflix
videos. The company doesn't sell gift certificates to its
DVD-by-mail service.  Gift givers can Netflix Gift purchase streaming plans
that range from $7.99 for one month to $95.88 for a year.  Pandora One Subscription  Fans of the Internet radio broadcaster Pandora Media Inc.
are not necessarily longing to hear advertisements for Axe
body spray. A Pandora One membership axes the commercials and
reduces the “Are you still listening?” interruptions. It also
unlocks higher-fidelity music and a desktop application that
can be downloaded to a computer.  Target Corp. stores sell the gift cards, and last-second
shoppers can Pandora One gift order online. A one-year plan
costs $36.  Amazon Gift Card  With a giftcard to Amazon.com Inc., someone could use it
to buy an e-book, a real book or a refrigerator. The retail
giant seems to have just about everything, making this the
most flexible option.  Customers can order a digital gift card ranging from 15
cents to $2,000. One idea: For $79, the recipient can get a
year of Amazon Prime, which comes with a video streaming
service similar to Netflix and free two-day shipping.  Like iTunes, customers can pick out specific songs or
e-books they want to give. We know what you're wondering:
“Fifty Shades of Grey” costs $9.99 for the Kindle. With the
digital version, no one at the coffee shop will know what
they're reading.  Facebook Gifts  In time for the holidays, Facebook added a feature for
purchasing gifts for friends. These aren't the cutesy digital
stickers Facebook used to let users buy to put on a buddy's
profile page. The inventory includes coffee, flowers, golf
balls, magazines and stuffed animals delivered to someone's
door.  While the gift won't arrive instantly like other options
on this list, Facebook can post a message on a friend's wall
letting that person know an item is on the way. If you don't
see the gift option on your account, Facebook said it's
working on expanding the feature to more users.  Looking to hook up a "FarmVille"-addicted friend with a
gift card? Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on how you
look at it), Facebook doesn't sell them on its website, except
in bundles costing at least $250. If you don't need that
many, Facebook Credits gift cards can be found in
stores, including 7-Eleven, Best Buy and Radio Shack.  Spotify Subscription  For fans of the popular music service Spotify Ltd., a
subscription allows members to listen from a smartphone
app, save music for offline access, eliminate the ads and
improve sound quality.  E-card options range from $9.99 for a month to $119.88
for a year. And the recipient will never know you bought it at
the last moment.
 