-- Savers Push $374 Billion U.S. Utility Industry to Shift
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-05T16:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/savers-push-374-billion-u-s-utility-industry-to-shift.html
Robert Rhea logged on to his iPad in
Cape Cod, Massachusetts, one day in August to turn off the air
conditioning in his Dallas home ahead of cooler Texas weather.  Rhea, who was attending a wedding and tracked his daily
power usage on an iPhone app supplied by TXU Energy, estimates
the remote tweaking saved him $175 on his electricity bill that
month. He controls his home temperature through a wireless
thermostat TXU gave him in exchange for allowing the utility to
shut off his air conditioning during periods of high demand.  The 57-year-old owner of a tile refinishing business is
among a new breed of conservationists that analysts say is
curtailing sales of electricity and driving an unprecedented
shift in the $374 billion U.S. power industry. After homes and
businesses stocked up on energy-saving gadgets and appliances,
power use per unit of economic growth fell to a record in 2011,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  “There is a quiet revolution in  energy efficiency  going on
in our country,” said Howard Learner, executive director of the
Environmental Law and Policy Center, Chicago-based advocates of
clean energy.  The U.S. is a proving ground for nations such as  Japan ,
Britain,  Germany  and Canada that also have started offering more
efficient appliances to consumers and testing “smart”
technology that powers down homes when prices surge.  Falling Demand  The result: demand for electricity is shrinking even as
economies grow, an effect that’s starting to erode sales and
profit at U.S. utilities from New England to Oregon. They
include  OGE Energy Corp. (OGE)  and  Teco Energy Inc. (TE) , both of which
have underperformed the 10 percent gain this year in the  Russell
1000 Utilities index .  Electricity use in the U.S. declined 2 percent this year
through Sept. 22, and was down 3 percent from a year earlier as
consumers buy light bulbs that burn 25 percent fewer watts and
install technology that turns off appliances when the delivery
grid is strained. The industry produced $374 billion in revenue
in 2011, the Edison Electric Institute said.  Power and coal consumption  dropped last year to 2,790
British thermal units per real dollar of U.S. gross domestic
product, a 32 percent drop from 1981 levels and a record low for
data collected since 1973, the Energy Department said on its
website.  Learner credits a 20-year push by the federal government to
promote energy-saving appliances. Consumers bought 280 million
such products in 2011, cutting their utility bills by $23
billion, the Environmental Protection Agency said on its
website.  Margin Squeeze  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  Chief Executive Officer Anthony Alexander
said the Midwestern markets where his power company operates
have lost “about five years of growth” and that margins were
being squeezed by poor demand and an oversupply of electricity
generation.  “We would have thought that by now we would have seen a
far more robust growth in the industrial, commercial and
residential sectors than we’re seeing,” Alexander said at a
Sept. 5 investor conference. “In fact, we are seeing flat to
negative residential, flat to very sluggish commercial and
spotty industrial.”  Utilities are expected to invest $12.4 billion in smart
meters and updated electricity grids through 2015, amplifying
the trend, Theodore Hesser, an analyst for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said in a telephone interview.  Slowing Growth  U.S. demand for power is expected to grow by about 1.1
percent through 2030, well below the 1.7 percent annual growth
rate that the industry saw from 1990 through 2011, consulting
firm Wood Mackenzie said in a July 2012 report.  Angie Storozynski, a  New York  City-based analyst for
Macquarie Capital USA Inc., predicted long-term load growth will
be even lower, about 0.6 percent, in a Sept. 11 note to clients.  “Slow load growth should hurt near-term earnings,”
Storozynski wrote. It may drive utilities to seek rate increases
more frequently from regulators or postpone spending on power
plants and transmission lines, she said.  Northeast Utilities (NU) , Scana Corp. and Teco Energy are among
utility owners facing stagnant demand, Storozynski said. State
incentives that compensate utilities for efficiency gains should
help dull the blow for Hawaiian Electric Industries Inc., UIL
Holdings Corp.,  Edison International (EIX) , PG&E Corp. and Portland
General Electric Co.  “A small change in the growth of power demand can
completely change a utility business model,” Hesser said in a
telephone interview.  New Gadgets  Utilities are shifting focus from selling electrons to
providing higher-profit services like installing programmable
thermostats and retrofitting buildings with windows, insulation
and roofing that use less energy, Hesser said. As those efforts
boost conservation, “that would further sink demand, and a
cycle is born,” he said.  To be sure, the advance of smart meters that allow
utilities to track a consumer’s power use in real time could be
deterred by privacy concerns or technical glitches such as a
rash of house fires that caused  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s PECO utility to
suspend its meter rollout in August.  A surge in the economy might also prompt power use to
rebound as it did after declining when the U.S. plunged into
recession in 2008 and 2009.  The 4.4 percent uptick in U.S. power consumption in 2010
was followed by a 0.8 percent decline in 2011, the U.S.
Department of Energy said in a Sept. 11  report .  Conservation Driver  “Was the economy worse in 2011 than in 2010? No, it was
growing,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based utilities analyst
with Glenrock Associates, said in a telephone interview.
“Clearly you have conservation and appliance efficiency pushing
a lot of this.”  The trend is causing regulators to question the need for
building more transmission lines, a source of earnings for power
companies since federal regulators allow returns on
infrastructure investment that can top 12 percent.  PJM Interconnection LLC, which manages the electric grid in
13 states and the  District of Columbia , in recent months asked
power companies to cancel a planned $2.1 billion transmission
line and freeze another $1.2 billion project after determining
the lines were no longer needed to import electricity to
 Maryland ,  Delaware  and neighboring states.  Lower demand is also helping drive wholesale power prices
to near-historical lows in PJM’s territory, the largest
competitive U.S. power market, and “could be a very troubling
trend” for independent generators that can’t rely on regulated
rates, Patterson said.  Who’s Hurting  Among the hardest hit:  FirstEnergy and independents such
as NRG Energy Inc. and  Calpine Corp. (CPN)  that sell electricity in
competitive markets. These companies have already been hurt by a
plunge in the price of natural gas, which sets the price of
electricity in most markets.  FirstEnergy, which owns 10 regulated utilities from  Ohio  to
 New Jersey , said in a Sept. 19 statement it would fire 200
workers due to “continued slow customer load growth and an
abundance of electric generation supply resulting in lower power
prices.”  Oklahoma Gas & Electric, OGE’s utility based in Oklahoma
City, is among power companies shifting their business models to
emphasize saving as well as selling power.  By encouraging consumers to cut back power-hogging air
conditioning during sultry weather when demand is greatest, OG&E
hopes to postpone building a new fossil-fuel plant this decade
to meet growing demand.  Rewriting Rate Formulae  The prospect of weak demand is prompting more states to
follow  California , where regulators were among the first to
rewrite rate-making formulas so that utilities profits aren’t
determined by how much power is sold but instead come from
returns on investments in infrastructure upgrades.  Nearly half of U.S. states either compensate utilities for
lost power sales or don’t link profits to power sales to
encourage energy conservation, according to a July 2012 report
by the Institute for Electric Efficiency, a Washington-based
industry group. Efficiency incentives are pending in 11 other
states, the report found.  “ Power plants  are expensive and those costs are ultimately
borne by customers,” Brian Alford, a spokesman for the utility,
said in a telephone interview. “Our goal is to defer the need
for that investment.”  The company has shaved an estimated 64 megawatts off of its
total daily summer peak demand through a variable pricing
program.  About 40,000 customers pay as much as 46 cents a kilowatt-
hour from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. on weekdays, when stress on the grid
is greatest, Alford said. Peak rates far exceed the flat 10-cent
per kilowatt hour charged other utility customers.  Still, program participants can slash spending by running
power-hogging appliances like air conditioners from 7 p.m.
through 2 p.m., when they pay just 5 cents per kilowatt hour.  TXU Plan  Texas officials are pushing programs that reduce power use
during peak periods as the state grapples with a projected
shortage of generation reserves in three years as its economy
grows.  TXU Energy, the Dallas-based power retailer owned by Energy
Future Holdings Corp., recruited customers like Rhea who would
let the company shut off their air conditioning when high demand
strains the grid on the hottest days.  More than 20,000 customers have signed up for TXU’s
program, which can reduce demand by as much as 45 megawatts
during high energy use, Amanda Ray, a spokeswoman for TXU
Energy, said in an e-mail.  Rhea jumped at the chance to gain more control over his
power usage and save on his bills. He uses his Apple Inc.
devices to control his wireless thermostat whenever he sees a
chance to save energy at his four-bedroom house. He uses the
same technology to control the heating and cooling at his
vacation home in Granbury, Texas, while sipping a Cherry Berry
Chiller at his local McDonald’s restaurant  “I like to tell people there are ways you can do this so
you don’t have to sweat like crazy,” Rhea said. “It doesn’t
take a genius.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  