-- Scene Last Night: Kravis, Chelsea Clinton; Cat Pasties
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 2012-10-04T14:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/scene-last-night-kravis-chelsea-clinton-cat-pasties.html
At Carnegie Hall’s opening night, the
Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s “Carmina Burana” sped by so
quickly that the civic-minded could head home in time for the
first presidential debate.  Others opted for dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria.  Guided by Riccardo Muti and only recently recovered from a
two-day musicians’ strike, the orchestra was joined by the
Chicago Children’s Choir. The audience included  Chelsea Clinton ,
Sarah Jessica Parker,  Henry Kravis  and Peter May.  “I feel exuberant,” said Deborah Rutter, president of the
Chicago Symphony Orchestra Association, at the Waldorf. “I was
right next to the Children’s Choir. The kids were so into it.”  Rutter, in a Nicole Miller gown, shared her table with
Bianca Jagger and  Robert Caro  for a meal of Portobello mushroom
and grilled eggplant, followed by petite osso bucco and
flourless chocolate hazelnut cake.  An orchestra played “I Could Have Danced All Night,”
although there was no dancing.  Guests table-hopped and applauded the arrival of the
Norwegian baritone Audun Iversen, who said he is giving himself
one day to see  New York . Among his goals: to find a pub where he
can watch his favorite football club, Tottenham Hotspur, play
 Greece ’s Panathinaikos in  Athens .  Muti did not make it to the Waldorf. “He’s not here for a
very good reason -- he got exhausted doing what he did,” said
Sanford Weill, chairman of  Carnegie Hall .  “And he’s got two more concerts in the next two nights,”
added the hall’s executive and artistic director, Clive Gillinson.  The evening raised “a little over $2.7 million,” Weill
said.  Cats Rescue  Friends of felines passed the donation bucket last night
for  Anjellicle Cats Rescue , a nonprofit that saves animals from
the pound before their time runs out. The third annual
“Catbaret” at the Laurie Beechman Theatre starred, among
others, Broadway performer  Trisha Rapier  (“Sister Act”),
 Stephanie Sellars  -- who as “Lusty Le Mew” stripped down to
her pasties -- and singer-songwriter  Laura MacLean .  MacLean’s rendition of Carole King’s “You’ve Got a
Friend” drew tears from the audience as a slide show of animals
in need appeared in the background. The benefit ended on a high
note with the full cast singing the Beatles’ “All You Need Is
Love.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Nancy Moran is an
editor for Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their
own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  on the arts.  To contact the writers on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon;
Nancy Moran in New York at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 