-- Shekel Reaches Three-Month High on Stocks Rally; Bonds Decline
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-10-04T16:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/shekel-poised-for-three-month-high-on-stocks-rally-bonds-fall.html
The shekel reached the highest in
more than three months as a four-week stock rally fueled demand
for the currency.  Israel ’s benchmark government bonds declined
for the first time in seven days.  The shekel rose 0.8 percent to 3.8584 a dollar, the highest
since June 19, at 6 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The currency has gained
1.2 percent this week. The TA-25 benchmark  stock index  has
rallied 9.4 percent since the end of August on investor bets the
economy will weather the global slowdown.  Economic growth accelerated to the highest in a year in the
second quarter powered by exports while inflation jumped in
August. The  Bank of Israel  last month raised its growth forecast
for this year to 3.3 percent from its June estimate of 3.1
percent. Growth in the Group of 10 industrialized nations will
slow to 1.3 percent, according to economist forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The stock market has been on a very bullish trend and all
that money flowing in is bound to lift the shekel,” said Moshe Nir, a trader at Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  Yield Gains  Israel’s foreign currency reserves rose by $610 million to
$76.2 billion in September, the Bank of Israel said today.
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  may call early
elections if his coalition partners don’t back a budget for next
year that is within the deficit limit, an official said
yesterday.  One-year interest rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for the benchmark rate in the period, were
unchanged at 2.14 percent. The yield on the benchmark 5.5
percent government bond maturing in January 2022 gained five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.23 percent.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, narrowed three basis points to 279, implying
an average annual inflation rate of 2.79 percent.  The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, was little changed at 274.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  