-- Slovenian NLB Meets Capital Levels, Nova Kreditna Fails
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-04T13:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/slovenian-nlb-meets-capital-levels-nova-kreditna-fails.html
Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. 
failed to meet the capital requirements set by European banking
regulators while its larger rival, Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
passed the examination after the government injected fresh
capital into  Slovenia ’s biggest lender.  Nova Kreditna, based in Maribor, fell short of a core Tier
1 capital ratio of 9 percent while NLB in Ljubljana met the
requirement of the European Banking Authority, the lenders said
in separate statements late yesterday. NLB received 381 million
euros ($492 million) of state funding in June.  “A last minute capital injection by the government saved
NLB, though Nova Kreditna was left to fail,” Andraz Grahek, an
independent financial adviser and a former fund manager at KD
Funds LLC in Ljubljana, said. “As both state-owned lenders need
additional capital, this could be an opportunity for the
government to find a suitable banking group partner for one of
the banks, probably  Nova Kreditna (KBMR) , to provide capital and
essentially take it over.”  State-owned banks, which are struggling with rising bad
loans as the  economy  enters its second recession in three years,
are at the focus of investors’ concern that Slovenia may become
the sixth euro-region nation to ask for a bailout. Confidence in
the European Union’s banking industry plunged as the sovereign
debt crisis that started in  Greece  extends into its fourth year.  Nova Kreditna shares jumped the most since Aug. 27 on the
Ljubljana Stock Exchange today, climbing 9.6 percent to 1.491
euros and valuing the lender at 58.3 million euros.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  Moody’s Investors Service “expects the operating
environment for Slovenian banks to remain challenging” as it
kept a negative outlook on the industry, the ratings company
said in a statement late yesterday. It forecast the economy will
shrink 2 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2013.  “This difficult operating environment will continue to
weigh on fragile business confidence and limit demand for
credit,” the ratings company said. “Slovenian banks’ high
dependence on wholesale funding will remain a major challenge as
they face difficult refinancing conditions amid volatile
international markets.”  Asset-quality ratios, capitalization levels and
provisioning buffers of Slovenian banks remain among the weakest
in central and eastern  Europe , Moody’s said.  Lawmakers in the capital Ljubljana last week voted to pass
legislation to stabilize the banking industry. The plan creates
a special government agency to take up bad loans from banks in
exchange for as much as 4 billion euros of state-backed bonds
the lenders could use as collateral with the European Central
Bank, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said.  Bank Sale  “Privatization is a fundamental way to solve banks’
problems and lower the debt burden of the corporate sector,”
Antonio Spilimbergo, head of a International Monetary Fund
mission to Slovenia, said on Oct. 2.  Nova Kreditna will be the first major Slovenian state-owned
company to be sold to international investors, Finance newspaper
reported yesterday without saying where it obtained the
information.  The bank needs 100 million euros of capital, with  Russia ’s
Gazprombank OJSC among the probable candidates to purchase a
stake in the Slovenian lender, the newspaper said.  “Such sharing of the burden by a strategic private
investor could only work if the state exits the ownership
structure completely,” Grahek said. “With current appetites of
the government to keep a 25 percent holding, this remains a
mission impossible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  