-- Smartphone Makers Size Up Apple in Holiday Competition
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-10-04T12:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/smartphone-makers-size-up-apple-in-holiday-competition.html
     If you're shopping for a smartphone this holiday
season, you might notice something: They're getting bigger.  The latest mobile devices, coming from companies that
include Google Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. and
Nokia Oyj, are coming out with larger screens and features
such as fast, high-definition video streaming. Analysts call
these smartphones "hybrids" because they resemble tablets.  Full Special Report: Tech Gift Guide: 2012  While the larger and faster phones are trying to grab
attention from the ubiquitous iPhone, manufacturers of the
hybrids are also looking to snare sales from Apple's other
popular product, the iPad, said Ross Rubin, principal analyst
at Reticle Research.  "Manufacturers view phones with larger displays as
competition for tablets," Rubin said in an interview.  There's good reason for their interest in tablets -- the
market is growing fast. Global sales were forecast to reach
119 million units this year, a 98 percent increase from
2011, according to research firm Gartner Inc. Much of that is
from sales of iPads, which accounted for 70 percent of tablet
shipments in the second quarter of this year, according to IHS
iSuppli, another researcher. The nearest
competitor, Samsung, had a 9.2 percent share, down from
earlier in the year, IHS said.  Hitting the Right Note  Several earlier hybrids have met with success. Samsung's
Galaxy Note has sold more than 10 million units, and the
Samsung Galaxy S III has sold more than 20 million units
worldwide. The Galaxy line is narrowing the gap with the
iPhone for the best-selling family of smartphones ever, said
Michael Morgan, an analyst at ABI Research.  Many of the latest hybrids feature improvements that
phone users covet –- such as a better camera and wireless
charging -– while also offering faster speeds and more
powerful processors handy for streaming video in the home, the
domain of tablets.  "Imaging seems to be the big thing," said Will
Stofega, program director at researcher IDC.  Pushing Pixels  The new Nokia Lumia 920 comes with an 8.7-megapixel
camera with technology that reduces blur and provides better
pictures in poor light. The phone can also charge
wirelessly, so there’s no need to plug it in.  “The hybrids are coming out because telephony is no
longer the primary motivation for buying a smartphone,” said
Shawn DuBravac, director of research for the Consumer
Electronics Association.  Most hybrid manufacturers also offer a smartphone with a
high-definition screen. In September, Google’s Motorola
Mobility division introduced the Razr HD and Razr Maxx
HD, each with 4.7-inch high-definition screens. The same
month, Samsung announced its Galaxy Note 2, which features a
5.5-inch HD screen and lets consumers launch more than one
window so they can multitask.  "Samsung Mobile does not market its products against a
single product or single competitor," Teri Daley, vice
president of public relations for Samsung Mobile, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Meanwhile, Motorola spokeswoman Danielle McNally said
that "while there’s certainly a market for larger screen
phones, after talking with consumers we also know that there’s
a sweet spot for big screen phones in a small package."  Nokia didn't respond to a request for comment.  Faster Phones  To compete with the latest iPad that runs on the
faster, so-called Long Term Evolution wireless
networks, Apple's rivals are coming out with smartphones that
run on the same, speedier technology. In
September, HTC unveiled the Windows Phone 8X, which has a
4.3-inch screen and runs on LTE.  Meanwhile, LG Electronics’ new Optimus G, whose U.S.
availability is yet to be announced, can be operated by voice.
For example, a picture can be taken by saying "smile" or
"cheese." Many hybrids also offer near-field-communication
technology, which lets consumers make wireless mobile
payments, as well as share pictures and videos by touching
each other’s phone.  Although Apple's mobile devices lack near-field
communication, the company has countered its rivals' moves by
making the iPhone 5 -- with its 4-inch Retina display -- a
hybrid as well. The device runs over the faster LTE networks
and comes with a camera that can shoot panoramic images. As
for the hybrids' challenge to the iPad: Apple is expected to
release a smaller version this month.
 