-- Spain Says It’s Meeting Rescue Rules Already as Guindos Heckled
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-10-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/spain-says-it-s-meeting-rescue-rules-already-as-guindos-heckled.html
Spain is already carrying out the
policies that the  European Central Bank  would demand in return
for buying its bonds, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said as
young Spaniards heckled him during a speech in  London .  Spain “doesn’t need a bailout,” de Guindos said at a
conference at the  London School  of Economics yesterday. He
described the ECB’s plan to buy bonds of nations that agree to a
rescue program as a “proposal” tied to conditions that
“aren’t very far from the situation we have now in Spain” in
terms of budgetary and economic policy.  While Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has postponed the
decision on whether to trigger ECB bond-buying since August, his
government passed a package of measures to overhaul the economy
last week that matched the latest recommendations from the
European Union. The government, which has faced increasing
street protests in the lead-up to regional elections this month,
has raised taxes, cut benefits and trimmed healthcare even as
the recession has pushed unemployment to 25 percent.  De Guindos was interrupted three times during the
conference by protesters who rolled out a banner saying “Spain
is for sale.” They shouted questions about what austerity
measures mean for Spaniards and why the government isn’t doing
more to tackle  tax evasion .  Public Pays  “I didn’t want to interrupt the meeting but I felt I
wasn’t being given a chance,” Isabel Pastor, a 30-year-old art
therapy student from Valladolid,  Spain , said after the event.
“Companies are evading tax and the public is having to pay.”  The government, in power since December, approved an
amnesty to allow tax evaders to pay a 10 percent one-off fine
while adopting a series of measures designed to tackle fraud in
future. De Guindos said the government is adopting budget cuts
and measures to strengthen the economy as it has no alternative.  “Sometimes governments have to take unpopular decisions,
and I understand the discouragement in the public,” he said.
“But we believe they are necessary.”  The minister’s comments on the conditions that would be
demanded of Spain if it does seek a rescue chime with those of
Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde, who said yesterday
conditions wouldn’t include deep spending cuts.  “It’d be other issues: structural ones, supervision,
medium- and long-term issues, information issues,” he said.
“There may, of course, be some measures that affect spending,
but I don’t think this agreement would imply anything very
significant, anything that isn’t manageable on spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  