-- Sri Lanka’s Semifinal Win Guarantees New Twenty20 World Champion
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-05T00:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/sri-lanka-beats-pakistan-to-reach-world-twenty20-cricket-final.html
Sri Lanka  defeated  Pakistan  by 16
runs to become the first host nation to reach the final of
cricket’s World Twenty20 tournament.  The Sri Lankan bowlers stifled Pakistan in  Colombo  last
night, holding the opposition to 31 runs in the last five overs
and a total of 123-7 in reply to the host nation’s 139-4 off its
20 overs.  Sri Lanka, which has lost three finals at International
Cricket Council tournaments in the past five years, will face
the winner of today’s second semifinal between  Australia  and the
West Indies in two days. Pakistan’s defeat means there will be a
new world champion in cricket’s shortest format.  “It’s an amazing feeling,” Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene, who was also named man of the match, said in
comments on the tournament’s website. “At the beginning of the
match, we felt that 140 was a par score, not a winning score. It
was a challenge.”  Jayawardene won the toss and elected to bat, combining with
fellow opener  Tillakaratne Dilshan  for 63 runs before getting
caught on 42 by Raza Hasan off  Shahid Afridi . Dilshan made 35
before he was trapped leg before wicket by  Umar Gul .  Pakistan, which beat Sri Lanka in the 2009 World Twenty20
final, brought on Gul and Saeed Ajmal to bowl the last five
overs and pressure the batsmen. The plan restricted the Sri
Lankans to 23 runs until the final over, which went for 16 runs.  With Pakistan chasing the second-lowest semifinal victory
target in the event’s four editions, Sri Lanka fast bowler
Lasith Malinga gave up only 19 runs in his four overs. That
included five from the second-last set of the match to leave
Pakistan needing 23 from the final six balls.  Top Wicket-Taker  Rangana Herath claimed 3-25. Fellow spinner Ajantha Mendis
took 2-17 to join Australia’s Shane Watson with a  tournament-
leading 11 wickets . Captain  Mohammad Hafeez  led Pakistan with 42
runs, while Umar Akmal finished 29 not out.  “We lost some wickets in the middle order and that is the
reason we could not get back into the game,” Hafeez said. “I
believe 140 should have been chased, but unfortunately we could
not do that.”  In addition to losing the 2009 Twenty20 final at Lord’s,
Sri Lanka was beaten in the 2007 and 2011 one-day World Cup
finals, by Australia and India, respectively.  Unlike the previous three, Sri Lanka will have home
advantage this time at Colombo’s R Premadasa Stadium.  “Four finals is amazing,” added Jayawardene. “One final
was in Barbados, one final was in  England  and the last final was
in Mumbai. This time we are playing at the Premadasa, and we
will approach it differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  