-- Standard Chartered Says Temasek Vote Not a Criticism of Strategy
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-10-04T12:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/standard-chartered-says-temasek-abstention-isn-t-a-criticism.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said Temasek
Holdings Pte wasn’t being critical of the bank’s strategy and
leadership when it declined to back the election of non-
executive directors in May.  The Singapore investment company, Standard Chartered’s
biggest shareholder, raised concern over the London-based
lender’s governance plan and is pushing it to hire more
independent directors, said a person with knowledge of the
situation who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private.  Jeffrey Fang , a Singapore-based spokesman for Temasek,
declined to comment.  “Temasek have assured us that their abstention does not
imply any criticism of the individuals concerned, nor Standard
Chartered’s performance or strategy,” Doris Fan, a Hong Kong-
based spokeswoman at Standard Chartered, said in an e-mail
today. “Temasek has voted in favor of all other resolutions”
at the annual general meeting.  Standard Chartered, Britain’s second-biggest bank by market
value, appointed four non-executive directors as part of a plan
started a year ago “to enhance the experience, depth and
diversity” of the board, it said last week. Temasek has talked
to potential buyers of its 18 percent stake in recent months,
the Financial Times reported on Sept. 25, citing people close to
the matter. There were no discussions under way at the time,
according to the report.  Management Oversight  In order to ensure effective management oversight, Temasek
advocates that the boards of companies in which it invests are
independent from management, the investment company said in its
latest annual review, published in July. “We do not support
excessive numbers of executive members on company boards,”
Temasek said, without elaborating.  The dialogue with Temasek “does seem to mitigate against
there being any precipitous plan to offload some or all of its
shares near-term,” said Ian Gordon, a London-based analyst at
 Investec Plc (INVP)  who recommends buying the stock with a 1,800 pence
price target.  Temasek’s withholding of the vote at the annual shareholder
meeting relates to a misinterpretation of U.K. corporate
governance standards, Standard Chartered’s Fan said.  Standard Chartered appointed Lars Thunell, Margaret Ewing,
Om Prakash Bhatt and Louis Chi-Yan Cheung as non-executives, it
said in a statement on Sept. 28. Thunell and Ewing start on Nov.
1, while Bhatt and Cheung start Jan. 1. The lender’s board
currently includes six executives and 10 independent non-
executives, as well as a chairman and company secretary,
according to its website.  The bank rose 0.2 percent to 1,407 pence at 12:00 noon
local time, valuing it at 33.7 billion pounds ($54.3 billion).  The Wall Street Journal reported the pressure on Standard
Chartered to appoint more independent directors earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  