-- State Street `Living Will' Says Custody Should Stay Whole
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-04T19:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/state-street-living-will-says-custody-should-stay-whole.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , responding to a
new rule requiring the largest banks to outline how they could
be broken up in a failure, said its global custody business
should be kept whole in an emergency sale to minimize
disruptions to clients.  “Under the preferred resolution strategy, State Street’s
global custody business would be maintained as an integrated
business in a sale transaction, in order to minimize disruption
to clients and the U.S. and global financial systems,” the
third-largest custody bank said in the summary of a resolution
plan posted on the website of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Material
entities that are “sufficiently self-sustaining” wouldn’t need
to be placed into resolution proceedings.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the biggest custody bank,
said the parent company would seek protection under Chapter 11
of the U.S. bankruptcy code to facilitate the orderly sale or
unwinding of material non-bank units, according to the summary
of its plan. The main bank subsidiary, New York state-chartered
bank The Bank of New York Mellon, would enter into receivership
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  U.S. regulators, seeking to prevent a repeat of taxpayer-
funded bailouts of the financial system, have required the
world’s largest banks to file plans for an orderly shutdown in
the event of an emergency. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America
Corp., Citigroup Inc., and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were among
nine banks that filed their so-called living wills in July.  The FDIC and Federal Reserve were too late in telling State
Street and BNY Mellon that they needed to be among the original
banks to submit living wills, leaving them unable to do so with
the first nine, said David Barr, an FDIC spokesman. The two
custody banks were given until Oct. 1.  ‘Sale Strategies’  “The determination that they needed to submit the plans
was not made with sufficient time to meet the July 1 deadline,”
Barr said.  State Street, which is based in  Boston , said a sale could
be executed rapidly. Should a sale fail, the company would be
wound down under the U.S. bankruptcy code, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act and other resolution regimes, according to the
summary.  The plan “contemplates sale strategies for each of State
Street’s Core Business Lines, which State Street believes would
be attractive acquisition targets for a single or multiple
third-party buyers, which could include global, national or
regional financial institutions, private equity or other buyers
of financial assets,” according to State Street’s filing.  BNY Mellon, headquartered in New York, said potential
buyers for its subsidiaries include “a range of sophisticated
and diverse financial services firms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  