-- Study Finds Benefit Is Elusive for Low Capital Gains Rate
-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2012-10-04T14:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/study-finds-benefit-is-elusive-for-low-capital-gains-rate.html
For a certain kind of person -- the
kind, say, who invests often and well -- capital gains hold a
special place in their hearts, not to mention their wallets.  So imagine their reaction when, just before leaving
Washington to go campaigning, the  Senate Finance  and  House Ways
and Means  Committees held a joint hearing on what they called
the “treatment” of capital gains.  That’s political speak for “taxation.” And it offers the
strongest sign yet that the individual rate on long-term capital
gains, which has been at 15 percent since 2003, may be up for
negotiation in budget discussions after the election, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 8 issue.  Since 1950 capital gains have generally been taxed at a
lower rate than income, to spur investment. The top rate under
President George W. Bush went from 20 percent to 15 percent --
the lowest ever -- and was billed as a way to stimulate the
economy.  If nothing is done by Jan. 1 to change tax and budget
provisions already passed by Congress, the top rate will rise to
23.8 percent, a scenario Republicans and some Democrats want to
avoid.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  wants to ditch
capital gains tax altogether for people earning less than
$250,000.  Buffett Rule  President  Barack Obama , in his Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, increased the rate by 3.8 percent for high
earners beginning in 2013, and has proposed the so-called
Buffett rule, which would, among other things, end an accounting
interpretation that allows private-equity and hedge-fund
managers, and Romney, to save money by paying tax on their
earnings at the capital gains rate.  Neither candidate, though, contests the Bush
administration’s basic logic: that a lower capital gains rate
encourages investment, which creates jobs and helps the economy
grow.  That doesn’t mean they’re right. Leonard Burman, who
teaches economics at Syracuse University’s Maxwell School,
presented a graph at the joint hearing that plotted capital
gains tax rates against economic growth from 1950 to 2011.  He found no statistically significant correlation between
the two. This was true even if Burman built in lag times of five
years. After several economists took him up on an offer to share
his data, none came back having discovered a historical
relationship between the rates and growth over those six
decades.  Gauntlet Thrown  “I certainly did throw the gauntlet down for the true
believers,” says Burman. “If they found the relationship,
they’re saving it for a special time.”  More proof that the rationale behind the Bush tax cut
doesn’t hold up comes from the  Congressional Research Service , a
nonpartisan group run by the Library of Congress. In mid-
September CRS released a paper that analyzed economic growth and
changes to the top marginal tax rates, both for personal income
and capital gains, from 1945-2010.  “The reduction in the top tax rates appears to be
uncorrelated with saving, investment and productivity growth,”
it concludes. “The top tax rates appear to have little or no
relation to the size of the pie.”  It hasn’t always been a foregone political conclusion that
the capital gains rate should be lower than that for income. The
1986 tax overhaul ushered in by President Ronald Reagan pegged
capital gains at the same rate as the highest personal income
bracket, which was reduced from 50 to 28 percent.  Revenue-Neutral  David Brockway, who served as the chief of staff of
Congress’s  Joint Committee on Taxation  during the negotiations
for the overhaul, says that wasn’t an ideological decision.  Rather, it had been decided that the overhaul would be
revenue-neutral, and bumping up the capital gains rate seemed an
easy way to raise money.  In 2010, members of the bipartisan commission led by former
Republican Senator Alan Simpson of  Wyoming  and Erskine Bowles, a
former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, also drafted a
proposal to make the rates identical. This suggests that, in a
closed negotiation, higher taxes on gains may not be a deal-
breaker.  Brockway, who now works as a tax lawyer in Washington,
still agrees with that approach. He says that any difference
between the rates will always drive people to come up with
creative ways to hide income as an investment.  “Allegedly, a mouse can fit through a crack in the wall a
quarter-inch wide,” he says, “and if you leave a sixteenth of
an inch, you get cockroaches.”  Small Effect  Harald Uhlig, an economics professor at the University of
 Chicago , warns against drawing any conclusions from a
correlation between tax rates and growth, or the lack of one
illustrated in Burman’s and the CRS’s studies.  It’s possible that lower rates on capital gains do drive
growth, Uhlig says, yet that the effect is too small to see
among the wars and  recessions  of the 20th century.  Most economic models incorporate an argument made in a 1985
paper that higher taxes on gains encourage people to shift
future consumption to the present, not to invest.  There’s a caveat, though, Uhlig says: “You really want to
avoid taxing the capital income that comes from investing in the
future, but not from capital that’s already there.”  In other words, if you get rich by investing, a low rate
encourages you to keep deploying your money. If you’re born with
a rich portfolio, you have to keep investing it no matter what
because there’s only so much you can consume in the present --
the tax rate won’t affect your investment decisions.  Both candidates are suggesting fiddling around at the
margins. A much more straightforward approach would be to take a
page from Reagan and Simpson-Bowles.  Very Rich  The problem is, the taxpayers most affected are the very
rich. Data from the  Tax Policy Center  shows that 70 percent of
long-term capital gains go to the top 1 percent of earners, and
that 47 percent goes to the top 0.01 percent.  Romney would alienate his base and his donors by
acknowledging that low rates don’t necessarily spur growth. If
Obama insisted that capital gains be taxed at the same rate as
personal income, he would open himself up, more than he already
has, to allegations of class warfare.  After the election, Congress will have to wrestle with the
politically awkward possibility that tax rates on the portfolios
of the richest Americans might not have much effect on growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in  Washington  at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  