-- Sudan Leader Orders Resumption of Sorghum Exports to South Sudan
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-10-04T14:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/sudan-leader-orders-resumption-of-sorghum-exports-to-south-sudan.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
ordered the resumption of sorghum exports to neighboring South
 Sudan  after the countries signed an agreement last week to open
the border to trade, officials from both countries said.  Bashir directed his government to start shipments next
month after harvest season and once both countries’ parliaments
have ratified ratify the accord, Abdel Raouf Amir, minister
plenipotentiary in Sudan’s Foreign Ministry, said by phone today
from Khartoum, the capital.  “His general statement is welcome definitely, it is
appreciated,” South Sudanese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wol
Mayar Ariech said by phone today from Juba, the capital of South
Sudan. “But this is a political statement that has to be
transformed into practice; it has to be implemented.”  Sudan restricted cross-border trade before  South Sudan ’s
secession in July 2011. As a dispute between the countries over
oil payments brought them to the brink of war in April, Sudan
declared a state of emergency in border districts of three
states. The move further restricted traders who had been moving
goods across the border in defiance of the authorities, boosting
prices.  The cost of sorghum more than tripled in South Sudan and
doubled in Sudan during the South’s first year of independence,
the  World Bank  said in its August  Food Price Watch Report .  Sudan and South Sudan on Sept. 27 signed an agreement to
set up a demilitarized buffer zone along their border and resume
oil exports. The deal allowed South Sudan to resumed 350,000
barrels a day of crude production that it shut down in January
because of a dispute over the amount it paid to transport oil
along a pipeline through Sudan to a port on the  Red Sea .  Cross-Border Trade  A separate accord seeks to facilitate cross-border trade
with the establishment of a Joint Ministerial Committee on Trade
Relations. The countries planned to open 10 border crossings,
Wol said. South Sudan’s parliament is expected to ratify the
agreements next week, he said.  South Sudan has no quantitative data on imports from Sudan
prior to the border closing because the area was militarized and
there were no customs points, David Chan, director of South
Sudan’s National Statistics Bureau, said by phone today from
Juba.  The cost of a kilogram (2.2 pounds) of sorghum increased to
30 South Sudanese pounds in August from about 18 pounds in
November, according to data collected by U.K.-based charity
 Oxfam  in markets in Malakal, capital of the border state of
White Nile. The official rate of exchange is 3 pounds a dollar,
while the U.S. currency fetches about 4.40 pounds on the black
market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 