-- Sunny Electronics Soars on Korea Presidential Speculation
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-04T00:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/sunny-electronics-soars-on-korea-presidential-speculation.html
Sunny Electronics Corp. (004770)  shares jumped
1,000 percent this year, leading a surge in trading of South
Korean small-cap stocks amid speculation the country’s next
president will help smaller enterprises.  Trading volume for companies outside the top 300 is the
heaviest in at least 12 years as candidates pledge stricter
regulation of big businesses like the Samsung and Hyundai groups
and greater support for small and medium-sized firms. The only
explanation for the out-sized gains by Sunny, which has posted
losses since 2010, are bets it may somehow benefit from possible
ties to one of the front runners, said Choi Sang Hoon, an
investor relations official at the company.  “Some companies are just soaring based on groundless
reasons that somehow connect them to the candidates,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer at Midas International Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees $5 billion. “There’s no way
that a specific company will get special perks if a politician
close to it becomes president.”  Choi said Sunny’s vice president, Song Tae Jong, previously
worked for  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , the antivirus software maker founded by
independent candidate Ahn Cheol Soo. He declined to comment on
whether there were any continuing ties between Song and Ahn. Yu
Min Yeong, a spokesman for Ahn, who is running second in polls
for the Dec. 19 election, said there are no longer any links
between the two men.  The Kospi Small-Cap Index has climbed 8.7 percent since Aug.
20, when Park Geun Hye, who leads in opinion polls, reiterated a
pledge to bolster small and medium-sized businesses that create
jobs.  Large Caps  The Kospi Large Cap Index of the nation’s 100 biggest
companies, which includes  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Hyundai
Motor Co., gained 1.9 percent in that time.  The small-cap gauge is made up of 464 companies that fall
outside the 300 biggest listed businesses, based on market
capitalization. Nexen Corp., a manufacturer of tires and rubber
inner tubes, was the top-ranked member of the index based on
closing prices Oct. 2, with a market value of about $350 million.
Korean markets were closed for a holiday yesterday.  Shares of Sunny, which is based in the southern city of
Chungju and makes components used in computers and mobile phones,
soared to 4,405 won on Oct. 2 from 397 won at the end of last
year. The stock, which is the  best performer  this year in both
the benchmark Kospi index and the small-cap gauge, has fallen
from its Aug. 24 record high of 10,550 won.  Some 71 billion shares on the  Kospi Small Cap Index (KOSPSMKC)  were
traded through Sept. 27, surpassing any full-year volume since
2000 when  Korea  Exchange Inc. started disclosing the data.  ‘More Risk’  “Whoever becomes the next president, there should be more
policy consideration for smaller firms to seek growth and I
think that’s helping investors to look for good small stocks,
boosting overall trades,” Han Byung Hwa, an analyst at Hyundai
Securities Co., said by phone. “Investors are willing to take a
little bit more risk amid this low-growth environment
globally.”  Small-cap stocks also benefited as central banks from
 Europe , the U.S. and  Japan  unveiled stimulus programs in
September. South Korea’s finance ministry on Sept. 10 announced
5.9 trillion won of spending and tax cuts, adding to 8.5
trillion won of support measures announced in June that included
assistance for small businesses and low-income earners. The  Bank
of Korea  on Sept. 13 said it would boost its special loan
program for small businesses.  Ahn, the ruling New Frontier Party’s Park and the main
opposition party’s Moon Jae In have all pledged to lend a hand
to small business as they campaign to succeed President  Lee Myung Bak .  Ruling Party  Lee’s approval ratings have more than halved since he took
office in 2008 amid mounting discontent for failing to deliver
on election promises to boost economic growth. South Korea’s
economy,  Asia ’s fourth largest, expanded 2.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost
three years.  The sister-in-law of Park served as a non-executive
director at Shinwoo Co., a leather-products maker that has
rallied 117 percent in the last 12 months. Seok Min Cheol, an
investor relations representative for the company, denied on
Sept. 21 that an affiliation with Park was the cause of the
rally. Seok said the company hadn’t identified any reason for
the gains. Shinwoo reported a loss for 2011.  Rabid Trading  Ahnlab shares have advanced 33 percent since Oct. 27 last
year, when an independent backed by Ahn defeated the ruling
party to become Seoul mayor. Ahnlab has posted annual profits
since 2003.  “The rabid trading of ‘candidate-themed’ stocks stems from
 South Korea ’s unique cultural obsession with connections,”
wrote Kang Joon Man, a professor at Chonbuk National University,
in a book published in July entitled “Ahn Cheol Soo’s Power.”
“True social corruption, not just political corruption, is
trying to reap profit off of groundless rumors that a company
official ‘has ties to’ a politician or a presidential
candidate.”  In a book released in July, Ahn advocated limiting the grip
of the nation’s biggest conglomerates on the economy, likening
family-run groups to “zoos” that stifle smaller enterprises.  Moon, from the opposition Democratic United Party, on Sept.
16 said he would introduce a special law limiting specific
industries for small businesses and micro enterprises to protect
them from being overrun by conglomerates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  