-- Suspended Payton Gets NFL Pass to Attend Saints’ Game for Brees
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-04T14:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/suspended-payton-gets-nfl-pass-to-attend-saints-game-for-brees.html
Suspended New Orleans Saints coach
 Sean Payton  will be allowed back at the Superdome this week for
a game in which  Drew Brees  can break Johnny Unitas’s record for
consecutive games with a touchdown pass.  The  National Football League  granted a request from Brees
that Payton, interim coach  Joe Vitt  and General Manager Mickey Loomis -- all of whom were banned for their roles in the Saints’
bounty case -- be permitted to attend the Oct. 7 game against
the  San Diego Chargers . Brees last week tied Unitas by throwing
a touchdown pass in his 47th straight game.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mailed statement
that Payton, Vitt and Loomis would be allowed to watch the game
from a “private area in the stadium”, but can’t have any
contact with the team. It’s not yet known if Payton, Vitt or
Loomis will be at the game.  Payton received a one-year suspension for his part in the
case which the NFL said involves payments to players for
injuring opponents. Vitt was banned for the first six games of
the season and Loomis was suspended eight games while the Saints
were fined $500,000 and stripped of two draft picks.  Unitas threw touchdown passes in 47 consecutive games from
Dec. 9, 1956 through Dec. 4, 1960 for the Baltimore Colts,
breaking the previous mark of 22 games held by Cecil Isbell.
Unitas, who died in 2002 at the age of 69, held sole possession 
of the record for 19,663 days before Brees tied him last week 
with three touchdown passes against the  Green Bay Packers . Brees 
has thrown 114 touchdown passes during his run, 12 more than 
Unitas during his streak.  Brees said it’s probably no coincidence that he’ll get a
chance to break the record against the team he played for during
his first five NFL seasons. Loomis and Payton helped bring Brees
to New Orleans from San Diego in 2007.  “It’s tremendous, but at the same time I need to focus on
my job and whatever it takes to help us win,” Brees, whose team
is off to an 0-4 start, said of eclipsing’s Unitas’s mark. “If
we break the record in the process then that’s great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  