-- Swire Properties Holder Offers Up to $650 Million Stake
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-10-04T08:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/swire-properties-holder-offers-up-to-650-million-stake.html
Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  fell by the
most in almost two months in  Hong Kong  trading after controlling
shareholder John Swire & Sons Ltd. said it is selling its entire
directly held stake in the landlord of Societe Generale SA and
Time Warner Inc.  The shares fell 2.9 percent, the most since Aug. 14, to
HK$23.25 at the close in Hong Kong.  John Swire & Sons is offering 217 million shares at
HK$22.51 each, or 6 percent less than yesterday’s closing price
of HK$23.95, according to a statement to the Hong Kong Exchange
today. John Swire & Sons will cease to be a direct shareholder
and will retain control of the developer through Hong Kong-
listed  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)   “The disposal will help boost the liquidity of Swire
Properties,” Citigroup Inc.’s Hong Kong-based analysts, led by
Anil Daswani, wrote in a note today.  The sale comes less than  two months  after the landlord said
in August that John Swire & Sons would sell 234 million shares
at HK$21.53 each, cutting its holding to 3.71 percent from 7.71
percent.  Market response to the share sale in August “has been very
positive and there’s strong investor interest in Swire
Properties,” Cindy Cheung, a spokeswoman for John Swire & Sons,
said in an e-mail response to  Bloomberg News  queries. She
declined to comment on what the company would do with the
proceeds.  Before today’s announcement, Swire Properties gained 39
percent since its trading debut on Jan. 18, compared with a 6.1
percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  over the
period.  Soaking Up Demand  The share sale “may soak up some near-term investor demand
for Swire Properties’ shares,” Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch & Co. analysts, led by Karl Choi, wrote in a note today.
The company’s “fundamentals remain solid as decentralized
office demand is still healthy.”  Swire Properties said Aug. 10 that  profit  excluding real
estate revaluation increased 3.8 percent to HK$2.44 billion
($315 million) because of growth in rental income from its
office projects and shopping malls in the city and mainland
 China .  The developer is the biggest landlord in Hong Kong’s Island
East district and also has projects in four other Chinese cities,
including Beijing and  Shanghai .  Swire Properties owns about 10.5 million square feet of
prime  office space  and 2.4 million square feet of retail space
in Hong Kong, including the Pacific Place and Island East
commercial complexes. The company is expecting to complete two
new office buildings on  Hong Kong Island  in the fourth quarter.  Closely held John Swire & Sons controls  Swire Pacific ,
which is Swire Properties’ largest shareholder, with an 82
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley, BOCI International China Ltd., HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  