-- Swiss Stocks Climb as ECB Holds Interest Rate
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-10-04T15:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/swiss-stocks-rise-as-euro-area-central-bank-holds-rate.html
Swiss stocks  advanced as the  European
Central Bank  left its benchmark  interest rate  at a historic low,
amid speculation on the timing of a Spanish bailout.  Swiss Re Ltd. rose 2.1 percent, leading a gauge of European
insurance companies higher. Nobel Biocare Holding AG slumped 4.3
percent after the world’s second-largest maker of dental
implants cut its profit forecast.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  gained 0.4 percent to 6,631.35 in
Zurich. The benchmark gauge has rallied 16 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 as ECB policy makers agreed on an unlimited
asset-purchase program and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third
round of quantitative easing. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 0.3 percent today.  “In the short-term,  Spain  will certainly remain in
focus,” said Serge Berger, a Zurich-based trader at Blue Oak
Advisors LLC. “What keeps sentiment afloat is continued
central-bank stimulus; it’s all structural now.”  The ECB kept interest rates on hold today as President
 Mario Draghi  waits for Spain to decide if it needs his help.  Policy makers meeting in Ljubljana, Slovenia, left the
 benchmark interest rate  at 0.75 percent, as predicted by 48 of
52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Four forecast a cut to
0.5 percent. Draghi speaks to reporters 2:30 p.m. local time.  Spanish Auction  The SMI briefly pared gains after Spain’s three-year
borrowing costs rose at a debt auction. The nation sold 3.99
billion euros ($5.2 billion) of securities, compared with a
maximum target of 4 billion euros, the Bank of Spain said.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
orders placed with factories fell 5.2 percent, the biggest
decrease since January 2009. The median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey called for a decline of 5.9 percent.  A gauge of European insurers advanced for the first time in
three days. Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer,
gained 2.1 percent to 65.40 Swiss francs.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN) 
rose 1.3 percent to 76.90 francs.  Nobel Biocare  Nobel Biocare tumbled 4.3 percent to 9.03 francs for the
sharpest decline since June 25, after cutting its profit
forecast. Earnings before interest and taxes will probably be 67
million euros to 70 million euros this year as revenue declines
by a “modest” single-digit percentage at constant exchange
rates, the company said in a statement today. Nobel Biocare said
in August that full-year Ebit would be near the level of last
year, which was 76.6 million euros, excluding certain items.  “As visibility towards an improvement of the Japanese
market is low and the uncertainties in Europe remain, we advise
investors to remain on the sidelines,” Carla Baenziger, an
analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the world’s largest maker of dental
implants, slid 3.3 percent to 119.9 francs.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  retreated 1.3 percent to 348.30 francs after
peer Monsanto Co.’s fiscal 2013 earnings forecast trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  declined 1.4 percent to 32.33 francs
after Equita SIM SpA initiated coverage of the stock with a
reduce rating, meaning investors should sell the company’s
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  