-- U.K. Defies ‘Gloomsters’ After Areva, Guangdong Nuclear Pull Out
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-04T16:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-k-defies-gloomsters-after-areva-guangdong-nuclear-pull-out.html
Areva SA (AREVA)  and  China  Guangdong Nuclear
Power Group Co.’s decision to halt a bid for the U.K.’s Horizon
nuclear venture leaves undiminished the nation’s attractiveness
for atomic investors, according to Energy Secretary  Ed Davey .  “Decisions by any individual consortia don’t change that
reality,” he said today in southern  England . “What the Horizon
bidding and sale process has shown is how attractive the U.K.’s
nuclear offer is and I would urge the gloomsters to wait.”  The government isn’t involved in the “commercial aspect”
of  EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) ’s sale of the venture, he said. Horizon has
state backing to set up reactors in  Wales  and western England.  Areva said yesterday it suspended the plan announced in
July to team up with China Guangdong Nuclear and utilities to
bid for Horizon. Areva’s group was one of three expected to bid.  A  Hitachi Ltd (6501) .-led partnership confirmed it submitted a bid
yesterday, and a group comprising Westinghouse Electric Co. and
China’s State Nuclear Power Technology Corp. was expected to put
in a proposal. Westinghouse today declined to comment.  The U.K. program had lured interest from foreign investors,
“making it clear they thought Britain was a good place to
invest in new nuclear, and that remains the case,” Davey said.  With all of Britain’s reactors slated to shut by 2035, the
government is seeking to spur delivery of new plants through a
bill that guarantees power contracts. The bill, published in
draft form in May, sets arrangements for a so-called “strike
price,” or a guaranteed return for generators of nuclear and
other low-carbon forms of power such as offshore wind farms.  Electricite de France SA is the lead company negotiating
with the government over the strike price for nuclear after
three utilities including SSE Plc and  Germany ’s RWE and EON
dropped their plans for new nuclear building since September.  “The energy bill will be published before we conclude the
negotiations with EDF,” Davey said. EDF plans to make a final
decision on a new reactor in southwest England by the year-end.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  