-- U.K. House Prices Decline for a Third Month on ‘Weak’ Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-04T07:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-k-september-house-prices-fall-0-4-on-month-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a third
month in September and will probably remain little changed into
2013 as the uncertain economic outlook constrains property
demand, according to Halifax.  Values dropped 0.4 percent from the previous month to an
average 159,486 pounds ($257,000), the mortgage unit of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in a statement in London today. From a
year earlier, values were down 1.1 percent, and Halifax said
there has been a “slight deterioration in the trend recently.”  Britain’s property market remains under pressure as the
 economy  struggles to recover from a recession and restrictions
on lending make it harder to get mortgages. The  Bank of England 
started a Funding for Lending plan in August to boost credit by
giving banks access to cheaper funding.  “The generally weak economic climate remains a significant
constraint on housing demand,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis 
said. “We expect  house prices  to be broadly unchanged over the
rest of this year and into 2013.”  Over the past year, house prices have declined in seven
months and increased in five, based on Halifax data. In the
three months through September, prices fell 0.5 percent compared
with the preceding three months, and were down 1.2 percent down
on the same period in 2011.  The Bank of England will maintain its bond-purchase target
at 375 billion pounds today, according to all 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Policy makers will also leave their
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, all 50
economists said in a separate  poll . The decisions will be
announced at noon in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  