-- U.S. Credit Swaps Decline for Fourth Day; SocGen Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-04T21:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-s-credit-swaps-decline-for-fourth-day-socgen-plans-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell for the fourth consecutive day to the lowest since the
inception of the new version last month, as initial jobless
claims rose by less than economists expected last week.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 95 basis points at 5:26 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  CenterPoint Energy Inc. (CNP)  narrowed to the lowest
level in more than a year.  Labor Department figures showed today that first-time
claims for  unemployment insurance  rose to 367,000 last week, up
from a two-month low and less than the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. European Central Bank policy
makers left their benchmark rate at a historic low of 0.75
percent and said the ECB stands ready to purchase  government
bonds , putting the burden on  Spain  to decide whether it wants a
bailout.  “Every day we seem to rally on some headline that Spain is
about to get money, and fade on some story that they might not
ask yet,” Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based TF Market
Advisors, wrote in a note today.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bond Offerings  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  sold $1.25 billion of 2.75 percent,
five-year bonds in its first benchmark offering of dollar-
denominated debt this year, Bloomberg data show. The notes,
priced to yield 215 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, will be used for general corporate purposes.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the Spanish bank, sold
$2 billion of 4.664 percent, three-year, dollar-denominated
debt, Bloomberg data show. The bonds yield 435 basis points more
than the benchmark and will be used for general corporate
purposes, according to a person familiar with the offering.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt fell 3
basis points, led by spreads on the subordinated bonds of
financial companies, which narrowed 6 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. The average yield on speculative-grade debt decreased
5 basis points.  CenterPoint Swaps  Credit swaps protecting against the default of Houston-
based CenterPoint Energy for five years fell 6.8 basis points to
100 basis points at 3:30 p.m. in  New York  according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
That’s the lowest since it reached 100 basis points on Aug. 18,
2011.  The electric and natural gas utility company’s contracts
are down from 136 basis points on June 5. Demand for natural gas
may be poised to rise as prices stabilize and use in commercial
and industrial applications picks up, according to an Aug. 28
report by Samuel Brothwell, a senior analyst with Bloomberg
Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  