-- U.S. Natural Gas Rises on Outlook for Colder Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-10-05T13:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-s-natural-gas-rises-after-dropping-on-milder-weather.html
(Corrects price projection in the 17th paragraph of story
that ran yesterday.)  Natural gas futures advanced for the
seventh time in eight days as an expected blast of cold air
signaled stronger demand for heating fuel.  Gas gained 0.3 percent as the  National Weather Service 
predicted below-normal temperatures for most of the lower 48
states over the next six to 10 days. Prices retreated from
steeper gains after the Energy Department said supplies  rose  77
billion cubic feet last week, above the  median  of 26 analyst
forecasts showing an increase of 73 billion.  “It’s a shoving match between the bulls and the bears,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group Inc., a
consulting group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “This is a
seasonal play as supply is secured for the winter and
speculators look to make end users pay up for it. You have so
much supply in the ground so people are really bearish on the
market rallies.”  Natural gas for November delivery gained 1.1 cents to
settle at $3.406 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  after rising as high as $3.464. The
futures have climbed 14 percent this year.  November $3 puts, bets that prices will fall, were the most
active gas options in electronic trading. They fell 0.7 cent to
1.7 cents on volume of 1,411 contracts as of 2:40 p.m. Puts
accounted for 63 percent of options volume.  The  discount  for November futures widened to 0.6 cent
versus December contracts from yesterday to 27.4 cents.  The low temperature in  Detroit  on Oct. 12 may be 37 degrees
Fahrenheit (3 Celsius), 9 below normal, and  New York City  may
drop 8 below the usual reading to 43 degrees, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Heater Use  Heating demand in the continental U.S. may be 16 percent
above normal Oct. 10 through Oct. 14, data from Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , show.  Gas consumption typically  slumps  following air-conditioner
use in the summer and before the winter heating season.  “Any further run-up in futures prices may eventually give
way to a correction in absence of a complete recovery in heating
demand,” Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a note to clients today. She
sees “elevated” supplies this winter as more production is
brought online.  The  Pacific Ocean  persists in flirting with an El Nino,
leaving researchers waiting as they have for months for the
phenomenon to develop.  El Nino  There’s a possibility a warming of the central Pacific
that can disrupt weather patterns around the world may gain
strength during the next four months, according to the  U.S.
Climate Prediction Center . The  College Park , Maryland-based
forecast maintained its “El Nino Watch,” though it said time
may be running out.  “The implication behind it is there is a correlation
between a weak El Nino and a winter colder and snowier than
normal,” in places such as the Northeast, said David Tolleris,
a meteorologist at WXRisk.com in Richmond, Virginia.  The Energy Department today reported that gas  inventories 
increased to 3.653 trillion cubic feet in the week ended Sept.
28. The five-year average gain for the week is 78 billion.  A supply  surplus  to the five-year average fell to 8.3
percent for the week, down from 8.6 percent the previous week.
The gap has narrowed from a six-year high of 61 percent at the
end of March.  Power plants  have been burning a record amount of
gas as they switched from costlier coal.  Stockpile Record  The department predicted that stockpiles may rise to a
record of 3.95 trillion cubic feet by the end of October, before
the peak heating demand season begins, according to its monthly
 Short-Term Energy Outlook  on Sept. 11.  The Natural Gas Supply Association’s 2012-2013  winter
outlook , released yesterday, predicted that prices rise from
last winter’s average of $2.75 from November through March at
the  Henry Hub  in Erath,  Louisiana , the delivery point for New
York futures.  Gas prices  will see “soft upward pressure” as higher
demand from colder weather this winter will be “easily matched
by ample production and gas in storage,” Greg Vesey, vice
chairman of the Washington-based association and president of
Chevron Natural Gas, a unit of Chevron Corp., said in the
outlook.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
358,438 as of 2:43 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 379,000. Volume was 398,729 yesterday. Open interest was 1.16
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.11 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 