-- U.S. Regulator Proposes Uniform System for Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-s-regulator-offers-uniform-system-for-mortgage-securities-1-.html
The U.S. overseer of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC) , planning for when the companies are eliminated or
their role diminished, is seeking input on a system to
standardize the packaging of home loans into securities.  The plan would create a common method of issuing bonds,
overseeing servicers, making payments to investors, and tracking
loan performance, among other things,  the Federal Housing
Finance Administration  said in a  white paper  released yesterday.
It would also standardize pooling and servicing contracts
underlying the securities.  The system could be used either by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac or by issuers of private-label securities, FHFA said.  “The securitization infrastructure could serve as a
utility that would outlast Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as we know
them,” Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of FHFA, said in a
statement.  The proposal is part of the regulator’s effort to lay the
groundwork for the two government-sponsored enterprises to
shrink or be wound down entirely. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
have operated under U.S. conservatorship since 2008.  Neither Congress nor President  Barack Obama  have moved
forward with plans to overhaul the housing-finance system and
determine the companies’ fate. Washington-based Fannie Mae and
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac dominate the U.S. mortgage
market.  About 75 percent of mortgage securities are created by the
two enterprises, which pool home loans for sale to investors and
guarantee interest and principal payments. The other 25 percent
are issued by  Ginnie Mae (GNMA) , which pools loans insured by the
Federal Housing Administration, FHFA said.  FHFA’s Push  FHFA has been pushing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
standardize their operations to reduce taxpayers’ costs and make
it easier for sellers, servicers and investors to work with the
two companies. Under the proposed system, Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac would each continue to guarantee their own securities.  Whatever form the two companies take in the future, the
platform could also be used by issuers of private-label
securities, FHFA said.  “There are certain elements for rebuilding the housing
finance system that are needed regardless of its ultimate
structure,” the FHFA said in its proposal.  Tom Deutsch, executive director of the American
Securitization Form, said in a statement that the New York-based
trade group supports efforts to return private capital to the
mortgage market.  “We do caution, however, about any efforts that may compel
private market participants to use a one-size-fits-all
regulatory regime that could stifle innovation and prevents
issuers and investors from working together to meet each other’s
origination and investment preferences,” he said in the
statement.  Public comments on the plan can be e-mailed to
 SecuritizationInfrastructure@fhfa.gov . The deadline is Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  