-- U.S. Charges 91 Over Millions in False Medicare Bills
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-10-04T19:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-s-charges-91-over-429-2-million-in-false-medicare-bills-1-.html
U.S. authorities charged 91 people
with Medicare fraud in a nationwide crackdown, alleging schemes
involving $429.2 million in false billing, Attorney General Eric Holder said.  Doctors, nurses and other medical professionals were among
those who billed Medicare for unnecessary services and paid
kickbacks to acquire patient information for fraudulent bills,
Holder said today at a news conference in  Washington .  “Today’s takedown underscores the fact that federal
efforts to combat health-care fraud have never been more
strategic, more comprehensive, or more effective,” Holder said
today at a news conference in Washington.  The Obama administration has expanded the government’s
pursuit of health-care fraud cases, including scams against
Medicare, the program for the elderly and disabled. Since the
inception of a strike force in 2007, more than 1,480 defendants
who have collectively falsely billed the Medicare program for
more than $4.8 billion have been charged.  The indictments were the result of an investigation by the
Medicare Fraud Strike Force, which includes the  Justice
Department , Health and Human Services Department and  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . Suspects were charged in cities
including Miami, Dallas,  Los Angeles , Brooklyn, New York and
Chicago.  Ambulance Billing  Those charged include 33 defendants in Miami, accused of
bilking the Medicare program of $204.5 million in false billings
for home-health care, mental  health services  and occupational
therapy.  Another 16 people, including three doctors and a licensed
physical therapist, were charged in Los Angeles with defrauding
the program of $53.8 million. Schemes included $49.2 million in
fraudulent billing for ambulance transportation, the largest
such fraud prosecuted by the strike force, the Justice
Department said.  Fifteen people, including a doctor and four chiropractors,
were charged in Brooklyn in what prosecutors said was fraudulent
billing of U.S. health-care programs that totaled $23.2 million.  The arrests around the country “represent another setback
for criminals intent on lining their pockets from the Medicare
Trust Fund,” said  Kathleen Sebelius , the Health and Human
Services Department secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  