-- U.S. Oct. NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-10-04T14:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/u-s-oct-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Housing
Opportunity Index from the  National Association of Home
Builders .  List of Improving Housing Markets Eclipses 100 in October  A total of 103 housing markets across the  United States 
qualified to be listed on the National Association of Home
Builders/First American Improving Markets Index (IMI) for
October, released today. This is up from 99 markets listed as
improving in September and is the largest number of metros on
the IMI since it was created one year ago. A total of 33 states
and the  District of Columbia  are represented on the October
list.  The index identifies metropolitan areas that have shown
improvement from their respective troughs in housing permits,
employment and  house prices  for at least six consecutive months.
Markets added to the list in October include such geographically
diverse locations as  Santa Cruz , Calif.; Pocatello, Idaho;
Abilene, Texas; and Savanna, Ga.  “While 11 new housing markets were designated as improving in
October, 92 metros retained their spots on the IMI and just
seven slipped from the list,” noted Barry Rutenberg, chairman of
the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) and a home
builder from Gainesville, Fla. “This is an encouraging sign that
the housing recovery is proceeding at a steady pace as firming
prices and employment help spur new building activity, which in
turn generates new jobs and more home sales.”  “The fact that most markets are maintaining their spots on the
improving list from month to month is an important indication
that the recovery trend is solidifying,” agreed NAHB Chief
Economist  David Crowe . “At the same time, overly tight credit
conditions are certainly constraining consumers’ ability to
purchase homes as well as builders’ ability to construct them.”  “The expansion of the improving markets list to more than 100
metros marks an important milestone on the road to recovery,”
noted  Kurt Pfotenhauer , vice chairman at First American Title
Insurance Company. “For potential buyers across the country, it
is becoming increasingly apparent that now is a good time to
explore a new-home purchase.”  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the
country that are showing signs of improving economic health. The
index measures three sets of independent monthly data to get a
mark on the top improving Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The
three indicators that are analyzed are employment growth from
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
 Freddie Mac  and single-family housing permit growth from the
U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A
metropolitan area must see improvement in all three measures for
at least six months following those measures’ respective troughs
before being included on the improving markets list.  A complete list of all 103 metropolitan areas currently on the
IMI, and separate breakouts of metros newly added to or dropped
from the list in October, is available at www.nahb.org/imi.  Editor’s Note: The NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index
(IMI) is released on the fourth business day of each month at
10:00 a.m., ET, unless that day falls on a Friday - in which
case, the index is released on the following Monday. A full
calendar of future release dates can be found at
www.nahb.org/imi.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html 
