-- Unemployment Drop Masks Labor Malaise: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/unemployment-drop-masks-labor-malaise-chart-of-the-day.html
One reason the Federal Reserve may be
unable to reach consensus on an unemployment target: the jobless
rate can be a misleading gauge of labor market health.  While unemployment has fallen to 8.1 percent from 10
percent in 2009, the CHART OF THE DAY shows the percentage of
people working, known as the employment-population ratio, has
remained near its lows of the recession, suggesting limited
progress toward a recovery in jobs.  “In a better economy we would see an improvement in this
data,” said Adolfo Laurenti, deputy chief economist at Mesirow
Financial Inc. in  Chicago . While the ratio has fallen as the
baby boomer generation retires and because more students are
returning to school “the tougher nut to crack is those people
who are truly discouraged workers, who could be in the job
market but are leaving.”  The employment-population ratio climbed to a record high
64.7 percent in April of 2000 before falling as low as 58.2
percent in December 2009, the lowest level since 1983. A lack of
labor-market improvement, even with the drop in the unemployment
rate, prompted the Fed to begin a third round of asset
purchases, or QE3, in which it’s buying $40 billion a month of
mortgage-backed securities.  While Fed policy makers have proposed continuing the Fed’s
accommodative policies until the unemployment rate hits a
certain level, as long as inflation remains contained, they
haven’t been able to reach consensus on a jobless target.  “We want to see the unemployment rate come down, but
that’s not the only indicator, obviously, of labor market
conditions,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a Sept. 13
press conference. “The unemployment rate came down last month
because participation fell; that’s not necessarily a sign of
improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at 
 mbabic@bloomberg.net  