-- Turkey Arrests Two After Killing of U.S. Ambassador: TV
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-04T18:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/turkey-arrests-two-after-killing-of-u-s-ambassador-tv.html
Two suspects in the Sept. 11 attack
that killed the U.S. ambassador to  Libya  and three colleagues
have been arrested at Istanbul’s Ataturk airport, Kanal D
television reported today.  The suspects, identified as Tunisians, were detained late
yesterday as they attempted to enter the country with fake
passports, Kanal D said.  Abunaker Feraz of Benghazi, who lived near the base of the
Islamist group suspected of carrying out the attack, said on
Sept. 22 that, “Ansar al-Shariah includes someone from
 Afghanistan , someone from  Tunisia , someone from Libya.”  Turkish police were questioning the suspects, Kanal D said.
It was not clear whether the suspects might be extradited to
Libya or the U.S., Kanal D said. Turkish authorities were not
available for comment.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  had no comment
on the report today.  President  Barack Obama  vowed on Sept. 13 that the U.S.
would “bring to justice” those responsible for the attack on
the American diplomatic compound in Libya.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said today he’s
“satisfied with the progress” the  Justice Department  has made
in its investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks on a U.S.
diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya.  “You should not assume that we could do or have been doing
is restricted solely to Benghazi,” Holder said at a press
conference today in Washington. “There are a variety of other
places in country and outside the country where relevant things
could be done and have been done.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters that a team
from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation visited the compound
today. The FBI team was transported by a U.S. military support
group and left today, he said.  International Cooperation  Mohammed Magariaf, the president of Libya’s parliament and
de facto head of state, said in a Sept. 15 Bloomberg interview
at his home in Benghazi that he would welcome international
cooperation in the hunt for the killers of Stevens.  “Let us start with ourselves, then if we are not capable
then with whoever can help us,” he said. “Americans and
Europeans helping is not a new thing for us.”  Libya’s Chief Prosecutor for Benghazi, Saleh Adem Mohammed,
told Bloomberg in a Sept. 19 interview: “The Libyan authorities
are ready to cooperate with the Americans. but the investigation
phase must be secret. Libyan law says it is alright to
collaborate with any international committee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  