-- Turkey Bond Yields Jump Most in One Week on Syria Shelling
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-10-04T14:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/turkey-bond-yields-jump-most-in-two-months-on-syria-shelling.html
Turkish bond  yields  headed for the
biggest jump in more than a week and default swaps rose after
 Turkey  fired into Syrian territory in retaliation to shelling by
its neighbor yesterday that killed five people.  Concern that Turkey’s 720,000-strong military will be
dragged into a conflict led yields on two-year benchmark debt
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, higher to 7.61
percent at the close in Istanbul, the most since Sept. 26.
Credit default swaps advanced for the first time in six days by
three basis points to 153, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The parliament voted by 320 to 129 after a 3 1/2-hour
debate in favor of a one-year mandate for the government to
order military operations outside Turkey, according to the
assembly’s press office. Turkey, which retaliated with artillery
attacks on Syrian military targets, has backed the rebels
fighting to oust President Bashar al-Assad and allowed them to
use bases inside Turkey. It has deployed extra troops near the
border since June, when Syrian forces downed a Turkish plane.  “The whole picture is unpleasant and must be monitored
very carefully,” Suha Yaygin, deputy head of  emerging markets 
at Toronto Dominion Bank in  London , said in e-mailed comments.
“It is good to be cautious even though Turkey has strong
fundamentals.”  Lira Losses  The lira erased earlier losses of as much as 0.4 percent
and traded 0.3 percent stronger at 1.7990 per dollar. It lost
0.7 percent yesterday, the biggest depreciation since Aug. 1.
Deputy premier Besir Atalay said  Syria  has conveyed regrets and
assurances to United Nations officials that such an incident
won’t be repeated. “Turkey’s message has been received,”
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  Turkish artillery units fired yesterday and today at Syrian
military targets in response to the cross-border shelling.
Fourteen Syrian soldiers were killed, Al Arabiya television
said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 9 basis points to 226
in Istanbul today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.
The emerging-market average dropped one basis point to 299.  The Turkish currency has gained 5 percent this year,
rebounding from its record low of 1.9224 against the dollar on
Dec. 28. Yields on the country’s dollar bonds maturing in
January 2030 jumped six basis points today to 4.34 percent.  “If it becomes clear that Turkey will step up military
actions, we will quickly reach the 1.85 level,” Thu Lan Nguyen,
a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-
mailed comments. “A war will definitely deter international
investors, and Turkish assets will be sold across the board.”  Turkey has been deploying tanks and armored personnel
carriers in the area. Syria’s uprising has morphed into a civil
war that’s spilling across its borders, with shells and gunfire
now following tens of thousands of refugees into Turkey, Lebanon
and Jordan.  This is “clearly a short-term risk for Turkey and Turkish
assets, but also a shout to the rest of the world that the
situation in Syria is untenable,” Simon Quijano-Evans, ING
Groep NV’s London-based head of emerging-market research for
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , said in a note today.  Stocks (XU100)  extended losses today, with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange National 100 sliding 0.5 percent at 66,545.44 for a
second day to the lowest in almost a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  