-- Vale to Halt Three Pellet Plants in Brazil as Demand Weakens
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-04T20:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/vale-to-halt-three-pellet-plants-in-brazil-as-demand-weakens-2-.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, will suspend output at three pellet feed plants in
 Brazil , relocating workers, as demand from steelmakers declines.  Production will be temporarily halted at the Sao Luis unit
in northern Brazil Oct. 8 and at the Tubarao I and Tubarao II
plants in the country’s southeast Nov. 13, Vale said in a
statement  today , without saying how long the units will remain
idle. The reduced processing of iron ore into pellet feed means
production of sinter feed, a rawer form of the material, will
expand, Vale said.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira sold coal,
manganese and logistics assets this year and is reviewing all of
the company’s projects to cut costs as demand wanes amid the
outlook for slower growth in  China , the biggest buyer of iron
ore. Ferreira said Aug. 16 that he will postpone a $3 billion
potash project in  Canada  and may delay other investments to
focus on expanding the company’s biggest mine.  Vale’s decision signals lower demand by steelmakers, said
Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos.  “Vale’s margins will suffer because pellets are a product
of higher value,” he said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro today. “The world is changing, and Vale is adapting to
it.”  Pellet Demand  The three units that are being halted produced 4.93 million
metric tons of pellets in the first half of this year, or 18
percent of the company’s total production of the material, the
Rio-based company said.  “This adjustment stems from the change in the composition
of steel-industry demand for raw materials throughout the cycle,
where there is a contraction in pellet consumption in favor of
greater use of sinter feed,” Vale said in the statement.  Iron ore, which accounts for about 90 percent of Vale’s
earnings before items, declined to the lowest since October 2009
last month amid weaker Chinese demand. Iron ore for immediate
delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin, a benchmark for Asia,
was unchanged at $104.20 a ton today according to a price index
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Vale rose less than 1 percent to 35.02 reais at the close
in Sao Paulo.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, in
August delayed about $68 billion of projects, including an iron-
ore port expansion, amid sluggish global growth.  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,  Australia ’s third-biggest iron-ore producer,
on Sept. 4 cut its full-year spending forecast by 26 percent to
$4.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  