-- Van Hollen Calls Simpson-Bowles a Framework for Debt Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-10-04T19:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/van-hollen-calls-simpson-bowles-a-framework-for-debt-deal.html
Representative Chris  Van Hollen , the
House Budget Committee’s top Democrat, predicted the proposal by
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 deficit panel will be the
“framework” for averting the so-called fiscal cliff of
spending cuts in January.  The deficit-cutting plan was offered by commission co-
chairmen Al Simpson, a Republican former Wyoming senator, and
Erskine Bowles, a Democratic former White House chief of staff.
It called for $3.8 trillion in spending cuts and $1 trillion in
more  tax revenue  by 2020 through rate increases or eliminating
deductions. The commission recommended cuts in Medicare and
Social Security benefits.  It didn’t get the required 14 votes on the 18-member
commission to be sent to Congress for a vote. Obama also didn’t
embrace the recommendations, and his Republican challenger,  Mitt
Romney , criticized him for that at their first debate last night
in Denver.  “We’re going to see the framework of Simpson-Bowles” in a
deal to avert $109.3 billion in automatic federal spending cuts
in January, Van Hollen said on Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol
Gains,” airing this weekend.  “That mix of cuts, but also revenue, is the right way to
go,” the Maryland lawmaker said.  Among the debt commission members who voted against the
proposal was Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , now the
Republican vice presidential nominee. Republicans who opposed
the plan cited its tax increases.  ‘Exactly Right’  Van Hollen said Obama “was exactly right” during the
Denver debate when he said Romney had previously said he would
reject a deficit-cutting plan even if it included $10 in
spending cuts for every $1 in higher taxes.  Asked during the debate whether he supported the Simpson-
Bowles plan, the former Massachusetts governor said  “I have my
own plan; it’s not the same as Simpson-Bowles.” Still, he said
Obama “should have grabbed that” and fought for it in
Congress.  Instead of allowing the automatic spending cuts to begin in
January, Congress may devise “replacement deficit savings” to
postpone some of the reductions for three to six months, Van
Hollen said.  Van Hollen said the Dec. 31 expiration of the Bush-era tax
cuts is a separate issue because Obama “has been very clear”
that Congress should continue them for most income while letting
them expire for couples’ income above $250,000.  Republicans say the tax cuts must be continued for all
income levels.  Action by Congress to postpone the spending cuts while
allowing the tax cuts to expire on top earners “will require
our Republican colleagues recognizing that balanced  deficit
reduction  requires some revenue contribution,” Van Hollen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  