-- Visteon CEO Sees ‘Clarity’ on Revamp by End of 2013
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-04T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/visteon-ceo-sees-clarity-on-revamp-by-end-of-2013.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) , the auto-parts
supplier stalled as it revamps itself, will decide its strategy
for each of its units by the end of 2013 and provide investors
“clarity,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Leuliette said.  “There are so many great assets here and you can pick a
nice path, but it’s the execution that’s always been fraught
with challenges,” Leuliette, who was named permanent CEO Oct.
1, said in an interview yesterday. “There are times when you
have to move it from the too-tough-to-handle file to the front
of the desk and get on down the road. You know me: I don’t have
all the patience in the world.”  Visteon said Sept. 19 it plans to sell its climate business
to  Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  for cash, creating the Halla-
Visteon Climate Group. The company will sell its interiors unit
and seek to exit its 50 percent stake in Yanfeng Visteon
Automotive Trim Systems Co. Visteon will also consider options
for its electronics business.  “Clarity doesn’t mean that all of the execution will be
accomplished but that the clarity will be there,” he said.  Leuliette ascended to CEO after serving as interim chief
following the ouster of Don Stebbins Aug. 10. He was part of a
bloc of Visteon directors who favored revamping the company,
which hasn’t been able to generate consistent profits under
three CEOs before Leuliette.  Visteon exited bankruptcy in 2010. Leuliette, as interim
chief, said in a Sept. 19 investor presentation that Visteon
will seek the “right value” at the “right time” for its
stake in Yanfeng Visteon Automotive Trim Systems, the Chinese
joint venture with  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)   Asian Focus  Visteon has tried to shed lower-margin units to focus on
faster-growing operations in Asia. The company, spun off from
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, has been pressured by investors to boost
its share price, which reached a post-bankruptcy peak of $75.75
in January 2011.  The company’s climate business includes 70 percent
ownership of Halla and Visteon’s own climate unit. Together they
rank No. 2 behind  Denso Corp. (6902) , the Kariya, Japan-based parts
maker that is 23 percent owned by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   By selling the climate business to Halla, a company traded
on the Korean stock exchange, Visteon will “have taken half of
this company and made it an Asian-traded equity,” Leuliette,
62, said yesterday. Visteon plans to complete the sale by the
end of the first quarter.  “Connect the dots,” he said. “As we sell off Yanfeng, as
we address our interiors piece, move climate to  Asia , you start
to see that the electronics piece” will determine Visteon’s
future.  ‘Shareholder Perspective’  “At that point we become very Asian-centric, and from the
shareholder perspective, they should benefit from that,” he
said. Visteon’s auto-electronics unit is the world’s fifth-
largest.  Stebbins was weighing options after a deal to sell
Visteon’s interiors unit fell apart and his attempt to buy the
remaining 30 percent of Halla was blocked by  South Korea ’s
National Pension Service. Stebbins said in an August interview
that while he was looking at acquisitions in climate and
electronics to boost market share in both units, he didn’t
expect any new transactions to close in 2012.  Visteon, based in  Van Buren Township , Michigan, disclosed
the departure of Stebbins in an Aug. 13 statement.  The board favored Leuliette as the permanent CEO because
other potential candidates viewed him as likely to win the job,
he agrees with shareholders who have pushed the company to sell
off lower-margin businesses and it was hard to find CEO
candidates to shrink the company, three people familiar with the
hiring plan had said.  Annual Report  Visteon will report results from Yanfeng Visteon Automotive
Trim Systems for the first time when it files its 2012 annual
report next year. That pending disclosure has been a
“catalyst” for SAIC and Visteon to talk, Leuliette said.  Yanfeng Visteon “is a tremendously powerful piece of”
SAIC, he said. “Perhaps there’s a point where they may not want
the pieces to be all public.”  The shares rose 0.7 percent to $45.80 at the close
yesterday in  New York . Visteon has gained 18 percent since Aug.
10, the last trading day before Leuliette’s appointment as
interim CEO was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Van Buren Township,  Michigan , at  mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  