-- Wachtell, Cleary, K&L Gates, Akin Gump: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-04T10:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/wachtell-cleary-k-l-gates-akin-gump-business-of-law.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , advised by
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz,  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton
LLP, K&L Gates LLP and Wiley Rein LLP, agreed to combine its T-
Mobile USA unit with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  to create a
bigger rival to market leader  Verizon Wireless , after failing to
sell the business to  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year.  MetroPCS worked with law firms Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP,
 Paul Hastings  LLP and Telecommunications Law Professionals as
well as Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP and Fulbright &
Jaworski LLP.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partner Adam O. Emmerich and consists of partners Eric M. Rosof, restructuring
and finance; Jodi J. Schwartz and T. Eiko Stange, tax; Michael
J. Segal, executive compensation and benefits; and Ilene Knable Gotts, antitrust.  Cleary Gottlieb is advising Deutsche Telekom on antitrust
and tax aspects of T-Mobile’s acquisition of MetroPCS. Cleary
Gottlieb partners  Mark Nelson  and George Cary are advising on
antitrust matters. Partners Les Samuels and Yaron Reich are
advising on tax aspects.  Wiley Rein’s lead lawyers are Richard E. Wiley and Nancy J. Victory.  Gibson Dunn ’s team for Metro PCS is led by  Dallas  partner
Jeffrey Chapman and includes Dallas partner Robert Little.  New
York  partners Joerg Esdorn and Darius Mehraban advised on
finance aspects. Dallas partner David Sinak advised on tax
aspects. Dallas partner David Schiller advised on benefits.
Dallas partner Sean Royall advised on antitrust aspects. New
York partner Stephen Nordahl advised on technology aspects.  From K&L Gates, Margaret Inouye was the lead corporate
partner advising T-Mobile.  For MetroPCS, Paul Hastings acted as antitrust counsel, led
by C. Scott Hataway, an antitrust and competition partner in the
litigation department.  Corporate and regulatory partners Carl Northop, Michael
Lazarus and Andrew Morentz at Telecommunications Law
Professionals also advised MetroPCS.  Akin Gump  advised MetroPCS’s special committee with a team
led by Dallas corporate partners J. Kenneth Menges Jr., who co-
heads the firm’s corporate practice, and Robert W. Dockery.  Fulbright partners Brett Govett and Karl Dial also served
as counsel to MetroPCS’s special committee.  Metro PCS General Counsel is Mark Stachiw.  Germany ’s largest phone company will own 74 percent of a
new U.S. mobile operator and MetroPCS shareholders will get $1.5
billion in cash, the companies said in a statement yesterday.
The combined entity will keep the T-Mobile name and be headed by
John Legere, the former chief executive officer of Global
Crossing Ltd. who was named as chief of Deutsche Telekom’s U.S.
unit last month.  For more, click here.  Carlyle Buys Hedge Fund Vermillion in Commodities Expansion  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-largest buyout firm, bought
commodities hedge-fund manager Vermillion Asset Management LLC,
adding $2.2 billion in commodities assets as the firm expands
beyond private equity.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP provided legal advice to
Carlyle on the deal, while Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP and
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP advised Vermillion.  The Simpson Thacher team included partners Gary Horowitz
and Edward Chung, M&A; Olga Gutman, funds; John Creed, tax;
Alvin Brown, executive compensation and employee benefits; and
Josh Bonnie,  capital markets  and securities.  Katten lawyers included partner Lance A. Zinman, Chicago
chairman of financial services practice and partner Christopher
T. Shannon, financial services practice.  Carlyle purchased 55 percent of Vermillion for a mix of
cash, stock and performance-based payouts, effective Oct. 1,
Carlyle said yesterday in a statement. The price wasn’t
disclosed.  Vermillion, created in 2005 by Drew Gilbert and Chris Nygaard, will be part of Carlyle’s Global Market Strategies
business, headed by Mitch Petrick. That unit manages about $29
billion across 53 funds, and is a key component of the firm’s
strategy to offer more products outside of traditional corporate
buyout pools and win more commitments from investors worldwide.  “Our team looks forward to leveraging Carlyle’s global
network and deep knowledge of local markets to better exploit
trading opportunities and inefficiencies in the global
 commodities markets ,” Gilbert said in the statement.  Gilbert and Nygaard will continue to oversee the day-to-day
operations of Vermillion and remain co-chief investment officers
of its funds. The New York-based firm has 43 employees.
Vermillion focuses on investments spanning agricultural
commodities, precious metals, freight and energy across three
funds, according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Platinum Equity Buys BWAY From Madison Dearborn for $1.2 Billion  Latham & Watkins LLP advised Platinum Equity LLC, the
private-investment firm founded by billionaire Tom Gores, which
agreed to buy packaging company BWAY Parent Co. Inc. in a deal
worth $1.24 billion. Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised BWAY.  Latham advised Platinum with a corporate deal team led by
partner  David Brown . Assistance was also provided by partners
Lisa Watts, tax; James Barrett and Christine Rolph,
environmental matters; Patrick Shannon, capital markets;
Jennifer Van Driesen, finance matters; David Della Rocca,
benefits and compensation; and  David Shapiro , real estate.  Kirkland & Ellis Chicago partners Carol Anne Huff, Richard Campbell, Jon-Micheal Wheat and Michael Wright led the deal for
BWAY.  Platinum will acquire BWAY from private-equity firm Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC, the companies said Oct. 2 in a statement.
The deal, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter, will
be financed by Platinum and members of BWAY’s management, along
with debt committed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Deutsche Bank AG.  “We are excited to bring our operational capabilities to
bear and to partner with the company’s management team to build
on BWAY’s strong fundamentals,” Louis Samson, a partner at
Platinum, said in the statement.  Madison Dearborn’s sale follows an overhaul of the Atlanta-
based company, which it bought for about $900 million in 2010.
BWAY, founded in 1875 as a pie-tin maker, has expanded into both
plastic and steel pails and containers under the leadership of
chief executive officer Kenneth Roessler.  BWAY makes metal ammunition boxes for the U.S. Department
of Defense and other rigid containers from 22 plants in the U.S.
and  Canada . The company had $833.8 million in long-term debt and
other liabilities and  total assets  of $1.17 billion as of June
30.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Adoboli’s UBS Colleague Taylor Denies Bar Meeting Over Trades  Simon Taylor, a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader, told a U.K. jury he
didn’t attend a secret meeting with his co-worker Kweku Adoboli
at a bar last year to decide who should take the blame for
mounting losses from unauthorized trades.  Taylor, testifying yesterday at Adoboli’s trial in  London ,
denied a claim by Adoboli’s lawyer that he met with Adoboli and
two other traders on UBS’s exchange-traded funds desk at an  All
Bar One  restaurant near the bank’s office on Sept. 12, 2011.
Adoboli’s lawyer said the meeting was to discuss whether Adoboli
would take the blame alone, or if they should do so together.  “By late August, you were fully aware of the state of
play,” said the lawyer,  Charles Sherrard , referring to losses
building in a secret account allegedly used by the team to hold
profit from the trades. “The three of you jumped at the
chance” to let Adoboli “fall on his sword.”  Adoboli, 32, was charged with fraud and false accounting in
relation to unauthorized trades on which Zurich-based UBS lost
$2.3 billion. He has pleaded not guilty. Sherrard has sought to
show his client wasn’t acting alone and that the bank encouraged
traders to take risk and exceed trading limits.  Sherrard showed Taylor a printout of the entry and exit
records of UBS’s London office indicating he and Adoboli left
after the financial markets closed on the day of the alleged
meeting, and returned together about an hour later. Taylor said
he didn’t remember what he did during that time, and may have
come back with Adoboli because he “bumped into him” outside.  “You have feigned  memory loss  about this whole period,”
Sherrard said.  For more, click here.  Bankruptcy  Vitro Seeks to Enforce Bankruptcy Plan Barred by U.S. Law  Vitro SAB’s reorganization plan in  Mexico  should be
enforced in the U.S. even though it wouldn’t have been permitted
under the nation’s laws, a lawyer for the glassmaker told a
federal appeals court.  Andrew Leblanc, a lawyer with Milbank Tweed, Hadley &
McCloy LLP, told the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans 
yesterday that the reorganization isn’t “manifestly contrary to
the public policy” of the U.S. and doesn’t present
“exceptional circumstances” required by courts to block
enforcement.  The case came directly to the appeals court following a
victory in  bankruptcy court  by Elliott Management Corp. and
other holders of some of Vitro’s $1.2 billion in defaulted
bonds. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Harlin Hale in Dallas ruled in June
that the Mexican plan was “manifestly contrary” to U.S. policy
because it reduced the liability of non-bankrupt Vitro units on
the bonds.  A panel of three appeals court judges heard the case. The
outcome will help determine the boundaries on what is
permissible in a foreign reorganization that seeks recognition
in the U.S., said Madlyn Gleich Primoff, a bankruptcy attorney
at Kaye Scholer LLP in New York.  In a U.S. bankruptcy, so-called third-party releases are
permissible only under “very narrow circumstances,” Circuit
Judge Carolyn King said during yesterday’s hearing. We “don’t
have that here,” she said.  Vitro, which makes glass containers and car windshields,
defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt in 2009, including $1.2
billion of bonds, after construction and auto-glass sales
plunged during the U.S.’s worst recession since the 1930s. The
company also incurred $340 million of derivative losses from bad
bets on natural gas prices and currencies.  After winning approval for its reorganization plan in
Mexico, Vitro asked Hale to enforce the plan in the U.S. under
Chapter 15 of U.S. bankruptcy law and block litigation by
bondholders, including Aurelius Capital Management, that have
fought to collect on the defaulted debt.  Leblanc said there would be “chaos” if the reorganization
is valid in Mexico and unenforceable in the U.S. A lawyer for
Fintech Investments Ltd., a bondholder siding with Vitro, said
that the bondholders will try collect judgments on the defaulted
bonds all around the world if they win the appeal.  G. Eric Brunstad Jr., a lawyer for the bondholders from
Dechert LLP, rejected those concerns. He said the Vitro units
need only file for bankruptcy to halt collection efforts on the
bonds.  Brunstad said it was undisputed in bankruptcy court that
bondholders are recovering about 40 percent through the Mexican
reorganization while Vitro shareholders are retaining $500
million.  Leblanc said there was no violation of U.S. policy because
a majority of unsecured creditors voted for the plan reducing
the units’ debt. The bankruptcy judge determined that the
procedure in Mexico was fair and without corruption, he added.  Whether Vitro wins is a “close call on public-policy
grounds,” Dan Glosband, a lawyer at Goodwin Procter LLP in
 Boston  who helped draft the Chapter 15 law, said in a phone
interview.  Lawyers for neither Vitro nor the bondholders would comment
after the hearing.  The appeal is Vitro SAB v. Ad Hoc Group of Vitro
Noteholders (In re Vitro SAB), 12-10689, 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (New Orleans). The suit in bankruptcy court where the
judge decided not to enforce the Mexican reorganization in the
U.S. is Vitro SAB v. ACP Master Ltd. (In re Vitro SAB),
12-03027,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas). The Chapter 15 case for the parent is Vitro SAB,
11-33335, in the same court.  For more, click here.  Moves  Real Estate Attorney Desmond Connall Jr. Joins Ballard Spahr  Desmond D. Connall Jr. has joined Ballard Spahr LLP as a
real estate partner in  Washington . He was previously a partner
in the Washington and Baltimore offices of Womble Carlyle
Sandridge & Rice LLP, the firm said.  Connall is a member of the firm’s real estate leasing, real
estate development, and REITs practice groups. He has more than
30 years of experience in commercial real estate transactions.
He represents real estate developers, property owners, REITs,
and tenants across the country.  Ballard Spahr LLP has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices
in the U.S.  Partner Pierson-Scheinberg and Two Lawyers Join Jackson Lewis  Jackson Lewis LLP hired three attorneys in its Baltimore
office. Partner Laura A. Pierson-Scheinberg and an associate
were formerly with Miles & Stockbridge PC. An of counsel,
formerly with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of
 Maryland , also joined the Baltimore office.  The firm’s Baltimore office has more than doubled in size
since it opened in January, with nine attorneys who joined from
DLA Piper LLP, the firm said.  Pierson-Scheinberg, who led Miles & Stockbridge’s labor law
practice after Stephen M. Silvestri left for Jackson Lewis in
January, has experience representing management with respect to
traditional labor matters. She has collective bargaining
experience, including serving as chief spokeswoman as well as
working with clients to develop effective strategies behind the
scenes, and regularly assists employers with union contract
compliance and grievance avoidance.  Jackson Lewis has over 700 attorneys practicing in 49
locations nationwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 