-- Wal-Mart Asks Judge to Dismiss Texas Discrimination Suit
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-04T20:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/wal-mart-asks-judge-to-dismiss-texas-discrimination-suit.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  asked a federal
judge to dismiss a proposed class-action lawsuit alleging the
company discriminated against female employees in Texas by
paying and promoting them less than men.  “This is a copycat rerun,” Theodore Boutrous Jr., a
lawyer for Wal-Mart, told U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor
today at a hearing in Dallas. “This is a process the court
should not go through.”  The case is one of four regional suits filed against Wal-
Mart, the world’s largest retailer, since the U.S. Supreme Court
rejected a nationwide class in June 2011. A similar suit is
pending in California, and complaints were filed this week in
Florida and  Tennessee .  O’Connor didn’t immediately rule on Wal-Mart’s dismissal
motion, which argues that the class action is barred by the
statute of limitations and repeats claims made in the rejected
national class action. The  Texas  case was originally filed in
October 2011 and amended in January.  Wal-Mart said in its request for dismissal of the lawsuit
that the women suing are trying to take “a second bite at the
certification apple” after last year’s Supreme Court decision.  “This isn’t the second bite at the apple,” Joseph Sellers, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, told the judge today.
“It’s the first bite.”  Fresh Evidence  Plaintiffs’ lawyer Hal Gillespie told the court that the
case would bring fresh evidence of practices used in Texas that
discriminated against women in promotions. He said they include
“the tap on the shoulder,” no posting of positions and a
requirement that a promoted employee be willing to relocate, an
option that women are less likely to choose than men.  The lead plaintiff is a woman who has worked at Wal-Mart’s
Sam’s Club stores in Texas, Oklahoma and  California . She and six
other named plaintiffs seek to represent at least 50,000 women
working in Texas Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores since Dec. 26,
1998. They are seeking changes to Wal-Mart’s practices as well
as back pay and punitive damages.  The company said the complaint does not allege any facts
that would establish a class-wide policy of discrimination. Some
of the women who sued allege denial of promotion opportunities
but not pay differences while others allege pay discrimination
but not promotion differences, the company argued.  The plaintiffs said in court papers opposing dismissal that
the nationwide class action covered 41 company regions. They
said the Texas lawsuit limits itself to three Wal-Mart regions
and two Sam’s Club regions, all largely based in Texas.  ‘Gender Disparities’  “Within this area plaintiffs challenge the decisions of a
discrete group of managers who made the pay and promotion
decisions,” lawyers for the women wrote. Those managers “have
long known about gender disparities” yet “have failed to take
remedial action.”  The original nationwide lawsuit was filed by six current
and former Wal-Mart workers alleging discrimination in pay and
promotions. The women were granted class-action status in 2004,
allowing them to sue as a group. Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart appealed and the Supreme Court blocked the nationwide
case from going forward, sending it back to district court in
San Francisco.  A complaint on behalf of 11 women was filed in federal
court in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , today, two days after the
case that was brought in Nashville, Tennessee.  “Our interviews with countless women have unveiled a
shameful pattern of deliberate discrimination against female
employees throughout the Southeast region,” Theodore J.
Leopold, a lawyer for the Florida plaintiffs, said in a
statement today.  Alabama, North Carolina  His clients are suing on behalf of women employed in stores
in  Alabama , Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee,
Virginia and part of  Georgia , according to the statement.  “These cases are nothing more than recycled claims driven
by the same plaintiffs’ lawyers whose arguments were considered
and rejected by the Supreme Court,” Randy Hargrove, a spokesman
for Wal-Mart, said today in a phone interview. The high court
rejected the nationwide class action because of the
individualized nature of the plaintiffs’ situations, he said.  The Texas case is Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 3:11-
cv-02954, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
( Dallas ).  The Florida case is Love v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 12-
cv-61959, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net 
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  