-- Wal-Mart's Green Performance Reviews Could Change Retail for Good
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-10-04T17:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/wal-mart-s-green-performance-reviews-could-change-retail-for-good.html
     Walmart's efforts to green its supply chain are about to
get much more effective. Sustainability will now play a role
in its merchants' performance reviews, which help determine
pay raises and potential for future promotion. This is a big
deal: these merchants are high-level managers responsible for
multibillion-dollar buying decisions. They're the people who
determine which products appear on the shelves of the world's
largest retailer.  Some quick background: Walmart deserves praise for its
industry-leading sustainability successes, such as improving
its fleet fuel efficiency by 69% and becoming the nation's
leading commercial buyer of solar energy. The company's most
important sustainability initiative — the pressure it puts on
its 100,000 suppliers to improve their environmental
performance — has changed how thousands of products are
made, packaged and sold.  For the past five years, Walmart has built sturdy
scaffolding around what could be a world-beating green supply
chain, including:  -Developing Sustainable Value Networks, which bring
together major suppliers with cross-functional internal teams
to tackle issues from packaging to waste to energy use.  -Asking 100,000 suppliers to answer and provide data on 15
environmental impact questions.  -Building the Sustainability Consortium (TSC) with many of
the world's largest consumer products companies and big retail
competitors. TSC created metrics to evaluate suppliers and
their products on environmental and social performance, and
Walmart has integrated these metrics into its own supplier
Sustainability Index and scorecards.  But greening its supply chain has been a tough task.
Suppliers have repeatedly voiced one critical and legitimate
complaint: Walmart's merchants don't really take
sustainability into account when they make buying decisions.
This flaw in Walmart's green supply chain program has
threatened to undermine the foundations of a highly-touted and
important initiative.  In essence, the suppliers and other stakeholders have
told the company, according to Walmart's Sustainability
director Jeff Rice, "It's great to ask your suppliers
questions, but it only matters if you do something with the
information." In their view, the company has continued to
choose the products it sells primarily on price.  But now, in addition to Walmart's
long-standing, laser-like focus on cost, its merchants will
have to consider sustainability in their buying decisions — or
risk a weak performance review. And all because of a simple
shift in incentives.  Jeff Rice gave me a great example of how this change is
already working, in the form of how Walmart selects the
personal computers it sells. Laptops use a lot of energy over
their lifetime, and a big driver of energy use is the default
setting on power management. These settings determine how fast
(if at all) the computer goes to sleep or when the screen
dims. Using the index scorecards I mentioned above, Walmart's
laptop buyer identified energy use as the biggest determinant
of the computer's total lifecycle footprint and emissions.  The buyer then discovered that only 30% of the laptops
sold at Walmart ship with the advanced energy-saving settings
in place. To compound the problem, the company's research
shows that most consumers leave such settings at factory
default. So the laptop buyer set a new goal for herself: to
increase the percentage of laptops sold with the advanced
power settings from 30% to 100% by this Christmas. This single
product shift will reduce CO2 emissions by hundreds of
thousands of metric tons and save customers money on their
electric bills.  Rice told me that performance evaluations for buyers only
include a handful of targets, and all are discussed thoroughly
at annual reviews. Sustainability performance won't determine
the entire evaluation, of course, but it's high profile enough
that it should affect behavior.  Incentives matter and cultures shift over time. Hard-won
operational changes like modifying performance reviews may not
be sexy, but the results can be profound. And when it's the
world's largest retailer changing its buying criteria, the
ripples will likely be felt around the world.  Andrew Winston is the co-author of the best-seller Green
to Gold and the author of Green Recovery. He advises some of
the world’s biggest companies on environmental strategy.
Follow him on Twitter at @AndrewWinston.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 