-- Wal-Mart Sued in Florida by Women Claiming Discrimination
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-04T16:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/wal-mart-sued-in-florida-by-women-claiming-discrimination.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the biggest
U.S. retailer, was sued in Florida by 11 women who claim the
company engages in gender-based discrimination, two days after a
similar case was brought in Tennessee.  The complaint filed today in U.S. District Court in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, alleges that Wal-Mart denied the women
equal pay and advancement opportunities. The plaintiffs are
seeking cash compensation and a court order barring
discrimination by the company. A federal case raising similar
claims was brought in Nashville, Tennessee, on Oct. 2.  Those cases and two in Dallas and San Francisco are being
pursued after the U.S.  Supreme Court  last year rejected a bid by
female Wal-Mart workers to sue as a single, national class.  “Our interviews with countless women have unveiled a
shameful pattern of deliberate discrimination against female
employees throughout the Southeast region,” Theodore J.
Leopold, a lawyer for the Florida plaintiffs, said in a
statement today.  His clients are suing on behalf of women employed in stores
in  Alabama , Florida,  North Carolina ,  South Carolina , Tennessee,
Virginia and part of Georgia, according to the statement.  “These cases are nothing more than recycled claims driven
by the same plaintiffs’ lawyers whose arguments were considered
and rejected by the Supreme Court,” Randy Hargrove, a spokesman
for Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said today in a phone
interview. The high court rejected the nationwide class action
because of the individualized nature of the plaintiffs’
situations, he said.  The case is Love v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 12-cv-61959, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  