-- Waning Sales Growth at Private Firms May Threaten Jobs
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-04T19:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/waning-sales-growth-at-private-firms-may-threaten-jobs.html
Closely held U.S. companies are 
increasing sales at half the rate they did earlier in the year, 
signaling they may try to cut labor expenses, their biggest cost,
according to financial information firm Sageworks Inc.  Average annual revenue growth for companies tracked by
Sageworks was about 5.4 percent in September compared with 11
percent in January, Chief Executive Officer Brian Hamilton said
at a presentation in New York. His company analyzes data from
1,400 industries, reviewing about 1,000 financial statements a
day.  “We are concerned with the very steep decline in the rate
of growth,” said Hamilton, who declined to specify whether
companies would lay off workers or limit hiring. “Nobody can
predict the next recession, but this trend is sort of similar to
what we saw back in 2008.”  Sales growth at closely held companies dropped to 5.6
percent in 2008 from 8.5 percent the year before, according to
the Raleigh, North Carolina-based firm.  The U.S. unemployment rate, which stood at 8.1 percent in
August, hasn’t dropped below 8 percent since January 2009.
Tomorrow’s report from the Labor Department may show the rate
increased to 8.2 percent in September, according to the median
estimate from economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Companies may be reluctant to expand their workforces amid
a global economic slowdown and the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic tax increases and government spending cuts, said Brian Jones, a senior U.S. economist at Societe Generale in New York.  “At the end of the day, uncertainty paralyzes people,” he
said. “You’d like to think some sort of light switch is going
to go on once we get beyond the presidential election, but you
still have to encounter these fiscal hurdles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  