-- Warren Courts Minority Vote in Massachusetts Senate Race
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-10-04T20:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/warren-pins-hopes-on-minority-vote-in-massachusetts-senate-race.html
On a main street in a heavily black
and Latino neighborhood south of Boston, the windows of Democrat
 Elizabeth Warren ’s campaign office were plastered with signs for
President  Barack Obama . Outside, a Baptist minister giving an
invocation addressed the U.S. Senate candidate as “Sister
Elizabeth.”  For Warren, who’s running to unseat Republican  Scott Brown 
of Massachusetts, the office opening in Roxbury last month is
part of a plan to avoid the fate that befell the last Democrat
to seek the office. In 2010, blacks and Latinos stayed home and
helped Brown win the seat held by  Ted Kennedy  for almost 47
years. This year, Warren has marched in ethnic parades, run
editorials in a black-owned newspaper and held a forum sponsored
by the NAACP.  “Where do you see her opponent anywhere talking about
anything that matters to any of us? Nowhere,” Andrea Cabral,
the first black Suffolk County sheriff, told the crowd of about
100. “Not voting is not an option.”  Brown’s upset in 2010 over Attorney General  Martha Coakley 
was helped by a “disproportionate drop” in turnout in areas
with large percentages of minorities and the poor, groups that
traditionally favor Democrats, according to election returns
compiled by Stephen Ansolabehere at  Harvard University  and
Charles Stewart III at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology .  No Cakewalk  “With minority voters fully engaged, the race is much more
competitive,” Stewart, who teaches political science  at MIT in
Cambridge, said in an interview. “The engagement of minority
voters is what makes this a competitive race, rather than a
fairly safe cakewalk for an incumbent.”  The last time the post was up for grabs, after Kennedy died
in office in 2009, Brown and Coakley had less than five months
to win their party primaries and campaign. The Massachusetts
Democratic Party had only five workers in three offices, while
the Republicans had no offices.  This year, the Democrats have almost 70 field employees in
45 offices. The effort draws from what Governor  Deval Patrick ’s
re-election team built two years ago and national organizers
mobilizing for Obama, who crushed Republican  John McCain  61
percent to 36 percent statewide in 2008. Polls show Obama
beating  Mitt Romney  this year, while Warren and Brown have
traded leads for months.  ‘More Robust’  Brown’s team isn’t writing off the minority vote. The
campaign will open its newest office in a Latino enclave of
Jamaica Plain, said Tim Buckley, a spokesman for the
Massachusetts Republican Party. Brown attended a Martin Luther King Jr. memorial breakfast in Boston and played at a charity
basketball game with the Reverend Talbert Swan of Springfield’s
chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People.  All 11 of the party’s campaign offices are new this year.
Buckley declined to specify a staffing level, saying only that
it was appropriate to mount a “considerably more robust
grassroots effort than we ever have before.” Brown is the only
Republican in the congressional delegation from  Massachusetts ,
where less than 12 percent of the electorate is registered with
the party.  Brown is pushing a message intended to resonate with all
residents, said Alleigh Marre, a spokeswoman.  “The issue on the minds of voters, regardless of their
background, is how best to fix our broken economy,” she said.  Irish Pub  As Warren addressed the crowd in Roxbury, Brown held a
meet-and-greet three miles (5 kilometers) down the road at an
Irish pub, where its whiter clientele more closely reflected the
racial breakdown of the suburban and rural communities where he
enjoys the most support. In the 2010 special election, Brown won
higher shares of the electorate in every Massachusetts city and
town than McCain did in 2008, according to Stewart. In the
whitest areas, Brown won by the widest margins.  “You have to show your face around here,” said Horace
Blue, 37, a black state corrections worker who voted for Brown
two years ago and was attending the Warren rally in Roxbury.
“My vote is not for granted.”  Historical voting trends suggest that the demographic
changes Massachusetts has undergone in recent years should favor
Warren. While the state’s population increased by about 3
percent from 2000 to 2010, the Latino population surged 47
percent, according to Phillip Granberry, an economist at the
University of Massachusetts  Boston . Some of the state’s biggest
cities, such as Boston, Springfield and Lawrence, are now
“majority-minority,” with non-Latino whites making up less
than 50 percent of the population.  ‘Our Race’  The trick for Warren’s campaign -- as it is for Democrats
nationally -- is getting those voters to show up on Election
Day. While minorities lean Democratic, they are among the least
likely to cast ballots, exit polls and studies show.  Minority turnout is “absolutely critical,” Warren told
reporters in Roxbury after addressing the crowd.  “This is not my race; this is our race,” she said. “I
got in this because I understand the urgency of the moment and
the people in this community and this city and the people in
this commonwealth need a fighter on their side.”  Warren was back in Roxbury today, at the Twelfth Baptist
Church, where a group of black clergy endorsed her.  Coakley, who was criticized for ignoring blacks and
Latinos, received 845,000 fewer votes than Obama did two years
prior, according to MIT’s Stewart.  Warren will win Boston, said David Paleologos, who runs
 Suffolk University ’s polling center in the capital. The question
is by how much, and the answer is likely to determine whether
she unseats Brown, he said. Democrats need to run up big margins
in urban areas and hold their own in suburban and rural areas,
and Republicans the opposite, he said.  Having a presence in high-density Democratic strongholds is
a cost-effective way to bolster community members’ personal
connection to a candidate and boost turnout, Paleologos said.  “Of all the ingredients that make up the voter electorate,
communities of color are the sugar for the Democrats because it
sweetens the final product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Boston at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  