-- What Romney’s Debate Victory Means
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-04T09:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/what-romney-s-victory-means.html
Where has this  Mitt Romney  been? And
where did that  Barack Obama  come from?  At last night’s debate between the Republican nominee and
the president, it was Mitt the Likable Moderate who showed up:
relaxed, in command of details, hair carefully tousled, offering
kind words for both Democrats and  government regulation . The
president, on the other hand, was verbose, weary, occasionally
peeved and seemingly ill-prepared. The  Twitter consensus , formed
before Obama had finished his first answer, is that Romney won
decisively.  We don’t disagree. Now the question is how, if at all, his
victory will change the remainder of the campaign.  There are several ways to score a debate. Some suggest
watching with the  sound off , on the theory that a candidate’s
body language communicates better than his words. (We may try
this next time.) Then there is the rhetoric: Who got off the
most  zingers ? Were there any gaffes, and were they  genuine ? Last
night’s debate provided precious little material on either
score, although Romney had a cute quip about how honored he was
that the president was spending the night of his 20th wedding
anniversary “here with me.”  Then there is the radical notion of actually assessing what
the candidates say about the issues they are debating. This,
however, turns out to be sort of complicated.  A case in point: Obama repeatedly criticized Romney’s plan
for a $5 trillion  tax cut , which would explode the  budget
deficit . “I don’t have a $5 trillion tax cut,” Romney said. OK,
fact-checkers: Who’s right? As it turns out, they both are; the
claim gets a highly unsatisfying “ half-true ” rating from
PolitiFact. The problem is that Romney’s tax plan is so vague
that Obama -- and the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  -- has been
left to fill in  the details . Romney’s plan contains no such
figure, but it is a fair assumption from what he has proposed.  Good debate relies on facts, but it thrives on argument.
That’s probably the best way to judge the success of this
debate: not just who got the better of his opponent in those 90
minutes, but how those 90 minutes will affect what the
candidates say and do in the next 33 days.  We don’t know yet, obviously. But Romney has clearly
improved his ability to make his case to the voters. As he basks
in his victory this morning, he should also note how he won: by
playing more to the center than to the right, appealing more to
reason than to partisanship. As always with Romney, there is the
question of whether this shift is genuine. For now,
conservatives are so ecstatic with his performance that they
seem more than willing to put up with a little pro-government
rhetoric.  Obama, for his part, may want to take  fewer breaks  from his
debate-preparation regimen next time around. And by now, his
campaign has read the liberal reviews of his performance, as
withering for what he  did say  as for what  he didn’t  -- no
mention of Romney’s infamous critique of the 47 percent, for
instance, or his tenure at  Bain Capital , or his running mate’s
support of privatizing  Social Security , and so on.  Obama can always console himself with the political
science, which shows that presidential debates  rarely affect  the
outcome of an election. (Although, to be honest, political
science’s list of things that don’t matter is getting  alarmingly
long .) But politicians, more so than even journalists and
certainly more than political scientists, have to at least
pretend that debates matter. They owe their supporters, and
their ideas, that much.  If one of the purposes of a debate is to get candidates to
talk to instead of past each other, to clarify positions and
highlight differences and reveal temperaments, then last night’s
mostly succeeded. The next debate, between Republican vice-
presidential nominee  Paul Ryan  and Vice President  Joe Biden , is
scheduled for Oct. 11. May the best argument prevail.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 