-- Whisky to Fuel Cars as Professor Drives Recycling Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/whisky-to-fuel-cars-as-professor-drives-recycling-plan.html
Martin Tangney has a vision that
combines romantic historical and cultural images of  Scotland 
with a business of the future: He wants to turn the waste from
making whisky into fuel for vehicles.  “The beauty is its simplicity,” says Tangney, 47, founder
of  Celtic Renewables Ltd ., an Edinburgh-based company that grew
out of his research work as director of the  Biofuel Research
Centre  at  Edinburgh Napier University . “Scotch Whisky is
synonymous with Scotland, like bagpipes and kilts.”  The professor and his team have developed the technology to
produce biobutanol from the by-products of whisky. Tullibardine
Ltd., an independent producer in Perthshire, signed an agreement
last month with Celtic Renewables aimed at becoming the first
distillery in the world to have its waste converted into
advanced biofuel, capable of powering vehicles.  Whisky is the country’s biggest export and distillers are
expanding production, defying the tough economic climate with
sales to  emerging markets . At the same time, Scotland is trying
to turn itself into a renewable energy hub, with 100 percent of
the nation’s electricity needs coming from wind, water and
marine sources by 2020 compared with about 35 percent now.  “The brand image of Scotch is absolutely enormous: It’s a
global brand people can relate to,” Tangney says in an interview
over lunch at The Honours brasserie in the Scottish capital. “At
the same time, Scotland has highest self-imposed renewable-
energy target in the world.”  Animal Feed  Tullibardine  has the capacity to provide 6,500 metric tons
of draff (what’s left of the grain after fermentation) and 2
million liters of pot ale (residue from the still), by-products
that are currently spread on agricultural fields, turned into
 animal feed  or discharged into the sea, all at cost.  The technology isn’t new, Tangney says. The idea of
converting a range of fuels found in plant materials to produce
butanol goes back a century, and was scaled up to make acetone
for explosives in World War I. The technology died out in the
1960s because of competition from petrochemicals, he says.  The current projections are relatively modest. Celtic
Renewables says there is a potential for a 60 million-pound ($97
million) a year industry. By contrast, the Scottish government
is targeting 30 billion pounds of investment in the economy and
as many as 40,000 jobs related to its  renewable-energy plan .  So far, the company has garnered 750,000 pounds of funding.
It employs five people, Tangney says.  Export Potential  “I looked at where I could add value on a smaller scale,”
he says. “For me, it was the whisky industry. If we can get this
right in Scotland, we can adapt it anywhere.  India  makes whisky,
 Japan  makes whisky, Ireland. And Cognac uses a similar process.
A lot of the waste ends up in the sea.”  Tangney says such a new source of fuel might be of
particular interest in communities such as Islay, in the Inner
Hebrides, where harsh weather conditions can make it difficult
and expensive to obtain fuel.  Islay, off Scotland’s west coast, is home to more than half
a dozen distilleries, including Bowmore, Lagavulin and
Laphroaig, malts known for their peaty smokiness.  He says Celtic Renewables’ main investor is Donald Houston,
who owns  Adelphi Distillery , while a pilot demonstration project
is being funded with the help of a 155,000-pound grant from Zero
Waste Scotland, a Scottish government program to help achieve
its targets of eliminating waste.  While Tangney is serious about his vision, he’s good
company, too: Sharing a glass of wine or two over lunch and then
heading to a bar to pose for a picture holding a bottle of
Scotch. It’s good to feel that by drinking Scotch, one can help
Scotland go a bit more green.  Good health.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Zinta
Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Edinburgh at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 