-- William Koch Loses Bid to Reinstate Counterfeit Wine Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-04T23:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/william-koch-loses-bid-to-reinstate-counterfeit-wine-lawsuit-1-.html
Billionaire collector  William Koch 
lost his bid to reinstate a lawsuit against Christie’s
International Plc that claimed the auction house “induced” him
to buy what he said was counterfeit wine.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  today upheld a 2011
ruling by U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones dismissing Koch’s
suit after finding that he waited too long to sue. The appeals
court agreed that the statute of limitations had expired.  “For wine, timing is critical,” wrote U.S. District Judge
 John Koeltl , who was sitting on the appeals court for the case.
“The same is true for causes of action.”  Koch has previously filed cases against others claiming
they sold him counterfeit wine, marked “Th.J.,” that had
purportedly belonged to  Thomas Jefferson .  In the Christie’s case, which Koch filed in Manhattan in
2010, he said he bought a bottle of 1870 Lafite for $4,200 at a
Christie’s auction in order to prove it was counterfeit, adding
that London-based Christie’s had sold him counterfeit wine “for
many years.”  Koch also said that Christie’s had previously auctioned
other Th.J. bottles owned by Hardy Rodenstock, a German wine
dealer and former pop music manager, and that he was induced to
buy them from Rodenstock because Christie’s described the wines
“positively” in auction catalogs during the 1980s.  Dismissal  In dismissing the case last year, Jones said Koch knew the
bottles were counterfeit and that he bought the wine not because
of the alleged fraud but out of a “desire to gather evidence
against Christie’s.”  Jonathan Lerner, a lawyer for Christie’s, said the court’s
ruling “was clearly correct.”  “Mr. Koch’s claims turned to vinegar a long time ago,”
Lerner said in a telephone interview today. “The only hoax in
this case was the allegation in the complaint that ‘no credible
question’ had been raised about the wine until shortly before
the complaint was filed.”  Koch should have made inquiries about the wine by October
2000, when a report was issued about its authenticity, the
appeals court said. Koch filed his suit in 2010.  Lose Consignment  Koch said in his complaint that auction houses like
Christie’s “look the other way” and sell counterfeit wine so
they don’t lose the consignment to a competitor. He said
Christie’s employs boilerplate warnings in its catalogs telling
buyers that wine bottles are sold “as is.”  “Christie’s got away with an incredible hoax,” Brad
Goldstein, a Koch spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today. “We’ll examine what we can do but there are several
factual problems with this ruling. Christie’s behavior in the
wine auction market needs closer scrutiny.”  The wine at issue was allegedly discovered in the mid-1980s
when Rodenstock claimed to have found a cache in a bricked-up
cellar in Paris. The bottles bore the Th.J. initials and
Rodenstock linked them to Thomas Jefferson, who served as a
minister to  France  in the late 1700s, the complaint said.  Koch purchased a bottle marked “1787 Branne Mouton Th.J”
for $100,000 in November 1988. He had the wine bottles he’d
bought tested in October 2000, the appeals court said.  The appeals court said today that a historian at Monticello
issued a report in December 1985 which examined records of
Jefferson’s finances and purchases and determined “no solid
connecting evidence could be found between Jefferson and the
Th.J wine.”  ‘Scholarly Doubt’  While the report didn’t become public at the time, the
circuit judges said in their ruling that newspaper including the
 New York  Times published articles saying there was “scholarly
doubt” about the authenticity of the wine.  Koch has filed other wine-related suits, including one
against Rodenstock in 2006. Rodenstock didn’t respond to the
case. A New York judge entered a default judgment against him in
2010 and ordered him to pay more than $622,000.  Rodenstock, who lives in  Germany , doesn’t have an attorney
and couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  The case is Koch v. Christie’s, 10-cv-2804, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan), and 11-522,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  