-- Win or Lose, Chavez’s Time Is Ending
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/win-or-lose-chavez-vote-to-bring-autumn-of-the-patriarch.html
On Oct. 7, voters in  Venezuela  will
decide whether Hugo Chavez will remain as president or be
replaced by his challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski. Given how
close the contest is and how high the passions on both sides,
however, the outcome will probably bring controversy -- if not
outright civil disturbance or violence.  Naturally, any time the country with the largest proven oil
reserves goes to the polls, the whole world should pay
attention.  Yet if the vote is contested or subverted, there
will be little that powers outside the region can do. That goes
double for the U.S., which still bears the mark of Cain in the
eyes of many Latin Americans. The burden will fall to Latin
America’s democracies, beginning with neighboring  Brazil . And
the U.S. will have to exert whatever influence it has through
them.  Chavez, who has been in office for 13 years, is using the
many official tools at his disposal to assure his fourth
electoral win. His pre-election spending spree on things like
houses for the poor, subsidized goods at “socialist”
supermarkets and a cross-country railroad have reduced
Venezuela’s international reserves to near their lowest level in
five years. “ Chain broadcasts ” of the president on state-
controlled television and radio have crowded out coverage of
Capriles’s campaign.  Supporters Killed  The supposedly impartial National Electoral Council, which
is dominated by Chavez supporters, has done everything from
trying to stop Capriles from wearing a baseball cap with the
national colors to  misprinting  his photo on ballots. For months,
the Venezuelan consulate in Miami, home to many pro-Capriles
expatriates, has been closed, forcing voters to travel to New
Orleans to cast their ballots. More ominously, bands of
“Chavistas” have disrupted and attacked Capriles rallies; last
weekend, in the president’s home state of Barinas, three
Capriles supporters were killed after an altercation with Chavez
backers.  This blanket of “soft authoritarianism” has nevertheless
failed to smother Capriles, who has barnstormed through 260
communities in the past eight months, kept his message positive
and forward-looking, pledged continuity with Chavez’s pro-poor
policies and avoided any hint of violence. Under Capriles’s
leadership, Venezuela’s opposition seems determined to avoid
past mistakes, such as its disastrous decision in 2005 to
boycott parliamentary elections. Remarkably, some polls suggest
it is likely to win.  Unfortunately, if Capriles and his Coalition for Democratic
Unity do prevail, and Chavez’s supporters protest the result --
or if Capriles loses by a narrow margin and does the same --
Venezuela’s institutions are  ill-equipped  to arbitrate or
intervene in an even-handed manner. Chavez has packed the
Supreme Court with justices who have proclaimed their commitment
to his agenda; the military is also deeply politicized.  In the event that democracy is indeed denied, one of the 34
other members of the  Organization of American States  could call
for an outside intervention under the  Inter-American Democratic
Charter  -- the same charter that was quickly invoked, though
shamefully not by the U.S., to protest Chavez’s removal in a
short-lived 2002 coup. As Chavez mocks the OAS as a U.S. tool,
and regularly uses anti-Americanism to whip up public support,
such an intervention would be ineffectual.  That leaves Venezuela’s democratic neighbors as the primary
forces for good. Even though Brazil and Colombia can’t afford to
alienate their erratic neighbor (with whom they have important
economic ties, among other things), they are not without
influence. (Colombia’s President Juan Manuel Santos deserves
credit for giving Capriles a warm reception last month.) The
U.S. has relatively good relations with both countries, and
should strengthen them.  Better Relations  It should also bolster relations with other influential
Latin democracies such as  Mexico  and  Chile . Joint initiatives
such as the  Open Government Partnership , a pro-democracy group
whose founding members included the U.S., Mexico and Brazil, can
help to encourage transparency and accountability throughout the
region.  For the moment, the big money is betting on a narrow Chavez
victory. Still, any triumph may be short-lived. Chavez is dogged
by an unspecified cancer, and his health status remains unclear.
If he dies before the first four years of his six-year term are
up, new elections would have to be called within 30 days.
Although no clear successor has risen from the Chavez camp,
Capriles would emerge from any close loss with his reputation
enhanced and his alliance fortified for gubernatorial elections
in December and municipal elections in April.  To be sure, Chavez’s government has lifted millions of
Venezuelans from poverty and reduced inequality.  At the same time, despite the country’s enormous pool of
oil, Chavez’s policies have led to one of the world’s highest
inflation rates, growing debt, the highest borrowing costs among
emerging-market countries and widespread shortages of milk,
meat, toilet paper and other consumer staples. Companies whose
assets have been nationalized have filed billions of dollars’
worth of  compensation  claims. Crime has become epidemic (the
murder rate tripled last year to 67 per 100,000 inhabitants, the
highest in Latin America). And a recent series of deadly
accidents at the state oil company have highlighted poor
maintenance and mismanagement -- not to mention falling
production.  That’s a record that’s easy to run against, and sooner
rather than later it will catch up to President Chavez.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  fallacy of small business 
as job creator; Stephen L. Carter on why it’s OK to skip the
 presidential debates ; William Pesek on  quantitative easing in
the U.S. and Japan ; Jonathan Weil on  running your hedge fund
from prison ; Brian T. Haggerty on the perils of  military
intervention in Syria ; Paul Hodgson on recouping bonuses from
 bank executives .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 