-- World Bank Rejects Oxfam Call to Freeze Land Investment
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-04T04:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/world-bank-rejects-oxfam-call-to-freeze-land-investment.html
The  World Bank  rejected a call by aid
group Oxfam International to freeze the lender’s investment in
land-intensive agricultural projects, saying such a move would
not help prevent abusive practices in the purchase of acreage.  Oxfam , in a report released yesterday, urged the
Washington-based bank to declare a moratorium on its
agricultural investments in land to “create space to develop
policy and institutional protections to ensure that no bank-
supported project resulted in land grabbing.” According to the
report, there have been 21 formal  complaints  since 2008 by
communities from  Asia  to  Africa  saying projects funded by the
bank violated their land rights.  A global rush to buy farmland triggered by the 2007-2008
spike in food prices has continued, with international investors
focusing on the poorest countries with weak land-rights security
for deals, a report by the Land Matrix research group said in
April. According to Oxfam’s report released yesterday, an area
of land the size of  London  is sold to foreign buyers every six
days in poor countries.  The  World Bank  said in a written rebuttal it “does not
support speculative land investments or acquisitions which take
advantage of weak institutions in  developing countries  or which
disregard principles of responsible agricultural investment.”  ‘Abusive Practices’  A moratorium “would do nothing to help reduce the
instances of abusive practices and would likely deter
responsible investors willing to apply our high standards,” it
said.  Still, making sure projects meet such standards “is
challenging,” it said.  The World Bank itself in a 2010 study said foreign
purchases of land posed risks to the livelihoods of farmers in
some countries. At the same time, the bank, whose mission is to
eradicate poverty, estimates that the world will need a 70
percent increase in global  food production  by 2050 to feed the
additional 2 billion inhabitants on the planet.  The worst U.S. drought since the 1950s sparked a 10 percent
gain in the bank’s Food Price Index in July, it said Aug. 30,
adding that further weather disruptions or rising energy
expenses could increase grain costs already at a record.  Oxfam said the bank plays a pivotal role in land
acquisitions through direct financial support for investment in
land, policy advice to governments and as a standard setter for
other investors. With a freeze, the lender could review its
advice and craft tougher policies to stop land grabs, Oxfam
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  