-- World Bank’s Kim Sees ‘No Appetite’ to Increase Capital
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-04T20:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/world-bank-s-kim-sees-no-appetite-to-increase-capital.html
World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
said he sees “no appetite” among shareholders for a capital
increase and said that he will instead try to change the
institution’s culture to make loan decisions faster and to focus
more on results.  “It’s a tough environment,” Kim told reporters in
Washington today ahead of the annual meetings of the bank and
the International Monetary Fund in  Tokyo  next week. “I think
it’s not the time for us to have a discussion about capital
increase.”  In 2010 the bank’s member countries approved the first
capital increase in more than 20 years to meet demand from
economies hit by the global slump that followed the 2008
financial crisis. This time, its largest shareholders are under
pressure to reduce their fiscal deficits as European nations
struggle to quell their debt crisis.  Kim said he will outline his vision for the Washington-
based lender when officials from the 188 member nations convene
in the first annual meeting since he took over the bank’s helm
in July.  “If we’re going to be really serious about ending poverty
sooner than currently projected, if we’re going to be serious
about being the most effective organization we can be in helping
individual countries boost prosperity, there’s going to have to
be some changes in the way we run the institution,” Kim said.  Held Accountable  In particular, Kim said he wants the bank, which made loans
worth almost $53 billion last year, to be able to act more
quickly and to be held accountable for its results.  “Every country that we deal with wishes that our
procedures took less time,” he said. “We have to really
rethink what we pay attention to, the number of steps that we
have to go through to get a loan approved, or to change
policy.”  Kim said he was concerned about the effect the European
turmoil and rising food prices could have on the poorest
countries. He repeated that the World Bank is ready to offer
technical advice to European nations based on the experience it
built during the Asian crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  