-- Yen Rallies From 2-Week Low as BOJ Holds Asset Purchases
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-05T12:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/yen-near-2-week-low-on-stimulus-bets-before-boj-decision.html
The yen snapped a six-day decline
against the euro, the longest run of losses since March, after
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from expanding stimulus at the end
of its policy meeting today.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  was little changed before a U.S. Labor
Department report that economists said will show payrolls
expanded at a faster pace last month and the jobless rate
increased. South Africa’s rand slumped to a four-month low
versus the dollar amid strikes in the nation’s mining and
transport industries.  “The yen is stronger because there is not another rush of
yen liquidity,” said  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “It won’t get much stronger ahead
of the nonfarm payrolls though.”  The yen gained 0.1 percent to 102.10 per euro at 7:35 a.m.
 New York  time after dropping 2 percent over the previous six
days.  Japan ’s currency was little changed at 78.48 per dollar.
The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3011 after rising to $1.3032
yesterday, the strongest since Sept. 21.  The BOJ said its bond-buying program, its main policy tool,
will remain at 55 trillion yen, as forecast by all 20 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Japan’s Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  attended today’s meeting, the first minister to do so
for more than nine years. Maehara said he went to express his
concern about yen appreciation and prolonged deflation.  ‘Political Pressure’  “There was a sense that the new economy minister attending
might increase the political pressure on the BOJ to ease in the
market at least,” HSBC’s Maher said.  The yen has weakened 6.4 percent in the past 12 months, the
biggest decline among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro fell 4.9
percent and the dollar dropped 2.5 percent.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 79.37, having fallen 0.7
percent this week.  U.S. employers hired 115,000 workers in September, up from
96,000 in August, according to the median estimate of 92
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate will
climb to 8.2 percent, from 8.1 percent, a separate Bloomberg
survey showed.  Fed Buying  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week defended the central
bank’s bond-buying program announced, saying officials will
sustain record stimulus even after the domestic expansion gains
strength. The Fed said on Sept. 13 it will keep the main
 interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2015 and buy $40
billion of mortgage debt every month in a third round of so-
called quantitative easing.  “A weaker-than-expected payrolls figure will put downward
pressure on the  U.S. dollar  as markets start to speculate on
added QE purchases,” Sireen Harajli, a currency strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in New York, wrote
in a report today. “A better-than-expected figure will continue
today’s increase for risk appetite.”  The rand declined for a third day against the dollar as
strikes spread across the  mining industry , raising concern the
government will miss its fiscal targets.  “It’s just general panic-driven pandemonium,” said
William van Rijn, a currency dealer at Johannesburg-based
Nedbank Group Ltd. “I don’t think any of that news can be good
for the rand.”  The currency fell 1.1 percent to 8.6130 per dollar after
dropping to 8.6873, the lowest since June 1, and 0.2 percent
from the least since May 2009. The rand has declined 3.5 percent
this week.  Weekly Gain  The euro headed for its first weekly gain in three weeks
against the dollar after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the bank was ready to start buying  government bonds .  The ECB is prepared to undertake Outright Monetary
Transactions “once all the prerequisites are in place,” Draghi
said yesterday at a press conference in Ljubljana, Slovenia,
after policy makers left the benchmark rate at a historic low of
0.75 percent.  “The ECB’s bond-buying decision has been welcomed by the
markets,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at Gaitame.com
Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The risk-averse trade has
receded and we’re seeing a firmer euro.”  The euro may rise to $1.3031, the 61.8 percent Fibonacci
retracement of its decline from a high of $1.3172 on Sept. 17 to
a low of $1.2804 on Oct. 1, according to UBS AG. Momentum
indicators for the currency have improved, “reflecting a
bullish trend condition,”  Richard Adcock , London-based head of
fixed-income technical strategy at UBS, wrote in a report today.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  