-- Yishan Capital Targets $250 Million for Asian Real Estate Fund
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-10-04T22:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/yishan-capital-targets-250-million-for-asian-real-estate-fund.html
     Oct. 5 (Bloomberg) --  Yishan Capital Partners Pte. , a real
estate asset manager, plans to raise $250 million next year to
invest in properties across  Southeast Asia .  The company, which has invested about $50 million in
Indonesia and Cambodia, plans to start raising funds in the
first quarter of next year, Managing Partner John van Oost said.
Yishan will invest in residential buildings, shopping malls and
industrial projects such as warehouses in countries including
Singapore, Indonesia,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines , he
said.  Yishan is trying to capitalize on opportunities in
Southeast Asia where a growing middle class, rising disposable
incomes and changing lifestyles spur growth. Five Asian
economies -- Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines,  Malaysia  and
Vietnam -- along with China and India will outpace the rest of
the world over the next two years, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a July 16 report.  “If you want to have growth and capital appreciation, you
have to go to  emerging markets ,” van Oost said in an interview
in Singapore yesterday. “Indonesia looks the most promising
market while Philippines will be the next big market.”  Singapore-based Yishan will announce joint ventures in
Indonesia next week, van Oost said. One of the ventures, with a
Jakarta-based real estate firm, will manage shopping malls
across Indonesia, while the other venture, with an industrial
group, will build warehouses in Indonesia, he said, declining to
elaborate. The company also plans to announce a residential
project in Jakarta in early 2013, he said.  ‘Poorly Managed’  Still, not all Asian countries are attractive, van Oost
said, citing the nascent property markets in Vietnam and
Myanmar.  “Vietnam is a no go as it’s a poorly managed country -- it
has great potential over the next 20 years to 25 years but they
have to clean up their management system and governance,” van
Oost said. “Myanmar is emotionally interesting, but we won’t go
there for the next 10 years as it’s too early to invest.”  In  Singapore , Yishan is focusing on shopping malls, while
it will stay away from residential, office and industrial
projects in the island city because prices are expensive and
don’t offer value, van Oost said.  Yishan will raise money from existing investors in  Europe 
which are primarily pension and insurance companies. It expects
to generate as much as 25 percent in net internal rate of return
with the fund, van Oost said. The average deal size in Asian
property assets will range from $15 million to $20 million, he
said.  “The big deals are not the most profitable,” van Oost
said. “Real estate is very much a family business in Southeast
Asia. You have to know them personally to partner with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  