-- ThyssenKrupp Gains on Posco Americas LOI Report: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-10-04T12:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/thyssenkrupp-gains-on-posco-americas-loi-report-frankfurt-mover.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  climbed in Frankfurt
trading on a report that  Posco (005490)  of South Korea submitted a letter
of intent to buy its Steel Americas unit, bolstering speculation
that bidding competition may boost the price of the asset.  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker rose as much as 3.7 percent to
17.63 euros, its highest level since Sept. 17. It was up 2.7
percent at 1:58 p.m., making it the third-biggest gainer among
the country’s  110 most highly capitalized stocks .  A bid by Posco would add to the list of potential buyers
for the unit Heinrich Hiesinger, ThyssenKrupp’s chief executive
officer, said in August that he wants to sell for at least the
book value of about 7 billion euros ($9.1 billion). Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by
output, hired Bradesco BBI to advise on an acquisition of
ThyssenKrupp’s steel plant in Rio de Janeiro state, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said last month.  “The more interested parties there are the better the
chance for a higher price is,” Ingo Schmidt, an analyst at
Hamburger Sparkasse AG, said by telephone from Hamburg.  Chung Jae Woong, a spokesman of Posco, Asia’s third-biggest
steelmaker by output, declined to comment on MoneyToday’s
report. “We’re seeing vivid interest,” Kilian Roetzer, a
spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, said by phone.  Likeliest Buyers  Ternium SA (TX)  may consider a bid for ThyssenKrupp’s stake in
the Brazilian slab plant, finance chief Pablo Brizzio said in an
Aug. 1 conference call with analysts.  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  Nucor Corp. (NUE) 
and U.S. Steel Corp. were named as potential buyers in an Oct. 1
report in the Wall Street Journal.  “Posco is one of the likeliest buyers,” Alessandro Abate,
an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone from  London .
The North American plant may appeal to Posco, which supplies
Asian carmakers in that market, Abate said in a note today.  ThyssenKrupp is holding talks with potential investors in
the unprofitable Steel Americas unit, whose adjusted loss before
interest and taxes widened to 262 million euros in the third
quarter from 190 million euros a year earlier. More than 10
parties have expressed an interest, finance chief Guido Kerkhoff
said on Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  