-- Zynga Plunges to Record as Forecast Cut on Gaming Slump
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-10-05T13:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-04/zynga-cuts-bookings-forecast-citing-diminished-web-game-demand.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  tumbled to a record after
the game maker cut its forecast for full-year bookings, a
predictor of sales, citing lower demand for titles such as “The
Ville.”  The shares of San Francisco-based Zynga dropped 20 percent
to $2.25 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York , the lowest intraday price
since the company’s December initial public offering. Shares of
 Facebook (FB)  Inc., operator of the social network responsible for
most of Zynga’s game revenue, declined 2.7 percent to $21.36.  Bookings this year will be $1.085 billion to $1.1 billion,
compared with an earlier forecast for $1.15 billion to $1.225
billion, Zynga said yesterday in a statement. The company also
wrote down the value of its acquisition of OMGPop Inc. and
sliced its forecast for a closely watched measure of
profitability.  Zynga, which makes most of its money by selling virtual
goods in games played on Facebook, is struggling with slowing
growth as users spend more time on mobile devices. Pressure on
the stock, which had  fallen  72 percent since the IPO, has
lowered the value of equity used to compensate staff, hastening
the departure of some of the company’s key managers.  “Another disappointment for investors,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “The challenge for
Zynga is to deliver a steady stream of hit games.”  OMGPop ‘Fad’  Zynga estimated it will have impairment costs of $85
million to $95 million related to the purchase of OMGPop, the
mobile-app maker it bought for $180 million earlier this year.
Its hit game, “Draw Something,” lost millions of users after
the purchase, reflecting the high amount of risk in growing
through acquisitions, said Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc.  “That company didn’t have anything else outside of ‘Draw
Something,’” Bhatia, who is based in  Dallas , said in an
interview. “It was a fad -- people did it for a while and
nobody’s doing it any more.”  In a memo to employees  posted  to Zynga’s blog, Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  cited “overall weakness in the
invest and express category” as a contributor to the shortfall,
referring to “FarmVille” and similar games that encourage
players to spend hours buying virtual items they can show off to
friends.  “Their bread-and-butter games are not working too well,”
Bhatia said.  Quarterly Loss  Before some costs, earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will be $147 million to $162
million this year, compared with an earlier projection for $180
million to $250 million, Zynga said.  The company said it expects to report a net loss of $90
million to $105 million for the third quarter. Excluding some
items, it will break even or post a loss of 1 cent a share.  Third-quarter revenue was $300 million to $305 million,
Zynga said. Analysts were predicting sales of $286.4 million,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Zynga said it
will release its full results for the third quarter on Oct. 24.  Pincus is planning “targeted cost reductions” in the
current quarter, the CEO said in yesterday’s statement. That may
affect the game maker’s pipeline of new products, he said.  At least eight managers have left Zynga since early August,
including Jeff Karp, its former marketing chief, who resigned
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  