-- ACLU Says It Sues Georgia Over Law Limiting Abortions
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/aclu-says-it-sues-georgia-over-law-limiting-abortions.html
A court challenge to a Georgia law
limiting a woman’s right to obtain an abortion after the 20th
week of pregnancy was filed by the  American Civil Liberties
Union  on behalf of three doctors, the organization said.  The group seeks a state court order blocking enforcement
of, and invalidating, the law which it says unconstitutionally
restricts abortion rights. The ACLU provided a copy of the
complaint, which couldn’t be immediately confirmed in state
court records in Atlanta.  “The law criminalizes virtually all abortions starting at
20 weeks of pregnancy, and contains only the narrowest exception
for medical emergencies,” the New York-based organization said
in a  statement .  First-term Republican Governor Nathan Deal signed the
measure into law on May 1, saying it gave additional protection
to “unborn babies.”  “This legislation provides humane protection to innocents
capable of feeling pain, while making an important exception for
in the case of medically futile pregnancies,” he said in a
 statement  issued that day.  Deal is named in his government capacity as a defendant in
the case, as is state Attorney General Sam Olens.  Lauren Kane, a spokeswoman for Olens, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message after regular business hours
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  ‘Medical Emergency’  The law, which the ACLU said is set to take effect Jan. 1,
makes it illegal to provide an abortion later than the
“probable” 20th week of gestation unless the pregnancy is
diagnosed as medically futile or if the woman is in a medical
emergency.  “Medical emergency” is defined in the law as “any
condition which, in reasonable medical judgment, so complicates
the medical condition of a pregnant female as to necessitate the
immediate abortion of her pregnancy to avert her death,” or for
which a delay creates serious risk of irreversible impairment of
a bodily function for the woman or death of the fetus.  The legislation would force a woman with a high-risk
pregnancy to wait until her condition had deteriorated to the
emergency point before she would be eligible for an abortion,
placing her in danger, the ACLU said in its statement.  The law violates  Georgia  women’s rights to privacy, equal
protection and due process under the state’s Constitution,
according to the group’s complaint.  The case is Lathrop v. Deal, Superior Court of Fulton
County, Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  