-- Alabama-Georgia Title Tickets Go for $5,747 as Notre Dame Awaits
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/alabama-georgia-title-tickets-go-for-5-747-as-notre-dame-awaits.html
Hal Pate stood on line 32 years ago
with thousands of other  University of Georgia  students waiting
to purchase tickets to see the Bulldogs face the  University of
Notre Dame  for college football’s national championship.  “It wasn’t really a line, it was more like a mob,” Pate
said. “It was scary. At one point, I remember my feet were off
the ground, we were so crushed together.”  Pate paid $17 to watch the Bulldogs win the title in the
Sugar Bowl, 17-10. Now an executive with Atlanta-based IDI Inc.,
an industrial real estate development firm, he is among about
70,000 fans to secure tickets to tomorrow’s Southeastern
Conference championship game in Atlanta’s Georgia Dome between
Georgia and the  University of Alabama .  This time it cost him $21,000 -- about how much Pate and
his wife have donated to the school since graduation, making
them eligible to purchase two seats under the school’s points-
based ticket-allotment system. The game will provide a spot in
the national championship contest for the winner and has
produced the highest resale prices for any college conference
championship this season.  The couple paid $100 each for seats in the upper deck, far
less than the current lowest price of $337 for one ticket,
according to TiqIQ, an aggregator of the ticket resale market.
Prices range as high as $5,747 for a seat in the front row of
the stadium’s mezzanine section as of Nov. 28, according to
TiqIQ data.  King Football  “We do love our football,” Pate, 55, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s our supply-and-demand system working to
perfection. We kid about it being a religion down here in the
South, but in a lot of ways it really is.”  With  Alabama  (11-1) ranked No. 2 in the Bowl Championship
Series standings and Georgia (11-1) No. 3, the game amounts to a
semifinal for the national championship.  The winner will face No. 1  Notre Dame  (12-0) in the Jan. 7
BCS title game in Miami. The Fighting Irish, who are independent
in football, ensured themselves a spot with a 22-13 victory at
the University of  Southern California  on Nov. 24.  Alabama, the defending national champion, and Georgia
topped the conference’s West and East divisions at the end of
the regular season.  “It’s what you always hope for,” Georgia coach Mark Richt
said. “It’s what you want. You fight like mad every year to get
your team in a position like this. The season is not over.
There’s a lot of ball to be played still.”  ACC $3  Getting a chance to watch it be played is the expensive
part for a lot of Southeastern Conference football fans. Upper-
level seats for the Atlantic Coast Conference title game between
 Florida State University  and Georgia Tech in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , the same day are being offered for $3.  Pate, who has had four season tickets near the end zone of
Georgia’s Sanford Stadium since his 1981 graduation, said the
high prices aren’t enough to make him want to sell.  To qualify for two seats, Georgia alumni must have
accumulated between 16,401 and 49,999 points by donating about
the same amount of money to the university’s athletic
foundation. The system also accounts for how long a person has
been a season-ticket holder. Alabama has a  similar points-based
system  for tickets to high-profile games.  “I am on the lower end,” Pate said of his donations,
which are matched by his employer. “It looks like I’m not
keeping up.”  The winner of college football’s national title has come
from the  Southeastern Conference  every year since 2006, with
Alabama taking two of the past three.  Aggie Upset  Alabama will be making its eight appearance in the
conference championship game. The Crimson Tide won their first
nine games this season before a 29-24 loss to  Texas A&M  and
freshman quarterback Johnny Manziel on Nov. 10, then ended the
regular season with a 49-0 win against in-state rival  Auburn
University .  Georgia, which lost to  Louisiana State University  in last
year’s conference title game, ended this season with six
consecutive wins. The school’s only loss came on the road on
Oct. 6, 35-7 to  South Carolina .  It’s the first conference championship meeting between the
schools and the first time they have played each other since
2008, when Alabama beat the Bulldogs 41-30 in  Athens ,  Georgia .  “It’s an opportunity and we have to take advantage,”
Georgia linebacker Christian Robinson said on a media conference
call. “We’re still in it and this is everything that we’ve
worked for all year.”  Pate has spent three decades working for it.  “Given the stakes, you’ve got to find a way to be there,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  