-- Manchester City Leads Soccer Agent Spending as QPR Places Third
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-30T18:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/manchester-city-leads-soccer-agent-spending-as-qpr-places-third.html
Champion  Manchester City  spent the
most on agents fees in English soccer’s Premier League in the
last year, while last place Queens Park Rangers was third in the
cost list released today.  City, bankrolled by a member of the Abu Dhabi royal family,
paid agents 10.5 million pounds ($16.8 million) for the 12
months between October 2011 and September 2012, the Premier
League said. QPR, which bought 12 players in the last transfer
window, spent 6.8 million pounds.  Teams in England’s top league, the richest in world soccer,
spent a total of 77 million pounds on agents’ fees as 806
transactions were recorded in the two transfer windows. That
figure eclipses the 71.9 million pounds spent a year earlier
when 765 deals were done.  City’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan has spent more
than any owner in soccer since acquiring City in 2008. His money
helped bring the club its first title in 44 years in May when 38
million-pound  Sergio Aguero ’s stoppage-time strike prevented
neighbor Manchester United from winning a record 20th English
championship.  QPR, which is part owned by one of the U.K.’s wealthiest
families, the Mittals, and controlled by a group including Air
Asia Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes , has five points
after 14 games this season, four less than second-bottom
Reading. It fired coach  Mark Hughes  earlier this month and
replaced him with former Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp .  Liverpool, the 18-time English champion, spent the second-
most on agents in a year that saw the removal of Kenny Dalglish
as coach and the arrival of  Brendan Rodgers  from Swansea. The
Reds paid 8.6 million pounds while allowing 10 players to leave
permanently and a further four depart on loan since July 1.
They’ve been replaced by four signings including  Joe Allen  and
Fabio Borini, while Real Madrid’s Nuri Sahin joined on loan.  Tottenham, with 6.6 million pounds, and European champion
Chelsea, with 6.5 million pounds, make up the remainder of the
five biggest spenders.  Manchester United, the most successful team since the
Premier League’s inception in 1992, spent 3.7 million pounds on
agents, less than 13-time English champion Arsenal, which paid
5.6 million pounds, and the 4.4 million pounds spent by West
Ham.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  