-- Mapping the DNA of Regulation-Versus-Competition Debate
-- B y   N o e l   H .   P u g a c h
-- 2012-11-30T16:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/mapping-the-dna-of-regulation-versus-competition-debate.html
Since the  financial collapse  of
2008, the advocates of regulation and the supporters of
competition (via breaking up the banks) have echoed a debate
that took place 100 years ago.  The presidential election of 1912, which occurred at the
climax of modern industrialization and finance capitalism,
featured four candidates espousing different solutions.  Eugene V. Debs, running on the Socialist Party ticket,
called for government ownership of railroads, utilities and
large-scale manufacturers. William Howard Taft, the champion of
the regular Republican Party, implied leaving control in the
hands of the political and economic Old Guard. Debs gave Woodrow Wilson and others a scare by receiving almost 1 million votes,
though neither extreme had any chance of winning.  Rather, the contest was between two visions of Progressive
reform. Theodore Roosevelt, the creator of the dissident Bull
Moose Party, offered a more radical program -- democratic
collectivism. Roosevelt advocated a strong centralized state,
empowering a trade commission to regulate the new industrial
giants in the public interest. He rejected as hopeless and self-
defeating the attempt to restore a romantic and “mythical”
competition. Instead, he called on the nation to harness the
technology, efficiency and managerial skills of the modern
corporation.  Federal Assistance  At the same time, the federal government needed to use its
power to improve the lot of the powerless (women, children and
the poor) through a cap on work hours for women, the outlawing
of child labor, workmen’s compensation and expanded health
services. Inheritance and income taxes would pay for the
program, termed the New Nationalism.  Wilson, the Democratic Party’s nominee, was originally a
conservative, laissez-faire Southern Democrat. But catching the
spirit of the times, he adopted Progressivism and passed a
remarkable reform program as governor of New Jersey. Now pushed
by the Populist William Jennings Bryan and advised by Louis D. Brandeis, Wilson argued that monopolies were inherently evil and
that Roosevelt’s solution would result in big business
domination of the nation. Increased competition, however, would
unleash economic growth at home and abroad while fostering
entrepreneurship. His platform was known as the New Freedom.  A funny thing happened on the way to Wilsonian reform, a
pattern that would be repeated throughout the following century.
Largely influenced by Brandeis, Wilson paid lip service to
restoring competition and supporting labor with the  Clayton
Antitrust Act , but backed the regulatory approach of the New
Nationalism.  Congress created the Federal Trade Commission, which mostly
protected big corporations from antitrust prosecution, and
Wilson’s appointees were friendly to big business. The most
critical battle shifted to banking legislation, which required
major updates after the Panic of 1907. The Federal Reserve
System represented a compromise between government and private
control, with  Washington  taking responsibility for the money
supply.  The FTC became the model for subsequent regulatory
agencies: the Federal Communications Commission, the Civil
Aeronautics Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Federal Farm Board. Indeed, large corporations came to
support these institutions because they advanced the interests
and agendas of big companies, promoted efficiency and
predictability and cushioned them from public criticism and
state intervention.  Antitrust Laws  Meanwhile, the existing antitrust laws and Populist
rhetoric preserved the myths of competition, the importance of
the “man on the make” and the responsibility to protect the
consumer.  The New Deal added a few competitive measures, and Thurman
Arnold, a crusading assistant attorney general in the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration, flirted with a new antitrust
initiative until World War II stopped it cold. More significant
was the strengthening of the federal government’s control over
banking and securities in response to Wall Street’s sins, the
stock-market crash and the Great Depression. But neither
Roosevelt, nor any of his Democratic or Republican successors,
tried to curtail oligopoly or wreck big business. The infrequent
prosecutions of actual or near monopolies -- AT&T Corp. and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  come to mind -- were
partly dictated by new technology, and these companies remained
as dominant as before (just as Exxon Mobil Corp. later
resurrected the Standard Oil of New Jersey empire).  Therefore, except for egregious behavior, big business has
generally been given a pass. Indeed, the charge of government-
business collusion in the savings-and-loan collapse of the
1980s, in the recent  mortgage  debacle, in meat inspection and in
the questionable approval of drugs and medical devices has a
basis in fact.  As in the past, the threat to the U.S. financial system may
force some national action. Based on the historical record,
that’s apt to take the form of more regulation, not the breakup
of the biggest banks.  ( Noel H. Pugach  is professor emeritus of history at the
University of New Mexico. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Noel H. Pugach at  npugach@unm.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  