-- ArcelorMittal Backs Off French Job Cuts, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-11-30T21:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/arcelormittal-backs-off-french-job-cuts-prime-minister-says.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  won’t go ahead with
planned job cuts at its Florange steel mill in northeast  France 
and will invest 180 million euros ($234 million) in the plant
over the next five years, French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said.  In a televised statement this evening, Ayrault said the
government was dropping its threatened nationalization of
Florange because of ArcelorMittal’s commitments.  “The government has shown its ability to intervene to find
positive outcomes for jobs and investment,” Ayrault said.
“ArcelorMittal’s engagements are unconditional, and the
government will take all steps necessary in the case of non-
compliance.”  President  Francois Hollande  had given  Lakshmi Mittal , the
chief executive officer and biggest shareholder of the world’s
largest steelmaker, until tomorrow to either keep the 600
threatened jobs at the plant, sell all of it or face its
nationalization. Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said a week
ago that Mittal is no longer wanted in France, setting up the
most bitter standoff between the French government and a company
since Hollande was elected six months ago.  Some  union  leaders said they weren’t satisfied with
Ayrault’s announcement. “It’s not what we expected from a
Socialist government,” Frederic Maris, a representative of the
CGT union, said in a live interview on BFM television. “We were
expecting a new buyer or a nationalization. We don’t want to see
ArcelorMittal any more. It’s a huge disappointment.”  20,000 Employees  Hollande met with Mittal three days ago to discuss the site
in northeastern France. The complex includes two blast furnaces,
which Mittal wants to close, as well as a rolling mill producing
steel, notably for the car industry, which he wants to keep.
Across France, ArcelorMittal  employs  about 20,000 people.  Ayrault said low steel demand in  Europe  ruled out the
immediate re-opening of the two blast furnaces. ArcelorMittal
agreed to keep them mothballed for a  carbon capture  plan being
worked on by the European Union, the prime minister said.  The government’s earlier pronouncements about
nationalizations and ArcelorMittal not being welcome had a
disastrous impact on France’s image, said  Laurence Parisot , the
head of the French employers’ association, Medef.  “I was in Hong Kong this week and can tell you investors
don’t understand France anymore,” she  told RTL radio  yesterday.
“Planning to nationalize, starting a debate on it, is
scandalous. One should remember that nationalization is
expropriation.”  Mittal has faced hostility from politicians since he
entered France with his 36 billion-euro acquisition of Arcelor
in 2006, and he also clashed with Hollande’s predecessor Nicolas
Sarkozy over planned job cuts.  Since taking office in May, Hollande has sought to limit
job cuts at carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and has searched for a
buyer for a Petroplus Holdings AG refinery in France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  