-- Largest Muni ETF at Highest Price as Investors Seek Tax Shelter
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-30T19:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/largest-muni-etf-at-highest-price-as-investors-seek-tax-shelter.html
The  largest U.S. exchange-traded
fund  tracking municipal bonds touched the highest price since it
began five years ago as investors speculated that tax rates will
increase to help curb the federal deficit.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Fund 
traded at $114.07 at about 1:30 p.m. today in New York, reaching
as high as $114.52. It’s the steepest price since it started in
September 2007. The ETF, known as MUB, has $3.5 billion of
assets. It has been trading at a premium to its underlying
assets since July 16, the longest stretch since March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The fund is mirroring the rally in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market, which has gained each week since the Nov.
6 re-election of President  Barack Obama . He wants top earners to
pay higher taxes on ordinary income, capital gains and
dividends.  “There’s an assumption underlying the market after the
election that tax rates will be somewhat higher and that munis
will still have a tax advantage available to them,” said Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal Research, an
analytical company in New York.  Top-rated munis due in 2022 yielded  1.42 percent  at 1 p.m.
in New York, a record low for a Bloomberg Valuation index that
began in January 2009. Yields on benchmark 30-year munis fell to
 2.51 percent , also the lowest for the period.  “Investors are looking for ways that they can pick up
yield, especially munis, which have the tax advantage on the
income,” said Matthew Tucker, head of iShares fixed-income
strategy in San Francisco for BlackRock Inc.  The ETF has earned 10.4 percent in the past year.  Investors looking for tax-free income added $1.1 billion to
U.S. muni mutual funds in the week through Nov. 21, the most
since August, followed by a $545 million inflow this week,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  