-- Armstrong Investigation Panel Appointed by Cycling Ruling Body
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-30T15:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/armstrong-investigation-panel-appointed-by-cycling-ruling-body.html
Cycling’s governing body appointed a
three-person independent commission to investigate doping in the
sport and the influence of discredited rider  Lance Armstrong .  Former U.K. Court of Appeal Judge Philip Otton, British
paralympian Tanni Grey-Thompson and Australian lawyer Malcolm
Holmes will meet in London in April. The panel will then aim to
submit a report to the International Cycling Union, known by the
French acronym UCI, by June 1.  “The appointment of these three eminent figures
demonstrates clearly that the UCI wants to get to the bottom of
the Lance Armstrong affair and put cycling back on the right
track,” UCI President Pat McQuaid said in a statement.  Armstrong was stripped of his record seven  Tour de France 
titles by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in August. The American
won each edition from 1999 to 2005, and USADA banned him for
life and took away the victories following an investigation into
doping throughout his career.  Armstrong, who has denied doping and said he never failed a
drug test, was barred after opting not to contest USADA’s
decision before an arbitration board.  Last month the UCI said it wouldn’t appeal the rider’s ban
and would set up the commission to look into allegations about
how the cycling authority handled issues relating to Armstrong.
The panel will be asked to find ways to ban people caught doping
from participating in any part of professional cycling, the UCI
said at the time.  The commission will work fully independently of the UCI,
the International Council of Arbitration for Sport and the Court
of Arbitration for Sport, the world’s highest sports court, the
UCI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  