-- Army Vows to Speed Eforts to Keep Mississippi Open
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/army-vows-to-speed-eforts-to-keep-mississippi-open.html
The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers,
responding to pressure from Midwestern lawmakers, has agreed to
speed up measures to keep the drought-shrunken  Mississippi River 
open to barge traffic.  With falling water levels threatening to halt traffic on
the nation’s busiest waterway within weeks, a contingent of
heartland senators met with Army Corps officials yesterday to
press for the release of more water from a major tributary and
the blasting of submerged rocks that obstruct traffic.  “We could see navigation either diminished or even stop”
within weeks unless work begins soon, said the host of the
meeting,  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democratic member of the Senate.  The lawmakers and shippers have asked President  Barack Obama  to declare an emergency to hasten efforts to keep the
waterway open as grain piles up from harvest and other goods are
being diverted to railroads. Some $7 billion worth of products
move over the  Mississippi  in a typical December and January,
though the worst drought in 50 years is combining with the dry
season to push water levels to near record lows.  “We also share the specific concerns from lawmakers and
others about the decreasing water level of the Mississippi,”
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday in a briefing. 
“While there is a complex set of legal, technical and policy 
questions around these issues, we are exploring all possible 
options.”  Thebes Pinnacles  Specifically, lawmakers asked for increasing the flow over
dams in the Missouri River, which joins the Mississippi near St.
Louis, and to speed up the planned removal of submerged rock
formations, called pinnacles, near the Illinois towns of Thebes
and Grand Tower.  Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Army’s assistant secretary for civil
works, told the lawmakers she would respond to their concerns 
about water flow within a week, Durbin said in an interview
afterward.  “They told us they would expedite it as quickly as the law
will allow,” he said.   The Corps also agreed to move quickly to remove the rock
structures in the river near southern Illinois, he said. Pinnacle
removal “is very time sensitive,” Durbin said.  The Corps of Engineers needs to determine whether release
of the water would have a negative impact on Missouri river
communities that rely on the tributary, including  Kansas City 
and St. Louis, Senator  Tom Harkin , an  Iowa  Democrat, told
reporters after the meeting yesterday.  “They’re hopeful they can start on this in December,”
Harkin said. Other senators attending yesterday’s meeting
included Republicans  Roy Blunt  of Missouri and Chuck Grassley of
Iowa and Democrat  Amy Klobuchar  of  Minnesota .  Three Months  The water release, which would be needed for at least three
or four months, may reduce drinking water supplies, which is why
the Corps needs to study its impact, he said. The pinnacle
removal would occur at the same time, Harkin said.  Gene Pawlik, a spokesman for the Corps of Engineers, said
the Corps has agreed to respond to the lawmakers request for an
impact study “fairly quickly’.’  ‘‘Until we start seeing some specifics, we’re going to be
pushing for the things we’ve been pushing for all along,” said
Ann McCulloch, spokeswoman for the American Waterways Operators,
a trade association of boat operators based in Arlington,
Virginia. “We feel the work needs to start immediately.”  The pinnacles are the only place in the river between  St.
Louis  and New Orleans where the water flows over bedrock,
Nicholas Pinter, a professor of geology at Southern Illinois
University at Carbondale, Illinois, said in a phone interview.
The Corps plans to dynamite the limestone structures, which can
prevent ships from passing if the water level gets too low.  Bedrock Formation  “Dynamite is an act of desperation,” Pinter said. “When
all else fails, that’s how you get over the low bumps.”  At the Chain of Rocks north of St. Louis, engineers spent
decades trying to blast a bedrock formation before giving up in
the early 1900s, he said.  “There’s a 100-year plus history of trying to engineer the
river to the boats,” according to Pinter. “What they do in
other spots of the world is engineer the boats to the
limitations of the river.”  The stretch of Mississippi River in question also lies
within the New Madrid seismic area. Because the  fault lines  run
fairly deep and blasting will take place near the surface,
triggering an earthquake isn’t feasible, Pinter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  