-- Mongolia Leads Asia-Pacific Dollar Bond Sales to Seven-Week High
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-11-30T04:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Asia-Pacific dollar-denominated note
sales rose to a seven-week high as issuers marketed debt ahead
of year-end holidays. Bond risk fell.  Mongolia and China Development Bank Corp. led $5.25 billion
of offerings, almost three times the previous week and the most
since the five-day period ended Oct. 12, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring Asian corporate and
sovereign bonds with credit-default swaps is poised to close at
the lowest level since July 2011, according to prices from Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and data provider CMA.  “Issuers are coming to the market before the market
quietens down at the end of the year due to holidays,” said
Pang Cheng Duan, who helps manage part of the $38.6 billion of
Asian fixed-income securities as head of debt in  Singapore  at
Manulife Asset Management. “Liquidity is abundant and there is
a lot of money to be put to work.”  With only three full weeks now remaining until issuers
break for the Christmas holidays, investors are channeling money
into  emerging markets . More than $1 billion flowed into bond
funds dedicated to less developed countries in the week to Nov.
21, according to research firm EPFR Global.  Issuers from the Asia-Pacific region sold $16.7 billion of
notes in November, 15 percent less than last month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies and sovereigns offered
almost $214 billion of debt in the U.S. currency this year, the
data show.  iTraxx Indexes  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  fell one basis point to 110 basis points
as of 8:28 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland prices
show. The gauge has dropped from 206.3 at the start of 2012 and
has fallen 7.9 basis points in November, according to CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The measure is a benchmark for insuring bonds against
default which traders use to speculate on debt quality. A drop
signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness. The swap
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities should a borrower fail to meet its debt
agreements.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped one basis point
to 130 as of 11:27 a.m. in Sydney, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The measure is set to fall 9.1 basis
points this month and 50.5 this year, CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index shed one basis point to 169
as of 9:17 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
index is on track to fall 34 basis points this month, the
biggest monthly decline since October 2011, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  