-- Asian Stocks Gain Second Week on U.S. Deal Prospects
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-11-30T23:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/asian-stocks-gain-for-second-week-on-u-s-deal.html
Asian stocks posted a second weekly
gain, with the regional benchmark index rising to its highest
level since May, as U.S. lawmakers looked closer to a deal to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff and the frontrunner to be
 Japan ’s next prime minister repeated calls for stimulus.  Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., rose 2.9 percent in  Hong Kong . Nippon Sheet Glass
Co., which depends on Europe for about 40 percent of its sales,
gained 7 percent in Tokyo as the yen weakened against the euro.
Hitachi Ltd. rose 5.1 percent in Tokyo after agreeing to merge
thermal-power businesses with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.
CSL Ltd., Australia’s biggest drugmaker, jumped 9.2 percent
after raising its profit growth forecast.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 1.4 percent to 124.65
this week, extending November’s gain to 2.2 percent. The gauge
rose more than 14 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as
central banks from Europe, the U.S., Japan and  China  took steps
to support economic growth.  “Market expectations are that the U.S. cutbacks will be
watered down and spread over several years,” said Matthew
Sherwood, head of markets research at Perpetual Investment,
which manages about $25 billion. “If the cliff is successfully
flattened out over several years, the U.S. recession feared by
markets is unlikely to occur.”  Stocks on  Asia ’s benchmark index were valued at about 14.1
times estimated earnings on average yesterday, compared with
about 13.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.5 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Benchmarks  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index gained 1.1 percent. Singapore’s
Straits Times Index added 2.8 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index rose 0.5 percent and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland companies rose 0.2 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent, its
third weekly advance. Japan’s cabinet yesterday approved an 880
billion yen ($10.7 billion) stimulus package to boost the
economy before a general election on Dec. 16. The Nikkei has
climbed 9 percent since Nov. 14, when elections were called that
polls suggest will be won by an opposition part calling for more
aggressive monetary easing.  “If the  Bank of Japan  is forced to become even looser, the
yen will be potentially even weaker, and that’s relatively good
news for exports,”  Andrew Freris , chief  investment adviser  for
Asia at BNP Paribas Wealth Management, told Bloomberg Television
yesterday.  Nippon Sheet Glass gained 7 percent to 92 yen as the yen
weakened to a seven-month low against the euro, boosting the
earnings outlook for the exporter.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which gets
16 percent of its sales in Europe, advanced 1.4 percent to 799
yen.  U.S. Deal  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  said he was
optimistic U.S. budget talks can avert more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said a failure to avoid the
fiscal cliff could lead to a recession.  Li & Fung, which counts the U.S. as its biggest market,
advanced 2.9 percent to HK$12.76. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
biggest mining company, rose 1.9 percent to A$34.39 in Sydney.  In the fourth Greek crisis meeting in two weeks, euro-
region finance ministers convinced a skeptical  International
Monetary Fund  that Europe has a formula for rescuing the country
that triggered the debt crisis.  Greece  was cleared to receive a
34.4 billion euro ($44.7 billion) loan installment in December.  Mitsubishi-Hitachi Venture  Among other stocks that rose, Hitachi gained 5.1 percent to
476 yen this week, while Mitsubishi Heavy advanced 5.2 percent
to 383 yen. The companies, among Japan’s largest industrial
manufacturers, said on Nov. 29 that they would combine
businesses making gas turbines, boilers and fuel cells.
Mitsubishi will own 65 percent of the venture and Hitachi will
hold the rest.  In Sydney, CSL jumped 9.2 percent to A$51.70. The company
rose the most in more than four years on Nov. 27 after saying it
expects profit growth of about 20 percent.  Among stocks that declined, Hulic Co. tumbled 17 percent to
551 yen in  Tokyo  after the Japanese real estate company said it
plans to raise as much as 37 billion yen in a share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  