-- Aston Martin Put on Downgrade Watch by Moody’s as Funds Dwindle
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-11-30T10:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/aston-martin-put-on-downgrade-watch-by-moody-s-as-funds-dwindle.html
  Aston Martin , the British luxury-
car maker controlled by Investment Dar Co. of  Kuwait , was put
under review by Moody’s Investors Service for a credit downgrade
as it runs through cash reserves.  Aston Martin’s non-investment grade B3 rating, which is
defined as having “high credit risk,” may be lowered after the
carmaker reported negative free  cash flow  in the third quarter,
Moody’s said today in a statement.  “The review was prompted by a significant deterioration in
Aston Martin’s liquidity profile as per end September 2012,
caused by a much weaker cash generation and operating
performance in the third quarter,” Moody’s analyst Falk Frey
said in the statement.  The carmaker is in “advanced” talks to sell new shares to
investors to boost funding and ensure it can pursue growth
plans, Janette Green, spokeswoman for the Gaydon, England-based
company, said Nov. 28. A capital increase would have a
“material positive” impact on finances, Moody’s said today.  Investment Dar, part of the group that bought Aston Martin
from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  for 503 million pounds in 2007, has been
seeking an investor for the maker of luxury sports cars featured
in  James Bond movies , for months, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month.  Weaker Sales  Aston Martin’s sales tumbled 20 percent to 2,520 vehicles
in the first nine months of 2012. Declining deliveries and
weaker demand for cars with 12-cylinder engines led to an
operating loss of 3.6 million pounds, Moody’s said in the
statement. Aston Martin, which published earnings for investors
on Nov. 28, declined to comment.  The maker of sports coupes such as the Vanquish had a
negative free cash flow of 27 million pounds in the third
quarter, reducing its cash to 24.8 million pounds as of Sept.
30, the ratings company said. The company faces a 14 million-
pound debt payment in January, Moody’s said.  Kuwaiti owner Investment Dar has received competing bids
from Investindustrial and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  for half the
sports-car maker, three people familiar with the matter said
last week. Investindustrial, a European private-equity fund
based in  London , offered just under 250 million pounds, with
Indian automaker Mahindra then making a higher bid, they said.  The winner of the bid would get 50 percent of  voting rights 
and a 40 percent equity stake, one of the people said last week.
While the Mahindra bid is higher, Investindustrial includes
plans to use technology and car parts from AMG, the Mercedes-
Benz unit that makes high-performance models, two of the people
familiar with the matter said.  While Aston Martin still gets engines from Ford, it lost
access to Ford’s other resources after the sale and remains the
only global luxury brand that’s not part of a larger auto group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  