-- AT&T CEO Says Fixing Fiscal Cliff Will Require Tax Hikes
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/at-t-ceo-says-fixing-fiscal-cliff-will-require-tax-hikes.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson , who met with President  Barack Obama  this
week, said a budget deal to solve the so-called fiscal cliff
must be found and will require both spending cuts and tax hikes.  “Now is the time for our nation’s leaders to put aside
partisan or philosophical differences and act for the good of
the country as a whole,” Stephenson said yesterday in a
statement. “Failure to address this will result in severe
market disruptions, a return to negative economic growth and
businesses pulling in investment.”  CEOs are increasingly pressing for an agreement between the
White House and Congress to avoid the $607 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts due to take effect in January.
The  Congressional Budget Office  has said failure to reach an
accord may push the economy into recession. So far, though,
little progress has been publicly reported by Obama’s
administration and Republican congressional leaders on a
compromise to avert the fiscal cliff.  “Following a meeting this week with the president, as well
as conversations with congressional leaders, I am more convinced
than ever that a budget deal to avoid the ‘fiscal cliff’ must
and can be found,” said Stephenson, who runs the largest U.S.
telephone company. “This will require a compromise involving an
increase in both tax rates and revenue in return for real and
significant steps to reform entitlements and rein in federal
spending.”  Shares of AT&T , based in Dallas, rose less than 1 percent
to $34.13 yesterday. The stock has climbed 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  