-- Matatu Strike Over Police-Bribe Concerns Snarls Nairobi Traffic
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-11-30T08:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/matatu-strike-over-police-bribe-concerns-snarls-nairobi-traffic.html
A strike by operators of  Kenya ’s
commuter-minibuses protesting new traffic laws, including a
300,000 shilling ($3,492) fine for driving on sidewalks, snarled
traffic in the capital, Nairobi, for a second day.  Operators of matatus, the name given to as many as 60,000
14-seater vans that most Kenyans rely on for transport, have a
reputation for breaking traffic rules and run-ins with the
police, lawmaker Jakoyo Midiwo, who sponsored the bill, said by
phone from the western town of Kisumu. New rules in the Traffic
Bill 2012 that take effect tomorrow are meant to help cut road
deaths and unclog busy roads, Midiwo said.  “Matatus are to blame for 90 percent of congestion on the
roads and they cause accidents,” Midiwo said. “People on the
street will rebel against this legislation, but too many people
are dying on our roads and we will not back down.”  Under the new law, any motorist found driving on the
sidewalk or using gas stations as a detour faces a year in
prison and/or a fine of as much 300,000 shillings. The rules
also stipulate vehicle operators who drink and drive may be
fined at least 500,000 shillings and/or serve a minimum of 10
years in jail. A conviction for dangerous driving causing death
can lead to  life imprisonment , Midiwo said.  Drivers are concerned that creating tougher penalties for
traffic offenses will enable corrupt police officers to demand
bigger bribes, Simon Kimutai, head of the Matatu Owners
Association, said by phone from Nairobi. Most matatus are
privately owned.  “We don’t have properly trained officers who can enforce
the law,” he said. “The fear is mostly that corruption is
going to go triple-high.”  Corrupt Police  The Kenyan police force is perceived as  East Africa ’s
third-most corrupt institution, according to the Berlin-based
 Transparency International’s  2012 annual index. Kenya is one of
the world’s least developed nations with a per capita income of
$739 dollars, according to the  United Nations .  Kenyan taxi driver Samuel Mbugua, 25, said it took him 2
1/2 hours last night to take a customer on a route that normally
takes 20 minutes.  “We’re used to bad traffic in Nairobi, but this is
abnormally slow,” said Mbugua, who earns about 15,000 shillings
a month. “I do disagree with the new laws though because how
will I pay for the fines? Sell my car and lose my job?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  