-- Atlantic Hurricane Season Ends With 19 Storms
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-30T18:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/atlantic-hurricane-season-ends-with-19-storms.html
The Atlantic hurricane season comes
to a close today after producing 19 named storms for the third
year in a row, an above-normal year with a damage toll that’s
still being tallied.  The storms, named when winds reached at least 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour, tied 2012 with 2011, 2010, 1995 and 1887
for third most-active on records dating to 1851, according to
the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . Ten of the
systems became hurricanes and one grew into a major storm.  They killed hundreds in the U.S. and the Caribbean,
curtailed oil and natural gas output and affected U.S.
presidential politics from the conventions to the election.  “It’s going to go down in history as one of the most
damaging years, as far as the United States is concerned,” said
Dan Kottlowski, expert senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc.
in State College,  Pennsylvania . “This will be one of the most
expensive, most damaging years of the hurricane seasons.”  Atlantic hurricanes are closely watched because of their
potential impact in the Gulf of Mexico, home to 7 percent of
U.S. natural gas output, 23 percent of its oil and 44 percent of
its refining capacity, according to the Energy Department.  Hurricane Isaac, which made landfall in  Louisiana  as a
 Category 1  storm, shut as much as 95 percent of Gulf oil
production and 73 percent of natural gas as companies evacuated
offshore platforms and drilling rigs.  Major Storms  The U.S. has now gone seven years without being hit by a
major hurricane, a Category 3 or stronger on a five-step scale
with winds of at least 111 mph. A stretch that long is
unprecedented in the 161-year record.  Even without a major system, the season spawned  Hurricane
Sandy , which transformed into a powerful winter storm that
smashed the New Jersey coast and sent a surge of water into New
York City. Homes were destroyed, mass transit shut and power
knocked out to at least 8.5 million customers in 21 states.  Eight of the storms during the season, which started June
1, caused an estimated $35 billion in damage, according to
Charles Watson, research and development director at Kinetic
Analysis Corp., a hazard-research company in Silver Spring,
 Maryland .  The majority of that damage came from Sandy. Watson said
the storm’s direct impact will be at least $25 billion and
probably won’t exceed $32 billion. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has estimated it may cost $33 billion in his state alone
to clean up after Sandy.  Ranking Damage  Watson said 1992, 2004 and 2005 may rank higher in monetary
damage in the modern era. Katrina hit the Gulf Coast in 2005,
causing an estimated $125 billion in damage, according to the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency . Andrew hit Florida in 1992.  Sandy alone may exceed all of last year’s insured losses.  In 2011, natural disasters including an outbreak of
tornadoes and a flood on the Mississippi River caused more than
$35.9 billion in insured losses, surpassing the 2000-2010 annual
average of $23.8 billion,said the Insurance Information
Institute in New York.  Sandy may be the fifth-costliest weather disaster in the
U.S. since 1980, said Jeff Masters, co-founder of  Weather
Underground  in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . The worst was Hurricane
Katrina in 2005, followed by droughts in 2012, 1988 and 1980, he
estimated Nov. 16.  Political Impact  Before Isaac’s impact could be felt on the energy markets,
it had already forced its way into presidential politics. The
storm’s brush with  Florida  caused the Republican Party to cancel
some events at its national convention in Tampa. Sandy’s
devastation put the presidential campaign on hold briefly.  In the past three years, 57 storms have developed in the
Atlantic, second only to 2003-2005, when 59 formed, said Michael Schlacter, chief meteorologist with Weather 2000 Inc. in New
York.  The numbers indicate that the Atlantic is still in the
midst of pattern that has brought warmer seawater temperatures,
and with them more hurricanes, since 1995, he said.  Schlacter said there may have been years before satellite
coverage when storms were uncounted. Even so, “the three-year
total is very impressive,” he said by telephone.  While the hurricane season officially ends today, tropical
systems have formed in every month. The  National Hurricane
Center  is monitoring a new low-pressure area in the Atlantic
that has a 20 percent chance of developing into a storm in the
next 48 hours.  Unusual Season  Phil Klotzbach, a hurricane researcher at Colorado State
University in Fort Collins, said the 2012 season was unusual
because of a high number of weaker storms and only one becoming
a major hurricane. That storm never reached land.  Colorado State predicted 15 storms would develop in the
Atlantic basin, with five of them becoming hurricanes and two
major hurricanes, Klotzbach said by telephone. The university
pioneered seasonal hurricane forecasting 29 years ago.  In May, the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center  called for nine
to 15 named storms in the Atlantic. The 30-year average is 12.  Forecasters under-predicted the season because they were
certain an El Nino, or warming of the central Pacific Ocean,
would take place, Klotzbach said earlier this week by telephone.
The pattern causes an increase in Atlantic wind shear that can
tear storms apart before they form.  While the Pacific’s waters edged toward the threshold of an
El Nino, the phenomenon never formed.  “If you had told me that, I would have predicted a lot
more,” Klotzbach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  