-- Australian Dollar Falls Against Major Peers Before RBA Meeting
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   A m i n a   M o b l e y
-- 2012-11-30T05:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/aussie-set-for-weekly-drops-versus-majors-before-rba-meeting.html
Australia ’s dollar declined against
most of its major peers amid speculation the nation’s central
bank will lower  interest rates  next week to shield the economy
from a slowdown in mining.  The so-called Aussie was near a three-week low versus its
 New Zealand  counterpart as traders added to bets the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia will reduce interest rates after a report
yesterday showed a lower mining investment projection.
Australian bonds rose, with the 10-year yield touching the least
in 10 days. Demand for the New Zealand dollar was limited after
data showed building permits unexpectedly fell.  “It wouldn’t be overly surprising if the RBA cuts rates
next week, given yesterday’s capital expenditure data, which was
downgraded,” said Peter Dragicevich, a currency economist in
Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “We don’t think an
actual cut next week will put too much downward pressure on
Aussie -- a lot of the cuts are already factored into the
market.”  The  Australian dollar  fell to $1.0430 as of 4:46 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0435 yesterday. The currency is poised for a 0.3
percent decline this week, while it has gained 0.6 percent this
month. The Aussie traded at NZ$1.2669 from NZ$1.2682 yesterday,
when it touched NZ$1.2660, the lowest since Nov. 7.  The  New Zealand dollar  bought 82.32 U.S. cents from 82.27
yesterday. It has lost 0.1 percent since the end of last week
and is up 0.3 percent for the month.  Australian  government bonds  rose, with the 10-year yield
falling six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.16
percent. It earlier touched 3.13 percent, the lowest since Nov.
20.  Capital Expenditure  Australia’s statistics bureau said yesterday mining
investment in 2012-2013 is projected at A$109.4 billion ($114
billion), compared with A$119 billion forecast three months
earlier.  Nineteen out of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the RBA to cut its benchmark  rate  by a quarter-percentage
point to 3 percent on Dec. 4, while the remainder forecast no
change.  With deteriorating domestic fundamentals and terms of
trade, the Australian dollar “is likely to remain vulnerable,”
Morgan Stanley strategists led by  Hans Redeker , wrote in a
research note published yesterday. “While market consensus
predicts further easing, which would bring Australian policy
rates back to historical lows, this does not appear to be fully
priced into the market.”  RBA Meeting  Traders see an 83 percent chance the RBA will lower its
overnight cash rate target by a quarter of a percentage point at
next week’s meeting, a  Credit Suisse Group AG index  based on
swaps showed. That compares with a 73 percent likelihood shown
yesterday.  A central bank report today  showed  private sector credit
rose 0.1 percent in October from the previous month, less than
the 0.3 percent growth expected by economists in a  Bloomberg
News  poll.  Business credit  fell 0.3 percent last month, the
biggest decline since June 2011.  Losses in the Australian dollar were limited before data
forecast to show Chinese manufacturing expanded in November. The
government’s  purchasing managers’ index  probably climbed to 50.8
this month from 50.2 in October, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the data is
released tomorrow. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  “We expect it to show further improvement in November,”
said Commonwealth Bank’s Dragicevich. “That just reinforces our
view that  China ’s economic cycle has bottomed and is improving
into year-end.”  In New Zealand, building approvals fell 1.5 percent in
October from the previous month, the statistics bureau said in
Wellington today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for no change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Amina Mobley in Tokyo at 
 amobley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  