-- Bank of America, UBS Settle Swap Dispute With Italy’s Lombardy
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-11-30T18:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/bank-of-america-ubs-settle-swap-dispute-with-italy-s-lombardy.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
reached agreements with the Italian region of Lombardy to settle
a dispute involving derivatives linked to $1 billion of bonds.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in a joint
statement from the northern Italian region and the banks today.
The agreement came after the lenders sued Lombardy in a London
court to uphold the swap they arranged in 2002 that allowed the
municipality to repay a bond in instalments rather than with a
one-time repayment when it matures in 2032.  The banks set up a fund to invest the city’s repayments
until the debt matured. Lombardy last year set aside 153 million
euros ($199 million) for potential losses on Greek bonds the
fund purchased and alleged the banks committed fraud by hiding
their fees.  The agreement with Bank of America allows for “improving
the swap’s management and continuing the collaboration,” the
local government said in today’s statement. The separate accord
with Zurich-based UBS ends the dispute, the region said without
elaborating. Officials at UBS and Lombardy declined to comment
on the terms of the agreement. A spokesman for Bank of America
in  London  didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  A probe by Milan’s prosecutor found UBS and Merrill Lynch
hid 95 million euros in fees when they sold the region of
Lombardy derivatives. The prosecutor ended the probe in 2010
because it would have breached the statute of limitations.  Today’s settlement comes weeks before a judge in Milan
rules on whether four banks, including UBS, should be convicted
of fraud over a separate sale of derivatives to the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  