-- Barges Will Stall Due to Army Corps Delays, Shippers Say
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-30T22:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/barges-will-stall-due-to-army-corps-delays-shippers-say.html
Barge traffic on the  Mississippi
River  will be stalled even if the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers
decides next week to release more water from a major tributary,
according to shippers who are already reducing loads on the
drought-shrunken waterway.  “We needed action yesterday,” Debra Colbert, senior vice
president of the  Waterways Council Inc. , an Arlington, Virginia-
based industry group that includes shippers and ports. “You
still may be looking at a shutdown, certainly a reduction in
traffic.”  Water levels on the Mississippi are approaching record lows
as the dry season combines with the worst drought in 50 years,
creating a choke point off southern  Illinois . That’s where
submerged rock formations called pinnacles stud the riverbed,
preventing cargo-laden barges from passing if the water gets too
low.  Under pressure from Midwestern lawmakers, Jo-Ellen Darcy,
the Army’s assistant secretary for civil works, yesterday agreed
to expedite an analysis of increasing the flow from the Missouri
River, which joins the Mississippi near  St. Louis . Senators led
by  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat, summoned Darcy, a former Senate aide, to the Capitol
to press for swift action.  Durbin said Darcy agreed to respond to the request for an
impact assessment within a week and would expedite blasting the
pinnacles near the Illinois towns of Thebes and Grand Tower.
That project had been scheduled to begin in February.  ‘Too Long’  Colbert said that while shippers appreciate the Corps’
expedited review of a water release, “a week is just way too
long” to wait, it will take about two weeks for water to flow
from the lowest control dam on the Missouri to the Mississippi
River. “This should have happened weeks ago,” she said.  Meanwhile, a group of 17 senators led by  Tom Harkin , an
Iowa Democrat, and  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican, yesterday
sent a letter to President  Barack Obama  asking him to waive
federal contracting rules to expedite the rock blasting by at
least 30 days.  “Once the rocks are removed, additional water flows from
the Missouri River would be unnecessary or significantly
reduced,” the letter said.  The Corps of Engineers projects navigation to be affected
by Dec. 11 and the river to reach a record low by Dec. 22. If
the impact assessment is complete by Dec. 6 and the Missouri
River flow were increased immediately, that would mean the
Mississippi may see some relief by the third week of December.
Shippers are seeking enough water to lift the river’s level two
feet.  $7 Billion  Each day towboats push barges, some as long as 200 yards
(183 meters), along the  Mississippi , carrying commodities
including oil, coal, wheat, iron, chemicals and agricultural
goods. Closing the river in December and January would halt
10,600 barges, stopping the movement of about $7 billion worth
of goods, according to a Nov. 28  study  released by the Waterways
Council and The American Waterways Operators.  Such an event would delay the movement of about $2.3
billion worth of farm products and cause 5 million barrels of
crude to be replaced by imports, and almost 19,800 cargo-related
jobs would be affected, the study said.  The river will still be navigable while blasting occurs
near the towns of Thebes and Grand Tower, Illinois, the Corps of
Engineers has said.  Lighter Loads  Barges are already starting to carry less cargo due to the
low water levels, shippers say. The towboats that push the
barges typically require water depths of at least nine feet,
according to Ron Zornes, director of corporate operations for
Canal Barge Co., a marine transport company in  New Orleans .  The company two days ago began reducing loads on its boats
so they could operate at depths of eight feet, Zornes said in a
phone interview. By mid-December, shippers will have a better
idea of how much traffic will actually be affected on the river,
he said.  “If they remove these rock formations then there wouldn’t
be an issue,” he said.  Low water levels led to a fourth day of declines in the
rate shippers pay to use Panamax vessels that carry grains and
minerals to foreign ports. Average rates for the ships fell 1.4
percent to $7,815 daily, according to the  Baltic Exchange , a
London-based assessor of freight costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  