-- Basel Committee Said to Consider Delay of Bank Liquidity Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n ,   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-11-30T16:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/basel-committee-said-to-consider-delay-of-bank-liquidity-rule.html
Global financial regulators may
delay a planned bank liquidity rule that was slated to take
effect in 2015, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is weighing
whether to delay the rule past 2015 or start a phased rollout in
that year, said one of the people, who both requested anonymity
because the talks are private. The panel, which meets Dec. 13-
14, also could opt to proceed with the previous schedule as it
races to meet a January deadline for reviewing the so-called
liquidity coverage ratio or LCR.  Delays or measures to ease the rule’s impact may be
justified because of concerns that the standard may stifle
interbank lending, make it harder for central banks to implement
their policies and hamper  Europe ’s recovery from its fiscal
crisis, the other person said.  U.S. regulators may not push back against a longer
transition period and have emphasized that it is important to
get the LCR right. Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo 
testified June 6 before the Senate Banking Committee that
additional work was needed to make it more comprehensive and to
assure that it didn’t have the “unintended effect of
exacerbating a period of stress by forcing liquidity hoarding.”  A sample of 209 banks assessed by the Basel committee had a
collective shortfall of 1.8 trillion euros ($2.3 trillion) as of
end-2011 in the assets needed to meet the LCR, according to
figures  published by  the Basel group based on a draft version of
the standard. Much of the shortfall was registered at the 102
large international banks that were surveyed, the Basel group
said.  European Shortfall  European banks had a  1.17 trillion-euro  shortfall in their
LCR requirements at the end of 2011, according to data from the
European Banking Authority. Banks have complained that full
compliance with the proposed new rule would force them to cut
loans to businesses and households.  The LCR, which would force banks to hold enough easy-to-
sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze, was drawn up by
the Basel committee as part of a package of measures in response
to the 2008 financial crisis. It is scheduled to become binding
as of Jan. 1, 2015 if the panel does not change its view.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has warned the measure risks
choking off bank lending, while  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  has said that the rule should be  applied cautiously . Some
other regulators, including in the U.S.,  Sweden  and  Germany , say
that heavily diluting the LCR risks rendering the standard
meaningless.  Stefan Ingves, the Basel committee’s chairman and governor
of Sweden’s Riksbank, has said that there is no hard evidence to
back up claims that the LCR has side effects that damage
interbank lending. The example of Sweden, where large banking
groups already publicly disclose how well they measure up to the
LCR, is “reassuring,” Ingves said Nov. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  