-- Batista Loses Title as Brazil’s Richest to InBev’s Lemann
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-30T17:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/batista-loses-title-as-brazil-s-richest-to-inbev-s-lemann.html
Eike Batista  is no longer Brazil’s
richest person after shares of his natural-resource startups
plunged today. The title now belongs to  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) 
investor  Jorge Paulo Lemann .  Batista’s shipbuilder,  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , fell 6.8 percent to
8.95 reais at 12:37 p.m. in Sao Paulo, leading declines by five
of his six publicly traded companies. The 56-year-old’s net
worth now stands at $18.6 billion, down by almost half since the
end of March, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Lemann commands a fortune of $18.9 billion. Shares of AB
InBev, the world’s largest beer manufacturer whose $52 billion
merger he helped engineer, rose 1.3 percent to 67.43 euros
today.  “Brazil deserves to have more Brazilians on this list,”
Batista said in an e-mail, declining to comment on whether he
could reclaim the top spot from Lemann. “May all businessmen
continue investing and creating jobs, like we do at EBX!”  Batista, who has made repeated vows to pass  Carlos Slim  as
the richest man on Earth, fell from his perch following a string
of disappointments that began in June, when his flagship,  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , cut its initial production
targets less than five months after pumping its first barrel of
oil.  OSX tumbled today after a contract was canceled that would
have allowed the company to help build five drillships,
according to Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst with  Banco Bradesco SA. (BBDC4) 
Also today, Batista’s port-development unit  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) 
named a new chief executive, marking the sixth shakeup of top
management at one of his companies since June.  ‘Explosive Returns’  The billionaire’s closely held ventures now account for the
bulk of his fortune after Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co.
bought a 5.63 percent stake in his EBX Group Co. empire at the
end of March. Based on the market value of Batista’s publicly
traded companies at the time, the $2 billion deal valued his
closely held units at about $10 billion.  “Eike has the potential for explosive returns, but it’s
also a business full of challenges,” said Chris Palmer, who
helps manage $2.5 billion of assets as London-based director of
global  emerging markets  for Henderson Global Investors Ltd.
“The performance of the companies that Lemann controls has been
very strong.”  Buoyed by steady demand for beer, Lemann and his two
billionaire partners, Marcel Herrmann Telles and Carlos Alberto
Sicupira, have seen their wealth climb more than 50 percent this
year after orchestrating deals such as the $20.1 billion
purchase of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB in June. Lemann’s largest
asset is his 10 percent stake in AB InBev, worth more than $14.7
billion. He declined to comment for this story.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  