-- Berkshire to Pay CaixaBank $780 Million in Reinsurer Bet
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-30T14:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/berkshire-to-pay-caixabank-780-million-in-reinsurer-bet.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. agreed to pay 600 million euros ($780 million) to reinsure
a book of individual life policies at  CaixaBank SA (CABK) ,  Spain ’s
third-biggest lender.  CaixaBank will book a one-time 524 million-euro pretax gain
from the deal with Berkshire, the Barcelona-based lender said in
 a filing  to regulators in  Madrid  today. Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire will get future profits from the portfolio, which
generated premium revenue of 231 million euros last year,
according to a spokesman for the bank who asked not to be
identified in line with company policy.  Berkshire has profited as a source of liquidity during
times of crisis, including deals in 2008 to inject $5 billion
into Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and assume liability for a portion
of coverage written by Swiss Re Ltd. New European regulations
and the region’s debt crisis may push some companies to cede
risk or raise capital, Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the reinsurer
that counts  David Einhorn  as its chairman, has said.  “The current problems being caused by the debt crisis and
other economic problems, will certainly create opportunities,”
Greenlight Re Chief Executive Officer Bart Hedges said on a
February conference call. “We think that we’ll be able to find
good partners that need capital support.”  Spanish banks are raising funds to bolster their balance
sheets as they absorb losses from a government-ordered cleanup
of their real estate assets. CaixaBank said last month it made
4.41 billion euros of provisions in the first nine months of the
year to fully cover the 2.44 billion-euro requirements of a
decree from February and 600 million euros of the 2.1 billion
euros in charges it needs to make under another decree from May.  Insurance Float  The lender’s VidaCaixa unit will continue to service the
policies.  Buffett built Berkshire over more than four decades as CEO
from a failing textile maker into a company that sells
insurance, hauls freight, generates electricity and operates
manufacturing and retail businesses. The company had  $47.8
billion (BRK/A)  in cash at the end of September.  The billionaire has used insurance premiums held before
claims payments are made to fund investments and acquisitions.
The so-called float climbed to more than $70 billion last year
from $39 million in 1970.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  