-- Miller Chairmanship Appointment Breaks All-Male House Lineup
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-30T22:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/boehner-breaks-all-male-chairman-lineup-with-miller-appointment.html
After Republicans in the U.S. House
appointed an all-male lineup to head the major committees,
Speaker  John Boehner  chose a woman to lead the panel that
oversees the management of the Capitol complex.  Beginning in January, Republican Candice Miller of Michigan
will head the House Administration Committee, which handles
election-related legislation and oversees facilities including
the parking areas and cafeterias.  The panel also oversees the  Library of Congress , the
Smithsonian Institution, the assignment of  office space  and
disbursement of travel allowances to members of the House.  “In her new post, Candice will provide the leadership
needed to keep operating costs down, save taxpayer dollars, and
help lawmakers use new technology to better engage with their
constituents,” Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said in a press
release.  The speaker cited Miller’s experience serving as Michigan’s
secretary of state as “invaluable” to her new role overseeing
legislation dealing with elections and ballot security.  Miller, 58, was re-elected to a sixth term earlier this
month. She had unsuccessfully sought the chairmanship of the
Homeland Security Committee.  Lungren’s Defeat  The re-election defeat of the panel’s current chairman,
California Representative Dan Lungren, provided Boehner a chance
to choose Miller to head the committee.  In the current Congress, the only female running a
committee has been Florida Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen,
who presides over the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  Under term-limit rules of the House Republican Conference,
Ros-Lehtinen was required to give up her chairmanship in the new
Congress that takes office in January. That panel will be
chaired by California Representative Ed Royce.  In the new Congress, there will be 81 female House members,
including 62 Democrats and 19 Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  