-- BP Has More Than $2 Billion in Defense Awards Set to Expire
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-11-30T20:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/bp-has-more-than-2-billion-in-defense-contracts-set-to-expire.html
BP Plc (BP/) , suspended from winning new
U.S. government contracts for its role in the biggest  oil spill 
in the nation’s history, has military deals with a potential
value of more than $2 billion set to expire in the next two
years.  The British  oil company  has at least 11 awards that will be
up for competition, said Mimi Schirmacher, a spokeswoman for the
Defense Logistics Agency, which buys most of the Pentagon’s
fuel.  The defense agency has no plans to apply for a waiver so it
can continue to award contracts to BP, Schirmacher said in an e-
mail. The office “anticipates receiving offers from other
suppliers to fill future requirements,” Schirmacher said.  While she didn’t say when the contracts would be opened for
bidding, agencies typically make big awards months to years
before the expiration dates. The existing agreements may be
valued at as much as $2.43 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Eight of the 11 contracts will expire before the end of the
2013 fiscal year, Schirmacher said.  Robert Wine , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment. BP shares rose 0.1 percent to 431.60 pence in London
trading. They have dropped 6.3 percent this year.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on Nov. 28
temporarily banned the company from winning new federal awards
due to a “lack of business integrity” in the 2010 Deepwater
Horizon well blowout in the  Gulf of Mexico . BP on Nov. 15 agreed
to plead guilty to criminal charges after the worst oil spill in
U.S. history, which killed 11 people.  BP Awards  BP was the Defense Department’s biggest fuel supplier in
2011, the year following the Gulf explosion. That year, it won
awards valued at about $1.35 billion, a surge of 33 percent from
$1.02 billion in the previous year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The EPA didn’t say how long the ban would be in place,
though suspensions generally last for fewer than 18 months or
until the end of legal proceedings. BP and the government are
still in a dispute over civil charges.  The temporary ban doesn’t affect existing contracts. BP won
22 contracts from the  Defense Logistics Agency  in fiscal 2011,
according to Schirmacher.  Contract Competition  Among the companies that might benefit from BP’s suspension
are San Antonio, Texas-based  Valero Energy (VLO)  Corp., San Ramon,
California-based  Chevron (CVX)  Corp., and the Hague, Netherlands-based
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  The firms are top suppliers to the U.S.
military, the world’s single largest consumer of energy
excluding countries.  BP received 49 percent more in defense contracts in that
year than the No. 2 fuel supplier, Valero Energy. The third-
largest recipient of the contracts was Kuwait National Petroleum
Co., followed by Shell, Miami-based  World Fuel Services Corp. (INT) 
and Chevron.  The company on Nov. 15 reached a settlement with the
 Justice Department , agreeing to pay $4.5 billion to end all
criminal charges and resolve securities claims relating to the
Gulf explosion. At the time, the company said it hadn’t been
advised of any U.S. action on contracts.  BP produces about 770,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in the U.S., more than 20 percent of the company’s global
output. The company had revenue of $131 billion in U.S. last
year, more than a third of its global total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  