-- Eletrobras Leads Brazil Stock Gains on Compensation Rise
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-30T20:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/brazil-said-to-boost-utilities-compensation-by-9-87-bln-reais.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) 
rose the most in 13 years, leading gains by Brazilian power
companies, after the government increased compensation by 50
percent for utilities that agree to cut electricity rates.  The government offered an additional 9.87 billion reais
($4.7 billion) to utilities that accept President  Dilma Rousseff ’s plan to renew licenses with lower rates, on top of 20
billion reais announced Nov. 1. Eletrobras, as the state-run
company is known, rose 24 percent to 9.65 reais in Sao Paulo,
the biggest gain since January 1999.  The higher offer is designed to compensate for transmission
investments and encourage companies to accept the renewals,
Deputy Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said yesterday. The
MSCI Brazil Utilities Index has tumbled 22 percent since Sept.
10, the day before Rousseff said she wanted to cut power costs
by as much as 28 percent to aid manufacturers.  “The government was in a way forced to do this,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said in a telephone
interview from Curitiba,  Brazil . “The government kept saying it
wouldn’t change the program, and companies kept saying they
would not renew the concessions. Somebody had to give in, and
the government partially did.”  Eletrobras, which was initially offered about half the 30
billion reais compensation it expected, plummeted 59 percent
from Sept. 10 through yesterday.  Leading Gains  In a regulatory filling, the company said that not renewing
licenses would have “tragic effects” and that renewing would
guarantee “30 more years of relevant participation” in Brazil
power market. The state-controlled company will host a
shareholders meeting on Dec. 3.  Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista, known as
Cteep, rose 4.5 percent to 31.25 reais, the second-biggest gain
in the Bovespa index after Eletrobras. The company was one of
the most impacted by the changes, according to Beatriz Nantes,
an analyst at Empiricus Research.  “Their board already recommended not renewing,” Nantes
said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “They weren’t happy, and I
don’t know if they will back down.”  By compensating for transmission assets built before 2000,
the new proposal gives companies further incentive to accept
concession renewals, the Energy Ministry said in its website.  Interconexion Electrica SA (ISA) , Cteep’s Medellin, Colombia-
based parent, gained as much as 8 percent in in Bogota.
Companies have until Dec. 4 to decide whether to renew
concessions under the government’s terms.  ’Huge Demonstration’  “We’re providing a huge demonstration of flexibility with
this incentive,” Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin told
reporters in Brasilia yesterday. “The measure will benefit all
companies with transmission services.”  Rousseff is forcing utilities to cut rates in exchange for
the renewal of licenses for an additional 30 years. Lower costs
will help contain inflation that has exceeded the midpoint of
policy makers’ target for more than two years.  Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , or Cemig, opted not to
renew concessions for three hydroelectric dams because the
company expected to be granted an automatic renewal under old
rules, Chief Executive Officer Djalma Morais said Nov. 26.
Shares gained 2.72 percent to 25.67 reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  