-- Brazilian Real Tumbles to Three-Year Low as GDP Misses Forecasts
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-11-30T21:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/brazil-swap-rates-fall-as-gdp-growth-trails-forecast-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled to a three-
year low on speculation weaker-than-forecast economic growth may
prompt the central bank to allow the currency to weaken further
to support exporters.  Swap rates fell the most in eight weeks after a report
showed the economy grew in the third quarter at half the pace
economists forecast, prompting bets that policy makers will keep
borrowing costs at a record low for an extended period. The
currency’s drop last week spurred the central bank to intervene
in the foreign-exchange market.  “Due to this data, we could see significant selling
pressure on the real,” Bernd Berg, an emerging-markets
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a phone interview
from Zurich. “It depends on the central bank. If it doesn’t
intervene to support the currency, it can go easily to 2.15 per
dollar in the next couple of days.”  The real slid 1.7 percent to 2.136 per dollar today in Sao
Paulo, the biggest one-day decline since June 21. It touched
2.1368, the weakest intraday level since May 2009. Swap rates on
the contract due in January 2014 decreased 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 7.21 percent, an all-time low on a
closing basis.  Gross domestic product grew 0.9 percent in the third
quarter from a year ago, the national statistics agency said
today, trailing the 1.9 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A negative surprise like this could push the government
to see the currency as an instrument to stimulate the economy,”
 Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at Credit Agricole
Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Trading Range  The currency traded in a range of 2 to 2.1 per dollar from
July 4 through Nov. 21 before falling two days later to what was
then the three-year intraday low, prompting intervention. A
decline in the currency hurts Brazilian companies whose expenses
are mostly in dollars.  The real rallied on Nov. 23 as the central bank auctioned
currency swaps for the first time since June, selling 32,500
contracts maturing in December valued at $1.6 billion. From
August through October, the bank sold reverse currency swaps to
keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar and make Brazil’s
exporters more competitive.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  used the term “currency
war” in 2010 to describe the use of monetary policy by
industrialized countries to boost their exports.  The real lost 4.9 percent in November, the biggest decline
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency declined 2.6 percent this week.  Currency View  Barry Sternlicht , the chairman and chief executive officer
of Starwood Capital Group LLC, said at a real estate conference
in  New York  that he finds the Brazilian currency attractive and
wants to “get my personal exposure out of the dollar.”  Policy makers left Brazil’s target lending rate at a record
low 7.25 percent this week, snapping a streak of 10 reductions
as they tried to stoke growth in an economy forecast to expand
at the slowest pace in three years. In a statement accompanying
their rate decision, they pledged to keep monetary conditions
stable for a “prolonged period.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has cut taxes and
boosted spending over the past 12 months to prop up an economy
heading toward its worst two-year performance in a decade. While
the efforts are keeping retail sales buoyant amid a global
slowdown, companies are holding back on investment.  Consumer prices  as measured by the IPCA index rose 5.45
percent in October from a year earlier. According to the latest
central bank survey, inflation is projected to stay above the
government’s 4.5 percent target through 2013.  “The worst part for the central bank is that, on top of
this weak growth, inflation is not retreating as you would
expect,” Caramaschi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  