-- Brazil GDP Grows at Half Forecast Pace as Investment Dives
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-11-30T16:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/brazil-growth-seen-accelerating-even-as-investment-trails-demand.html
Brazil ’s economy  expanded  in the
third quarter at half the pace forecast by economists, as
government stimulus efforts fail to revive investment that fell
for the fifth straight period. Rate futures and stocks plunged.  Gross domestic product grew 0.6 percent in the third
quarter, the national statistics agency said today in  Rio de
Janeiro . That was less than the forecasts of all 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg whose median estimate was for a 1.2
percent expansion.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has slashed  interest
rates  to record lows, cut taxes and boosted spending over the
past 12 months to prop up an economy heading toward its worst
two-year performance in a decade. While the efforts are keeping
 retail sales  buoyant amid a global slowdown, companies are
holding back on investment. With growth still patchy, the
government is now focusing on reducing production costs.  “Today’s report was awful,”  Neil Shearing , who was
forecasting below-consensus 1 percent growth as chief  emerging
markets  economist for Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from
 London . “The really disappointing thing about today’s data is
that despite all the policy stimulus over the past year, it’s
clear the economy is still struggling to get going.”  Lower Estimates  Growth on an annualized basis was 2.4 percent in the third
quarter, after the government reduced by about half its first
and second quarter GDP estimates. That’s below a government
forecast this month of 4.7 percent and the worst performance in
the BRIC group of major emerging markets that includes Russia,
India and  China . It was also less than the U.S., which expanded
2.7 percent in the third quarter. GDP expanded 0.9 percent from
a year earlier.  Interest-rate futures fell across the board after the
release of the report. Yields on the contract maturing in
January 2014, the second-most-traded in  Sao Paulo , fell nine
basis points to 7.22 percent at 2:03 p.m. local time. The real
declined for a fourth straight day as investors speculate the
government may step up efforts to weaken the currency to aid
manufacturers.  Brazilian stocks fell as well. The benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock
index fell as much as 1.7 percent before paring declines to
trade down 1.4 percent at 57063.38 at 2:05 p.m. local time.  Even though quarterly growth was the fastest since the
first quarter of 2011, investment fell 2 percent in the July-
September period to 18.7 percent of GDP.  Consumer spending  rose
0.9 percent, while the services sector was flat. Agricultural
activity led all industries, expanding 2.5 percent.  Forecast Maintained  While the GDP number was not what the government was hoping
for, the economy is accelerating and will expand by 1 percent in
the fourth quarter, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said. The
government is maintaining its forecast for 4 percent growth next
year, he said at a news conference in Sao Paulo.  “The surprise was the performance of the service sector,”
Mantega said. “Financial transactions had a negative impact on
growth.”  Both the government and economists underestimated the
impact of reduced interest rates, Mantega said. Falling  bank
loan  spreads resulted in lower revenue, and the banks did not
compensate for that with a larger volume of credit, he said.  Brazil’s third-quarter growth indicates continuing recovery
of the economy in the second half, the central bank said in a
statement. “Even facing a still complex international
atmosphere, perspectives point to intensification of the rhythm
of activity in the coming year,” the bank said in the
statement.  Modest Growth  At the current level of investment, the government will
have trouble reaching its goal of delivering 4 percent growth
next year. Even the more modest growth forecast by economists
this year of 1.5 percent may have to be revised downward, said
Vladimi Caramaschi, chief strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s
Brazilian unit.  “After so much stimulus, investment is even worse than in
the second quarter,”  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America
economist at 4Cast Inc., said by telephone from  Washington . “If
investment doesn’t rebound, then we are in trouble in 2013.”  Rousseff has started addressing longstanding bottlenecks,
promising on Sept. 11 to take Brazil into a “new phase” of
development, one focused on boosting competitiveness.  In recent months the government has eliminated payroll
taxes for dozens of industries, overhauled the electricity
sector to cut rates by as much as 28 percent and unveiled plans
to auction control of ports, roads and airports. Mantega told
Globo News TV on Nov. 12 that for growth to double next year
investment must accelerate.  “This is very welcome, though unfortunately what brought
Brazil to this state of affairs of weaker investment is
something that built up over years,” Andre Loes, chief Latin
America economist at HSBC Bank Brasil SA, said before today’s
report. “It’s going to take time for these measures to show
results.”  Retail Sales  Automakers, a mainstay of the economy, will invest $22
billion over the next three years, Mantega said Oct. 4. His
comments came as the government offered tax breaks for carmakers
to expand production. Among the companies benefiting are
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Honda Motor Co Ltd. (7267)   Vehicle sales reached a  record  420,080 units in August on
the back of sales tax reductions that Rousseff in October
extended to year-end.  Retail sales  rose for the fourth straight
month in September and jumped 8.5 percent from the year before.
Underlying the strong performance is strong credit growth of
16.6 percent in October and  unemployment  that has remained near
record lows all year.  Still, industrial output fell in September for the first
time in four months on a drop in machine and equipment
investments.  Inflation Risk  Even as the economy struggles to revive -- economists
surveyed by Bloomberg are forecasting 1.5 percent growth this
year -- inflation is quickening. Consumer prices as measured by
the  IPCA index  rose 5.45 percent in October from a year ago, and
inflation is projected to stay above the government’s 4.5
percent target through at least 2013, according to the latest
central bank survey.  Government attempts to weaken the real, which has fallen
11.4 percent against the dollar this year, more than any of the
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, could exacerbate the
price pressures, said Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes, chief
economist at the Rio de Janeiro-based National Commerce
Confederation.  Higher Inflation  “The government is looking at growth, and that means
accepting higher inflation in the short term,” said Freitas, a
former central bank director. “If inflation passes 6 percent, I
think the bank will stop looking at growth and will turn to
inflation.”  The central bank has responded to the price threat by
ending a rate cut cycle initiated in August 2011 that was the
most aggressive by any Group of 20 nation. The bank, in deciding
this week to leave its  benchmark Selic  rate unchanged at 7.25
percent, pledged to keep monetary conditions stable for a
“prolonged period.”  “It’s now completely clear that we won’t see any increase
in the Selic rate in 2013,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at
Gradual Investimentos, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “It’s
impossible, because investments are at a really low level. If it
weren’t for consumption of households, we would have had even
worse growth in the third quarter.”  Following release of today’s data, Perfeito revised
downward his 2012 GDP growth forecast to just under 1 percent
from 1.3 percent previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  