-- Breitling Oil Says in Talks on U.K., Poland Shale Gas Licenses
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-11-30T14:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/breitling-oil-says-in-talks-on-u-k-poland-shale-gas-licenses.html
Breitling Oil and Gas Corp., an
independent U.S. energy producer, said it held talks with
companies in U.K. and Polish about acquiring shale gas licenses.  While  Europe  “has the biggest chance after America” to
develop its shale gas resources, the lack of infrastructure and
regulation will postpone commercial production to at least 2015,
Chris Faulkner, chief executive officer of Breitling Oil and
Gas, said in an interview.  Faulkner said the company has held talks with several
companies in U.K. and Poland for both consultancy services and
buying stakes in shale licenses. The development of shale
resources in Europe has trailed the U.S. because of higher
costs, concerns drilling pollutes drinking water and a lack of
rigs for exploration.  “Even if Poland drills tomorrow they would have nowhere to
sell, they have no infrastructure,” Faulkner said, whose
company produces oil and gas from shale fields in North Dakota
and Oklahoma. “That’s the big challenge, I am more optimistic
about what’s happening in U.K.”  ConocoPhillips (COP)  bought a 70 percent stake in three western
Baltic Basin licenses this year from shale gas explorer  3Legs
Resources. (3LEG)   Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  returned some of its licenses in
Poland on concern that the country’s shale potential was over-
estimated.  Energy Minister  U.K. Energy Minister  John Hayes  said in October the U.K.
plans to allow companies to resume shale gas exploration this
year, while the Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has
promised tax breaks to encourage the development of shale
reserves.  Companies with licenses in areas possibly holding shale-gas
resources in the U.K. include IGas Energy Plc, Dart Energy Ltd.,
BG Group Plc, Celtique Energie Ltd., Reach Coal Seam Gas Ltd.,
and Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., according to the Department of
Energy.  Cuadrilla, which stopped drilling after causing two
earthquakes last year, estimates it has more than 200 trillion
cubic meters of shale gas beneath its acreage close to the city
of Blackpool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  