-- Calpers Seeks to Sue San Bernardino Over Pension Payments
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/calpers-seeks-to-sue-san-bernardino-over-pension-payments.html
San Bernardino, the California city
fighting to remain in bankruptcy, should remain under court
protection from its creditors because a new budget shows the
city is making progress, officials said in court papers.  The spending plan that San Bernardino planned to submit
yesterday will resolve the chief complaint of the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , the city said in papers
filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Riverside, California. Calpers
had urged the judge overseeing the bankruptcy to throw it out
because the city hadn’t approved a so-called pendency plan
saying how it would pay its bills while under court protection.  “It is in the best interest of the city and its creditors
to avoid months of delay in this case and potentially hundreds
of thousands of dollars that the city cannot afford to spend
litigating,” Paul Glassman, the city’s bankruptcy attorney,
said in court papers.  Calpers is seeking to sue San Bernardino over missed
pension payments as well as asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Meredith A. Jury to dismiss the city’s Chapter 9 petition.
Should Jury grant either request, Calpers would be free to sue
San Bernardino in state court to seize property or find some
other way to collect the debt the pension fund is owed.  Calpers spokesman  Brad Pacheco  said he couldn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the filing.  In August, San Bernardino became the third California city
to file bankruptcy in less than three months. The city of more
than 200,000 people lies about 60 miles (97 kilometers) east of
 Los Angeles . A fiscal emergency, brought on by a $46 million
budget shortfall, forced it to stop paying some creditors and
seek court protection, the city said.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 