-- Canadian Currency Weakens as Growth in Economy Trails Forecast
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-30T22:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/canadian-dollar-little-changed-as-quarterly-gdp-expected-to-slow.html
Canada ’s dollar fell against 12 of
its 16 most-traded peers after a report showed the country’s
economic growth slowed more than forecast in the third quarter.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, pared a monthly gain against its
U.S. counterpart. The loonie fell yesterday as Canada’s current-
account  deficit  widened to the second-largest on record. Stocks
were little changed today amid concern a U.S. budget showdown
may throw the nation’s biggest trade partner into recession.  “It is a miss, unquestionably,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The trend of slower
growth in Canada is going to have an impact from a broad
perspective, and the immediate knee-jerk reaction is to sell the
currency on the back of a miss on an influential data point.”  The loonie weakened 0.2 percent to 99.44 cents per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It depreciated 0.2 percent on the
week, while gaining 0.5 percent in November. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0056.  The currency has climbed 0.8 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has dropped 2.1 percent, and
the yen has been the biggest loser, sliding 9.4 percent.  Bonds Rise  Canadian government bonds rose for a fifth day, the longest
stretch in two months, pushing yields on benchmark  10-year debt 
down as much as two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.69 percent. It was the lowest level in two weeks.  Gross domestic product  expanded  at an annualized 0.6
percent from July through September, the slowest in more than a
year and lower than the 0.8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, Statistics Canada data
showed. The agency also cut its second-quarter GDP figure to 1.7
percent, from 1.9 percent in a report.  Statistics Canada reported yesterday the nation’s current
account deficit increased to C$18.9 billion ($19.1 billion) in
the third quarter, from C$18.4 billion in the previous three
months. The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade.  The Bank of Canada is scheduled to hold a policy meeting on
Dec. 4. Bank Governor Mark Carney said earlier this year tighter
monetary policy “may become appropriate” as the nation’s
economy moves toward full output. He said last month his
inclination to raise interest rates had become “less imminent”
given risk to economic growth.  Policy makers have held the country’s benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent for more than two years.  Volatility Increases  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian currency rose today from the lowest
level in more than 11 years. It reached 5.68 percent after
touching 5.55 percent yesterday, the least since May 2001.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings. The
average over the past decade is 9.97 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  swung between a 0.2 percent
gain and a 0.3 percent loss before ending the day little
changed.  U.S. lawmakers are trying to reach a budget-deficit
agreement and avoid a fiscal cliff of $607 billion in automatic
spending cuts and tax increases set to begin Jan. 1. The shock
would cause the world’s biggest economy to contract 0.5 percent
next year, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  