-- Canadian Stocks Fall, Heading for Monthly Drop, as Economy Slows
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-30T19:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/canadian-stocks-fall-heading-for-monthly-drop-as-economy-slows.html
Canadian  stocks  fell, heading for
the first monthly decline since May, as the nation’s economic
growth slowed more than estimated and U.S. budget talks
continued in Washington.  Talisman Energy (TLM)  Inc. slipped 3.5 percent after BMO Capital
Markets lowered its rating on the stock.  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd. (FM) , which had its C$4.86 billion ($4.9 billion) offer for
 Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  rejected, dropped 1.1 percent.  Nexen Inc. (NXY) ,
which is awaiting approval of its sale to China’s Cnooc Ltd.,
rallied 3.7 percent to snap nine days of losses after Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the government will soon make
decisions on foreign-investment guidelines.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  slipped 0.2
percent to 12,178.61 at 2:12 p.m. in Toronto. The benchmark
Canadian equity gauge is down 0.3 percent this week and is
poised for a loss of 2 percent for the month. Trading volume was
7 percent lower than the 30-day average at this time of the day.  “We have been expecting a slower economy, and the U.S.
remains a huge influence on us,” said John Kinsey, a fund
manager with Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. His firm
manages about C$1 billion.  Canada GDP  Canada’s economic growth  slowed  to a 0.6 percent annualized
pace in the third quarter as consumer spending gains were
blunted by the fastest export decline since the end of the last
recession and falling business investment. The gain in gross
domestic product for July to September was the slowest in more
than a year and short of analysts’  estimates , according to a
survey by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., congressional Republicans dug in to fight
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to skirt the fiscal cliff,
rejecting his tax-and-spending proposal as the president heads
out today to sell it to the American public.  Commodity companies fell the most among the 10 industry
groups in the S&P/TSX. Talisman Energy dropped 3.5 percent to
C$11.15 after Randy Ollenberger, an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets, cut his rating on the oil and natural gas producer to
market perform from outperform.  First Quantum slipped 1.1 percent to C$20.15. The
Vancouver-based copper mining company said yesterday it was
“surprised and disappointed” at Inmet’s rejection. The company
had offered C$70 a share in cash and stock, after earlier
proposing a deal at C$62.50 in October. Inmet rose 3.2 percent
to C$67.62.  Mine Closure  Richmont Mines Inc. (RIC)  slumped 24 percent to C$2.89. The gold
producer said it closed a mine and suspended exploration at
another near Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec. The company cut its output
forecast for next year.  Nexen added 3.7 percent to C$24.11. Canadian regulators are
reviewing the sale of Calgary-based Nexen and an appeal of
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s rejected C$5.2 billion ($5.24 billion)
bid for Progress Energy Resources Corp.  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET)  rose 1.8 percent to C$28.26 and
 Bonterra Energy Corp. (BNE)  added 1.4 percent to C$43.55. Crude headed
for its first monthly gain since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  