-- Canada’s Kenney Says Review of Cnooc-Nexen Bid Will be Rigorous
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-11-30T16:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/canada-s-kenney-says-review-of-cnooc-nexen-bid-will-be-rigorous.html
Canadian Immigration Minister  Jason
Kenney  said the country’s investment treaty with  China  provides
reciprocity to Canada’s businesses in the Asian country.  The following are comments by Kenney to reporters today in
Ottawa.  On  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY) :  “The decision on that application for an acquisition under
the Investment Canada Act will be made by the minister of
industry based on the net benefit test.  ‘‘The prime minister has underscored, as you know, has
underscored our government’s particular concern about large-
scale proposed acquisitions by state-owned enterprises and the
need for a rigorous analysis to be undertaken for such
applications. So I look forward to the decision of my colleague,
Minister Paradis.’’  On the Canadian cabinet’s view of Cnooc’s bid:  ‘‘I’m not going to comment on cabinet deliberations. The
prime minister has expressed the view that we need to be
especially careful in assessing applications for acquisitions by
large-scale state owned enterprises. So I anticipate there will
be a rigorous application of the Investment  Canada 
criteria in this instance.  ‘‘Of course, our prime minister has consistently
articulated a balanced approach to our relationship with China
that emphasizes our commercial interests but also our values in
the way that the previous policy was unbalanced, having I think
largely neglected the values dimension of the relationship. I
think our prime minister has been very successful in striking
the balance that Canadians are looking for.’’  On reciprocity:  ‘‘One of the key reasons why we’ve finalized the foreign
investment protection and promotion agreement, after 18 years of
negotiation, is to provide for a degree of reciprocal protection
for investment on both sides.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  