-- Canada Economy Slowed in Third Quarter on Exports
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-11-30T17:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/canada-economy-slowed-in-third-quarter-on-exports.html
Canada ’s economic growth slowed to a
0.6 percent annualized pace in the third quarter as consumer
spending gains were offset by falling business investment and
the fastest export decline since the end of the last recession.  The gain in  gross domestic product  for July to September
was the slowest in more than a year and lagged behind the 0.8
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  of 26 economists.
 Statistics Canada  today also cut its second-quarter figure to
1.7 percent from 1.9 percent in a report from Ottawa.  The world’s 11th-largest economy relies on exports for a
third of output and is being hobbled by renewed global strains
such as  Europe ’s debt crisis, slowing Chinese growth and
possible U.S. budget cuts. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty this
month increased his deficit forecasts on lower commodity prices,
while Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said Oct. 24 the case
for raising his 1 percent policy rate is “less imminent.”  “It’s a weak report, especially relative to the U.S.,”
where yesterday reported growth of 2.7 percent at an annual pace
in the three months through September, said  Benjamin Reitzes , an
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “There’s no
momentum as we move into the fourth quarter.”  Canada’s currency declined 0.1 percent to 99.36 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 11:30 a.m. in Toronto. It touched 99.06 cents on
Nov. 27, a three-week high. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0064.  10-Year Bonds  Government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark 10-year yield
one basis points lower to 1.70 percent as the price of the 2.75
percent security due in June 2022 gained 10 cents to C$109.26.  Exports of goods and services dropped 7.8 percent, and
business gross fixed capital spending fell 2.2 percent, both the
fastest rates since the second quarter of 2009, Statistics
Canada said today.  “We are looking at a period where there are so many
uncertainties,” including the U.S. budget talks, said  Dawn Desjardins , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Toronto. “It’s disappointing when you are growing at less than
1 percent, but I don’t think this is the new normal,” she said.
Fourth-quarter growth will probably lag the central bank’s 2.5
percent forecast, Desjardins said.  Exporter confidence has declined on concern about the
global economy and Europe’s debt crisis, Canada’s trade-
financing arm said yesterday.  Export Development Canada ’s index
fell to 70.7 from the previous reading of 75.9, based on a
survey with 797 responses taken in September and October.  Scaling Back  Companies such as truck-part maker  Meritor Inc. (MTOR)  are among
those scaling back. The company said Nov. 13 it will move the
work done at a 120-person plant in Mississauga, Ontario, to
other locations.  Household consumption was the main driver of growth in the
third quarter, accelerating to a 3.8 percent annualized pace
from 0.6 percent in the prior three months.  At the same time, residential investment fell 3.5 percent,
the second straight decline, following government tightening of
mortgage lending rules on concern that some cities had
overheated markets. Residential investment had grown at a 15.5
percent pace in the first quarter.  The other major source of growth came as businesses spent
C$12.1 billion to increase their inventories, up from C$5.86
billion in the second quarter, according to Statistics Canada
figures.  Imports rose 1.7 percent, the fourth consecutive gain, led
by travel services and chemicals, plastics and rubber.  NHL Cancelled  On a  monthly  basis, Canada’s gross domestic product was
unchanged in September, following a 0.1 percent decline in
August. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent expansion for
September, based on the median of 22 responses in a Bloomberg
survey. Growth was restrained by declines in wholesaling and
entertainment as the  National Hockey League  canceled pre-season
games, while the construction and finance industries expanded,
Statistics Canada said.  GDP is the last major figure published before the central
bank’s Dec. 4 interest-rate decision. Carney, who leaves next
year to head the  Bank of England , will probably keep the rate at
1 percent, according to an economist survey. The key  policy rate 
has been 1 percent since September 2010, the longest unchanged
period since the 1950s.  “Facing a very modest rebound through the end of the year
and into 2013, we expect the Bank to maintain its cautious tone
at next week’s interest-rate announcement,”  David Tulk , chief
Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit, wrote in a note to clients today.  Inflation, Unemployment  Other signs of a modest expansion include October’s year-
over-year inflation rate of 1.2 percent, below the central
bank’s 2 percent target, and a  jobless rate  stuck above 7
percent since the end of 2008, as the last recession began.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  on Nov. 13 updated his
forecast to delay a balanced budget by one year on lower
exported commodity prices and projected a C$1.8 billion deficit
for the period starting April 2015. Flaherty and Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper  said Nov. 16 their goal remains to balance books
before the next federal election due in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  