-- Canada Judge in $12 Billion Chevron Case May Delay Ruling
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-30T21:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/canada-judge-in-12-billion-chevron-case-may-delay-ruling.html
A judge will decide in February
whether a trial can proceed in Ontario over a claim by
Ecuadorean villagers trying to seize $12 billion of  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ’s Canadian assets.  Superior Court Justice  David Brown  concluded two days of
hearings today on the asset-seizure request filed in Toronto by
lawyers for 47 Ecuadoreans. A court in the Latin American
country last year found Chevron liable for 28 years of soil and
water pollution near  oil wells  that ruined the health and
livelihoods of Amazon rainforest dwellers.  Ecuadorean farmers and fishermen have been trying to
collect $19 billion in environmental damages from San Ramon,
California-based Chevron, the world’s fourth-largest oil
company. The plaintiffs are seeking enforcement outside their
home country because Chevron has no refineries, oil wells,
storage terminals or other properties in the nation.  Chevron has refused to pay the judgment or entertain the
notion of settlement talks because it maintains the ruling
resulted from bribery and fraud, charges that lawyers and a
spokeswoman for the plaintiffs have rejected.  Brazil, Argentina  Following the filing of their Canadian seizure request in
May, the Ecuadoreans sought similar forfeitures in a Brazilian
tribunal in June and in  Argentina  earlier this month. A judge in
 Buenos Aires  ordered some Chevron bank deposits held in escrow
while the case is pending, Enrique Bruchou, a lawyer for the
Ecuadoreans, said in a Nov. 7 interview.  Lawyers for the Amazon River basin residents have estimated
the value of Chevron’s Canadian assets at $12 billion.  Alan Lenczner, an attorney representing the Ecuadoreans,
disputed Chevron’s contention that its Canadian assets should be
shielded from seizure because he said its units in the country
are not separate entities from the parent corporation.  “Chevron Canada are the assets of Chevron Corp.,”
Lenczner said during a hearing in Toronto today.  “We believe the only path to a constructive resolution of
this matter requires the participation of the government of
 Ecuador ,” Justin Higgs, a Chevron spokesman, said in an e-mail
today. “Unfortunately, the Republic has rebuffed all attempts
at a constructive dialogue.”  Judgment’s ‘Integrity’  “If the plaintiffs’ lawyers believed in the integrity of
their judgment, they would be seeking enforcement in the  United
States  -- where Chevron Corporation resides,” Higgs said,
pointing to the judge’s statements that the case should be tried
in  New York .  The ruling last year by a provincial Ecuadorean court
blamed decades of toxic soil and water contamination on Texaco
Inc., which Chevron acquired in 2001. Texaco was found to have
discharged into the environment saltwater and other byproducts
of oil drilling. Texaco quit the country and its equipment was
taken over by the Ecuadorean state oil company in 1992.  “We look forward to continuing to work towards collecting
the full amount of our judgment,” Graham Erion, spokesman for
the plaintiffs, said today in an e-mail. The funds would be used
“to force Chevron to clean up its mess” and provide health
care and resources after “this company’s willful
contamination”  Chevron  fell  0.1 percent to $105.69 at the close in New
York. The shares have increased 2.8 percent in the past 12
months.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the world’s biggest oil company by
market value, followed by PetroChina Company Ltd. and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  