-- Carlyle’s Acquisition of TCW Won’t Be Halted by EIG Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/carlyle-group-s-acquisition-of-tcw-not-likely-to-be-halted-1-.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s acquisition of TCW
Group Inc. won’t be put on hold pending the outcome of an
arbitration case by EIG Global Energy Partners LLC over its
claim that it has the right to block the transaction.  U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder in Los Angeles
yesterday issued a ruling that TCW’s interest in a fund that it
jointly owns with EIG will be held in a trust separate from the
other TCW assets if the sale closes before the arbitrator has
ruled on the conflict.  “We are gratified by the court’s ruling allowing the
Carlyle transaction to proceed as scheduled,” Peter Viles, a
spokesman for Los Angeles-based TCW, said in a phone interview.
“We look forward to closing the transaction on a timely basis.”  EIG, an asset management firm that used to be part of TCW
sued in August to block Carlyle’s acquisition of TCW from
 Societe General (GLE)  SA before an arbitrator had ruled on its claim.
The acquisition would give Carlyle, a direct competitor in
energy investments, access to EIG’s sensitive information, the
company said in its complaint.  Snyder in her order agreed that EIG “has a strong
likelihood of success on the merits” of its claim that a
supermajority of the board of its joint venture with TCW needs
to approve a change of ownership of the venture’s members. The
judge denied EIG’s request to prevent the sale from closing
before the arbitrator rules on its claims.  $4.2 Billion Fund  EIG controls the board of the joint venture that runs a
$4.2 billion energy investment fund. The company sought
arbitration after Carlyle agreed to buy TCW on Aug. 9.  “We’re obviously very pleased with the court’s decision
and agree completely with the court’s analysis of the law and
facts at issue in this matter,” EIG Chief Executive Officer
Blair Thomas said in a statement. “It’s unfortunate that it has
come to this but each of TCW, Carlyle and Société Générale were
fully aware of this issue when they decided to recklessly
announce a transaction that infringes upon our rights.”  The case is EIG Global Energy Partners LLC v. TCW Asset
Management Co., 12-07173, U.S. District Court, Central District
of  California  ( Los Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 