-- Chelsea Give Torres Month to Prove Himself, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-30T10:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/chelsea-give-torres-month-to-prove-himself-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  One Month  Chelsea has given  Fernando Torres  one month to prove
himself to interim manager  Rafael Benitez , the  Daily Mirror 
said.  The striker has struggled since his record 50 million-pound
($80 million) pound move from Liverpool almost two years ago,
but Benitez, his former manager with the Reds, believes the
player can regain his scoring form, the Mail said.  Chelsea has interest in Metalist Kharkiv striker Taison,
and the Brazilian watched the Blues play Fulham this week amid
reports in South America he will sign a 10 million-pound deal
ahead of the January transfer period, the Mail said.  City Job  Jose Mourinho  is ready and willing to take over at
Manchester City next summer if the club fires  Roberto Mancini ,
the  Sun said .  Mancini is under fire after City failed to progress from
the Champions League group stage. Even though he’s under
contract to 2017, ownership might be tempted to sever ties if
they can get Mourinho, who still has four years left on his deal
at Real Madrid, the Sun said.  Remy’s Rebuff  Marseille striker Loic Remy will turn down any attempt by
winless Queens Park Rangers to sign him because he wants to play
in the Champions League, the  Daily Mail  said.  New QPR manager Harry Redknapp is interested in the 25-
year-old and tried to sign him while at Tottenham, the Mail
said. Remy is under contract until 2015 but his agent has said
Marseille would let him go if it can get an offer of 10 million
pounds, the newspaper said.  Pay Cuts  Arsenal players will be forced to take significant pay cuts
if they fail to qualify for the Champions League, the  Mail said .  The club is trying to lock several of its core players --
including Theo Walcott,  Jack Wilshere ,  Bacary Sagna  and Alex
Oxlade-Chamblerlain -- into long-term contacts, but those deals
will include failure clauses that result in less money if they
don’t make Europe’s top club competition, the Mail said.  Sterling Deal  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  has urged Raheem Sterling
to sign a new long-term contract when he turns 18 next month,
the  Guardian said .  Talks between winger’s representatives and Liverpool
officials failed to produce an agreement this week, though the
club is adamant a deal will get done as Chelsea and Manchester
City monitor the situation, the Guardian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 