-- Chilean Jobless Rate Was Higher-Than-Forecast 6.6% in Oct.
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-11-30T13:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/chilean-jobless-rate-was-higher-than-forecast-6-6-in-oct-1-.html
Chile’s  unemployment rate  rose for
the second straight month in October, surprising analysts as the
labor market failed to create jobs fast enough to accommodate a
growing work force.  Unemployment was 6.6 percent in the three months through
October, compared with the median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for 6.4 percent. Unemployment rose from
6.5 percent in the three months through September and declined
from 7.2 percent in the year-ago period, the National Statistics
Institute said in a report today.  More than 32,000 people entered the  labor force  in October
as hiring increased in mining and construction. The increase in
unemployment was only “marginal” as 25,000 new jobs were
created, Felipe Jaque, an economist at BBVA Research, said by
phone from Santiago.  “This continues to be good news and the unemployment rate
is relatively low,” he said. “The labor market is pretty
tight, and industries continue to compete for workers. Internal
risks of increased vigor in the economy still weigh more than
external threats than a few months ago.”  The central bank board has kept is  key interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent for 10 straight months as policy makers
balance the risks of the global slowdown and sustained growth at
home.  Two-year  interest rate  swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, increased 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, to 5.19 percent at 8:59 a.m. local time today
from Nov. 13 when policy makers last met.  Gross domestic product in the world’s top copper producer
is on track to increase 5.1 percent in 2012, more than doubling
the global average, according to forecasts made by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  GDP increased 5.7 percent in the third quarter from last
year, exceeding analyst estimates as private consumption
expanded 6.4 percent and investment surged 13 percent.  “Today there are high risks, both locally and abroad,
which could call for policy responses in opposite directions,”
Joaquin Vial, the newest member of the board, said in a
presentation posted on the bank website today. “Therefore,
monetary policy must be prudent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  