-- China’s Stocks Advance, Paring Monthly Loss, as Developers Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T08:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/china-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-index-heads-for-second-monthly-loss.html
China’s stocks  rose, paring the
biggest monthly loss since July, after valuations fell to a
record low. Developers rallied with building-material makers on
optimism the government won’t add further property curbs.  A  gauge  tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 3 percent, the most in four weeks, following
official comments on the country’s urbanization.  China Vanke Co. (000002) 
and Poly Real Estate Group Co. gained more than 3 percent. Anhui
Conch Cement Co.,  China ’s biggest cement maker, jumped 4.9
percent. Sinolink Securities Co. fell 3.4 percent, extending
yesterday’s slump, after the 21st Century Business Herald
reported brokerages may cut commissions.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.9 percent to close at
1,980.12, the first gain in five days. The measure lost 4.3
percent this month, the biggest drop since July. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  added 1.1 percent to 2,139.66. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 1.6 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN)  added 0.4 percent in  New York  yesterday.  “Urbanization means that the government may expand areas
of smaller second- and third-tier cities and policy makers
clearly said they will count on that as the next growth engine
for China,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “During the
urbanization process, developers and construction-related
companies are set to benefit most initially.”  Shares on the Shanghai Composite  trade  at an average 10.9
times reported earnings, the lowest level since at least 1997,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index has fallen 10
percent this year, heading for a third straight  year  of losses,
and closed below 2,000 for the first time since 2009 on Nov. 27
as the nation’s economy slowed for seven quarters.  Developers Rally  Declines in mainland China-traded equities this year
contrast with a rally for the nation’s shares traded in  Hong
Kong . The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index has jumped 18
percent since Sept. 5 as global investors turned more optimistic
on China’s prospects.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, rose
3.8 percent to 8.75 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest,
gained 3.3 percent to 11.47 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) , the fourth
biggest, added 5.2 percent to 5.29 yuan.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index has gained 11
percent in 2012, the only advancer among five industry groups.  China’s urbanization has great potential in coming decades
and the nation is willing to start a joint research with the
World Bank Group on the issue, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said in a
meeting with the lender’s President Jim Yong Kim, Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday. Li is expected to replace  Wen Jiabao 
as China’s new premier in March.  Higher Confidence  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday that Asia’s largest
economy has “exceptional” growth prospects and reaffirmed its
 credit rating . A Bloomberg investor poll showed confidence in
 China’s economy  is at the highest in more than a year amid
optimism the new leadership headed by Xi Jinping will be better
for the financial climate.  Respondents who see the Chinese economy improving or
remaining stable surged to 72 percent this week, from 38 percent
in September, in the quarterly global poll of investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  China is showing signs of emerging from a seven-quarter
slowdown, with sectors from manufacturing to retail sales
indicating a pickup since October.  Cement Producers  Anhui Conch climbed 4.9 percent to 16.48  yuan . Huaxin
Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of Holcim Ltd., added 4.4
percent to 11.60 yuan. Guangdong Tapai Group Co. advanced 5.3
percent to 7.42 yuan.  Cement prices in the southern province of Guangdong have
risen by as much as 120 yuan a metric ton from the previous low,
the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing an
unidentified official within cement maker Tapai Group.  The National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics & Purchasing are due to release a manufacturing index
for this month tomorrow. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index probably
rose to 50.8 from 50.2 in October, according to the median
estimate of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey. A reading of
more than 50 indicates expansion.  Regulatory data showed the number of stock-trading accounts
that made transactions last week was the lowest since at least
January 2008, excluding weeks that had holidays. The  value  of
shares traded on the Shanghai stock exchange slumped to 33.1
billion yuan ($5.3 billion) on Nov. 26, the least since November
2008 and about a third of the 102 billion-yuan daily average
over the past five years.  Commission Fee  Sinolink Securities retreated 3.4 percent to 12.69 yuan,
extending yesterday’s 10 percent slump. Industrial Securities
Co. lost 1.3 percent to 9.16 yuan.  The 21st Century Business Herald said yesterday that the
China Securities Regulatory Commission is talking with
brokerages to lower commissions. The CSRC hasn’t set up a team
to study reducing fees, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing an unidentified official from the regulator.  The 14-day relative strength  index  for the Shanghai gauge,
measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a
specified time period, was at 29.5. Some investors view readings
below 30 as a sign an asset is poised to rise.  Long-term investors should take advantage of poor  market
sentiment  to accumulate A-shares, Vincent Chan and Peggy Chan,
analysts Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report today. The
bank set a 12-month target for the Shanghai Composite at 2,400
and recommended stocks including Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. and
Vanke, according to the report.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 13.4
today, compared with this year’s average of 16.9.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  