-- China Economic Optimism Returns in Poll as Xi Beats Hu
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T07:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/china-economic-optimism-returns-in-poll-as-xi-beats-hu.html
Confidence in  China’s economy  is at
the highest in more than a year amid optimism that the new
leadership headed by Xi Jinping will be better for the financial
climate, according to a Bloomberg investor poll.  Respondents who see the Chinese economy improving or
remaining stable surged to 72 percent this week from September’s
38 percent in the quarterly global poll of investors, analysts
and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers. Fifty-three percent
said they’re more optimistic about the effect of Xi’s policies
on investors, up from 42 percent who were asked in September
about President  Hu Jintao .  The renewed faith in the world’s second-largest economy
reflects data from factory production to retail sales showing
growth picking up this quarter after a seven-quarter slowdown.
Almost half of respondents anticipate Xi’s government will
pursue policies that boost expansion or keep it stable.  “China’s growth trajectory will accelerate moderately on a
six- to 12-month horizon based on the new leadership immediately
finalizing and implementing projects toward urbanization, rural
development and services,” said respondent Brad Bechtel, head
of sales at  Stamford , Connecticut-based Faros Trading LLC.
“Going into 2013 a lot of the concerns regarding China growth
falling off a cliff will subside.”  New Generation  The survey of 862 Bloomberg customers was conducted Nov. 27,
12 days after Vice President Xi was confirmed as head of the
Chinese Communist Party and the nation’s military, ushering in a
fifth generation of leaders who are set to take control. Xi is
in line to succeed Hu as president in March as part of the once-
a-decade power handover.  The combined 72 percent who see the economy improving or
remaining stable, including 28 percent who see it getting better,
were both the highest since the question was first asked in
September 2011. Twenty-five percent said the economy is
deteriorating, the least since the query was first asked and
down from 61 percent in September.  Respondents expecting  China  to offer investors the best
opportunities globally over the next year surged by 11
percentage points from September to 27 percent, a two-year high.
That was second to the U.S., which was named by 40 percent.  China’s domestic stock market has shown little sign of
optimism on growth. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index had
fallen 10.7 percent this year through yesterday, compared with
the 12.6 percent gain for the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and an 11.2 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of equities.
The Shanghai gauge rose 0.9 percent today.  ‘Powerful Rally’  “Economic data is showing early signs of bottoming and
with a new Politburo installed, we expect cuts in the bank
reserve ratio,” said respondent Andrew Swarbrick, head of
equity trading at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “Cheap,
under-owned and over-sold shares may combine with an improving
economy to drive a powerful rally in 2013.”  Nineteen percent of respondents said the new leadership
will speed up market-based reforms such as the dismantling of
state-owned enterprises. That compares with 6 percent who said
changes will slow down, while 54 percent said the current pace
will be maintained.  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , set to succeed  Wen Jiabao  as
premier in March, said last week that economic reform must be
quickened, citing areas including improving state-owned
companies and the taxation system.  Market Opening  “In a sluggish global economy, China will need to attract
foreign investments to achieve its growth target,” said poll
participant Richard Ho, a quantitative trader at Kokomo Capital
Pty Ltd. in Sydney. “This means they are going to need to open
the market.”  Among recent signs of accelerating growth in China’s
economy was a 20.5 percent surge in industrial companies’
profits in October, after  factory production  and overseas
shipments both rose in the month by the most since May.  Citigroup raised its 2013 gross domestic product growth
forecast for China to 7.8 percent from a previous estimate of
7.6 percent, according to a research note Nov. 26.  China must deepen its rural-to-urban population shift to
support the growth needed for the nation to overcome the so-
called middle-income trap of economic stagnation, Li said Nov.
21 in an article in the Communist Party’s flagship People’s
Daily newspaper.  “A younger, more educated leader has taken over,” said
Todd Cowle, a poll participant and managing partner at Ultimate
Tier Advisors LLC in Plano,  Texas . “The growing middle class in
China is what will drive the extraordinary growth being
experienced there.”  International Ties  The leadership change may be better for China’s ties with
the U.S. than with neighbors in  Asia , according to the survey.
China-U.S. economic relations will improve under Xi in the view
of 20 percent of respondents; 10 percent said connections will
deteriorate and 57 percent see little or no change.  That compares with 27 percent who said relations will grow
more tense with neighboring nations including  Japan ,  South Korea 
and the  Philippines . Forty-one percent see little or no change
and 12 percent see improvement. China is engaged in a
territorial dispute with Japan over islands in the  South China
Sea  and tensions have led Chinese consumers to shun Japanese
cars.  “There is definitely a geopolitical battle going on in the
region between the two big economic powers and there doesn’t
seem to be room on the block for both of them,” Faros’s Bechtel
said. “So I would imagine we continue to see friction there
over the coming months.”  The poll of Bloomberg customers was conducted by Selzer &
Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based company. The survey has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  