-- China Money Rate Poised for First Weekly Advance Since October
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T02:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/china-money-rate-poised-for-first-weekly-advance-since-october.html
China ’s money-market rate was set
for its first weekly gain since October on speculation banks are
hoarding cash to meet month-end  capital requirements .  The People’s Bank of China  drained  40 billion yuan ($6.4
billion) of capital from the financial market this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A government-backed
report due tomorrow may show manufacturing increased for a
second month. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to 50.8 in
November from 50.2 in October, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 56 basis points this week to 3.39
percent as of 10:32 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
The rate climbed six basis points today and 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, in November. It has fallen for the past
four weeks, losing 88 basis points.  “The month-end effect is pushing up the rates,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co.,
the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “But due to the central
bank’s continued reverse-repo offerings, the market isn’t that
nervous.”  The central bank offered 214 billion  yuan  of reverse-
repurchase contracts this week.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, advanced nine
basis points in the week to 3.42 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate gained one basis point today and
22 basis points this month.  The yield on the 2.91 percent government bonds due April
2015 climbed two basis points this week to 3.08 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. It was steady today
and rose three basis points in November.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 