-- China Developers Rise as Concern of Curbs Abates: Beijing Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T07:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/china-developers-rise-as-concern-of-curbs-abates-beijing-mover.html
Chinese developers rose by the most
in a month in Shanghai trading on optimism the government won’t
introduce further property curbs following comments from
officials on the country’s urbanization.  A  gauge  tracking Shanghai-traded developers jumped 3
percent at the close of trading, completing its biggest gain
since Nov. 1.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  advanced 5.2 percent to 5.29  yuan 
while Beijing Capital Development Co. climbed 3.5 percent to
10.13 yuan. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index gained 0.9
percent after four days of losses.  Concerns about further tightening eased after President Hu Jintao’s speech at a party congress this month outlining a
vision for the next decade placed little emphasis on the real
estate market, according to CEBM Group Ltd. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang ’s comments this week on the nation’s urbanization added
to investor interest.  “People have the straightforward idea that urbanization
means new urban residents and that would bring new demand for
homes,” said Luo Yu, a Shanghai-based analyst at CEBM Group, an
advisory company. “Investors are chasing property stocks as
there are few bright spots in other industries at the moment.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 10 percent this year as
the nation’s economy slowed for seven quarters.  China’s urbanization has great potential in coming decades
and the nation is willing to start a joint research with the
World Bank Group on the issue, Li said in a meeting with the
lender’s President Jim Yong Kim, Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. Li is expected to replace  Wen Jiabao  as China’s new
premier in March.  Prices Rise  In his Nov. 8 speech at the start of a Communist Party
Congress where  Xi Jinping  took over as the general secretary,
President Hu said China must double per-capita income by 2020.
That would mean home prices will more than double over the same
period, according to CEBM’s Luo.  China’s new-home  prices  climbed in 35 of the 70 cities the
government tracks in October, compared with 31 in September,
according to data from the statistics bureau released Nov. 18.
The central bank cut  interest rates  this year to help stem an
economic slowdown and lenders offered discounts on  mortgage
rates  to help first-home buyers.  In its more than two-year effort to curb the property
market, the central government has raised down-payment and
mortgage requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time
in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social
housing, and placed home-purchase restrictions in about 40
cities.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  