-- Citi’s McQuade, Children’s Aid, Beet Lollipop: N.Y. Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-30T17:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/citi-s-mcquade-children-s-aid-beet-lollipop-n-y-scene.html
Back in September, the  Children’s
Aid Society ’s chief executive, Richard Buery, told me about
plans to honor  Citigroup Inc. (C) , with then-CEO  Vikram Pandit 
accepting. Buery cited the firm’s more than 15-year relationship
with the nonprofit, including employee volunteering and
financial support.  By mid-October Pandit had been ousted from his post at the
company and his role at the benefit. So at last night’s event,
Eugene McQuade, head of the Citibank N.A. unit, was called to
the lectern to receive the Corporate Leadership Award on behalf
of his firm.  Asked about taking Pandit’s place, McQuade joked, “What?
I’m not as important?” He then praised Pandit as a “great
thought leader” on the issue of corporate citizenship, humbly
noting that his own involvement in the event was more “in an
organizational role. Tonight is about Citi’s support.”  McQuade also has a personal connection to Children’s Aid:
As a child he spent time at a Boys Club in  Manhattan , and
Children’s Aid Society is a founding member of the Boys and
Girls Clubs.  Another reason McQuade was selected: Citigroup’s new CEO,
Michael L. Corbat, had a prior commitment last night, spokesman
Ed Skyler said.  The switcharoo mattered not a bit to those gathered at 583
Park. The event, which also honored Bill McDermott, co-CEO of
 SAP AG (SAP) , raised more than $1.5 million.  Bright Mood  From beet lollipops at cocktail hour to the mashup of
Rodgers and Hammerstein’s “Some Enchanted Evening” and indie
pop band Fun’s hit “We Are Young” sung by the Children’s Aid
Chorus, the mood was bright.  The goal of Citi Foundation’s latest grant to Children’s
Aid Society, of $265,000, is to create a program that turns
college into “a when, not an if,” said Pamela Flaherty,
president of the foundation, said. Working with other nonprofits
such as  Kipp , the charter-school network, and Grameen Bank, the
foundation has already helped in the creation of more than
17,000 savings accounts.  McQuade said he drove a taxi to earn money for his
schooling.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Greg
Evans on  movies .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  