-- Climate Gridlock Frustrating Envoys at UN Talks in Doha
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-01T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/climate-effort-lacking-ambition-frustrates-envoys-at-un-talks.html
International efforts to curb global
warming are moving so slowly that that delegates from both rich
nations and poorer ones are expressing frustration with the
process.  “I don’t see as much public interest for governments to
take on more ambitious and more courageous decisions,”
Christiana Figueres, the diplomat organizing two weeks of United
Nations climate-change talks in Doha, said at a briefing
yesterday. “Each one of us needs to assume responsibility. It’s
not just about national governments. It’s about individuals.
It’s about civil society.”  Her comments were echoed by delegates at the 190-nation
talks from the European Union to Swaziland and Switzerland,
underscoring concerns that this year’s round of discussions will
make little progress toward the goal of protecting the
environment from fossil-fuel emissions.  “We’ve achieved nothing this week, and I’m very
concerned,” Bolivian delegation chief Rene Orellana said in an
interview. “We’re fried.”  In a speech to delegates, Orellana said that failing to
increase emissions-reduction pledges means, “we will have
condemned the planet to cook itself from 2020, and lives will be
at stake.”  The ambitions of the gatherings have been scaled back since
2009, when the group in Copenhagen failed to agree on a grand
bargain that would limit greenhouse-gas emissions worldwide.  ‘Blame Game’  “The situation is turning into a blame game,” Emmanuel
Dlamini of Swaziland, who speaks for the group of African
nations, said at a briefing yesterday. “It’s not designed to
address the real problems.”  The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said
developed countries need to cut emissions by 25 percent to 40
percent in 2020 from 1990 levels to meet its target of
constraining warming since the industrial revolution to 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degree Fahrenheit). Just Norway and  Monaco 
among developed nations have submitted pledges in that range.  Delegates have been negotiating in two parallel sets of
discussion and last year decided to open a third track. The new
track aims at a treaty by 2015 that would come into force by
2020. This year’s meeting is aimed at closing the first two
tracks and concentrating on the third.  “There’s not been much progress made” on either track or
on finance, China’s lead negotiator, Su Wei, said in an
interview. “Certainly we cannot resolve all the issues in
Doha.”  ‘Progress’  While Figueres said she expects “substantial progress”
tomorrow and a successful conclusion on Dec. 7, other envoys say
two of the three tracks of negotiation are bogged down.  One channel is to extend the Kyoto Protocol limiting fossil
fuel emissions in industrial countries. It may produce a text by
Dec. 5, when senior ministers are due in Doha to seal the pact.
On another, known as the Long Term Cooperative Action track,
envoys have yet to decide how to fold unresolved issues into the
new discussions.  “On the LCA relatively little has been achieved,” said
Artur Runge-Metzger, the European Union’s chief envoy in Doha.
“At the moment I wouldn’t think the balance is there. There’s
more that negotiators need to do to get balance in these
negotiations.”  Rising Seas  African nations and the Alliance of Small Island States
expressed frustration that delay risks annihilating their
countries. Organizations from the World Bank to the
International Energy Agency warned the pace of warming is
accelerating, melting ice and raising sea levels.  Along with the G77 group of about 130 developing nations
and  China , they’re calling for industrial nations to ramp up
climate aid to $60 billion annually by 2015, from a total of $30
billion over the last three years. China’s Su also said more
progress is needed to overcome developed countries’ concerns
about intellectual property rights and transfer clean energy and
efficient technologies to developing countries.  “We need to take measures to ensure technology is
transferred at reasonable cost that is affordable by developing
countries,” Su said. “We’re not going to request technology
transfer free of charge. We certainly respect IP rights.”  Oceans worldwide rose by an average of about 11 millimeters
(0.43 inches) from 1992 to 2011 as ice sheets near both poles
melted, according to an article in the journal Science.  “The offer on the table is deeply inadequate,” said Sai
Navoti, lead negotiator for the AOSIS bloc of 43 island nations.
“How many conferences do we have to endure where we go back to
our countries and say, ‘next year we will increase ambition to
reduce emissions, next year we will see finance, next year we
will save the climate? No more next years.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  