-- Clinton Says U.S. Worries of Renewed Euro Zone Recession
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/clinton-says-u-s-worries-of-renewed-euro-zone-recession.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. is concerned that the euro zone’s economy “is
slipping back into recession as austerity policies take
effect.”  The top U.S. diplomat said yesterday that France and
Germany are “beginning to show signs of slowdown” and “it’s
vital to the entire global economy that European leaders move
toward policies that promote credible and sustainable growth and
create jobs.”  Clinton, speaking about the U.S.-European partnership at
the  Brookings Institution , a Washington policy institute, said
it isn’t the role of the U.S. “to dictate any answer” for the
17 euro zone nations to resolve their economic troubles.  “I want to urge European leaders to keep working to
address the challenge of economic growth and jobs,” she said.  Clinton praised the  European Central Bank  for pledging to
stand behind governments implementing financial reforms,
reducing borrowing costs for those countries. She lauded Greece
for taking “an important step by passing a budget and reform
package that makes tough tradeoffs,” and the IMF and European
governments for agreeing on measures to reduce Greece’s debt
burden.  Clinton also said she will be making her 38th trip to
Europe as secretary of state next week. In  Prague , she said she
will discuss efforts to promote Czech energy independence and
advance human rights and democracy. In Brussels, she will attend
a NATO meeting and discuss shared security challenges, including
winding down the war in  Afghanistan .  Dublin Conference  In Dublin, at a meeting of the  Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe , she will discuss security, democracy
and human rights across  Europe  and Eurasia, she said. In
 Belfast , she said she will reiterate the U.S. commitment to a
peaceful and prosperous Northern Ireland.  Russia remains one of the biggest challenges the U.S. and
Europe face together, she said.  “The reality is we have serious and continuing differences
on Syria, missile defense, NATO enlargement, human rights and
other issues,” Clinton said. “It will be up to us and our
European partners to continue looking for opportunities to
engage with Russia and make progress on the issues that matter
to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  