-- Codelco Seeing Solid Interest From China for Copper Contracts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T05:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/codelco-seeing-solid-interest-from-china-for-copper-contracts.html
Codelco, the largest copper
producer, said there’s “sound and solid” interest from
customers in  China  for next year amid signs of an economic
recovery in the world’s biggest market for the metal.  “There’s a lot of optimism regarding copper demand going
forward,” Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  said today in
an interview in  Shanghai . Demand may grow about 5 percent to 7
percent next year in China, he said, citing analysts’ estimates.  The world’s second-largest economy in September approved
plans to build as much as 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles) of
roads and subways estimated by Nomura Holdings Inc. to be worth
about 1 trillion yuan ($161 billion). Data from factory
production to retail sales show growth in China picking up this
quarter after a seven-quarter slowdown and Rio Tinto Group Chief
Executive Officer Tom Albanese said this week the nation is
beginning to see “green shoots”.  “We’re positive about the prospects for next year, which
to some extent has been confirmed by the interest our clients
have demonstrated in our contracts for next year,” Keller said.
“I can indicate that the interest is very sound and solid.”  Copper in  London  is poised for a monthly gain as the metal
in Shanghai rose to a four-week high. The contract for delivery
in three months added 0.2 percent to $7,918.25 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange at 11:44 a.m. in  Singapore  and is up
2.1 percent this month. Futures in Shanghai added 1.3 percent to
57,120 yuan ($9,214) a ton, the highest since Nov. 2.  China Confidence  Confidence in  China’s economy  is at the highest in more
than a year amid optimism that the new leadership headed by Xi
Jinping will be better for the financial climate, according to a
Bloomberg investor poll.  Respondents who see the Chinese economy improving or
remaining stable surged to 72 percent this week from September’s
38 percent in the quarterly global poll of investors, analysts
and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers. Fifty-three percent
said they’re more optimistic about the effect of Xi’s policies
on investors, up from 42 percent who were asked in September
about President  Hu Jintao .  China’s new leadership may be a boost for the copper
industry should it continue with policies that accelerate
urbanziation, Codelco’s Keller said.  “We have ground to believe that kind of policy will
underpin copper demand,” he said. “Urbanization is very copper
demand-intensive exercise.”  Santiago, Chile-based Codelco plans to cut the premium on
sales to China by 11 percent to $98 for 2013, according to two
people familiar with the talks. Keller said contracts are still
being finalized, while not confirming the premium figures.  State-owned Codelco is targeting annual output of more than
2 million tons toward the end of the decade, from  “slightly
below” 1.7 million tons this year, Keller said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  