-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Little Changed; GulfMark Sells Bond
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-30T23:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/company-credit-swaps-in-u-s-little-changed-gulfmark-plans-bond.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk ended the week little changed as President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders continue to negotiate an agreement on the
 federal budget .  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.5
basis point to a mid-price of 98.6 basis points since Nov. 23,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index fell 1.1
basis points in November, the fifth decline in six months.  The gauge reached a 16-week high of 113 basis points on
Nov. 15 as investors grew concerned that lawmakers are running
out of time to strike a compromise to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff of reduced spending and higher taxes set to take effect
next year. Congressional Republicans rejected the Obama
administration’s budget proposal to trade $1.6 trillion in tax
increases for $400 billion in unspecified spending cuts.  “All the often-conflicting rhetoric coming out of
 Washington  lends itself to an environment where you’re going to
have spreads oscillate,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income
strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said that lawmakers were
“almost nowhere” closer to coming to an agreement. Boehner,
speaking at a press conference today in Washington, said Obama’s
plan was not a serious offer and that “real spending cuts”
were needed in order to reach a compromise.  Consumer Spending  Spending by U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in October as
superstorm Sandy kept those in the Northeast from shopping at
malls and car dealerships. Purchases dropped 0.2 percent, the
weakest reading since May, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for no change in so-called nominal
sales.  The credit-swaps index, which reached the lowest in more
than two weeks on Nov. 23, typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  GulfMark Offshore Inc. (GLF)  sold an additional $200 million of
its 6.375 percent notes maturing in March 2022, after issuing
$300 million of the debt eight months ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Houston-based company plans to use
the proceeds to repay existing credit facilities and to fund
vessel construction costs.  Junk Spreads  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt narrowed 4
basis points to 5.78 percentage points today, led by spreads on
the bonds of  utility companies , which dropped 8 basis points to
13.3 percentage points, Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-
risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 10.6 basis points this week to an almost six-
week low of 500 basis points, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, fell 1.1 basis points to 11.94 basis
points this week. The spread typically narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of  government securities .  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Yum!
Brands Inc. (YUM)  rose 5.6 basis points to 61.1 basis points today,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The owner of the Taco Bell and KFC fast-food chains said
same-store sales in  China  will decline 4 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with a 21 percent increase a year earlier.
China, which accounted for 44 percent of the Louisville,
Kentucky-based company’s revenue last year, is grappling with an
economy where growth has slowed for seven quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  