-- Company Bond Sales to Fall in 2013 After Refinancing Rush
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-11-30T12:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/company-bond-sales-to-fall-in-2013-after-refinancing-rush-1-.html
Company debt issuance in  Europe  will
shrink as much as 37 percent in 2013 after sales this year were
inflated by borrowers locking in record-low rates to refinance
debt early.  Corporate borrowers will raise as little as 105 billion
euros ($136 billion) from bonds next year compared with 167
billion euros so far this year, according to Harpreet Parhar, a
strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  who compared sales in euros
from investment-grade and high junk-rated European issuers.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  sees a 15 percent fall in high-grade sales in
2013, while  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  predicts a 6 percent drop.  Company treasurers are taking advantage of rock-bottom
yields to raise debt from investors seeking better returns than
the near-zero rates on the safest government debt. Borrowers are
concerned credit markets will be less benign next year should
Europe’s recession worsen and tensions over austerity measures
increase amid elections in Italy and  Germany .  “There will be some volatility around elections and
companies are likely to try and fund ahead of some of those
events,” Charles Watford, a credit analyst at PIMCO in London,
said by phone. “With yields at record lows and spreads also
coming in a lot, we’re seeing more issuance occurring than in
the fourth quarter of 2011.”  VW, BHP  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, led this year’s
sales with 10.4 billion euros of issuance, followed by miner BHP
Billiton Plc on 6.2 billion euros and Italian power company  Enel
SpA (ENEL)  at 6.1 billion euros, according to Bloomberg data tracking
issuance of non-financial issuance in euros and pounds.  Sales reached a record in September after European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi’s pledge to buy unlimited amounts of
sovereign bonds boosted investor confidence in euro-area debt.
His comments spurred sales from the region’s so-called periphery
with  Energias de Portugal SA  offering the country’s first
benchmark-sized corporate bonds since January 2011.  Europe’s car manufacturers issued a record $29 billion of
bonds this year as the industry faces $41 billion of redemptions
in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Fiat SpA, Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and Renault SA sold $1.2 billion of notes this
week, helping boost this year’s total to almost triple the $11
billion raised in 2011.  “Companies are playing it safe and refinancing earlier,”
said Jane Wride, a credit analyst at Invesco Asset Management
Ltd. in London. “It makes sense to lock in decent interest
rates as demand for paper is currently so healthy.”  Lower Need  Morgan Stanley forecasts a 15 percent decline in sales from
investment-grade non-financial companies to 128 billion euros
next year, analysts led by Andrew Sheets wrote in a Nov. 23
report. Societe Generale SA predicts 190 billion euros of
issuance next year from high-grade and junk companies, compared
with 202 billion euros sold so far this year, credit strategist
 Suki Mann  wrote in a Nov. 28 research note.  “We think issuance will be much more modest next year as
there’s simply a lower need for cash,” said Credit Agricole’s
Parhar, who is based in London.  Yields on non-financial corporate bonds dropped to 1.9
percent from 3.3 percent at the start of the year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates, Non-Financial
Index. The premium to the benchmark government debt has narrowed
75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage points, to 118 basis points
since the end of December.  Returns on corporate debt jumped 9 percent this year,
that’s more than double the figure for 2012 and almost three
times the 3.3 percent investors made holding German government
bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “It has been the second-best year for credit since 1999,
beaten only by 2009,” HSBC Holdings Plc credit strategists led
by Lior Jassur wrote in a report. “We caution such performance
is unlikely to be repeated in 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in  London  at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  