-- Congress Urged to Save Expiring Mortgage Relief Tax Break
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/congress-urged-to-save-expiring-mortgage-relief-tax-break.html
Congress has been urged to extend a
$1.3 billion federal tax break on write-offs of mortgage debt
that may expire at the end of the year even as lenders are
increasingly cutting loan principal to help troubled borrowers.  The Mortgage Debt Relief Act of 2007 enables borrowers to
avoid paying income taxes on the amount of principal that’s
forgiven as part of a loan modification or during a short sale
in which they sell their homes for less than they owe. If the
measure expires, homeowners would have to count such debt
reduction as money they earned.  “If these folks are going to have to pay tax on phantom
income, it’s very impactful for homeowners,” Mark Goldhaber, a
North Carolina mortgage industry consultant, said in an
interview.  Whether Congress will act by the end of the year remains to
be seen. The fate of tax break is largely bound up in the
negotiations over the fiscal cliff. Though Democrats and some
Republicans have called for the extension, the debt forgiveness
measure would probably come as part of a broader package of tax-
law changes.  The expiration of the tax break comes at the same time that
federal  policies  are making short sales and other forms of debt
forgiveness more common. Advocates for homeowners and mortgage
industry participants say the break’s expiration could
jeopardize progress made this year working through the backlog
of troubled loans resulting from the housing market crisis.  Incentives Tripled  The Treasury Department in January tripled the incentives
it pays lenders for mortgage modifications to as much as 63
cents for each dollar of debt written off. In addition, the
February federal and state legal settlement over foreclosure
abuses requires the nation’s five largest lenders to cut about
$10 billion in debt for troubled borrowers.  Meanwhile,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-owned
companies that back about two-thirds of all mortgages,
streamlined their short-sale processes this year.  The  effects  are beginning to show: Lenders erased some of
the principal owed in more than 11 percent of loan modifications
in the second quarter of 2012, up 82 percent from a year
earlier, according to data from the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency.  Progress Reported  The monitor of the foreclosure settlement reported this
month that banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Bank of America
cut about $2.55 billion in principal on first-lien mortgages and
approved 113,000 short sales for another $13.1 billion in
writedowns.  “With all of the work that has been done through the
national mortgage settlement and through the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  with short-sale streamlining, all of that makes
this much more urgent,” said Julia Gordon, director of housing
finance and policy at the Center for American Progress in
Washington.  Fearing that an end to the tax break could threaten
progress on the settlement, 40 state attorneys general sent a
 letter  to Congress this month urging its extension.  “Requiring a homeowner to pay income tax on forgiven or
canceled mortgage debt would make the National Mortgage
Settlement much less effective,” the letter said.  The Senate Finance Committee passed a one-year extension in
August with a bipartisan vote of 19-5. The Joint Committee on
Taxation estimated at the time that the cost to taxpayers would
be $1.3 billion. The matter hasn’t come up for a vote of the
full Senate, nor has it come to a vote in the  House of
Representatives .  Retroactive Option  The tax break applies to debt forgiven through the end of
this year, making it possible for Congress to retroactively
institute the change for 2013 sometime next year.  Still, advocates say a delay would create uncertainty and
prevent some transactions. Meanwhile, some, including Gordon,
are pushing for a broader overhaul of the tax break. Currently,
the law counts forgiven debt from cash-out refinances as taxable
income, and the advocates would like to see that exception
dropped because it creates a large paperwork burden for everyone
who claims an exemption from tax on forgiven debt.  “In a world where we’re talking about  tax reform , this is
just a great example of unnecessary complexity that helps no one
and hurts everyone,” Gordon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  