-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Stagnated in October on Storm
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-stagnated-in-october-on-storm.html
Spending by U.S. consumers probably
stagnated in October as income gains slowed and superstorm Sandy
deterred those in the Northeast from shopping at malls and car
dealerships, economists said before a report today.  Household purchases were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since June, after advancing 0.8 percent in September,
according to the median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The report may also  show  incomes grew 0.2 percent
after increasing 0.4 percent in September.  Sandy shuttered hundreds of retailers when it made landfall
on Oct. 29, temporarily countering the benefit from rising
consumer sentiment that has brightened the holiday-shopping
outlook. Faster job and income growth would help stoke household
spending after a third-quarter slowdown, helping explain why the
 Federal Reserve  is pursuing policy aimed at spurring hiring.  “There was basically a reorganization of sales around the
hurricane-affected areas,” said Steven Wieting, head of
economic and market analysis at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .
“It’s likely to affect November as well.”  The Commerce Department will release the spending report at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from a
drop of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  Household  purchases  climbed at a 1.4 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, the smallest gain in more than a year and
down from a previously reported 2 percent advance, revised data
from Commerce Department showed yesterday. In the second
quarter, spending increased at a 1.5 percent pace.  Sandy Effect  An earlier read on October spending showed  retail sales 
fell for the first time in four months, according to Nov. 14
figures from the Commerce Department. While the government said
it was able to collect information from storm-affected areas, it
said it couldn’t quantify Sandy’s impact.  Retailers posted November same-store sales that trailed
analysts’ estimates as superstorm Sandy depressed traffic early
in the month, overwhelming gains from the start of holiday
shopping, according to a report yesterday.  Sales at  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-
store company, fell 0.7 percent, compared with the average
projection for a 2.5 percent gain from analysts surveyed by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Target Corp., the second-largest
U.S. discount chain, posted a 1 percent decline in same-store
sales, missing the estimate for a 2.1 percent increase.  Macy’s shares dropped 4.3 percent yesterday and Target fell
less than 0.1 percent even as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 0.4 percent amid investor optimism that lawmakers will
reach agreement on the  federal budget .  Trailing Estimates  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics increased 1.6
percent, excluding drugstores, trailing the estimate for a 3.5
percent gain, the firm said. That follows a 5 percent October
advance.  Sandy closed as many as 230 stores owned by Brown Shoe Co.,
according to Diane Sullivan, the St. Louis-based company’s
president and chief executive officer. While all but four
locations re-opened within nine days, the operator of the Famous
Footwear chain expects fourth-quarter sales were cut by about
$2.5 million, Sullivan said during a Nov. 20 earnings call.  The storm affected 106  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  stores and
curtailed online shopping, reducing fiscal third-quarter revenue
by about 1 percentage point, according to Chief Financial
Officer Frank Conforti. The impact will be smaller in the fourth
quarter, he said on a Nov. 19 call with analysts.  Car and light truck demand  also cooled, falling to a 14.2
million pace last month, after Sandy hit during the auto
industry’s busiest time of the month. Carmakers have said those
sales should be made up by the end of the year.  Even so, job growth, climbing home values and better
household finances are lifting Americans’ spirits. The
Conference Board’s  sentiment index  climbed this month to the
highest level since February 2008, a report showed this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  