-- Copper Futures Post Biggest Weekly Gain Since September
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-30T19:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/copper-advances-to-five-week-high-on-china-growth-optimism.html
Copper futures advanced, capping the
biggest weekly gain in more than two months, on optimism that
demand will increase in  China , the world’s top user of
industrial metal.  Confidence in  China’s economy  is at the highest in more
than a year amid speculation that  Xi Jinping , the new leader,
will be better for the financial climate, according to a
Bloomberg investor poll. A report tomorrow may disclose that
manufacturing increased this month. In the U.S., business
activity in November expanded for the first time in three
months, MNI  Chicago  Report’s business barometer showed today.  “The general chatter is that China may be doing better,”
 Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services
LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “All of the
industrials pick up when the world economy looks better.”  Copper futures for March delivery rose 1.2 percent to
settle at $3.65 a pound at 1:21 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Earlier, the price reached $3.6515, the highest for a most-
active contract since Oct. 22. This week, the metal gained 3.1
percent, the most since mid-September.  The Chinese Purchasing Managers’ Index probably will
increase to 50.8 in November from 50.2, according to the median
of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chile’s state-owned Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, cited “sound and solid” interest from customers for
next year. Demand may grow 5 percent to 7 percent in 2013 in
China, Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  said today in
Shanghai, citing analyst estimates.  Copper, up 3.8 percent in November, has advanced 6.2
percent this year. Inventory monitored by the London Metal
Exchange, down 0.4 percent today, has dropped 33 percent this
year.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 1.2
percent to $7,995 a ton ($3.63 a pound). Aluminum, nickel, zinc
and lead gained, while tin dropped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  