-- Corporate Bond Risk Falls for Sixth Month in Europe on Stimulus
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-11-30T10:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/corporate-bond-risk-falls-for-sixth-month-in-europe-on-stimulus.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European corporate debt fell, heading for a sixth month of
declines, as central bank stimulus and confidence the economy is
recovering fuels demand for higher yielding assets.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield ratings dropped four
basis points to 493.5 at 10:30 a.m. in London.  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the
Nordic region’s biggest phone operator, is selling benchmark
senior unsecured bonds due in 2024.  Corporate borrowing and insurance costs are tumbling as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s unlimited lending
program and $2.4 trillion of bond purchases by the  Federal
Reserve  to stimulate the economy give banks and investors more
cash to buy fixed-income securities. The rally is also being
fueled by confidence in  China’s economy , which is at the highest
in more than a year, and optimism U.S. politicians will reach an
agreement to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of spending cuts
and tax increases.  “Continued stimulus and liquidity support and conviction
the ECB will continue to do what it needs to do have meant you
have to invest in credit, there is nothing else,” said Simon Ballard, a credit strategist at National Australia Bank in
 London . “We’re going to continue to grind tighter into year
end, but investors are becoming more discerning.”  Credit Quality  The high-yield measure is down from 529 basis points on
Oct. 31 and 720 on May 31, signaling improvement in perceptions
of credit quality. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell 0.5 basis point to
122.5, compared with 130 last month and 180 six months ago.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell one basis point to 159 and the
subordinated index declined 1.5 to 279.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  