-- CSN Said to Offer $3 Billion for ThyssenKrupp Plants
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-11-30T23:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/csn-said-to-offer-3-billion-for-thyssenkrupp-plants.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID) ,
 Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by output, offered about $3
billion to buy the two  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s plants in the Americas,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, is among two
companies that will participate in the final round of
negotiations, said one of the people, who asked to not be
identified because the discussion is private.  Ternium SA (TX) , the
second-largest steelmaker in  Latin America , also remains in
negotiations, the people said.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, initially
attracted about eight bids for the unprofitable U.S. and
Brazilian plants, two people familiar with the matter said Oct.
11. About six bidders remained after ThyssenKrupp asked them to
resubmit higher bids, two people familiar with the matter said
on Nov. 19. Now only two bidders have proposals, the people
said.  ThyssenKrupp Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger 
said in August he wants to sell the Americas unit for its book
value of about 7 billion euros ($9.1 billion).  CSN’s American depositary receipts fell 6 percent to close
at $4.83 in  New York . The Sao Paulo-traded shares declined 6.2
percent to 10.38 reais in extended trading.  Officials from CSN’s press office in Sao Paulo declined to
comment on the deal. ThyssenKrupp, based in Essen, Germany,
declined to comment on the bids.  ‘Makes Sense’  Ternium CEO Daniel Novegil said in a third-quarter
conference call that it “makes sense for us to check out if
there is an integration opportunity” with ThyssenKrupp,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Luxembourg-based
firm. The company declined to comment on the negotiations.  ThyssenKrupp announced in May that a sale of its plants in
Alabama and  Rio de Janeiro  is among “strategic options” amid
rising building costs and project delays. The company was
already divesting assets contributing about a quarter of annual
revenue before that decision, including a stainless-steel
business.  ThyssenKrupp started operating the Brazilian plant in 2010,
two years later than originally planned, to provide steel slabs
to its mills in Alabama and Germany. The two Americas plants,
which required ThyssenKrupp investments of more than 10 billion
euros, according to Hiesinger, were meant to work as an
integrated network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  