-- Cyprus, Troika Agree Bailout Terms, ECB Demetriades Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-11-30T12:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/cyprus-troika-agree-bailout-terms-ecb-demetriades-says.html
Cyprus and international lenders
have agreed on the terms of a bailout the eastern Mediterranean
country needs to refinance its banks and pay bills,  European
Central Bank  governing council member Panicos Demetriades said.  “The memorandum has been agreed and the only thing missing
is the exact amount which will be discussed at a eurogroup
meeting,” Demetriades told reporters in Nicosia today. “The
main thing is that there is an agreement.”  Cyprus in June became the fourth euro-area nation to
request a financial rescue since  Greece ’s 2010 bailout after
Cypriot lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus Popular
Bank pcl  were weakened by their exposure to the  Greek economy .
Cypriot banks lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) in
Greece’s debt restructuring.  The exact amount needed to recapitalize Cypriot banks,
which will determine the total bailout amount, hasn’t been
established yet while the so-called troika of the  International
Monetary Fund , the European Central Bank and the European
Commission estimates the lenders may need 10 billion euros,
Demetriades said. The deal with creditors ensures the viability
of Cypriot debt, he said.  Workers Protest  About 150 contract workers protested at the country’s
finance ministry and then Parliament yesterday after last week’s
announcement of the 2013 budget, which includes a 5.3 percent
spending cut from wages, pensions and bonuses in the public
sector as well as staff reductions and salary freezes.  The outlook for the Cypriot banking system remains
negative, reflecting in part the likelihood of severe capital
shortfalls, Moody’s Investors Services said yesterday. Moody’s
said it estimates that the cost of recapitalizing Cyprus’s
three-largest banks to a 10 percent core Tier 1 ratio, which is
a measure of financial strength, will be more than 8 billion
euros.  Cyprus is awaiting the results of an interim report from
Pacific Investment Management Co. that will determine the
capital needs of each lender. The final report will be published
in late January, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said Nov. 22.
The interim figures will be published on Dec. 7.  Bailout Amount  The Cyprus loan deal will be discussed at a Dec. 3 meeting
of euro-area finance ministers, an EU official today told
reporters in Brussels on condition of anonymity. The ministers
are currently studying a draft memorandum of understanding. The
exact amount of the bailout can’t be determined until after the
Pimco report is completed, the official said.  The country may need as much as 17.5 billion euros in aid,
almost the size of its economy, based on the 10 billion euros-
figure for the banks, 6 billion euros to refinance state debt
from 2013 to 2016 and 1.5 billion euros to cover fiscal
deficits, Shiarly also said Nov. 22. Cyprus is aiming for a rate
of 2.5 percent on its troika loans, Stockwatch yesterday
reported Shiarly as saying.  An agreement with international creditors will require a
fiscal adjustment of about 7.3 percent of gross domestic product
between 2012 and 2016, Cyprus’s  Finance Ministry  said yesterday.
The country aims at a primary surplus of 4 percent of its
economy by 2016, it said.  The economy will shrink 2.4 percent this year and 3.5
percent next year, according to the 2013 budget, released on
Nov. 22. The Cypriot economy was estimated to be worth almost 18
billion euros in 2011, according to the Nicosia-based Cyprus
Statistical Service. Demetriades is also governor of the Central
Bank of Cyprus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  