-- Deutsche Telekom Liability in $794 Million Suit Doubted by Judge
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-11-30T14:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/deutsche-telekom-liability-in-794-million-suit-doubted-by-judge.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  got a boost in
its fight against a 612 million-euro ($794 million) damage suit
by the founders of competitor  Telegate AG (TGT) , after a judge voiced
doubts on the merits of the case.  Klaus Harisch and Peter Wuensch may not be entitled to
claim compensation for the depressive effect that Deutsche
Telekom’s overcharging for directory data had on Telegate shares
they sold, Presiding Judge Rainer Hahn said at a hearing in
Cologne today. The men are claiming damages that would have been
incurred by the company and not them individually, Hahn said, as
he gave his initial view on the case.  “What the plaintiff seeks is a mere refection of the
company’s damage” and in such a situation, “the law doesn’t
allow them to seek any payments,” said Hahn. “That’s my
preliminary view of the issue but I want to stress that this
court will still deliberate and reserves to rule in any way it
seems fit in the end.”  Deutsche Telekom has fought complaints for years by
directory service providers who said they were being charged too
much for the services and data that  Germany ’s former phone
monopoly was legally obliged to provide.  The country’s top civil court this year backed two lower
court rulings requiring Deutsche Telekom to pay back a combined
97.2 million euros in overcharged fees and legal costs.  The Cologne court today also heard another case by Telegate
seeking an additional 86 million euros in damages. The Munich-
based company argues that Deutsche Telekom’s overcharging curbed
profits.  Hahn told Telegate’s lawyers they have to show their
business plans from the time the alleged lost profits were
incurred.  ‘Wishful Thinking’  “Lost profits may not consist of wishful thinking only,”
said Hahn. The court scheduled a ruling for April 16.  Georg Jochum, a lawyer for Telegate and the two founders,
said the court has taken a debatable view of the law. The case
may end up in German’s top civil court unless Hahn and his two
colleagues change their minds, he said after the hearing.  Deutsche Telekom lawyer Joachim Schuetze told the court
Telegate tries to “dress up the figures” by claiming it would
have made more money. He asked the court to dismiss the cases.  Telegate is majority owned by  Italy ’s  Seat Pagine Gialle
SpA. (PG)   Today’s cases are LG Koeln, 87 O 7/06 and 87 O 8/06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Cologne via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  