-- Duane Morris, Milberg, Ernst & Young: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/duane-morris-milberg-ernst-young-business-of-law.html
The legal dispute between  Argentina 
and  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. has largely
overshadowed the claims of hundreds of Italian pensioners who
also hold bonds of the South American country.  Milberg LLP and Duane Morris LLP separately are
representing these individuals, who years ago invested some of
their savings in Argentine bonds but never exchanged them for
restructured debt after the country’s 2001 default.  Their lawyers say the dispute has hurt these individuals
financially and in their reputations.  “Argentina for so long has said that all of the debt
holdouts are vulture funds and speculators,” Rudolph DiMassa, a
partner at Duane Morris, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. His clients, however, like those represented by
Milberg, are individuals who “all paid 100 cents on the dollar
for their bonds.”  DiMassa’s clients, with holdings “close to $200 million
with interest,” weren’t parties to the most recent ruling of
U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa. The judge ruled Nov. 21 that
Argentina had to pay $1.3 billion, the amount claimed by holders
of the defaulted debt, into an escrow account by Dec. 15 if it
makes the restructured debt payments.  DiMassa said that his clients will probably seek permission
to file what’s known as an amicus brief in the appeal of the
ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York .  Milberg joined the litigation directly, according to
partner  Michael Spencer , even though the claims of the so-called
holdout hedge funds dwarf those of his clients. His clients’
investments are “in the range of $525 million” -- not
including any post-judgment interest.  Known as the Varela plaintiffs in the litigation, his
clients are siding with Elliott’s NML Capital Ltd. because “we
thought joining with the funds was an effective way of getting
paid,” Spencer said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Working with DiMassa on the case are partners Anthony Costantini and Gerard Catalanello and associate Suzan Jo.
Working with Spencer at Milberg is associate Gary Snitow.  Argentina won a delay of Griesa’s ruling on Nov. 28 when
the federal appeals court imposed a stay, postponing the effect
of the rulings. The court, which is considering Argentina’s
appeal, said it will handle the case on an expedited basis,
setting Feb. 27 for oral argument.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 12-
105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  Ex-Ernst & Young Lawyers’ Tax-Shelter Convictions Reversed  Two former Ernst & Young LLP tax attorneys, Richard Shapiro
and Martin Nissenbaum, won reversal of their convictions for
developing illegal tax shelters sold by the accounting firm from
1999 to 2001.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
York ruled 2-1 that the convictions weren’t supported by
sufficient evidence. The court yesterday also affirmed guilty
verdicts against former Ernst & Young tax lawyer Robert Coplan
and a former accountant at the firm, Brian Vaughn. The four were
convicted after a 10-week trial in 2010.  Jurors found that the former Ernst & Young executives sold
illegal shelters to wealthy clients based on fraudulent factual
scenarios. That helped the clients reduce or eliminate tax
liabilities on incomes of more than $10 million.  The scheme generated billions of dollars in paper losses
used to offset taxes owed, prosecutors said. The government lost
$2 billion in taxes in a scheme that involved about 40 people,
the judge said.  The four were members of New York-based Ernst & Young’s
VIPER Group, which stood for Value Ideas Produce Extraordinary
Results.  In its decision, the court also affirmed a 15-month prison
sentence imposed on a fifth man in the case, Charles Bolton, an
 investment adviser  who pleaded guilty to a single count of
conspiracy. The court threw out a $3 million fine against
Bolton, sending the matter back to the trial court to reduce it
to $250,000, which the court said was the maximum allowed under
the law.  Ernst & Young, which wasn’t charged, said it cooperated
with the government’s investigation.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Coplan, 10-583, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee’s Firm Seeks $61.7 Million in Five Months’ Fees  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage asked a judge
to approve fees for himself and his law firm of $61.7 million
for the five months from Feb. 1 to June 30, plus $1 million of
expenses, for 179,055 hours of work, according to a federal
court filing in Manhattan.  Trustee Irving Picard’s website says he has recovered or is
due to receive a total of $9.2 billion, mostly from alleged
participants in the fraud, to return to the con man’s investors
who have filed claims for an estimated $17.3 billion in lost
principal.  Two Arrested, Sued in Alleged IBM Deal Inside-Trading Scheme  Two ex-brokers accused of running a $1 million insider-
trading scheme tied to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s
acquisition of SPSS Inc. were criminally charged and sued by
U.S. authorities.  Thomas Conradt, 34, a Denver lawyer, and David Weishaus,
32, described by the government as longtime friends, were
arrested yesterday by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,  Peter
Donald , an FBI spokesman, said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a
civil suit filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan that
the men learned that IBM had retained a law firm in connection
with its possible acquisition of the  software company  before it
was announced.  IBM and SPSS issued a press release on July 27, 2009, on
IBM’s plan to buy SPSS for about $1.2 billion, or $50 a share.  The two men had learned of the deal two months earlier from
a roommate of Conradt’s who got the information from an
associate at a law firm that worked on the deal, the SEC
alleges.  Conradt passed the information to Weishaus and at least
three others who then traded in SPSS stock in July, the
regulators said.  “Ultimately, the trades placed by Conradt, Weishaus and
three registered representatives resulted in ill-gotten gains
exceeding $1 million,” the SEC alleged.  The case is SEC v. Conradt, 12-cv-8676, Southern District
of New York.  Law Firm News  Atlanta’s Smith Gambrell Merges With New York’s Hartman & Craven  Smith, Gambrell & Russell LLP merged with Hartman & Craven
LLP, a New York  law firm , as of Oct. 1, according to a
statement.  Hartman & Craven’s attorneys will practice as the Hartman &
Craven Law Group of Smith, Gambrell & Russell LLP until the end
of 2013. Smith, Gambrell & Russell LLP will continue to be the
firm’s name, with headquarters in Atlanta.  Stephen M. Forte, Smith, Gambrell’s chairman and managing
partner, said in a statement that “Hartman & Craven’s real
estate and corporate transactional capabilities, coupled with
their experienced litigation and trusts and estates practices,
greatly enhance SGR’s existing capabilities both in New York and
firmwide.”  Two Employment Lawyers Join Baker Hostetler Chicago Office  Baker & Hostetler LLP said Joel Griswold and Melissa
Siebert joined the firm as partners in its Chicago office in the
employment and labor group. Both attorneys previously worked at
K&L Gates LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  