-- East Asia Leadership Overhaul May Boost Prospects for Trade Pact
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-11-30T05:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/east-asia-leadership-overhaul-may-boost-prospects-for-trade-pact.html
Leadership changes in  China , Japan
and South  Korea  may boost prospects for a regional free trade
agreement after tensions intensified this year over territorial
disputes, a South Korean policy adviser said.  Talks on a three-nation free trade deal are expected to
begin in March and continue at a May summit meeting, Shin Bong Kil, who represented South Korea during FTA negotiations with
China in 2004-2007, said in an interview in  Seoul  yesterday.  “The May summit will be a meeting of all new leaders
representing new generations,” said Shin, 57, now head of the
 Trilateral Cooperation Secretariat , an organization funded by
the three nations to improve ties. “They can depart from the
past and make real changes with fresh ideas and approaches to
promote peace and prosperity in the region.”  An agreement between Asia’s biggest economies would create
the world’s third-largest trading bloc after the  North American
Free Trade Agreement  and the European Union, according to South
Korea’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. A pact would also
reverse a recent deterioration of economic ties as political
tensions flared over two sets of disputed islands.  Japanese automakers reported a plunge in China deliveries
in September and October as consumers shunned their cars amid
anti-Japan protests over ownership of uninhabited islands known
as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s August visit to
another group of islands claimed by Japan led to the
cancellation of an extension of a currency swap agreement. The
islands, controlled by Korea, are called Dokdo in Korean and
Takeshima in Japanese.  Leadership Shake-Up  Xi Jinping replaced  Hu Jintao  as head of the Chinese
Communist Party and the nation’s military on Nov. 15, ushering
in the fifth generation of leaders who are set to take control
of the world’s second-biggest economy.  Opinion polls in Japan show Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
 Democratic Party  of Japan may lose to the  Liberal Democratic
Party  led by former prime minister Shinzo Abe in a general
election next month. In South Korea, Park Geun Hye, a daughter
of a former president and the ruling party’s presidential
nominee, holds a lead in polls over opposition challenger Moon Jae In in an election to replace Lee on Dec. 19.  It’s not certain that relations will improve with a new
leadership. While Noda told Asean leaders earlier this month he
would seek to resolve differences with China in a “calm and
peaceful manner,” Abe has promised voters a tougher stance on
territorial disputes with Japan’s neighbors.  “The history of invasions and colonization makes it easy
for people to hate and blame each other,” Shin said. “The new
leaders need wisdom to wade through emotional clashes.”  Trade ministers announced the start of free trade
negotiations between China, Japan and South Korea at a meeting
in  Cambodia  on Nov. 20, according to a statement from South
Korea’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  and Trade. The three
countries’ combined gross domestic product was $14.3 trillion in
2011, compared with $18 trillion for NAFTA and $17.6 trillion
for the EU, the foreign ministry said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  