-- ECB Withholding Secret Greek Swaps File Keeps Taxpayers in Dark
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-11-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ecb-withholding-secret-greek-swaps-file-keeps-taxpayers-in-dark.html
The  European Central Bank ’s court
victory allowing it to withhold files showing how  Greece  used
derivatives to hide its debt leaves one of the region’s most
powerful institutions free from public scrutiny as it assumes
even more regulatory power.  The European Union’s  General Court  in Luxembourg ruled
yesterday that the central bank was right to keep secret
documents that would reveal how much the ECB knew about the true
state of Greece’s accounts before the country needed a 240
billion-euro ($311 billion) taxpayer-funded rescue.  The case brought by Bloomberg News, the first legal
challenge to a refusal by the ECB to make public details of its
decision-making process, comes a month before the central bank
is due to take responsibility for supervising all of the euro-
area’s banks. The central bank already sets narrower limits on
its disclosures than its U.S. equivalent, the  Federal Reserve .
The court’s decision shows the ECB has too broad a discretion to
reject requests for disclosure, academics and lawyers said.  “It’s a very disturbing ruling,” said Olivier Hoedeman of
Corporate  Europe  Observatory, a Brussels-based research group
that challenges lobbying powers in the EU and campaigns for the
accountability of EU bodies. “It is such a sweeping, blanket
statement that it undermines the right to know.”  Bloomberg sought access to two internal papers drafted for
the central bank’s six-member Executive Board. The first
document is entitled “The impact on government deficit and debt
from off-market swaps: the Greek case.” The second reviews
Titlos Plc, a structure that allowed  National Bank of Greece SA ,
the country’s biggest lender, to borrow from the ECB by creating
collateral from a securitization of swaps on Greek sovereign
debt. The bank loaned 5.4 billion euros to the government.  Mario Draghi  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 4 that the ECB “is
already a very transparent institution,” citing the fact that
he holds a monthly press conference after its rate decision,
testifies to lawmakers, gives  interviews  and makes speeches.  In yesterday’s decision, the court upheld the ECB’s opinion
that the documents sought by Bloomberg could damage the public
interest and aggravate Europe’s financial crisis.  “The ECB must be recognized as enjoying a wide discretion
for the purpose of determining whether the disclosure of the
documents relating to the fields covered by that exception could
undermine the public interest,” the three judges said in their
ruling. Exceptions “must be interpreted and applied strictly,”
they said. An ECB spokeswoman said the central bank welcomed the
court’s decision.  ‘Dummy Standard’  Since Bloomberg made its request in August 2010, the ECB
granted itself additional scope to withhold information if the
stability of the financial system or a member state could be
undermined. The power was added after the ECB was chosen by the
European Parliament to chair the European Systemic Risk Board, a
pan-EU supervisor that monitors markets and financial risk.  “This is a dummy standard which means whatever it wants it
to mean and the courts grant it a margin of interpretative
discretion,” said Gunnar Beck, a barrister and a reader in EU
law at the University of  London . “The ECB is becoming less
transparent, even though it pays lip service to it.”  The ECB is under pressure from some policy makers to become
more open as it embarks on more so-called non-standard measures
aimed at staunching Europe’s crisis. The Frankfurt-based
authority has been central to keeping Greek banks alive since
the crisis began, providing loans and at times risking European
taxpayers’ money in event of an outright default. The central
bank owns about 45 billion euros of Greek  government bonds ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Step Forward’  Governing Council member Erkki Liikanen said on Sept. 21 it
was no longer sufficient for the ECB to publish just its
decisions, but that it needed to “take one step forward and
also describe the conversation, what each member has said.”  Unlike the Federal Reserve, the ECB doesn’t publish minutes
of its discussions in the run up to a decision on  interest rates 
or non-standard measures for 30 years, arguing that secrecy is
necessary to shield its officials from political pressure in
their home countries. Instead, Draghi holds a monthly press
briefing after the rate decision.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets eight times a year
in  Washington . At every other meeting, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
holds a press conference following the release of the Fed’s
statement to explain the actions. Minutes of each meeting, which
summarize the discussions that took place, are released with a
three-week lag and transcripts are published five years later.  In Europe, internal dissent only reaches the public if a
member chooses to go public, as was the case with Jens Weidmann,
the Bundesbank president who has publicly opposed the ECB’s
program to buy the government bonds of Spain and  Italy  if they
request it. Weidmann said he wasn’t the only policy maker to
have concerns about the proposal.  Fed Documents  The ECB’s stance contrasts with the Fed, which has moved
toward greater transparency, in part under pressure from the
 U.S. Congress  and a lawsuit by  Bloomberg News , said Roberto Perli, a former economist for the Federal Reserve’s Division of
Monetary Affairs and a managing director at International
Strategy & Investment Group in Washington.  Congress, through the Dodd-Frank Act, forced the Fed to
reveal details of its lending through its discount window with a
two-year delay. The Fed argued disclosure would stop banks from
using the facility. The first release under the act was in
September.  FOIA Request  That followed the Fed’s release in March 2011 of more than
29,000 pages of documents, covering the discount window and
several Fed emergency-lending programs established during the
crisis from August 2007 to March 2010 after court orders upheld
Freedom of Information Act requests filed by Bloomberg and News
Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC.  “Of course it may be crucial to keep some market-sensitive
information under wraps” to stop a run on a bank, said Petra Geraats, an economics lecturer  Cambridge University  who
specialises in central bank transparency. “But when the ECB
uses such an argument for two-year-old documents, claiming they
could aggravate the crisis, one wonders what skeletons are still
hidden in the ECB’s closets.”  The case is:  T-590/10 , Thesing and Bloomberg Finance v.
ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  