-- Egyptians Protest After Committee Approves Draft Constitution
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-11-30T13:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/egypt-committee-approves-draft-constitution-as-protests-planned.html
Egyptian opposition supporters held
protests in Cairo and other cities against a draft constitution
they say has been hijacked by Islamists.  Protesters in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  chanted demands for
President Mohamed Mursi to quit, television footage showed.
There were also rallies in Alexandria and the industrial city of
Mahalla, after the constitutional committee approved a draft
charter early today. Secularists, youth groups and Christians
have said the panel was weighted toward Islamists, and several
members had withdrawn.  The draft will be referred to Mursi tomorrow, the state-run
Middle East  News Agency  cited committee head Hossan el-Gheriani
as saying. The draft constitution maintains the principle of
Islamic law as the primary source of legislation while dropping
a specific mention of protecting  women’s rights .  Tensions boiled over in the past week with mass
demonstrations against Mursi’s Nov. 22 edict that shields his
decisions from legal review and gives the constitutional panel
immunity from the judiciary. Mursi said the decree is temporary
and not a power grab as critics contend.  The country’s highest court was due to take up a case
challenging the body’s legitimacy next week.  “Mursi wants to put us before two bad choices,” Ashraf
el-Sherif, adjunct lecturer in political science at the American
University in Cairo, said by phone. “We either vote for this
bad constitution or we get stuck with his dictatorial decrees
that open the door for chaos and civil war.”  The draft charter will go to a public referendum after
Mursi’s approval. A new round of parliamentary elections will be
held afterward. The lower house of parliament was disbanded in
June after a court ruled its election was unconstitutional.  Revolutionary Goals  Mursi defended his decrees in an interview on state
television late yesterday, saying they were necessary, temporary
and introduced to meet the goals of the revolutionaries who led
last year’s uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  “The most important thing at this stage is for us to
finish the constitution,” Mursi said. “When we have a
permanent constitution, neither the head of the state nor anyone
else will apply exceptional measures.”  When the constitution is established, “legislative powers
will go to a parliament quickly and the president will hold only
the executive powers,” Mursi said.  Putting the constitution to a referendum would be part of
the “acts of sovereignty,” he said. “It’s impossible that a
president who is elected like I am would use powers for
oppression.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  