-- Emerging Stocks Advance a Second Week on Global Outlook
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-30T22:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/emerging-stocks-rise-to-six-week-high-on-global-economic.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second straight week, capping a 1.4 percent jump in November,
amid growing confidence the global economy is strengthening.
Equity gauges in Russia, India and Taiwan posted gains.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , Brazil’s largest power
company, surged the most in more than 13 years after the state 
increased compensation to utilities that agree to cut power rates. 
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, rose as  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  prepared 
to increase the stock’s weight in its country index.  Compal 
Electronics Inc. (2324)  rallied in Taipei, leading a gauge of 
emerging-nation technology stocks to the highest since May 2011.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 0.3 percent to
1,007.02 in  New York , its highest close since Nov. 7, for a
weekly gain of 1.1 percent. Stocks have been advancing amid signs 
of economic recovery in America and Asia and on expectations that
political leaders in the U.S. will reach a budget compromise
while Europe will take steps to keep debt crisis from escalating.  “There is the continuation of the risk-on mode we have
seen in global markets,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, said by e-mail.
“Hope about the U.S. budget and bullish environment for next
year” are driving the emerging-market gains, he said.  German lawmakers approved today Greece’s latest rescue
package designed to ease terms of aid, while U.S. President
 Barack Obama  headed out to sell his budget plan to the American
public.  Eletrobras Surges  Eletrobras jumped 24 percent, the biggest advance since
January 1999. Brazil’s government is offering an additional 9.87
billion reais ($4.7 billion) to utilities that accept President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s plan to renew electricity license with lower
rates, on top of 20.04 billion reais announced Nov. 1, a
government official said yesterday.  Sberbank rose 4 percent, helping to lift the Micex Index
1.3 percent higher, as MSCI is set to increase the stock’s
weighting in its Russia gauge by 2.5 percentage points to 14.4
percent. The rebalancing, which comes into effect on Dec. 3, may
trigger inflows of about $213 million for Sberbank from passive
funds, VTB Capital said in a note.  Indian equities climbed to a 19-month high and the rupee
strengthened against the dollar as the nation’s quarterly gross
domestic product growth matched estimates. Brazil’s Bovespa
index slid 0.7 percent after the country’s economy expanded at
half the estimated pace in the third quarter.  Low Valuation  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 1.3 percent and
the Shanghai Composite Index rallied for the first time in five
days, paring a monthly loss. The measure traded at an average
10.9 times reported earnings, the lowest level since at least
1997.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, lost 0.1
percent for a gain of 1.5 percent in November. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, climbed 3 percent.  Standard & Poor’s said yesterday China has “exceptional”
growth prospects, while confidence in  China’s economy  is at the
highest in more than a year, according to a Bloomberg investor
poll. Japan approved additional stimulus and the nation’s
factory production unexpectedly gained.  “The rally will get a leg up when China starts boosting
investments,” Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer at Mirae
Asset Global Investments ( India ) Pvt., said by phone today from
Mumbai. “Chinese activity, which has been picking up since
September, shows the economy has stabilized. Indian GDP numbers
are satisfactory, and it reveals that the growth cycle has
bottomed out.”  Taiwan, Thailand  Taiwan’s Taiex index advanced 1 percent while Thailand’s
SET gauge rose 1.1 percent to the highest since May 1996. The
Jakarta Composite Index fell 1 percent, leaving the gauge down
1.7 percent this week, the worst since August. Mobile
telecommunications company  PT XL Axiata (EXCL)  sank the most since
January 2010, the worst performing member of the emerging
markets gauge. Shares plunged 13 percent as volumes were 4.7
times the three-month average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Trading volumes for the Taiex Index were 106 percent above
the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 50-day volatility was near the lowest
level since 2004. India’s rupee strengthened 1 percent, leading
gains in emerging-market currencies.  India’s Growth  Gauges of utility and financial stocks led gains among the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10 industry groups. The broader
measure has advanced 9.9 percent this year, trailing an 11
percent gain by the MSCI World Index of developed countries. The
developing-nations index trades at 11.6 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.5, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , advanced 0.9
percent, the highest level since April 2011, extending this
month’s gain to 4.5 percent. India’s gross domestic product rose
5.3 percent in the three months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier,
compared with 5.5 percent in the previous quarter, the  Central
Statistical Office  said today. That matched the median of 42
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Equity funds drew more money than bonds for the first time
in 10 weeks as economic data improved and amid optimism U.S.
lawmakers will reach a budget compromise, according to  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  Stock funds attracted $14.9 billion in the week ended Nov.
28, the second-largest weekly inflows this year, more than the
$5.1 billion lured by bond funds,  Markus Rosgen  and Yue Hin Pong
wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  Compal Jumps  Compal, which owns 25 percent of  Allied Circuit Co. Ltd. (8155) ,
rose 6.8 percent, its steepest gain this year. Allied Circuit
held an investor conference in Taipei yesterday before an
expected initial offering of shares next month.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777) , a developer in the southern
Chinese city, increased 7.5 percent in  Hong Kong  to its highest
since April 2010. Chinese developers gained yesterday as Moody’s
Investors Service upgraded the sector to stable from negative.
The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index (SHPROP)  rose the most in a
month today, extending its 2012 advance to 11 percent, the only
gainer this year among the five industry groups in the nation’s
benchmark index.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 285, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  