-- Endo Health Sues FDA Over Safety of Painkiller Opana
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-30T22:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/endo-health-sues-fda-over-safety-of-painkiller-opana.html
Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  sued the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  seeking an order declaring the
original formulation of its drug Opana ER unsafe, saying a
generic version of the painkiller set for sale next month poses
a risk to the public.  Endo, in a complaint filed today in federal court in
Washington, said it stopped selling Opana ER after finding the
pills could be crushed and inhaled by drug abusers. Endo
replaced that version with a crush-resistant one, known as Opana
ER CRF, in February.  “FDA knows from its own experience and public statements,
and from data submitted by Endo, that the public health will be
harmed substantially by introduction of a generic version of
non-crush-resistant original formulation Opana ER,” David
Goewey, a lawyer for Endo, said in the complaint.  Endo, which is seeking a preliminary injunction, asked the
court to order the FDA to suspend approval of any generic
versions of Opana until the agency makes a finding on the
company’s claim that it withdrew the painkiller from the market
for safety reasons.  Sandy Walsh , an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that the
agency doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  and Actavis South Atlantic LLC are
among producers of the generic Opana ER, Endo said in the
complaint.  The opioid painkiller is the Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-
based company’s second-biggest product. On Nov. 5, Endo  fell  the
most in almost four years after quarterly sales declined for the
first time since 2006 and the company ended a study of a bladder
cancer drug.  The case is Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 12-cv-01936, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  