-- Metcash Slumps After Full-Year Earnings Forecast Cut
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-11-30T06:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/metcash-slumps-after-full-year-earnings-forecast-cut.html
Metcash Ltd. (MTS) , Australia’s largest
grocery wholesaler, declined the most in almost five months in
Sydney trading after cutting its full-year earnings forecast
amid a price war with larger supermarket chains.  The  shares  fell 2.3 percent, the most since July 5 to
A$3.43 at the close. Underlying earnings-per-share will be
between 2 percent and 6 percent lower in the 12 months through
April, the Sydney-based company said in a statement today. In
August, Metcash forecast the measure would fall between 1
percent and 3 percent.  Metcash has been squeezed as competition between
Australia’s two largest supermarket chains,  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and
 Wesfarmers Ltd (WES) .-owned Coles, has driven grocery discounts. A
push to sell milk at A$1 ($1) a liter contributed to a 27
percent profit fall at the dairy and drinks division of Kirin
Holdings Co.’s Lion unit,  the company said  in August.  “The deflationary trading conditions are expected to
continue,” Metcash Chief Executive Officer Andrew Reitzer said
in the statement. “Ongoing deflation will have to be managed
carefully in the second half of the year.”  Metcash shares have fallen 15 percent this year,  compared 
with an 18 percent rise for Woolworths and a 21 percent gain for
Wesfarmers. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index has gained 11
percent over the period.  First-half net income fell 13 percent from a year earlier
to A$82 million, the company said, even as sales climbed 3.5
percent to A$6.34 billion.  Increased Competition  “Aggressive marketing campaigns” by the major supermarket
chains had been a headwind for earnings during the period, the
company said.  The company posted underlying EPS of 34.1 cents in June.
Profit was expected to fall 4.1 percent to 32.7 cents in the
2013 financial year, according to the average of 15  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings before interest, tax and amortization in the food
and grocery business, Metcash’s largest division, slipped 5.4
percent to A$175 million as discounting pushed down profit
margins.  Fresh produce prices sank 13 percent during the first half
while packaged grocery fell 0.7 percent, Metcash said. Market
share slipped 0.2 percent as trading hours were deregulated in
Western  Australia  state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  