-- Ethanol-Blended Fuel Is Confusing Consumers, AAA Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-11-30T19:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ethanol-blended-gasoline-grade-may-damage-car-engines-aaa-says.html
An ethanol-blended gasoline approved
for use in U.S. vehicles manufactured since model year 2001 may
confuse consumers and lead to damaged  car engines , the  American
Automobile Association  said.  A survey by the biggest U.S. driving organization showed
that the standard for the E15 gasoline blend, issued by the
Environmental Protection Agency in June, is unknown to 95
percent of consumers contacted by telephone. Less than a fifth
of cars on the road have been approved by manufacturers to use
the fuel, and engine damage may not be covered under warranties,
AAA said.  “It is clear that millions of Americans are unfamiliar
with E15, which means there is a strong possibility that many
motorists may improperly fill up using this gasoline and damage
their vehicle,” AAA President Robert Darbelnet said today in a
statement. “Bringing E15 to the market without adequate
safeguards does not responsibly meet the needs of consumers.”  Ethanol, fermented from grain such as corn in a process
similar to making moonshine, must be blended into gasoline under
the Renewable Fuels Standard as a way to cut the amounts of
crude oil used to make motor fuel. It’s typically sold at
filling stations in a formula known as E10, with 10 percent
ethanol mixed with 90 percent gasoline. The U.S. doesn’t specify
how much ethanol is blended into gasoline.  Nine Stations  Nine U.S. gas stations sell E15 fuel, according to Growth
Energy, a Washington-based group that represents ethanol
producers. Sales of E15 began in July. Seven of the nine outlets
are in  Kansas , with one each in Iowa and  Nebraska .  The E15 blend, which uses 15 percent ethanol, may lead to
accelerated engine wear and failure, fuel-system damage and
false “check engine” lights when used for sustained periods in
vehicles not cleared for use, AAA said in its statement, which
referenced previous research.  Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican,
said the study supports his call to halt the sale of the ethanol
blend. Sensenbrenner has offered legislation, approved by a
committee, that would require the EPA to work with the National
Academies of Sciences on a study of E15.  “Concerns about E15 are not diminishing, they are
increasing,” Sensenbrenner said today in a statement.  E15 Label  Stations aren’t required to sell the fuel. The EPA and the
Federal Trade Commission require E15 sellers to post a
“prominent orange and black label” to let consumers know a
pump contains E15, Julia Valentine, an EPA spokeswoman, said.  “EPA shares AAA’s concern over consumer awareness of the
use of E15,” she said.  Before the EPA cleared E15, researchers at the Energy
Department tested it thoroughly and found it safe for use, and
Nascar race drivers use the blend, which boosts performance,
said Michael Frohlich, a spokesman for Growth Energy.  The AAA “hasn’t shown any evidence” that ethanol harms
engines, he said. The AAA study “is like me going out to the
bar and asking 15 people there if they like beer.”  A dozen automakers including Chrysler Group LLC,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in early July, wrote a letter to
Sensenbrenner, criticizing the EPA proposal. Five manufacturers
have said their warranties won’t cover engine damage from using
E15. Seven others said it may void warranty coverage.  Rushing Product  “We all agree that renewable fuels are an important part
of our national  energy security , but it is not in the longer
term interest of consumers, the government, and all parties
involved to discover after-the-fact that equipment or
performance problems are occurring because a new fuel was rushed
into the national marketplace,” said  Wade Newton , a spokesman
for the  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , whose members
include Chrysler, Ford and Toyota.  About 12 million of more than 240 million vehicles on U.S.
roads have been cleared for expanded ethanol use, including all
flex-fuel car models,  General Motors Co. (GM)  vehicles made since
model year 2012 and Ford vehicles made in the 2013 model year.
Heavy-duty vehicles, boats, motorcycles, power equipment, lawn
mowers and off-road vehicles are prohibited from using E15.  The AAA report tracks similar research by automakers and
the oil industry, which have opposed the mandate: E15 may cause
significant mechanical problems in millions of cars on the road,
according to a report by the industry-backed Coordinating
Research Council earlier this year.  “The sale and use of E15 should be suspended until
additional gas pump labeling and consumer education efforts are
implemented to mitigate problems for motorists and their
vehicles,” said Darbelnet.  The survey of consumer knowledge was conducted by telephone
among 1,012 adults in private households, according to the
statement. AAA didn’t give a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  