-- Metro Sells East Europe Stores to Auchan for $1.4 Billion
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-11-30T17:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/metro-sells-east-european-stores-to-auchan-for-1-1-billion-euros.html
Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest
retailer, agreed to sell its Real grocery stores in eastern
Europe to Groupe Auchan SA of  France  for 1.1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) in Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch’s first big deal
since taking the helm.  The sale includes Real’s operations and real estate assets
in  Poland ,  Romania ,  Russia  and Ukraine, the Dusseldorf-based
company said in a statement today. Metro said it will receive
600 million euros in cash, with the remaining amount comprising
lease liabilities from which the retailer will be freed.  Koch, who took office at the start of the year, has pledged
to focus on Metro’s Cash & Carry wholesale unit and Media-Saturn
electronics stores while cutting investment in Kaufhof
department stores and Real, both of which it has tried to sell
for several years. The company cut its 2012 profit forecast last
month, saying  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is hurting sales.  “The key takeaway from this deal is that the management is
delivering,” Christoph Schlienkamp, an analyst at Bankhaus
Lampe in Dusseldorf, said. “It is a relief for investors.”  Metro shares fell 0.3 percent to 21.53 euros in Frankfurt.  Real Stores  Revenue at Real, which accounts for about  17 percent  of
Metro’s sales, dropped 2.3 percent to 11.23 billion euros last
year. The business operates 316 Real hypermarkets in Germany and
110 in Poland, Romania, Russia, Ukraine and Turkey, according to
the press release. Revenue at the 91 Real stores in Poland,
Romania, Russia and Ukraine exceeded 2.6 billion euros last year
with a workforce of about 20,000 people.  Metro said it expects the deal to be closed next year.  Real’s earnings before interest and tax fell to 2 million
euros in the third quarter of this year from 24 million euros a
year earlier as better results from international operations
failed to offset a decline in earnings in  Germany , Metro said in
a statement on Oct. 30.  “We are not fully convinced, whether it was a good
decision to sell some very profitable part of the business,”
Herbert Sturm, a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in
a note to clients today. “There remain big challenges regarding
Real Germany in the next years to come.”  Declining Value  Metro’s majority shareholder Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH said
on Nov. 27 that it plans to reduce its stake in the company to
30 percent from 34.2 percent within 18 months.  Metro shares have dropped 24 percent this year and the
company that was once the world’s third-largest retailer was
removed from the DAX in September. Metro’s  market value  has
shrunk by about two-thirds since reaching an eight-year high of
almost 22 billion euros in September 2007.  The sale doesn’t include Real’s business in  Turkey  as
Auchan doesn’t have operations in the country and only wants to
strengthen its existing activities, according to Metro’s
release. Western Europe, eastern Europe and  Asia  are priority
development zones for the French retailer, Chairman Vianney Mulliez said in the statement.  “The business activities of Real in Turkey have developed
very nicely in recent years and show great growth potential,”
Metro CEO Koch said in the statement. The CEO said on a call
with journalists that he doesn’t plan to sell it at the moment.  Koch also said the retailer plans to further develop Real’s
German business and isn’t considering another option at the
moment, such as a sale.  Metro was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., while Auchan worked with BNP Paribas SA. The
transaction still requires approval from antitrust authorities,
Metro said in its statement.  The transaction will not have any implication for Metro’s
2012 dividend, Koch told journalists today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  