-- MetroPCS Climbs After Analyst Says Sprint May Counterbid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-11-30T21:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/metropcs-climbs-after-analyst-says-sprint-may-bid-for-company.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , which
agreed to merge with T-Mobile USA Inc. last month, rose 5
percent after a Guggenheim Securities LLC analyst said  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  may make a counteroffer for the company.  Sprint could bid $12 to $13 a share for MetroPCS within the
next four weeks, Shing Yin, a Guggenheim analyst in  New York ,
said today in a report. Sprint extended its deadline yesterday
for a proxy statement relating to a separate deal with Japan’s
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  That move supports the idea that Sprint is
preparing a MetroPCS bid, Yin said in his report.  MetroPCS gained 5 percent to close at $10.65 in New York,
the biggest one-day jump since Oct. 2. The shares are up 23
percent this year.  The company agreed last month to merge with  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA division. Under the deal, the German
parent company will hold 74 percent of the combined entity and
pay MetroPCS shareholders $1.5 billion in cash.  The new company would have 42.5 million subscribers, or
about 11.7 percent of the U.S. wireless market, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sprint, the third-largest provider,
has 15.2 percent. The two biggest carriers in the industry,
 Verizon Wireless (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , have a combined 58.5 percent of
the market.  Hard to Match?  If Sprint makes an offer, Deutsche Telekom may struggle to
offer better terms, Yin said.  “To counter a $13 per share bid from Sprint, if that were
to occur, we estimate DT would have to give 43 percent to 47
percent of the combined company to PCS shareholders -- likely a
tough proposition for DT shareholders to accept,” Yin said in
an e-mail.  Sprint also may have delayed its Softbank filing for other
reasons, such as a transaction with  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , Yin said.
Sprint is the biggest investor and customer for Clearwire, an
unprofitable company building a nationwide wireless network.
Clearwire shares jumped 5 percent to close at $2.32 today.  The MetroPCS gain follows a slump in the shares since the
Deutsche Telekom deal was signed. Before today, MetroPCS shares
had fallen more than 23 percent since early October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  