-- EU CO2 Fix May Avoid Delays as Lawmaker Seeks Faster Vote
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-30T13:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/eu-carbon-fix-may-avoid-delays-as-parliament-seeks-faster-vote.html
The European Union’s proposal to
strengthen the carbon market may avoid delays after a lawmaker
overseeing the draft measure said he will seek to bring forward
by a month a vote on it in the region’s parliament.  EU emission permits for delivery in December slumped to a
record low of 5.89 euros a metric ton today after the European
Commission said yesterday it won’t call this year a vote by
governments on its plan to sell fewer allowances starting in
2013, fueling speculation that the stopgap measure aimed at
helping prices recover will be delayed. The commission, the
bloc’s regulator, wants to wait for a decision by the Parliament
on a related change to the emissions law, according to an EU
official, who declined to be identified citing policy.  “I want to accelerate the plenary vote, possibly to
March,” Matthias Groote, a German member of the parliament and
chairman of the assembly’s environment committee, said in a
telephone interview. “It will depend on how many amendments my
colleagues table. I want to keep the number small.”  At stake is the price of emission permits in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade system after they plunged 77 percent since
the beginning of 2008 as the economic crisis hurt industrial
output. The downturn boosted the surplus of allowances to almost
half of the average annual pollution limit in the 27-nation EU.  Legal Uncertainty  The EU plan to curtail the oversupply consists of two
elements: an amendment to the EU law to clarify the commission’s
right to decide on timing of auctions and a measure to
“backload” 900 million permits from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020. By
tackling the glut of allowances the price signal in the
Emissions Trading System will become strong enough to encourage
investment in green technologies, said Isaac Valero-Ladron,
climate spokesman for the regulator.  “We have confidence in the ETS as the backbone of the
climate policy,” he told a briefing in Brussels today.  While the proposed  law change , aimed at removing legal
uncertainty over the delay of sales, requires votes by EU
ministers and the parliament, the backloading measure is
considered in a parallel but separate procedure. It requires
backing from representatives of member states in the EU Climate
Change Committee and then becomes subject to scrutiny by
national governments and the parliament.  “Everything is according with the timetable,” Groote said
in the interview. “There are no delays.”  Final Version  The Climate Change Committee, which decides by qualified
majority, will hold a formal vote on the delay of carbon
auctions as soon as an agreement has been reached by member
states and the parliament on the emissions law change, the
commission said yesterday. At its December meeting  member states 
will be invited to present their opinions on the draft measure,
it said.  Member states could vote on backloading as soon as
February, after a decision by the parliament’s environment
committee set for Feb. 19, according to Sanjeev Kumar, a senior
associate at E3G environmental lobby group in Brussels.  The plenary vote, which would take place after the
parliament and governments reach an agreement on the final
version of the proposed legislation, could be brought forward to
March under Groote’s plan, one month earlier than the currently
scheduled mid-April tentative date.  “This is a positive realignment,” Kumar said by
telephone. “Backloading is back on track.”  Potential Deadlock  Calling a formal vote next year will also give some
countries including Germany more time to determine their
positions on the proposal. The country’s  Environment Ministry 
and Economy Ministry are at odds over the plan, and Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler said earlier this month that the nation
may abstain in any voting, making it easier for opponents of
backloading to create a blocking majority that would lead to a
deadlock.  The ETS, which imposes emission caps on about 12,000
facilities owned by manufacturers and power plants, doesn’t
allow any price floors or ceilings. The pollution limits were
set before the debt crisis and economic slump.  Emitters in  Europe  remain divided over the need for curbing
oversupply in the system. While companies including EON SE and
 Alstom SA (ALO)  have urged fast implementation of backloading, some
energy-intensive companies have objected any intervention.
Europia, a refining industry lobby whose members include  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , doesn’t support backloading, the group’s Secretary
General Chris Beddoes said in an interview on Nov. 26.  Ballot System  “We understand the ETS is struggling, but the ETS
objectives were to achieve a carbon reduction,” he said.
“There was a kind of an unwritten thought that it may promote
technology, but it’s supposed to be a market based mechanism.”  Should the measure to delay auctions win qualified-majority
support from EU nations, whose weighted ballot system favors
larger countries, it will be sent for a three-month scrutiny to
the parliament and governments. Then it will be formally adopted
by the commission and enter into force after publication in the
EU Official Journal.  The International Emissions Trading Association, which has
been supporting “a speedy process” for backloading, said it is
concerned that the EU statement yesterday stops short of
providing the necessary clarity for market participants.  Voting Trigger  “It is unclear still what the trigger will be for the vote
in the Climate Change Committee to take place, and whether this
could take place after the vote in the parliament’s environment
committee, or after a political agreement between the co-
legislators during trilogues, or after the formal adoption of
the amendment to the ETS directive,” IETA’s EU Policy Director
Sarah Deblock said by e-mail today.  The start of backloading will depend on what the commission
qualifies as an agreement between member states and the
parliament, according to Konrad Hanschmidt, a London-based
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “If the vote in the parliament marks an agreement, then
bringing it forward to March would allow backloading to start
around September,” he said by e-mail. “If both the parliament
and ministers have to vote, we would still be probably talking
about backloading starting in 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  