-- EU Says Telecoms Treaty Should Not Expand Web Regulation
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-30T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/eu-says-telecoms-treaty-should-not-expand-web-regulation.html
The  European Union  will oppose
attempts to increase regulation of the Internet at a United
Nations conference in Dubai next month as some countries call
for tighter rules on phone operators and Web service providers.  Representatives of more than 190 governments will meet in
 Dubai  from Dec. 3 to 14 to update a global treaty on regulations
for the telecommunications sector. In an e-mailed statement, EU
regulators today said some governments are trying to tighten the
control of the Web.  “Some non-EU countries have tabled proposals for a
significant increase in the scope of the treaty and the
regulatory burden on operators, including  Internet service
providers ,” according to the political body representing 27
European nations. “The EU believes that there is no
justification for such proposals and is concerned about the
potentially negative impact on innovation and costs.”  The Dubai gathering is organized by the  International
Telecommunication Union , a United Nations agency, and aims to
update the  International Telecommunication Regulations Treaty  as
the previous conference took place in 1988 when the Internet was
not widely used and many phone operators were still state
monopolies.  U.S. companies including AT&T Inc.,  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  News Corp . have joined
forces to oppose efforts by  China ,  Russia  and other countries to
extend ITU jurisdiction to Internet matters,  David Gross , an
attorney with the law firm Wiley Rein in  Washington  who is
leading the effort, said in an interview this year.  Online Censorship  Involvement by organizations like the ITU may imperil
Internet innovation and lead to online censorship, said Gross.  U.S. policy makers have also voiced concern that the UN
agency will take steps toward Internet regulation at the Dubai
conference.  “Several governments recently called for new treaty
provisions to assert centralized control over the Internet’s
operations instead of relying on the voluntary, consensus-based
processes that gave us the Internet we enjoy today,” three
Obama administration officials wrote in a May 2 White House blog
post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  