-- European Stocks Climb for Second Week; Invensys Soars
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/european-stocks-climb-for-second-week-invensys-soars.html
European stocks  rose for a second
week, posting the longest monthly winning streak since 2006,
amid optimism that U.S. lawmakers will reach a budget agreement
to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, and after euro-area finance
ministers eased the terms of loans to  Greece .  Nestle SA (NESN) , the biggest member of the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index, rose 1.4 percent after it announced a joint-venture to
develop intestinal treatments based on Chinese medicines.
Invensys Plc, the maker of software for London Underground
trains, rallied 41 percent as RBC Capital wrote that the company
may be bought after selling its rail unit.  Eiffage SA (FGR) , which
controls  France ’s APRR toll-road business, added 15 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 climbed 0.9 percent to 275.78 this
week, for a monthly gain of 2 percent. The gauge has risen 18
percent from this year’s low on June 4 as the European Central
Bank announced an unlimited bond-buying plan and the Federal
Reserve started a third round of asset purchases.  “The market was very focused on the political developments
in  Washington  this week,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of
investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg, Switzerland.
“The fiscal-cliff issue will lose some importance going
forward. Market participants have to some extent adjusted their
expectations concerning the outcome of this political wrangle.
An accord will be found at the last minute.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Republican Speaker of the
House John Boehner this week fueled optimism an agreement can be
reached to avert more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to begin on Jan. 1.  Fiscal Cliff  Obama reached out to chief executives and middle-income
taxpayers, asking them to press Congress to avoid the fiscal
cliff, saying he wants to get a deal “done before Christmas.”  Still, Congressional Republicans complained that a plan
outlined by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner merely rehashed
old proposals, setting the stage for contentious negotiations
over the coming weeks.  “In the end, they will work something out, but it could be
choppy in the shorter term,” Richard Buckland, Citigroup Inc.’s
London-based chief global equity strategist, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Consumer confidence  in the world’s largest economy rose in
November to the highest level in more than four years. The
Conference Board’s confidence index climbed to 73.7, the highest
since February 2008, from a revised 73.1 reading the previous
month, a report showed on Nov. 27. That exceeded the median
forecast of economists that projected a reading of 73.  Greek Aid  In Europe, finance ministers eased the conditions on aid
for Greece. In the latest bid to keep the 17-nation euro-area
intact, they cut the rates on bailout loans, suspended interest
payments for a decade on money from the temporary rescue fund,
gave the country more time to repay, and outlined a Greek bond
buyback. They cleared Greece to get a 34.4 billion-euro ($44.7
billion) loan instalment in December.  Nestle advanced 1.4 percent. The world’s biggest food
company said on Nov. 28 that it will form a joint venture with
Hutchison China Meditech Ltd. to develop gastro-intestinal
treatments based on traditional Chinese medicines.  Invensys (ISYS)  soared 41 percent, posting the best performance on
the Stoxx 600 and its biggest weekly rally since at least 1988.
The company will probably be acquired after completing the sale
of its rail-signaling division to Siemens, RBC said. Invensys on
Nov. 28 said it agreed to sell the unit to Siemens for 1.74
billion pounds ($2.8 billion). Siemens advanced 1.3 percent.  Eiffage Gains  Eiffage increased 15 percent. A Paris court dismissed a
compliance ruling issued by the markets regulator, AMF, on
whether France’s third-largest builder can compulsorily purchase
APRR shares. APRR said a share-repurchase offer will open in the
next few days.  Porsche SE jumped 7 percent,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
gained 3.7 percent and  Fiat SpA (F)  rose 4.3 percent. A gauge of
European carmakers climbed 3.1 percent this week, for the
biggest gain of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600. (SXXP)   ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  slid 7.3 percent.  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker may lose 10 billion euros on the sale of its Steel
Americas unit, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported, without saying
where it got the information. ThyssenKrupp has already spent 12
billion euros on the facilities and may get only 2 billion euros
to 4 billion euros from their sale, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  