-- Euro-Area Unemployment Rises to Record, Inflation Slows
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-30T11:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/euro-area-unemployment-rises-to-record-inflation-slows-2-.html
The euro-area jobless rate rose to a
record and inflation eased to a 23-month low as the fiscal
crisis and tougher austerity measures deepened the region’s
economic woes.  Unemployment in the 17-nation currency bloc increased to
11.7 percent in October from 11.6 percent in September, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the highest since the data series started in 1995 and is
in line with the  median estimate  of 34 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Inflation slowed more than forecast to 2.2 percent
in November, a separate report showed.  The euro-area economy has shrunk for two successive
quarters, forcing companies to cut costs to help weather the
downturn, and economists foresee a further contraction of 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter, the median of 25 forecasts in a
separate Bloomberg survey showed. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development this week forecast contractions of
0.4 percent and 0.1 percent this year and next.  “The trend remains a gradual upward trend before we can
hope for some stabilization in the second half of next year,”
said Frederik Ducrozet, senior euro-area economist at  Credit
Agricole  in Paris. “There’s no escaping the fact the
 unemployment rate  will rise again in the next year; it’s a
lagging indicator.”  Budget Cuts  The euro was off its session highs against the dollar after
the reports. The European currency traded at $1.3003 at 12:05
p.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent on the day, after trading as
high as $1.3028 earlier.  Siemens AG (SIE)  today announced plans to eliminate 4,700 jobs at
its Osram lighting subsidiary to reap 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in savings. The cuts come on top of 1,900 positions
already trimmed at Osram.  The jobless report showed that  18.7 million people  were
unemployed in the euro area in October, up 173,000 from the
previous month. At 26.2 percent,  Spain  had the highest overall
jobless rate in the currency bloc.  Portugal ’s unemployment rate
was 16.3 percent, while Ireland reported a jobless rate of 14.7
percent.  France ’s jobless rate was 10.7 percent, while Austria
had the lowest rate at 4.3 percent.  The data also showed that youth unemployment is at 23.9
percent across the euro area, with Spain’s rate more than double
that at 55.9 percent, and the highest in  Greece  at 58 percent.  Wage Moderation  “Slowing core inflation and wage moderation throughout the
euro region reflect the recession,” said  Dominique Barbet ,
senior economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. “Purchasing power
isn’t going to increase, so it won’t help the recovery.”  Governments’ budget cuts are harming investment and
household spending across the region. Greece, now in its fifth
year of  recession  had a 25.4 percent unemployment rate in
August, the latest data available.  Spain and Cyprus this year joined the list of countries
seeking external aid, following Greece, Portugal and Ireland.
Euro-area finance ministers this week agreed on a package of
measures to help reduce Greece’s debt load and prevent its exit
from the euro.  In a sign of deepening European economic malaise, an
Italian supermarket chain is offering all customers who spend
more than 30 euros a shot at a lottery with an unusual payoff:
part-time, temporary shop-assistant positions. Italy’s economy
is mired in its fourth recession since 2001 with a double-digit
joblessness rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  