-- Teva Sees 2013 Sales, Profit Below Analyst Estimates
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-11-30T21:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/teva-sees-2013-sales-profit-below-analyst-estimates.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd.’s (TEVA)  sales and profit next year will miss analyst forecasts,
the company said today as new Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin prepares to lay out his strategy for investors next month.  Revenue will be between $19.5 billion and $20.5 billion,
and earnings excluding some costs will be $4.85 to $5.15 a
share, the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in a
statement. Analysts predicted $20.8 billion and $5.63,
respectively, based on  average estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Levin, who joined the company in May, said he will announce
a wide-reaching strategy update on Dec. 11 in New York. Teva’s
shares have underperformed competitors’ this year amid
speculation the multiple sclerosis medicine Copaxone may lose
market share to new treatments such as  Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  Gilenya and
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s not-yet-approved pill BG-12.  “They need to be amazingly smart and lucky to succeed,”
said Gilad Alper, a Tel Aviv-based analyst for Excellence
Nessuah Brokerage. “The problems are all very well known: the
fact that Copaxone at some point over the next several years is
going to meet very serious competition, the fact that the U.S.
generic market is becoming a lot weaker, not growing as it used
to.” Alper rates Teva’s shares a “hold.”  Stock Gains  Teva’s American depositary receipts rose less than 1
percent to $40.35 at the close in New York. The ADRs had
returned 2.5 percent this year including reinvested dividends,
 compared with  a 15 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  There were “widespread expectations” Teva’s forecast
would be below the average analyst estimate, and many analysts
were just waiting to see what the forecast would be before
cutting their own numbers, said Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York  who has an outperform rating on
the stock. The company’s guidance also is conservative because
it doesn’t include the effect of planned  cost reductions, he
said in a report.  Sales of Copaxone, which account for 20 percent of Teva’s
revenue, will be $3.7 billion to $3.9 billion, Teva said.
Analysts predict $3.74 billion, based on the average of six
estimates. Teva previously predicted that sales for the multiple
sclerosis drug would peak this year at $3.8 billion.  Teva is taking a “careful approach” to its forecast for
Copaxone, Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh said on a
conference call with analysts today. The numbers will depend on
how U.S. regulators view Biogen’s BG-12, Levin told analysts.  Cost Reductions  Teva also said it will discontinue some research and
development programs and push through $1.5 billion to $2 billion
in cost cuts that will affect all areas of the business.  “Going forward you will find that Teva looks like a very
different company from the Teva of the past,” Levin said.  Teva’s ADRs trade at 7.6 times estimated earnings, the
lowest valuation among the world’s 20 biggest drug companies,
which have an average price-earnings ratio of 13.8. Investors
will realize that Teva’s stock is undervalued as Levin
implements a new strategy, Chairman  Phillip Frost  said in a Nov.
19 interview.  Teva doesn’t want to do multibillion-dollar acquisitions
and is “deeply conscious” of the need to build support from
shareholders for the company’s transformation, Levin said. “We
will have to reward shareholders. We will do that.”  Breaking out sales and profit forecasts into separate
business units, as Teva did today, was an effort to make the
company more transparent than under previous management, Levin
said.  Teva cut its earnings and sales forecasts for 2012 in May,
blaming slower economic growth and increased competition in
generic drugs. It narrowed the profit forecast to $5.32 to $5.38
a share in November, compared with the May forecast of $5.30 to
$5.40. Sales for the year will be between $20.1 billion and
$20.7 billion, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  