-- Ex-CIA Agent Loses Bid to Get Sex-Assault Sentence Cut
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-30T21:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ex-cia-agent-loses-bid-to-cut-sentence-in-sex-drugs-case.html
A former Central Intelligence Agency
officer, Andrew Warren, failed to persuade a federal appeals
court to reduce his 65-month prison sentence for sex, gun and
drug charges tied to an assault in Algeria.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today rejected
Warren’s argument that the punishment was unreasonable because
he suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder and substance
abuse.  “While a PTSD diagnosis may mitigate criminal conduct that
occurs spontaneously or unexpectedly,” U.S. Circuit Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson wrote in the opinion, “his conviction
resulted from conduct, especially drugging his victim, that was
planned and deliberate.”  Warren, who the court said was a rising star in the agency,
was accused of drugging and then sexually assaulting a married
Muslim woman while working as a high-level official for the U.S.
embassy in Algeria in 2008. He targeted the woman because he
believed her religion and local customs would keep her from
reporting the assault, the sentencing judge concluded, according
the ruling. Later that year, the woman reported Warren’s conduct
to an official at the embassy, according to the ruling.  Algeria Search  U.S. investigators found child pornography, Valium, Xanax
and a handbook on the investigation of sexual assault during a
search of his  Algeria  residence, according to the ruling.  The CIA fired Warren in March 2009 and he was indicted on
one charge of sexual abuse. After he failed to appear for a
court hearing, police found Warren in a hotel in Norfolk,
Virginia. He appeared to be under the influence of drugs and was
carrying a loaded Glock pistol, the court said.  “Upon being confronted by the police, Warren made several
motions toward the gun, physically resisted arrest and had to be
subdued with a Taser,” according to the ruling.  He pleaded guilty in 2010 to one count of abusive sexual
contact and possession of a firearm by a user of a controlled
substance.  At sentencing, Warren sought a brief period of
incarceration, followed by mental-health treatment at a private
facility in  Florida . U.S. District Judge Ellen Huvelle rejected
that proposal and gave him more prison time than the federal
sentencing guidelines advised, according to the ruling.  Brian Shaughnessy, Warren’s lawyer, said he was
disappointed with the ruling.  “He’s not getting the treatment he needs,” Shaughnessy
said in a telephone interview.  The case is U.S. v. Warren, 11-3030, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  