-- Ex-GM Engineer, Husband Guilty of Trade Secrets Theft
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ex-gm-engineer-husband-found-guilty-of-trade-secrets-theft-1-.html
An ex- General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer and
her husband were convicted of stealing trade secrets on hybrid-
car technology from the automaker to help develop such vehicles
in China.  A federal court jury in  Detroit  reached the guilty verdicts
yesterday after a trial that started Nov. 5. Jurors began
deliberating Nov. 29.  The U.S. claimed Shanshan Du, the ex-GM employee, copied
the Detroit-based company’s private information on the motor
control of hybrids and provided documents to her husband, Yu
Qin. Prosecutors accused Qin of using the data to seek business
ventures or employment with GM’s competitors, including the
Chinese automaker Chery Automobile Co.  Qin was convicted of all seven counts. Du was convicted on
three trade-secret counts, including conspiracy to possess trade
secrets without authorization. She was acquitted on  wire fraud 
charges.  General Motors contended that the secrets are worth more
than $40 million, prosecutors said. Lawyers for both defendants,
who pleaded not guilty, argued that the information didn’t
consist of trade secrets, wasn’t stolen and was useless for
other companies.  ‘Unfair Advantage’  Robert Morgan, Du’s attorney, declined to comment after the
verdict. Frank Eaman, Qin’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Sentencing will be in February, U.S. District Judge
Marianne O. Battani said after the verdict was read.  “These defendants stole trade secrets, which General
Motors spent many years and millions of dollars to develop, to
give an unfair advantage to a foreign competitor,” U.S.
Attorney Barbara McQuade said after the verdict. “We hope that
this prosecution will send a message that stealing proprietary
information from an employer or competitor is a serious crime.”  The defendants face a maximum sentence of 10 years on each
of the trade secrets counts, prosecutors said after the verdict.
Qin faces additional prison time on the wire fraud and
obstruction convictions, the U.S. said.  The trade secret counts carry a $250,000 fine, the U.S.
said at the time of the indictments. The wire fraud and
obstruction of justice counts carry fines of $250,000.  Other Cases  The case is one of more than a dozen brought in the past
three years by the U.S. Justice Department alleging defendants
of Chinese ancestry or citizenship sought to take trade secrets
from U.S.-based companies for use by the Chinese government or
businesses.  In October in  Chicago , a former software engineer for
Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest derivatives
exchange, pleaded guilty to charges of downloading more than
10,000 files containing source code from his employer to support
trading activities in an exchange in China.  In September in  Newark ,  New Jersey , a native of China who
worked for  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ’s space and
navigation division was convicted of transporting stolen
property and possession of trade secrets related to precision
navigation devices.  In the Detroit case, Du and Qin were indicted in July 2010
on three counts each of trade secrets theft and wire fraud. Qin
was also charged with obstruction of justice.  Copied Material  The U.S. alleged that Du, an electrical engineer who worked
at GM from 2000 to March 2005, sought assignment to the
company’s hybrid work project to gain access to information on
the motor control of such vehicles.  The U.S. claims that Du began providing GM documents to her
husband for use in a company they had started, Millennium
Technology International. Du copied material and Qin developed a
plan to sell hybrid vehicle technology through a joint venture
in  China , the U.S. said.  The process accelerated after GM sought Du’s resignation in
late January 2005, according to the indictment. Prosecutors said
at the beginning of the trial that 16,262 GM files were found on
Du’s computer.  “These were never trade secrets,” Qin’s lawyer, Frank
Eaman said in his closing argument at the end of trial
yesterday. The material wasn’t marked secret and, as proof that
the documents weren’t significant, he said, “they gave them to
Ms. Du, a low-level engineer.”  Home Computer  After Du left the company, the couple uploaded GM documents
containing secret information onto a computer at their home, the
U.S. claimed. In July or August 2005, Qin “communicated with
others, by e-mail and in person, about collaboration on a new
business venture which would provide hybrid vehicle technology
to Chery,” the U.S. said in court papers.  The U.S. also alleged that Qin destroyed evidence during
the government’s initial investigation. In May 2006, the U.S.
said, the defendants dumped bags of shredded documents in a
Dumpster behind a grocery store.  The case is U.S. v. Qin, 10-cr-20454, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in Detroit
at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  