-- Ex-National Lampoon CEO Tim Durham Gets 50 Years Prison
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-11-30T22:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ex-national-lampoon-ceo-tim-durham-gets-50-years-prison.html
Timothy S. Durham, the onetime chief
executive officer of  National Lampoon (NLMP)  Inc., was sentenced to 50
years in prison for defrauding investors in an unrelated company
he partly controlled.  “I found no sincere remorse,” U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson in Indianapolis said today before imposing
punishment on Durham, 50. She said the former Fair Finance Co.
CEO exhibited deceit, greed and arrogance.  Prosecutors sought a sentence of 225 years under nonbinding
federal guidelines, which the judge rejected as unrealistic.  Durham, who was also the CEO of Indianapolis-based buyout
firm Obsidian Enterprises Inc., and an accomplice, James Cochran, 57, were convicted in June of taking money raised from
Fair Finance investors, spending it on themselves and lending it
to other entities they controlled. A third man, Rick Snow, 49,
was convicted of helping to deceive investors about the
company’s financial condition.  The three squandered $208 million of investors’ money,
according to U.S. Attorney Joseph Hogsett in Indianapolis.  Cochran, who was the chairman of Akron, Ohio-based Fair
Finance, was sentenced to 25 years, not the 145 years
prosecutors asked for. The government recommended 85 years for
Snow, Fair Finance’s ex-chief financial officer. He received a
10-year term.  Each man addressed the court before being sentenced.  ‘Feel Badly’  “I feel badly about all this,” Durham told Magnus-
Stinson. He said he was surprised at the amount of money lost by
four victims who also spoke in court today.  “I wish I had tried harder to make things clearer for
them,” he said of Fair Finance’s public disclosures.  Founded in 1934, Fair Finance provided retailer liquidity
by buying receivables at a discount with money raised through
sales of interest-bearing certificates.  Durham and Cochran acquired Fair Finance through a holding
company in 2002. By February 2005, Fair Finance had shifted from
providing commercial financing to making loans to its
principals, their associates, Obsidian and other entities they
controlled, according to the indictment.  His voice choked with emotion today, Cochran told the judge
he hadn’t intended for “any of this to happen.” He said he had
grown up with people like those who invested in the company and
that he understood the impact of their losses.  Snow said he was humiliated and asked for leniency.  Longest Sentence  “This sentence is the longest white-collar fraud sentence
in  Indiana  history,” Hogsett told reporters outside the
courthouse after Magnus-Stinson set Durham’s punishment.  “Throughout these proceedings, we all heard Tim Durham say
his failures were the fault of many things -- the government,
the media and the nation’s economic struggles,” the prosecutor
said. “It was Tim Durham and the selfish destructive actions of
people like him that squandered America’s economic strength. It
was Tim Durham, along with Rick Snow and James Cochran who stole
the hopes and dreams of those people.”  At trial, Durham defense attorney John Tompkins had argued
his client was trying to prop up a faltering company and had put
$28 million of his own money into it.  The lawyer returned to that theme in a pre-sentence court
filing in which he’d attributed Fair Finance’s losses to the
U.S. financial downturn in 2008 and 2009 and negative press
coverage that reduced investor interest in the business.  Wire Fraud  A jury on June 20 found Durham guilty of all 10 counts of
 wire fraud  and one count of  securities fraud , each punishable by
as long as 20 years in prison, and one count of conspiring to
commit those crimes. Jurors deliberated for less than a day
after a 10-day trial.  Cochran was found guilty of eight counts and Snow was
convicted on five. The jury found all three men guilty of wire
fraud as well as the lone securities fraud count and the charge
of conspiring to commit each of those crimes.  Four victims of Fair Finance addressed the court before the
sentences were imposed.  One, retired nun Barbara Lukacik, 74, of Akron, told the
judge she invested $125,000 with Fair and lost it all. She said
she avoids taking public assistance by caring for children.  “You probably felt you were above the law,” Lukacik said
to the defendants. “Shame on you.”  Durham, a Republican Party fundraiser, resigned from
National Lampoon in January. The Los Angeles-based media company
wasn’t named in the government’s charging documents.  The case is U.S. v. Durham, 11-cr-00042, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Indiana (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Smulevitz in Indianapolis
at   shsmulevitz@sbcglobal.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 