-- Texas Oils Weaken as Phillips 66 Works to Start Borger Refinery
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-11-30T20:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/texas-oils-weaken-on-borger-work-most-volatile-in-three-years.html
Texas  oils declined as  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s
refinery at Borger, Texas, remained shut for maintenance longer
than expected, cutting demand for crude.  Maintenance is still under way at the 146,000-barrel-a-day
Borger refinery,  Rich Johnson , a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail. The plant was scheduled to restart a fluid catalytic
cracker Nov. 26, according to a filing with state regulators.  West Texas Intermediate crude delivered in Midland, Texas,
declined $1.25 a barrel to a discount of $8.50 to the same grade
of oil delivered in Cushing,  Oklahoma , at 2:01 p.m.  New York 
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. West Texas Sour,
another crude grade produced in West Texas, dropped $2 to a
discount of $9.50 a barrel.  “The outage is a major contributor to the blowout in WTI-
Midland discounts,” Jeff Dietert, an analyst with Simmons & Co.
in Houston, said in a note to clients yesterday. “Eliminating
the demand from the Borger refinery creates over a 100,000-
barrel-a-day shortage of demand/pipeline takeaway capacity in
the Basin.”  The Texas grades produced in the Permian Basin fell to a
record low of $20 below the benchmark last week as the extended
maintenance at Borger contributed to a growing glut of oil amid
limited pipeline capacity out of the region.  Texas oil  production  increased 33 percent to an average of
2.05 million barrels a day in September from a year earlier,
Energy Department data show. New drilling techniques have
unlocked oil in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s
output to the highest level since 1988.  Volatile Market  Trading in the Texas spot crude market has been the most
volatile in more than three years. The 60-day  historical
volatility  in Midland crude has more than doubled from its
average level in October, reaching 56 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WTI oil delivered at Midland has historically traded less
than $1 below the Cushing price, reflecting the transportation
costs between the two delivery points. This year, the oil has
traded at an average discount of $3.35.  Pipeline projects are under way to provide more capacity
from the region, including  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s plan
to reverse the flow of the Longhorn pipeline to take crude from
West Texas to Houston expected early next year.  In  Canada , Western Canada Select for January delivery
weakened by $2.25 a barrel to a $29.50 discount against WTI,
according to Net Energy Inc., a Calgary physical crude broker.
Western Canada Select is a heavy oil blend from  Alberta 
primarily sourced from oil sands bitumen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  