-- Mexico Central Bank Tempers CPI Concerns in Holding Rate
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-30T17:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/mexico-s-central-bank-tempers-cpi-concerns-in-holding-rate-1-.html
Mexico ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate at a record low, saying it may still
raise rates if inflation doesn’t ease while no longer specifying
it could do so “soon.”  The bank’s board, led by Agustin Carstens, left the
overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent for the 31st consecutive
meeting today, after the economy in the third quarter grew at
the slowest pace in more than a year and inflation slowed toward
policy makers’ target. Twenty-one out of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expected the bank to stay on hold. One economist
forecast a quarter point increase.  Annual inflation, which has remained above the central
bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range since June, slowed to
4.36 percent in the first half of November, in line with policy
makers’ expectations that a jump in farm prices is dissipating.
Short-term risks to growth have increased “marginally” and
annual inflation will “probably” end the year below 4 percent,
the central bank said in its statement accompanying today’s
decision.  The central bank “was much more dovish on inflation in the
statement today,” said David Rees, an  emerging markets 
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “We doubt growth
is going to be strong enough to trigger any interest rate
hikes” next year, he said.  Gross domestic product grew at an annualized rate of 1.82
percent in the third quarter as manufacturing expansion slowed
on lower demand from the U.S.  Changed Language  “The recent reduction in inflation has been noteworthy,”
the central bank said in its statement. “If new shocks to
inflation emerge, even if they are presumed to be temporary, and
the trend shifts in general and core inflation aren’t confirmed,
the board thinks that an upward adjustment in the reference
interest rate could be appropriate.”  The bank had said in the statement accompanying its prior
decision on Oct. 26 that if inflation doesn’t ease, it could
raise its benchmark rate “soon” for the first time since
August 2008.  Minutes from that decision released Nov. 9 showed
that most policy makers thought that inflation probably peaked
in September at 4.77 percent. The  consumer price index  slowed to
4.6 percent in October.  The central bank’s tone remained hawkish today as it still
referred only to the possibility of raising rates, according to
 Gabriel Casillas , the chief economist and head of research at
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  “The balance is still tilted to rate hikes,” Casillas
said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “Going forward, it
is going to be important to watch for inflation, inflation
expectations, and wage negotiations in order to keep gauging
when Banxico could decide to restrict its monetary stance.”  Growth  Mexico’s  economic growth  eased in the third quarter as U.S.
business investment slowed on concern Congress will fail to act
in time to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  “Even though it’s an annual inflation targeter, the bank
always has this balance of risks between growth and inflation,”
Gabriel Lozano, chief Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in a telephone interview from Mexico City before the
decision was announced. While “there is a sense that the next
move should be upward,” the growth risks “warrant a more
cautious approach,” he said.  Swap Rates  Mexico’s peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.9213 per U.S. dollar
at 11:43 a.m. in Mexico City. The peso has strengthened 7.9
percent against the dollar this year, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. One-year swap rates dropped
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.91 percent,
the lowest level on a closing basis since Nov. 16, according to
the most recent data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Accelerating inflation, sparked by a bird flu outbreak and
drought that drove up grain, egg and chicken prices, has
affected companies including  Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA) , the world’s
largest bread-maker.  Bimbo said Oct. 25 that profit fell for a fourth
consecutive quarter due in part to higher wheat costs, as well
as expenses integrating Sara Lee’s North American bakery
business.  The only Group of 20 nation to leave borrowing costs
unchanged and not step up asset purchases in the past three
years will wait until January 2014 to raise rates by a quarter
percentage point, according to a Citigroup survey of economists
published Nov. 20.  “This is a central bank that still sees inflation and
growth as skewed to the downside in the medium term,” Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG, said in a telephone interview
from  Stamford ,  Connecticut  before the report. “Inflation has
been coming down since October.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  