-- Falcons Defeat Saints 23-13, Stop Brees’s Touchdown Streak at 54
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-30T05:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/falcons-defeat-saints-23-13-stop-brees-s-touchdown-streak-at-54.html
The  Atlanta Falcons  defeated the  New
Orleans  Saints 23-13 and ended quarterback Drew Brees’s streak
of having thrown a touchdown pass in a National Football League-
record 54 straight games.  The Falcons, who have a league-leading 11-1 record, also
caused Brees to throw a career-high five interceptions last
night at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. Brees now has 16
interceptions for the season, most in the NFL. The  Dallas
Cowboys ’  Tony Romo  has 15.  “Oddly enough, I felt as good as I have felt all season
about the passing game, about throwing it, about our plan, about
our scheme,” Brees said during a news conference. “The first
one was a bad throw, the second one bad luck, the next one a bad
decision, the next one was tipped and the next one was overly
aggressive. It doesn’t matter how they happened, it’s that five
happened. That’s never happened to me before.”  Michael Turner  scored on a 3-yard run in the first quarter
and Atlanta made it 17-0 when  Matt Ryan  connected with Tony Gonzalez on a 17-yard scoring pass and Matt Bryant kicked a 45-
yard field goal.  Mark Ingram  scored on a one-yard run for the
Saints in the second quarter, leaving the Falcons with a 17-7
halftime advantage.  “We wanted to come out and make a statement,” Gonzalez
said in a televised interview. “We almost let it slip away at
the end. Fortunately we were able to go out there and close the
game. Our goal is to get to the playoffs.”  Garrett Hartley kicked field goals of 21 and 52 yards in
the third quarter to bring New Orleans within four points before
Bryant added field goals of 29 and 55 yards in the final period.  Five Interceptions  William Moore had two interceptions for the Falcons, while
Jonathan Babineaux, Thomas DeCoud and Sean Weatherspoon each
grabbed one from Brees.  “It was a great game played by our defense,” Ryan said in
a televised interview. “Our defense came out here and created
five turnovers. We’ve been in close games and just couldn’t pull
it out. Tonight felt good.”  Ryan completed 18 of 33 passing attempts for 165 yards and
one touchdown. Brees connected on 28 of 50 attempts for 341
yards.  The Falcons top the four-team National Football
Conference’s South Division, while the Saints are in third place
at 5-7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  