-- Fed’s Stein Sees Diminishing Returns From Treasury Buying
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-12-01T00:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/fed-s-stein-sees-diminishing-returns-from-treasury-buying.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said there may be “diminishing returns” from additional
purchases of  Treasury securities  because companies may respond
to lower borrowing costs by refinancing debt or returning money
to shareholders instead of making business investments.  If “corporate investment reacts only weakly to further
changes in term premiums, there may be more ‘kick’ to be had by
focusing efforts on a sector that is more responsive,” Stein
said today in a speech at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston .
“Mortgage purchases may confer more macroeconomic stimulus
dollar-for-dollar than Treasury purchases.”  U.S. central bankers are weighing whether to expand their
record stimulus to offset the scheduled expiration next month of
Operation Twist, a program that swaps short-term Treasuries for
longer-term debt. A “number” of Fed officials said at their
policy meeting last month that the Fed next year may need to
expand its monthly purchases of bonds, according to the minutes
of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 23-24 gathering.  The Fed is buying $40 billion in mortgage debt each month
under its third round of so-called quantitative easing and has
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least
through mid-2015 to boost growth. Policy makers haven’t set a
limit on the duration or size of their latest asset-purchase
program, which was announced in September.  Supports Purchases  Speaking on a panel with Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , Stein said the central bank’s so-called Maturity
Extension Program has put “upward pressure” on short-term
interest rates.  Interest-rate risk is “clearly” one of the risks of
expanding the central bank’s balance sheet, Stein said. Rising
interest rates will curtail the Fed’s income, he said.  Policy makers could still purchase assets as a policy tool
even when short-term rates have returned to a more normal level,
he said.  “A Fed that goes back to a balance sheet of all Treasuries
of just different maturities has the scope to alter the maturity
of the Treasury portfolio and some MEP-like things,” he said.  Stein said he supports the FOMC’s latest bond-buying
program and “its plan to continue with asset purchases” if the
outlook for the labor market warrants more stimulus. An
additional $500 billion of Treasury purchases may reduce
Treasury and corporate-bond interest rates by about 0.15
percentage point to 0.2 percentage point, Stein said.  Similar Comments  Stein’s remarks were similar to those delivered Oct. 11 in
 Washington .  Stocks erased losses in the final 15 minutes as investors
weighed development in Washington’s budget negotiations. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,416.18.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said yesterday in New York that he is focusing on
“unacceptably high” joblessness as he considers whether the
central bank should buy Treasuries into 2013. The Fed will
“stay the course” in trying to achieve its economic goals, he
said. Unemployment was 7.9 percent in October.  Buying mortgage-backed securities has had a “different
effect” on credit markets than Treasury purchases, as evidenced
by the reaction to the Fed’s September announcement of QE3,
Stein said.  “While nominal long-term Treasury yields were roughly
unchanged on the day of the announcement, yields on MBS fell
dramatically,” Stein said. “Moreover, although the pass-
through to primary  mortgage rates  has been more gradual, it too
has been significant to date.”  The latest steps have succeeded in making home mortgages
less expensive, with the average fixed rate offered on new 30-
year loans at 3.41 percent yesterday, down from 3.57 percent on
Sept. 12, the day before the FOMC announced its third round of
quantitative easing, according to Bankrate.com data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  