-- Ferrari Won’t Appeal Vettel’s Formula One Championship Victory
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-11-30T11:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ferrari-won-t-appeal-vettel-s-formula-one-championship-victory.html
The Ferrari Formula One team won’t
seek a penalty for Sebastian Vettel after video showed the Red
Bull driver may have passed another racing car illegally on the
way to winning the championship at the Brazilian Grand Prix.  Ferrari said in a  statement  today it had received an
explanation from the sport’s ruling body, Federation
Internationale de l’Automobile, about Vettel’s move at the Nov.
25 race and considers “the matter now closed.”  A retroactive penalty may have pushed Vettel down the
standings and handed the title to Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso .  Video posted on the internet shows Vettel passing Toro
Rosso driver Jean-Eric Vergne on a stretch of  Sao Paulo ’s
Interlagos circuit between a yellow light -- when overtaking is
prohibited -- and a green light.  Ferrari wrote to the FIA two days ago to seek clarification
about the move.  The FIA says Vettel’s pass was legitimate because a race
official was waving a green flag in the 150 meters between the
two lights, Autosport.com reported, citing unidentified sources
from the ruling body.  “The letter to the FIA was in no way intended to undermine
the legality of the race result,” Ferrari’s statement read.
“We received tens of thousands of queries relating to this
matter from all over the world and it was incumbent on us to
take the matter further.”  Vettel, 25, finished the Brazilian race in sixth place to
win the title by three points over Alonso, who finished second
in the rain-swept event.  It was the third straight title for the German, who passed
Ayrton Senna’s mark as the youngest three-time champion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  