-- Four Hofstra Basketball Players Arrested for Campus Burglaries
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-30T18:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/four-hofstra-basketball-players-arrested-for-campus-burglaries.html
Four members of the  Hofstra
University  men’s basketball team were suspended from school
after being arrested for burglarizing six campus dormitory
rooms, stealing money, computers and other electronic equipment.  Sophomore Shaquille Stokes and freshmen Jimmy Hall,
Kentrell Washington and Dallas Anglin were arrested for the
thefts that occurred on the school’s campus from Oct. 4 to Nov.
5, the Nassau County Police said in a statement. All four were
to be arraigned today near the Hempstead,  New York , school that
borders Uniondale.  Stokes was charged with five counts of second-degree
burglary; Hall with four counts of second-degree burglary;
Washington with two counts of second-degree burglary, and Anglin
with one count of second-degree burglary and one count of
tampering with physical evidence.  Attorneys for the players were not known because they had
not been arraigned yet, Chris Munzing, a spokesman for the
Nassau County District Attorney’s office, said in a telephone
interview.  The four are accused of stealing an undetermined amount of
money, a Sony laptop, three MacBook Pro laptops, two Apple
iPads, two Apple iPods and headphones.  Hofstra’s Department of Public Safety said in an e-mailed
statement that it had worked with Nassau County police since the
beginning of the investigation.  “Due to the nature of the charges, the four students have
been immediately suspended from the university, including the
basketball team, classes, residence halls and facilities,
pending the outcome of the case,” the statement said.  Hall was second on the Pride in scoring with 12.7 points
per game and led the team in rebounding with 9.4 per contest.
Stokes was averaging 10 points and 2.6 points per game, Anglin
3.2 points and  Washington  2.4 points.  The Pride are 3-4 this season. All four players
participated in the team’s last game, a  80-56 loss  to George
Washington University on Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  