-- LG Electronics Wins Daewoo Washing-Machine Patent Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-30T20:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/lg-electronics-wins-daewoo-washing-machine-patent-suit.html
Three  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  patents
for front-end-loading washing machines were infringed by Daewoo
Electronics Corp., a U.S. jury found.  Jurors in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , also
decided today that the three LG patents were valid, after
hearing evidence in a week-long trial during which lawyers
rolled out washing machines and displayed gears and metal
moldings.  “People like LG try to make a better mousetrap,” Richard Stroup, a lawyer for LG, told jurors during the trial. Daewoo
infringed those efforts, he said.  LG sued Daewoo in 2008, alleging infringement of its
patent-protected inventions for washer drum-drive components.
Daewoo claimed that LG’s patents weren’t valid and were
therefore unenforceable. Both LG and Daewoo are based in  Seoul .  “Daewoo independently developed its washing-machine
technology,” attorney Mark Whitaker, representing Daewoo, said
at trial.  The jury rejected Daewoo’s claims that LG’s patents were
invalid.  In March Daewoo said it was diversifying its distribution
channels by supplying Wal-Mart Stores Inc. The company had set a
goal of doubling North American home appliance sales to $150
million this year.  Possible Trial  A possible trial on damages wasn’t immediately scheduled by
U.S. District Judge Richard G. Andrews, who presided over the
case.  Daewoo attorney Rodger D. Smith II, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on the verdict.  LG’s patented technology is related to large-capacity,
high-spin-speed washers that produce low noise and vibration,
the company said in a statement today.  “LG is committed to protecting its rights related to its
innovations,” the company said.  LG shares rose more than 1 percent to 21,000 won ($19,390).  The case is LG Electronics Inc. v. Daewoo, 08-CV-828, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 6,460,382; 6,914,363; and
7,418,843.  -- Editors:  Charles Carter ,  Andrew Dunn   To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at
   pmilford@bloomberg.net ,
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  