-- GE Plans Silicon Valley Venture Stakes Along With Hiring
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-11-30T21:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ge-plans-silicon-valley-venture-deals-along-with-software-hiring.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  may make
venture-capital investments in technology startups and consider
 acquisitions  as it ramps up offerings of software designed to
analyze data harvested from its industrial equipment.  The world’s largest maker of  jet engines , diesel
locomotives and medical-imaging devices is setting aside as much
as $100 million for the investments, which will supplement
hiring at its new research center in San Ramon, California,
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said yesterday in an
interview.  GE is investing $1 billion in the so-called industrial
Internet, poaching employees from technology companies including
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  to help it improve the efficiency
and reliability of its machines. Deploying venture capital will
help GE identify talented programmers and innovative systems as
it unveils software-based services developed at its new facility
near San Francisco, Immelt said.  “We are engaged in looking at acquisitions, probably
smaller things, and we are engaged in looking at venture
capital, because it lets us see a flow of information that we
wouldn’t otherwise see,” said Mark Little, GE’s chief
technology officer.  Even as it considers investing directly in companies, GE’s
primary focus will remain on hiring engineers and developers for
its San Ramon center, Immelt and Little said. The number of
employees at the facility will grow to about 320 by the end of
this year, according to Bill Ruh, the vice president who came to
GE from Cisco in 2011 to run the center.  Expanding Workforce  GE, unchanged at $21.13 at the close of New York trading,
has  advanced  18 percent this year, outpacing gains by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average .  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company plans to deploy
sums “in the tens of millions, maybe as much as $100 million”
on venture-capital investments, Immelt said. It may ultimately
expand its workforce at the facility to as many as 500 to 1,000
employees in a “primarily organic build-out,” he said.  At an event yesterday in San Francisco, GE announced a
joint venture with  Accenture Plc (ACN)  to analyze data gathered from
jet engines to help airlines anticipate maintenance needs,
software that optimizes hospital bed assignments and
departmental work flow, and technology that helps manage power-
generation equipment in response to electricity demand.  Internet Luminaries  The offerings will add to existing products that monitor
the performance of  wind turbines  and help coordinate rail
traffic.  Marc Andreessen , the co-founder of venture-capital firm
Andreessen Horowitz who helped create the first Web browser in
1993, and Wired magazine Editor-in-Chief Chris Anderson joined
Immelt onstage at the event to discuss the potential of
networking industrial equipment. Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of  Bloomberg News , is an investor in Andreessen
Horowitz.  Andy McAfee, principal research scientist at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Tim O’Reilly, founder
of O’Reilly Media Inc., also spoke to about 250 entrepreneurs,
programmers and GE customers with one of the company’s GEnx jet
engines positioned nearby.  Service contracts on GE equipment brought in $42 billion of
revenue last year, or 45 percent of its $94 billion in
industrial sales. The new initiatives will help make those
contracts more lucrative while eliminating as much as $150
billion of waste for its customers over 15 years, GE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  