-- Generic-Drug Makers Get Top Court Review on Patient Suits
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-30T20:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/generic-drug-makers-get-top-court-review-on-patient-suits.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will take up
calls by the generic-drug industry for stricter limits on
lawsuits by patients, agreeing to review a $21 million award to
a woman who suffered debilitating injuries after taking a
painkiller.  The justices today said they will hear an appeal of that
ruling by the Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. unit that made the
generic drug, known as sulindac.  The appeal comes less than two years after the court ruled
5-4 that patients can’t sue generic-drug companies for failing
to warn about possibly dangerous side effects. In upholding the
award against the Takeda unit, a federal appeals court in  Boston 
said Karen L. Bartlett, was pressing a different legal theory,
claiming that sulindac was so dangerous it shouldn’t have been
on the market.  The lower court ruling “blasts a gaping hole” in the 2011
Supreme Court ruling, Takeda’s Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. argued
in its appeal.  Bartlett suffered what the appeals court called “truly
horrific” injuries after taking sulindac for shoulder pain. The
anti-inflammatory medicine triggered an allergic reaction that
caused Bartlett to lose more than 60 percent of her outer skin
layer.  Bartlett spent months in a medically induced coma, spent a
year being tube-fed and endured 12 eye surgeries. She is almost
blind, can’t eat normally because of esophageal burns, can’t
have sex because of vaginal injuries and can’t engage in aerobic
activities because of lung injuries. A federal jury in  New
Hampshire  issued the award in 2009.  Failure to Warn  In the 2009 Supreme Court case, generic-drug companies
successfully argued that they should be exempt from failure-to-
warn suits because federal law requires them to copy the
packaging inserts used by brand-name manufacturers. The high
court had previously ruled that brand-name companies had to
defend against similar suits.  Ruling in Bartlett’s case, the 1st U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals said so-called design defect claims were different.
Mutual “certainly can choose not to make the drug at all,” the
appeals court said.  The Supreme Court will hear arguments, probably in March,
and rule by June. The Generic Pharmaceutical Association, an
industry trade group, is backing Mutual in the case. Takeda,
 Asia ’s largest drugmaker, is based in  Osaka ,  Japan .  The case is Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. v. Bartlett, 12-142.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  