-- Gene Patents Draw High Court Review in Biotechnology Test
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-12-01T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/gene-patents-draw-high-court-review-in-biotechnology-test.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
consider whether human genes can be patented, taking up an issue
that has split the medical community and will shape the future
of personalized health care and the biotechnology industry.  The justices yesterday said they will hear a challenge to
 Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genetic material used in tests
for breast and ovarian cancer. Doctors, researchers and patients
are opposing the patents, arguing that Myriad’s monopoly over
the genes is blocking clinical testing and research.  “Myriad and other gene patent holders have gained the
right to exclude the rest of the scientific community from
examining the naturally occurring genes of every person in the
United States,” the group argued in its appeal, filed by the
American Civil Liberties Union.  Biotechnology companies say they have been getting patents
on genes for 30 years -- and can’t attract investment dollars
unless they can protect their research from competitors. A study
published in 2005 by Science magazine found that 20 percent of
human genes had some level of patent protection.  Any move to change that system, “particularly with the
deeply settled reliance interests of the technology and
investing communities at stake, should be addressed to Congress,
not the courts,” Salt Lake City-based Myriad argued in court
papers that urged rejection of the appeal.  The nation’s highest court will hear arguments, probably in
March, and rule by the end of June.  Isolated DNA  The central legal question is whether isolated DNA --
genetic coding that has been removed from the body and separated
from other material -- is a product of nature and thus
ineligible for patent protection. In largely backing Myriad’s
patents, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said
isolated DNA could be patented.  “The isolated DNA molecules before us are not found in
nature,” Circuit Judge Alan Lourie wrote. “They are obtained
in the laboratory and are man-made, the product of human
ingenuity. While they are prepared from products of nature, so
is every other composition of matter.”  Genes are encoded strands of nucleotides in different
sequences that are responsible for inherited traits. In
isolating genes, Myriad strips out unneeded information to home
in on aspects that determine whether a person has a higher risk
of breast and ovarian cancer.  The challengers say isolated DNA is identical to the coding
that exists naturally in the body.  “Isolation simply makes a person’s genetic information
more accessible for sequencing by medical professionals,” the
group argued.  Myriad Falls  Myriad  fell  after the court’s announcement, dropping $1.13,
or 3.8 percent, to $28.72 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
yesterday. It was the biggest one-day drop since July 31.  The case is making its second trip to the Supreme Court,
which in March ordered the Federal Circuit to reconsider an
earlier ruling favoring Myriad. The high court pointed to its
just-issued decision limiting patents on some types of
diagnostic medical tests. The Federal Circuit, which specializes
in patent cases, then said that Supreme Court ruling didn’t
apply to isolated DNA.  The Supreme Court in past cases has taken a more
restrictive approach toward patent coverage than the Federal
Circuit. In the diagnostic-test case, Justice Stephen Breyer
wrote for a unanimous court in warning against “tying up the
use of the underlying natural laws.”  Medical Discoveries  Gene databases and technology to analyze them can be the
key to medical discoveries and more efficient ways of providing
treatment. Annual U.S. spending on medical DNA testing will rise
to $25 billion in the next decade from $5 billion in 2010,
according to  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest for-profit
health insurer in the nation.  Genetic testing is a hallmark of the growing field of
personalized medicine, in which doctors determine whether a
patient is susceptible to a particular disease or would be more
responsive to certain medications.  Myriad said it spent 17 years and $500 million to develop
its test.  “This case has great importance for the hundreds of
millions of patients whose lives are saved and enhanced by the
life science industry’s products,” Myriad Chief Executive
Officer Peter Meldrum said in a statement.  Public Domain  It’s become more difficult to obtain new patents on genetic
material because of the amount of research already in the public
domain, said William Gaede, a patent lawyer with McDermott, Will
& Emery’s personalized medicine team in Menlo Park,  California .  Many of the genetic-sequencing patents, including those
owned by Myriad, are expiring, making the case “somewhat
yesterday’s news,” said Gaede, who isn’t involved in the case.
Still, he said, a decision could provide guidance on the line
between an invention and a product of nature.  “What you see is a willingness by the Supreme Court to
determine whether compositions that arguably come from nature
can be patentable subject matter,” Gaede said.  Those supporting the challenge to Myriad’s patents include
the American Society of Human Genetics, the American Medical
Association and  AARP , which represents older Americans.  Myriad’s supporters in the litigation have included the
Biotechnology Industry Organization and the U.S. unit of
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s biggest drugmaker.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 