-- German Stocks Climb, Completing Sixth Months of Gains
-- B y   W i l l   H a d f i e l d   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-11-30T16:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/german-stocks-rise-heading-for-six-months-of-gains.html
German stocks  climbed, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  completing its sixth consecutive monthly
advance, amid optimism that American politicians will agree on a
new  federal budget .  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  climbed 2.3 percent after Morgan
Stanley recommended buying the shares of the world’s third-
largest cement producer.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  gained 1.7 percent after UBS
AG increased its price estimate for the chemical maker’s shares.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  declined 1.6 percent.  The DAX added 0.1 percent to 7,405.5 at the close in
 Frankfurt , paring a rally of as much as 0.6 percent. The equity
benchmark gained 2 percent in November, its sixth consecutive
monthly advance and its longest winning streak since February
2011. The broader HDAX Index also increased 0.1 percent today.  “We are marching in solidarity together toward fiscal
compromise,” Guy Spier, chief executive officer of Aquamarine
Capital Management LLC in Zurich, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “They know they will reach a compromise, but
if the markets overreact to the public statement, we will get
the kind of gyrations we’ve seen.”  The gauge has  surged 24 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as the European Central Bank approved a plan to buy the
bonds of euro-area members and the Federal Reserve opted for a
third round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing.  Budget Negotiations  Congressional Republicans complained that a plan outlined
yesterday by Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  merely rehashed old
proposals. That set the stage for more contentious negotiations
as the end-of-year deadline approaches for politicians to reach
a deal or allow more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts to come into force.  President  Barack Obama  will repeat his call for an
extension of George W. Bush-era tax rates for middle-income
households when he visits a factory in Hatfield, Pennsylvania,
today. He will argue that people will reduce their spending if
they do not know whether taxes will rise next year.  A Commerce Department report showed that spending by U.S.
consumers unexpectedly dropped and incomes stagnated in October
as superstorm Sandy kept some in the Northeast from getting to
work or from shopping at malls and car dealerships.  Purchases decreased 0.2 percent, their first decline since
May. They gained 0.8 percent in September. The median estimate
of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for no change
in so-called nominal sales. Incomes were unchanged, the Commerce
Department said.  HeidelbergCement Rises  HeidelbergCement gained 2.3 percent to 41.79 euros as
Morgan Stanley raised the stock to overweight, the equivalent of
buy, citing the shares’ recent underperformance and the
company’s deleveraging. The brokerage said the stock was its top
pick in the European cement sector.  Lanxess advanced 1.7 percent to 66.93 euros after UBS
raised its price estimate for the company’s shares by 10 percent
to 77 euros. The brokerage said that Lanxess has the ability to
continue to increase its prices.  Continental AG (CON)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  rose 2.6 percent to 85.10
euros and 0.8 percent to 37.98 euros, respectively. A gauge of
carmakers posted the best performance of the 19 industry groups
in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , gaining 1.1 percent.  ThyssenKrupp lost 1.7 percent to 15.57 euros. Germany’s
biggest steelmaker said it dismissed six employees from its GfT
Bautechnik unit on suspicion of breach of trust, confirming a
Handelsblatt report earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Hadfield in London at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  