-- German Parliament Approves Revised Bill on Greece Aid
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-30T12:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/german-lawmakers-approve-greek-package-amid-euro-breakup-warning.html
German lawmakers approved Greece’s
latest rescue package as Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
warned that a default in the country where the debt crisis began
could trigger the collapse of the single currency.  The passage caps a year in which  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
has had to tamp down criticism within her ranks over transfers
to Greece and quell calls to expel the country from the euro.
Legislators in Germany’s lower house of parliament, or
Bundestag, voted 473 in favor; 100 voted no and 11 abstained.  “The potential effects of a Greek default on other euro
states would be grave -- in truth the consequences would be
unpredictable,” Schaeuble said in a speech to the Bundestag in
Berlin. “It could trigger a process at the end of which the
entire euro area could break apart.”  Comparing  Greece  with eastern  Europe  after the collapse of
the  Soviet Union , Schaeuble said crisis-fighting efforts are
working as European leaders shepherded through a new package
designed to ease terms for bailout aid for Greece and help
resolve the three-year-old debt crisis.  Lawmakers in Merkel’s coalition and opposition leaders this
week lauded the agreement in Brussels to give Greece more time
to meet budget targets. The accord met Germany’s condition on
ruling out a debt write-off for Greece that would be felt by
creditor countries’ taxpayers.  Leaders’ Shift  Schaeuble said Greece should stay in the euro, underscoring
moderation by northern European leaders and warnings that the
consequences of a Greek departure would be calamitous. Dutch
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said this week that Greece may need
help to stay in the euro on top of new measures.  As in previous Bundestag votes on crisis aid, Merkel’s
coalition failed to muster a majority on its own strength --
falling short of the politically significant “chancellor’s
majority.” Twenty-two lawmakers in the Christian Democratic-led
bloc rejected the legislation; one abstained.  “The chancellor’s support is fading,” Thomas Oppermann, a
top lawmaker with the opposition  Social Democratic Party , said
in an e-mailed statement. “The number of supporters in the
coalition groups is falling from vote to vote.” Opposition SPD
and Greens members of the chamber voted in favor of Greek aid.  Approval in Berlin came as the Bloomberg Global Poll showed
that  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, will be tipped into a
recession as the debt crisis extends into the new year. A slump
in the German economy would remove a rare engine of demand for
the rest of the continent, probably extending the euro-area-wide
recession that was confirmed last quarter.  Unemployment  Unemployment in the euro bloc rose to 11.7 percent from
11.6 percent in September, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the highest since the
data series started in 1995 and in line with the median estimate
of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the latest bid to keep the euro intact, finance
ministers agreed Nov. 27 to cut the rates on Greece’s bailout
loans, suspend interest payments for a decade, give Greece more
time to repay and engineer a buyback of the country’s bonds.  That would still leave Greece with debt at 124 percent of
gross domestic product in 2020.  Schaeuble acknowledged the effects in Greece of the
austerity measures, which have included wage, benefit and
pension cuts and compounded a recession in its fifth year.  “The Greek population has had to bear a heavy burden,”
Schaeuble said. “But if the Greek people are willing to carry
the burden, we’re willing to help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  