-- German Government Slams Berlin After Iran Embassy Stormed
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-30T14:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/german-government-slams-berlin-after-iran-embassy-stormed.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  criticized the city of Berlin over security measures
for diplomatic missions after protesters stormed the grounds of
the Iranian embassy in the German capital.  Westerwelle sent a letter to Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit
condemning the police’s inability to prevent the “massive
attack” on the embassy. Two days ago, about 30 protesters
scaled the mission’s security fence, tore down and burned the
Iranian flag, threw paint balls and stones at the building and
destroyed the property’s outside lighting, police said.  “I call on you immediately to undertake all possible
measures with Berlin’s security authorities so similar attacks
against foreign missions can be prevented,” Westerwelle wrote
in the letter, provided by e-mail by the Foreign Ministry.  The trespassers at the Iranian embassy, located in the
south Berlin district of Steglitz-Zehlendorf, overwhelmed the
local security detail, which called for backup and eventually
apprehended 12 people, the Berlin police said  in their report .  The group, which didn’t enter the embassy building,
protested the Iranian government’s “authoritarian policy” as
well as asylum rules, police said. Two Iranian nationals among
those captured remain in custody because they’re in  Germany 
illegally. The rest were released, police said.  Overly Critical  Bernd Kroemer, a deputy interior minister for Berlin, said
the criticism was excessive, the  Berliner Zeitung  reported. The
German capital is “well positioned” to provide security for
diplomatic missions, he said, according to the newspaper.
Wowereit’s chief spokesman, Richard Meng, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Westerwelle discussed the matter by phone with his Iranian
counterpart,  Ali Akbar Salehi , according to Andreas Peschke, a
German Foreign Ministry spokesman. Salehi asked the German
government to investigate the incident and punish those
involved, state-run Mehr news agency reported yesterday.  Westerwelle cited 13 incidents of embassies in Berlin being
stormed or occupied in the last two years, including incidents
at the Nigerian embassy in October and the Libyan embassy this
month. Berlin’s security measures for diplomatic missions
“definitely have to change,” the minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  