-- Global Bio-chem Gets Bondholder Nod for First Dim Sum Buyback
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-30T08:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/global-bio-chem-gets-bondholder-nod-for-first-dim-sum-buyback.html
Global Bio-chem Technology Group Co. (809) 
will buy back 92 percent of its so-called Dim Sum bonds after
noteholders agreed to the market’s first tender offer.  The company, which makes corn-based biochemical products in
China, offered to repurchase its 7 percent notes due May 2014 at
face value after breaching one of the debt’s terms, according to
a Hong Kong stock exchange  statement  dated Nov. 8. Global Bio-
chem will buy back 414.6 million  yuan  ($66.6 million) of debt,
according to an announcement posted on the Singapore stock
exchange’s website today.  Companies are adding more protection to their bonds to
attract investors as waning yuan appreciation expectations weigh
on sales, according to  Fitch Ratings . Sixty percent of non-
financial corporate securities in HSBC Holding Plc’s Offshore
 Renminbi  Bond Index as of December 2011 were sold without
leverage limits, according to marketing materials.  “Hopefully with more positive cases, people will come to
think that this market operates just like how other markets are
operating,” said Samson Lee, head of debt capital markets at
BOC International, a unit of Bank of China Ltd, yesterday.
“There’s nothing different about investing in Chinese paper.”  The bonds were quoted at 85.5 percent of face value before
the buyback was announced and 100 percent as of 4:18 p.m. in
Hong Kong yesterday, HSBC prices on Bloomberg show.  Global Bio-chem was unable to comply with one of its
financial covenants after reporting a net loss for the first six
months of the year, the company said in its interim report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  