-- Goldman Pushes Subprime ABX Index as Housing Rebounds: Mortgages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-11-30T22:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/goldman-pushes-subprime-abx-index-as-housing-rebounds-mortgages.html
Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., which
survived the U.S.  real estate  collapse five years ago with the
help of derivative bets against  subprime mortgages , is promoting
the opposite trade to clients as housing recovers.  The firm, which teamed with four other dealers to create
the  ABX indexes , benchmark contracts that offered investors a
way to protect against the risks of a crash, said in a Nov. 28
report on its top 10 market themes for 2013 that clients should
buy some of the derivatives.  Home prices are recovering from a six-year slump, helped by
Federal Reserve efforts to push  mortgage rates  to record lows
and buyers competing for a shrinking supply of properties. The
bank’s analysts said after “the positive surprise” from
housing this year, versions of the ABX that have already rallied
are still attractive compared with real estate investments such
as  homebuilder  shares, which have almost doubled over the past
12 months.  “You’re going to get a further lift because of the steady
improvement in the indexes’ underlying assets and the housing
market,” said  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist at GMP
Securities LLC in  New York . “Yes, there’s room to go, but how
much juice is left in the trade is another question.”  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York,
declined to comment on the recommendation beyond the report.  New  ABX indexes  were created every six months by securities
firms from early 2006 through early 2008. The contracts offer
protection if the securities aren’t repaid as expected, in
return for upfront and regular insurance-like premiums.  More Bullish  The credit-default swaps enabled speculators to bet against
housing, and helped meet demand from investors for the high
yields of loans to homeowners with poor credit. As the credit
crisis grew, investors followed the price of the contracts as a
gauge of losses at banks and  hedge funds .  Goldman Sachs has taken a more bullish view on housing
since at least March, when it was raising money for a new fund
to buy home-loan bonds to benefit from an improving real-estate
market.  Investments such as homebuilders have already priced in the
recovery, the bank said in the report.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  leads the
11-member  homebuilding index  with a gain of 166 percent this
year followed by  M/I Homes Inc. (MHO) , which rose 129 percent, and  KB
Home (KBH)  with a 114 percent increase. The index, which had gained 83
percent for the first 10 months of the year, fell 0.8 percent
today in New York, extending the decline in November to 3.1
percent.  ‘Ripple Effects’  Investors need to look beyond these stocks for the “ripple
effects of housing stabilization,” the analysts said in the
report. Potential beneficiaries include certain versions of the
ABX and U.S. domestic banks, which may be helped by more
homeowner refinancing as credit conditions improve, they wrote.  An ABX index tied to bonds created in the second half of
2006 that were issued with AAA ratings rose 39 percent to 47.05
cents on the dollar this year, according to London-based
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  “The higher-rated tranches have already repriced
significantly, but still price in severe future mortgage default
assumptions that are more likely than not to surprise on the low
side,” the Goldman Sachs analysts wrote. “They are clearly
sensitive to further home price strength.”  The index has tumbled from about 100 when it was created in
early 2007, just after the  bank ’s mortgage holdings started
dropping in value.  In December 2006, David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief
financial officer at the time, told the firm’s traders to shift
to a neutral risk position and get “closer to home,” according
to a report from the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations led by Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin .  ‘Big Short’  The group sold their stockpile of subprime bonds and
collateralized debt obligations, and bought credit-default swaps
protecting against losses,  according  to the panel.  They “quickly shot past ‘home,’” leading to their first
large net short position in February 2007, the report said. By
June, the net short position reached a peak of about $13.9
billion, including $9 billion in ABX bets against top-rated
bonds that Goldman Sachs had earlier acquired as “disaster
protection,” in case the subprime market as a whole lost value,
the subcommittee calculated.  The resulting position was referred to by Viniar as the
“big short,” a term later used as the title of a Michael Lewis
book about the financial crisis.  As the worst housing slump since the 1930s deepened and
millions of Americans failed to meet mortgage payments, the ABX
index linked to the 2006 mortgages fell to as low as 23.3. While
banks, including Bear Stearns Cos., struggled, Goldman Sachs
posted record earnings in 2007.  Levin Questioned  In April 2010, Levin questioned Goldman Sachs executives
including former trader Josh Birnbaum and Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein about whether the bank had bet
against clients even as it sold mortgage-linked securities to
customers. The firm has denied wrongdoing.  Goldman Sachs paid a record $550 million fine that year to
settle a fraud lawsuit filed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which accused it of misleading investors who bought
debt tied to mortgages.  Investors that reaped some of the biggest profits from the
2007 bust such as hedge fund manager  John Paulson , who made $15
billion, have since reversed their bets. Birnbaum and Greg Lippmann, who helped pioneer the ABX contracts at  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , are profiting this year from a rally in subprime and other
bonds not backed by the U.S. government.  Birnbaum Gains  Lippmann’s $2.3 billion LibreMax Capital LLC was up 19
percent this year through October. Birnbaum, who now manages
$1.2 billion at Tilden Park Capital Management LP, has gained 34
percent in the firm’s main hedge fund through October this year.  Returns on senior-ranked subprime securities from 2005
through 2007, the years that produced the most defaults, average
almost 33 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc index
data. The debt lost 5.5 percent last year.  Kyle Bass, who made $500 million shorting subprime, said
this month that the securities offer a “very safe place” to
make double-digit returns and that he’s betting more than half
the money from his firm -- Hayman Capital Management LP -- on
the bonds.  The debt is virtually “bulletproof,” because even if the
housing market declines by 10 percent, investors won’t take a
principal hit on their bonds, Bass said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Home Prices  Home prices rose 3 percent in the 12 months through
September, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller index, paring the
decline to 29 percent from the 2006 peak. The median existing-
home price may rise 5 percent in 2013, with comparable gains in
2014, according to the National Association of Realtors.  While Axonic Capital LLC sees value in some subprime debt,
there’s “significant risks” in the market. These include loan
servicers forgiving principal for delinquent homeowners, said
Clayton DeGiacinto, a former Goldman Sachs mortgage trader and
its chief investment officer. The servicers--which collect
payments from borrowers on behalf of bond investors--can also
decide to disrupt cash flowing to investors by invoking their
right to stop advancing missed payments until  foreclosure 
proceeds are collected, he said.  Price Views  “It’s a heavy analytical process to weigh the benefits of
home appreciation versus the cons,” said DeGiacinto of New
York-based Axonic. The firm, which manages $1.4 billion, has
gained more than 22 percent in its credit-opportunities  hedge
fund  this year. “The decision to buy or sell isn’t completely
predicated on home price views.”  ABX investments also carry different risks than owning the
actual bonds. Trading in the market has fallen since before the
housing crash, making the swaps less liquid than others used to
bet on debt. Reduced liquidity can make it more expensive to
enter and exit positions at quoted prices.  The most active ABX index, tied to securities created in the
second half of 2005, had $2.5 billion of net outstanding
contacts as of Nov. 23, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp.  data . That compares with almost $110 billion for
the largest swaps index tied to corporate bonds and $8.1 billion
for commercial-mortgage securities.  Outstanding ABX contracts total a net $16.7 billion,
compared with more than $310 billion of subprime securities,
according to DTCC and Amherst Securities Group LP data. As much
as $200 billion of ABX contracts tied to bonds with just the
lowest investment grades were outstanding in mid-2007, according
to an estimate from a Paulson & Co. presentation that year.  ABX values also often don’t track the returns on actual
securities.  ‘By Yourself’  The indexes can reflect individual funds making “macro”
economic wagers or dealers and investors adjusting their hedges,
said Marina Tukhin, a managing director of subprime and home
equity bond trading at Brean Capital LLC in New York.  “They don’t really reflect much of anything at this
point,” she said. Their illiquidity means you can “end up
driving up the market all by yourself,” she said.  During the 10 three-month periods over the past two years
in which subprime values gained more than 10 percent, the
correlation between the debt and an ABX index tied to the same
20 securities was negative 0.08, according to a Nov. 21 report
from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “We see better value in subprime cash bonds,” New York-
based analysts at the bank led by  John Sim  wrote.  Broader Unemployment  The housing recovery may also be “hitting speed bumps,”
according to a Nov. 29 report from Raymond James & Associates,
which cited new-home sales falling in October. Headwinds include
new financial regulation that is likely to emerge next year,
said analysts including Buck Horne.  “It’s hard to see where the sustained demand for
residential real estate lending is going to occur absent a
sustained tick up in the employment situation in this country,”
Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at  Los Angeles 
based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees more than $50
billion, said in a telephone interview. “There’s still a lot of
inventory and while the headline unemployment number has
declined,” a broader labor market metric, the U-6  jobless rate 
is still elevated, she said.  Investors looking to bet on a “housing recovery” should
make sure they’re clear about what they mean and be careful
about their approach, said John Dolan, an independent market
maker for futures on the S&P/Case-Shiller indexes that trade on
the CME Group Inc. New-home  construction  and property values may
not move at the same pace or in the same direction, and
mortgage-bond prices can be linked to unrelated issues such as
benchmark rates and how individual loan servicers deal with bad
debt, he said.  Still, “ABX contracts are probably a good viable way of
expressing a view on home prices,” said Dolan, who traded
mortgage bonds as chief investment officer at Hyperion
Brookfield Asset Management and  Bankers Trust . “Not the purest
theoretical way, but a good pragmatic way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 perlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  