-- Grail Producer Seeks 7th Python Status on ‘Spamalot’ Cash
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-11-30T15:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/grail-producer-seeks-7th-python-status-on-spamalot-cash.html
The producer of “Monty Python and
The Holy Grail” is looking for more than a shrubbery from the
1975 film’s six stars in a London lawsuit over a profit-sharing
agreement tied to the hit musical “Spamalot.”  Mark Forstater  is entitled to a larger share of the
royalties from the musical based on the film, which has been “a
huge international commercial success,” with runs on Broadway
and in London’s West End, his lawyers said at a London hearing.  Forstater, who was declared bankrupt in June, should be
treated as the “seventh Python” for financial purposes, Tom
Weisselberg, his attorney said in court today. Three of the
founders of the comedy troupe, Michael Palin, Eric Idle and
 Terry Jones , are scheduled to testify at the trial, which is
expected to last five days.  Spamalot grossed $168 million before it closed at  New
York ’s Shubert Theater in January 2009, according to the
Broadway League, a trade association of landlords and producers.
The six Pythons each earn between $500,000 and $800,000 in
royalties per year, according to a 2009 interview with Roger
Saunders, the London manager of  Python (Monty) Pictures Ltd .  Saunders couldn't be immediately reached for comment.  In the film, King Arthur gathers his knights for a quest to
find the Holy Grail. Along the way, they encounter blood-thirsty
villagers looking for witches to burn, French soldiers who toss
cows and insults at them over battlements, and a huge knight who
demands a shrubbery in order to let them pass.  Between 1975 and 2005 Forstater received one-seventh of
half the merchandising and spinoff income from Grail, his
lawyers said in documents filed at the U.K. court. Lawyers for
the Pythons argued he should get a smaller proportion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  