-- Grand Canyon May Have Existed When T-Rex Roamed the Earth
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/grand-canyon-may-have-existed-when-t-rex-roamed-the-earth.html
Geologists, who have been fighting
about the  Grand Canyon’s  age, now have evidence that suggests
the bottom of one of the world’s most famous gorges is about 65
million years older than thought.  Scientists from the  California Institute of Technology  and
the University of  Colorado  at Boulder found data that may point
to the formation being carved to near its modern depth 70
million years ago. That would date the canyon to the  Late
Cretaceous  period when Tyrannosaurus Rex still roamed the earth
before their demise about 5 million years later, according to a
study published in the journal  Science .  The scientists measured rocks from the Grand Canyon’s floor
using a technique based on the decay of uranium and thorium
atoms into helium in grains of a mineral called apatite. The
history of how the buried rock cooled over time as the river cut
downward can be read by looking at how much helium is in the
apatite, as well as how the helium is distributed.  “There has been a resurgence of work on this problem over
the past few years because we now have some new techniques that
allow us to date rocks that we couldn’t date before,”  Rebecca
Flowers , one of the authors of the paper and an assistant
professor at the  University of Colorado , said in a statement.  Previously, scientists thought the canyon was carved more
recently, 5 million to 6 million years ago, or around the time
humans diverged from other apes.  The western canyon would have been carved around the same
time as the dinosaur’s existence, according to today’s study. A
previous study, from 2008, suggested parts of the eastern canyon
were developed about 55 million years ago, a period that’s the
dividing line between the Paleocene and the Eocene,
when the first modern mammals emerged.  The  Grand Canyon , on the Colorado Plateau in northern
 Arizona , is 277 river miles long, up to 18 miles wide, and 1
mile deep. The Colorado River runs through it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 