-- Tim Durham, Ex-National Lampoon CEO, Faces Fraud Sentence
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/tim-durham-ex-national-lampoon-ceo-faces-fraud-sentence.html
Timothy S. Durham, once the chief
executive officer of  National Lampoon (NLMP)  Inc., and two other men
may spend the rest of their lives in prison for their roles in a
fraud scheme that prosecutors say “squandered” $208 million in
investor money.  The office of Indianapolis U.S. Attorney Joseph Hogsett
asked U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson to sentence
Durham, to a 225-year term in a brief filed this week. James
Cochran, former chairman of Fair Finance Co., should get 145
years and Rick Snow, Fair Finance’s ex-chief financial officer,
85 years under advisory sentencing guidelines, prosecutors said.
Sentencing is set for today.  “Durham, Cochran and Snow are responsible for one of the
largest and most brazen frauds in Midwest history, and due to
its terrible impact on the victims, also one of the most
egregious frauds in history,” the prosecutors said.  Lawyers for all three men asked for shorter sentences in
court filings. Bernard L. Madoff in 2009 received a 150-year
sentence from a judge in  New York  for a  Ponzi scheme  estimated
to be worth about $17 billion. R. Allen Stanford, found guilty
in March by a Houston federal court jury of running a $7 billion
scam, received a term of 110 years.  Durham, 50, CEO of Indianapolis-based buyout firm Obsidian
Enterprises Inc. and a Republican Party fundraiser, was
convicted with Snow and Cochran in June for defrauding investors
in Akron, Ohio-based Fair Finance.  ‘Deceived Investors’  Founded in 1934, Fair Finance provided retailer liquidity
by buying receivables at a discount, using money raised through
sales of interest-bearing certificates.  Durham and Cochran acquired Fair Finance through a holding
company in 2002. By February 2005, Fair Finance had shifted from
providing commercial financing to making loans to its
principals, their associates, and Obsidian and other entities
they controlled, according to the indictment.  “Durham, Cochran and Snow then deceived investors by
making and causing others to make false and misleading
statements about Fair’s financial condition and about the manner
in which they were using Fair investor money,” according to the
charging document.  Durham allegedly spent $250,000 of Fair Finance’s capital
on remodeling his garage and $150,000 more at a casino,
according to the indictment. Cochran was accused of spending
$50,000 on country club fees.  FBI Raid  Fair Finance closed after a November 2009 raid by U.S.
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation agents. In February 2010,
creditors forced the firm into involuntary bankruptcy in Akron.  At least $208 million raised from more than 5,000 victims,
was lost, according to Hogsett’s sentencing memo. Only $6
million has been recovered.  A jury on June 20 found Durham guilty of all 10 counts of
wire fraud and one count of  securities fraud , each punishable by
as long as 20 years in prison, and one count of conspiring to
commit those crimes, after less than a day of deliberations.
Opening statements in the trial were delivered 10 days earlier.  Durham maintained he was innocent. Defense lawyer John
Tompkins argued that Durham tried to prop up a faltering
business by putting $28 million of his own money into it.  Durham should receive a term of three years’ imprisonment
followed by two years of home confinement, Tompkins said in a
Nov. 26 court filing in which he disputed prosecutors’ financial
loss calculation. He called the proposed 225-year term
“absurd.”  ‘Liquidity Crisis’  “The actual losses incurred by the investors were caused
by events other than the offenses of conviction,” Tompkins
said. Durham and Cochran didn’t anticipate the U.S. recession in
2008 and 2009, nor did they expect “being mistakenly labeled a
Ponzi scheme by the government and the press,” which reduced
demand for Fair Finance’s investment certificates and created
“a substantial liquidity crisis” at both that firm and
Obsidian, Tompkins said.  Jurors found Cochran guilty of eight counts and convicted
Snow on five. All three men were found guilty of  wire fraud  as
well as the lone securities fraud count and the charge of
conspiring to commit each of those crimes.  Citing Cochran’s age of 57, his attorneys said in a Nov. 26
court filing that the former Fair executive had a life
expectancy of about 23 more years. A shorter sentence than that
would still meet federal objectives of punishment and
deterrence, they said.  ‘Limited Role’  “Mr. Cochran’s relatively limited role, notwithstanding an
impressive title, in the events that lead to the collapse of
Fair Finance merit consideration,” Joseph Cleary and William
Dazey, assistant federal defenders, said in their filing.  Snow’s lawyer, Jeffrey Baldwin, told Magnus-Stinson his
client is “quite remorseful for his involvement in the loss
suffered by the innocent investors in Fair Finance.” Snow, 49,
also should receive a lesser punishment, his lawyer said.  “Mr. Snow did not live a lavish lifestyle, or take loans
from Fair Finance,” Baldwin wrote. “His crime is in his
reliance on Durham and Cochran. He simply believed he was doing
his job.”  Durham resigned from National Lampoon in January. The Los
Angeles-based media company wasn’t named in the government’s
charging documents.  The case is U.S. v.  Durham , 11-cr-00042, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  