-- IMF Considering Congo Request to Extend Loan Program by 6 Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-30T11:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/imf-considering-congo-request-to-extend-loan-program-by-6-months.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
considering a request by  Democratic Republic  of Congo to extend
a three-year, $531 million loan program after the government
published partial details of a controversial 2011 mining deal.  The lender, based in  Washington , delayed loan payments to
Congo since December 2011 after the Central African country
failed to meet certain conditions of its agreement, including
the publication of all mining contracts. Last week, under IMF
pressure, the government issued a note describing the June 2011
sale of its stake in a  copper mine  run by  Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. (ENRC) , without publishing the contract itself.  “The IMF is currently assessing the sufficiency of the
note to decide on the timing of a mission and the extension of
the loan facility,” Oscar Melhado, the IMF resident
representative in Congo, said in a phone interview today from
Kinshasa, the capital.  Congo’s $14.8 billion economy has expanded since the end of
nearly a decade of civil war in 2003 and is forecast to grow 8.2
percent next year compared with an estimated 7.2 percent this
year, according to the IMF. The country produces about 4 percent
of the world’s copper and nearly half its cobalt, and has
deposits of gold, diamonds and tin.  While investment from global mining and commodity-trading
companies like ENRC,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  boosted copper production to more
than 500,000 metric tons last year, Congo remains near the
bottom of Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
Index and the United Nations Development Programme ranked it the
least-developed country in the world last year.  Outstanding Funds  About $225 million in disbursements remain outstanding from
the IMF program, which is set to end Dec. 10 if the extension
isn’t granted, Melhado said. The funds from the IMF loan will be
used to shore up Congo’s foreign-exchange reserves.  Congo has agreed to publish all contracts related to oil,
mining and forestry as part of the loan agreement  to improve
transparency in its revenue collection from those industries.  According to the note from the mines and finance
ministries, published on the Mines Ministry’s website on Nov.
21, state-owned copper miner Gecamines sold its 25 percent stake
in ENRC’s Comide mining project on June 29, 2011, to British
Virgin Islands-based Straker International Corp. The sale came
to light in May through a copy of Comide’s board minutes
obtained by Bloomberg.  ‘Technical Litigation’  The Comide deal was done to resolve “a technical
litigation,” the ministries said, without explaining the term.
Straker didn’t pay Gecamines for the stake, according to the
note. Gecamines may receive 25 percent in another mining
company, Goma Mining Sprl, in return for its shareholding in
Comide. As part of the arrangement, Goma Mining took over part
of a Comide mining permit as well, according to the note. Goma
Mining already has another permit adjacent to Comide.  The note didn’t say who owns Straker International or Goma
Mining. ENRC said Goma Mining was not related to Comide,
according to a statement e-mailed by ENRC’s external
communications agency yesterday.  “While it’s good that Gecamines has responded publicly on
the question of the sale to Straker, its response raises more
questions than answers,” said Daniel Balint-Kurti, chief
researcher on Congo for London-based advocacy group  Global
Witness , which has been campaigning for more oversight of
Congo’s mining industry. “It is impossible to understand the
interplay between all the obscure companies involved without
knowing who they were beneficially owned by.”  Dan Gertler  ENRC, which is listed in  London , became Comide’s biggest
shareholder in 2010, when it purchased 50.5 percent of Camrose
Resources Ltd. from Dan Gertler, an Israeli mining investor who
still owns part of the project.  Mining began in November 2011 at the site, which has
reserves of 10 million metric tons of copper at a grade of 1.77
percent, and total resources of 34.65 million tons of copper
with an average grade of 2.02 percent copper and 0.23 percent
cobalt, ENRC said. The company has invested $130 million in the
project, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  