-- India Growth Matching 3-Year Low Adds Policy-Revamp Pressure
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-11-30T11:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/india-growth-matches-3-year-low-as-singh-struggles-for-revival.html
Indian expansion slowed last quarter
to match a three-year low as growth in domestic spending and
exports moderated, adding pressure on the government to extend
an economic-policy overhaul to spur investment.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the three months
to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, in line with the median of 42
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey and down from 5.5 percent
in the previous quarter, data from the  Central Statistical
Office  showed in New Delhi today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s push to lure more foreign
investors has been hurt by the widest  budget deficit  in major
emerging nations and a weaker rupee. Parliamentary opposition to
his drive to open industries such as retail to overseas
companies risks legislative gridlock, clouding the outlook as
inflation above 7 percent limits room for interest-rate cuts.  “Growth has most likely bottomed out,” said Leif Eskesen,
an economist for  India  and  Southeast Asia  at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  Singapore . “But a recovery in India is completely
conditional on reforms.”  The rupee, down 3.8 percent versus the dollar in the past
year, strengthened 1 percent to 54.265 per dollar at the close
in Mumbai. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks advanced 0.9
percent, while the yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022
fell to 8.18 percent from 8.21 percent yesterday.  Minority Government  The ruling coalition, striving to avert a credit-rating
downgrade, snapped months of paralysis in September by curbing
energy subsidies and giving overseas retailers such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. the chance to set up supermarkets.  The measures cost Singh his majority in parliament after
some lawmakers said family-run stores will have to close down.  Objections to a government agenda that also seeks increased
foreign participation in insurance and pensions may harden if it
loses a vote due next week on the retail step. Singh acceded to
the poll after the opposition disrupted the legislature.  “It’s unlikely they can push through insurance and
pension” as the coalition isn’t united on the issue, said
Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI Securities
Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai.  Private consumption climbed 3.7 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, compared with 4 percent in April-to-June,
calculations by  Bloomberg News  based on today’s report showed.
Exports rose at a 4.3 percent pace, down from 10.1 percent.
Investment advanced 4.1 percent.  Fiscal Deficit  Inflation measured by the wholesale-price index was 7.45
percent in October, the fastest in the BRIC group of largest
 emerging markets  that also includes  Brazil , Russia and  China .  India also has the widest BRIC fiscal gap. The shortfall
reached 3.68 trillion rupees ($67.5 billion) in the seven months
to Oct. 31, or nearly 72 percent of the goal for the 12 months
through March 2013, another release showed today.  Despite a trend of curbing expenditure that began in
September, India will post a gap of 5.8 percent of GDP this
fiscal year because of slowing revenues, exceeding the  Finance
Ministry ’s goal of 5.3 percent, said  Sonal Varma , an economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.  Food costs and supply bottlenecks have stoked prices in a
nation where more than two-thirds of people still live on less
than $2 per day. That’s limited India’s room to join nations
such as Brazil and the Philippines in further cutting borrowing
costs as global growth falters.  Rate-Cut Calls  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Oct. 30
resisted calls from Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram for
cheaper credit to spur investment, leaving the  repurchase rate 
at 8 percent while cutting banks’ reserve requirements.  At the same time, the central bank signaled it may reduce
rates next quarter if inflation eases. Subbarao has left the
policy benchmark unchanged since a 50 basis-point cut in April.  The cost of credit has crimped spending. Sales of Hero
MotoCorp Ltd. motorcycles fell in three of the past four months.  While Indian growth is subdued, it exceeds the pace in many
advanced economies. Chidambaram has pledged to contain the
 fiscal deficit  to boost scope to ease monetary policy.  The government also plans to set up a panel led by Singh to
speed up approvals for road, rail and port construction,
including as much as $18 billion of stalled projects, two
officials with knowledge of the proposal said last week.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. yesterday predicted the expansion
in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy will accelerate to 6.5 percent in 2013,
aided in part by better export prospects and the policy revamp.  “Further reforms on fiscal consolidation, financial
liberalization and infrastructure growth will be needed to
sustain an improvement in trend growth,” the company said.  India’s  trade shortfall  widened to a record $20.96 billion
last month.  Foreign direct investment  fell 60 percent in the
five months through August compared with a year earlier.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Oct. 9 forecast GDP will
climb 4.9 percent in 2012, the least in a decade, adding the
nation’s outlook is “unusually uncertain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  