-- Indian Bond Yields at One-Month Low as RBI Resumes Debt Buying
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-11-30T12:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/indian-bonds-gain-most-in-four-months-as-rbi-to-resume-purchases.html
India ’s 10-year bonds gained,
pushing yields to a one-month low, after the central bank said
it will resume open-market purchases that were halted in June.  The Reserve Bank of India said in a statement yesterday
that it will offer to buy as much as 120 billion rupees ($2.2
billion) of securities at an auction on Dec. 4. The monetary
authority will probably pick up as much as 800 billion rupees of
bonds before this fiscal year ends March 31, Nomura Holdings
Inc. estimates.  “We continue to recommend long sovereign bonds on our view
that demand for bonds, especially from the banking system and
the RBI in the form of open-market operations, will outweigh
supply,” Vivek Rajpal, a strategist in Mumbai at Nomura, wrote
in a note received late yesterday.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government notes due June
2022 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.18
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That is the lowest level since Oct. 29. The yield
dropped six basis points this week and four basis points this
month.  The central bank bought 820 billion rupees of debt from
April 1 through June to boost the availability of funds in the
financial system.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, declined one
basis point to 7.73 percent today, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It decreased four basis points this week.  Slowing Growth  Indian expansion slowed last quarter to match a three-year
low as growth in domestic spending and exports moderated.  Gross domestic  product  rose 5.3 percent in the three months
to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, in line with the median of 42
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey and down from 5.5 percent
in the previous quarter, data from the Central Statistical
Office showed in today.  “The continued slowdown in growth has considerably
increased the pressure on the central bank for further monetary
easing,” Barclays Plc economists Siddhartha Sanyal and Rahul
Bajoria said in a research note today.  The central bank has cut the cash reserve  ratio  by 175
basis points this year to 4.25 percent. The repurchase  rate , at
which lenders borrow from the central bank overnight, was last
cut by 50 basis points in April to 8 percent.  Barclays predicts the monetary authority will cut the repo
rate by 50 basis points in the first quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  