-- Inmet Bidders Seen Lured by Big Copper Deposit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-30T21:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/inmet-bidders-seen-lured-by-big-copper-deposit-corporate-canada.html
Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) , owner of the
world’s second-biggest undeveloped copper deposit, is forecast
by investors and analysts to attract rival takeover offers after
it rejected a C$4.86 billion ($4.89 billion) bid from  First
Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   First Quantum offered C$70 a share in cash and stock for
Toronto-based Inmet on Nov. 25, a month after proposing a
purchase at C$62.50, Inmet said on Nov. 28. The improved offer
is 33 percent more than Inmet’s closing share price the day
before it announced that it had been approached.  Inmet will “go into play” if there are any signs of
interest from the “supergiant” mining companies, said David Baskin, president of Baskin Financial Services Inc. in Toronto,
naming Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale  SA as a “logical buyer.”  “If you start seeing signs of interest from those guys,
you will get a bidding war,” Baskin, whose company manages
about C$440 million and owns about 120,000 Inmet shares, said in
a telephone interview from Toronto. Inmet is probably worth C$85
a share, he said.  Teck Resources Ltd. and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCS) 
may also be interested, Alex Terentiew and Ross Yakovlev,
analysts at Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto, said yesterday in a
note.  Cobre Panama has 6.5 billion tons of copper resources, the
second-highest of any undeveloped copper project, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Dogged by rising spending,
regulatory delays and funding concerns, it’s expected to cost
$6.2 billion and produce 266,000 tons a year on average when
construction is complete. A project of that size would dwarf
First Quantum’s past and present operations in  Zambia ,
Mauritania and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  Bid Review  First Quantum said yesterday it was “surprised and
disappointed” by the rejection after inviting Inmet three times
to enter into talks.  “The transaction would have presented an opportunity to
realize immediate and attractive cash value for the holders of
Inmet shares,” Vancouver-based First Quantum’s Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Philip Pascall said in a statement.  Flora Wood, an Inmet spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday the company had no further comments about First
Quantum’s proposal.  Inmet  rose  3.4 percent to C$67.75 at the close in Toronto.  The company said Nov. 28 that its board and advisers
reviewed the offer and decided it wasn’t in the best interests
of investors. Inmet also said it adopted a shareholder-rights
plan, or poison pill, to block an unsolicited bid.  ‘Public Auction’  Sharon Loung, a First Quantum spokeswoman, didn’t return
requests for comment.  Inmet operates mines in Finland, Spain and Turkey and plans
to begin copper and gold production at Cobre Panama in the first
quarter of 2016.  The multiple offers from First Quantum suggest Inmet is now
a “takeover target,” while the public disclosure by Inmet
“effectively opens a public auction,” Stephen Bonnyman, a
Toronto-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a Nov. 28
note. Bonnyman said he raised his price target on Inmet to C$82
from C$71.50 to reflect BMO’s expectation of competing bids.  Inmet shareholders will probably hold out for a higher
offer, given 50 percent to 55 percent of the company is owned by
five long-term investors, said Orest Wowkodaw and Adam Gofton,
analysts at Canaccord Financial Inc. in Toronto. A
“substantially higher offer” likely in the range of C$80 to
C$90 a share would be needed to motivate Inmet to sell,
especially as its work at Cobre Panama has removed some of the
project’s risks, he said in a note yesterday.  Leucadia Stake  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , based in  New York , owns 16 percent
of Inmet and Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd.,  Singapore ’s state
investment company, has 11 percent, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Inmet didn’t have to issue its Nov. 28 statement revealing
that it declined the offers from First Quantum, said  John Stephenson , a portfolio manager at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto.  “They are probably looking to create an auction,”
Stephenson said. A logical buyer of Inmet would be Freeport
“since it badly needs the growth.”  First Quantum’s revised offer values Inmet at about 7.4
times its current earnings before interest, taxes, deprecation
and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average Ebitda multiple from nine bids for metal miners
announced this year and valued at more than $100 was 6.9, the
data show.  Hostile Bid?  There’s a 50-50 chance First Quantum takes its offer
directly to shareholders, said  John Hughes , an analyst at
Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto.  Teck, the Vancouver-based company that mounted a failed bid
in 2006 for Canadian nickel producer Inco Ltd., is a potential
suitor because it’s a major copper producer in the Americas and
has a strong balance sheet, Hughes said.  Teck previously had a 26 percent stake in Cobre Panama,
Raymond James’s Terentiew said. Given the recent delays at
Teck’s own copper projects, Teck now has a void in copper growth
that its management may want to fill, Terentiew said.  “Although there may be some hesitation on the part of
Teck’s management, given that re-approaching Inmet may look as
admission that the original stake sale was a mistake, we
nonetheless believe that Teck would be interested in the
project,” he said.  Rising Costs  Freeport, which has mines in Indonesia and Congo, has never
shied away from investing in  developing countries  and may need
to expand its copper output after 2015, Hughes said. Terentiew
said Phoenix-based Freeport’s open pit-mining expertise may make
it a possible suitor.  Vale, with its major operations in  Brazil , has some
familiarity with Canadian companies after its acquisition of
Inco, so it could be “a logical buyer” of Inmet, Baskin said.  A press official at Vale in  Rio de Janeiro  said the company
doesn’t comment on market speculation. Marcia Smith, a Teck
spokeswoman, and  Eric Kinneberg , a Freeport spokesman, both
declined to comment on speculation their companies would be
interested in Inmet.  “The prospect of a bidding war is unlikely,” said Don Reed, the chief executive officer of  Franklin Templeton ’s
Canadian unit. “If another company was going to bid, we most
likely would have seen some evidence by now.”  ‘The Rigmarole’  George Topping , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus Canada Inc.
in Toronto, said the chance of other bidders is low because
senior companies would only be interested in Cobre Panama and
none of Inmet’s three other assets.  “To go against First Quantum, it has a be a senior
company,” Topping said. “Three out of the four mines senior
companies don’t want, so they’d have to go through the rigmarole
of divesting those assets.”  Investors around the world are becoming increasingly
focused on the ability of management to bring mines in on time
and on budget after costs ballooned at multibillion-dollar
projects being developed by  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Anglo
American Plc.  First Quantum was founded in 1996 by its CEO Pascall, who
has more than three decades of mining engineering experience.
The company is the world’s 13th-largest copper producer and
predicts it will become the sixth-biggest in 2016, it said in a
February  presentation .  First Quantum “has proven to be the best mine builders in
the business,” First Asset’s Stephenson said.  Three Operations  Since 2000, First Quantum has acquired the three mines it
currently operates: the Kansanshi copper mine in Zambia, the
Guelb Moghrein copper and gold mine in Mauritania, and the
Ravensthorpe nickel mine  Australia .  It acquired several other British and Canadian companies
exploring for metals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ravensthorpe was a project jettisoned by BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s largest mining company.  “So far, it’s been operating a few quarters, and it’s been
going well” under First Quantum’s ownership, Topping said.  In 2009, the Congolese government stripped First Quantum of
its rights to the Kolwezi copper project, which was 75 percent
complete at the time. London-based Eurasian Natural Resources
Corp. bought rights to Kolwezi the following year, after which
First Quantum began legal action against ENRC.  The dispute was only resolved this year when ENRC agreed to
pay First Quantum $1.25 billion for First Quantum’s share of the
Kolwezi, Lonshi and Frontier assets in Congo.  Bond Sale  Last year Inmet struggled to keep financing for Cobre
Panama on track amid plans by the Panamanian government to
revise sections of the country’s mining laws.  Inmet said in August that  Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV)  pledged $1
billion in financing for construction of Cobre Panama. In
exchange, Franco-Nevada got a so-called revenue “stream” from
gold and silver mined as byproducts.  The financing deal with Franco-Nevada followed Inmet’s sale
in May of $1.5 billion of eight-year callable bonds to help pay
construction costs.  “There’s nothing complicated about the mine, except that
it’s big,” Wowkodaw said yesterday in a phone interview.
“First Quantum has never done a project on that scale, but
neither has Inmet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in New York at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  