-- Insurers to Pay Fees in States Rejecting U.S. Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-11-30T17:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/insurers-to-pay-fees-in-states-rejecting-health-law.html
Health insurers who want to sell
plans in states that refuse to create new U.S. health-care
marketplaces will have to pay fees for the federal government to
regulate them.  Insurers will pay a fee of 3.5 percent of their premiums to
sell plans in a federally run health exchange, the government
said today in a regulatory  filing . The exchanges are new
marketplaces somewhat like online travel services where
uninsured people will buy policies.  Each state must tell the federal government by Dec. 14
whether they will run an exchange. So far, 17 have said they
won’t build one, according to the nonprofit  Kaiser Family
Foundation  of  Menlo Park ,  California . In another six, the
government will build the exchange and run it in partnership
with the state. The total amount of the fee announced today
won’t be known until all states have made their decisions, the
government said.  The proposed regulation also describes how the government
will prevent insurers from cherry-picking healthy customers in
the exchanges. The rule “will help to ensure that every
American has access to high-quality, affordable health
insurance,” the  Department of Health  and Human Services said in
the filing.  Republican Refusals  Most states that have refused to build exchanges have
Republican governors, who have said they oppose the health-care
law, projected to extend coverage to about  30 million  Americans
who would otherwise lack it.  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer, a
Republican, said Nov. 28 that she wouldn’t build one because her
state “would wield little actual authority” over an exchange
and it would cost $27 million to $40 million a year.  Insurers say that the fees will be passed onto their
customers.  “Any new fees to pay for the administration of exchanges
will add to the cost of coverage, and that is why the focus
needs to be on reducing administrative costs, streamlining
operations, and avoiding regulatory duplication that will add
complexity and increase costs,”  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman
for America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s Washington
lobbying group, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  