-- LIPA Chairman Howard Steinberg Has Resigned, Utility Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-11-30T23:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/lipa-chairman-howard-steinberg-has-resigned-utility-says-1-.html
Howard Steinberg, chairman of the
Long Island Power Authority, has resigned, the latest in a
series of departures from the utility after superstorm Sandy.  Steinberg submitted his resignation letter to  New York 
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  today, Michael Hervey, chief operating
officer, said in an e-mailed statement. Hervey, who also is the
acting chief executive, said Nov. 13 that he’ll be leaving the
authority at the end of the year. Board member X. Cristofer
Damianos and Bruce Germano, president of  customer service , have
also tendered resignations since Sandy struck Oct. 29.  “Howard has given 16 years of uncompensated service to
Long Island,” Hervey said. “His contributions are appreciated
and he will be missed.”  Steinberg’s resignation leaves the 15-member board of
trustees with only eight members, the number needed for the
board to have a quorum and conduct business. It took LIPA more
than two weeks to get power back for thousands of customers
after Sandy knocked down trees and power lines, leaving more
than 1 million of the authority’s customers in the dark. Since
then, Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, has said he may eliminate
LIPA entirely.  Steinberg didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and e-
mail seeking comment.  Updating System  LIPA is a state-run authority, which the governor controls
by appointing nine members of its board, including the chairman.
In two years, Cuomo has appointed one trustee as seats have sat
vacant and terms expired. Steinberg, who was appointed by
Republican Governor  George Pataki  in 1999, has remained on the
board even though his term expired in August 2011.  “This was long overdue and probably a necessary step in
attempting to reorganize LIPA, and it signals to the governor
that he needs to move quickly,” Matthew Cordaro, former chief
operating officer of Long Island Lighting Co., a predecessor to
the Long Island utility, said in a telephone interview.  The authority and  National Grid Plc (NG/) , which operates its
electricity network, were sued this month by customers accusing
them of failing to properly maintain their system.  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail requesting comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles Siler at 
 csiler@bloomberg.net  