-- Israel Plans New Homes in Jerusalem, West Bank
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   U d i   S e g a l
-- 2012-11-30T21:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/israel-to-build-new-homes-in-jerusalem-west-bank-after-un-vote.html
Israel  approved the construction of
3,000 new homes in  Jerusalem  and the  West Bank  less than 24
hours after the  United Nations General Assembly  voted to
recognize  Palestine  as a non-member observer state.  Israel also intends to move ahead on procedures necessary
to plan for construction in a West Bank area between the Jewish
settlement of Maaleh Adumim and Jerusalem, two government
officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity due to the
sensitivity of the matter.  The  Palestinian Authority , the UN and the U.S. consider all
Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal. The area between
Jerusalem and Maaleh Adumim is particularly sensitive because
Israeli construction there may cut off Palestinians from their
aspirational capital in east Jerusalem in a future peace accord.  Israel settlements and east Jerusalem construction “are
counterproductive and make it harder to resume direct
negotiations or achieve a two-state solution,” White House
Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said in an e-mail today.  The 193-member General Assembly yesterday voted 138-9, with
41 abstentions, for a resolution granting Palestinians a form of
statehood recognition on a par in the world body with the  Holy
See . The most significant ramification is that the new state may
be able to join organizations such as the  International Criminal
Court .  The U.S. voted against the measure, and its passage may
prompt U.S. lawmakers to seek to cut aid to the Palestinians.  ‘Unilateral Action’  “It’s not our view that cutting off aid is the right thing
to do,” Deputy White House press secretary  Josh Earnest  told
reporters today aboard Air Force One.  The U.S. opposition at the UN was based on the belief that
the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians will be
resolved “only through face-to-face negotiations not unilateral
actions,” he said.  The top Palestinian diplomat at the UN, Ambassador Maen Rashid Areikat, in a statement called the Israeli settlement
moves “the most blatant form of unilateral action” which
“undermine any peaceful resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today by
text message that the nine countries that voted against
recognition, including the U.S., took the “side of truth and
the side of peace.”  Palestinian Violations  By going to the UN to seek statehood recognition, the
Palestinians “have violated the agreements with Israel, and
Israel will act accordingly,” according to a statement issued
by Netanyahu’s office following the vote.  Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
broke down in September 2010 after Netanyahu refused to extend a
10-month building freeze in West Bank Jewish settlements.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he wouldn’t
negotiate unless Israel stops its construction in the West Bank
and east Jerusalem, areas Israel captured in the 1967 Middle
East war.  The Israeli officials didn’t specify whether the building
announced today for Jerusalem would be in the eastern sector of
the city, which the Palestinians seek as the capital of their
state.  Similar plans announced two years ago ahead of a visit by
Vice President  Joe Biden  strained ties between Israel and the
U.S., its staunchest ally.  Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, said Israeli elections
scheduled for Jan. 22 are probably among the motives behind
today’s announcement.  “Elections time in Israel is a time for flag-waving and
gestures,” he said by phone. “Making this a direct response to
the UN vote would be a very silly and childish approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Udi Segal in Jerusalem at  usegal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  