-- Italy’s Bersani Seen Fending Off Renzi With Union Support
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-02T20:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/italy-s-renzi-faces-primary-defeat-at-hands-of-union-favorite.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, head of  Italy ’s
Democratic Party, fended off a leadership challenge from the 37-
year-old mayor of Florence in a primary runoff, freeing him to
pursue his bid to succeed Prime Minister Mario Monti.  Bersani won 60.9 percent of the vote to 39.0 percent for
Matteo Renzi, with more than two thirds of polling stations
reporting. The two were vying to lead a coalition of center-left
parties in elections due by May.  “We tried to change politics, but we didn’t manage to,”
Renzi said in a concession speech. “Now we will demonstrate
that politics hasn’t changed us.”  Monti, who was appointed prime minister a year ago, has
said he won’t seek another term. By eliminating Renzi decisively
in the second round of the primary, Bersani can now concentrate
on the general election, where his biggest challenge comes from
the anti-austerity Five Star Movement, which has surged in
opinion polls.  Bersani’s party supports Monti’s unelected government in
Parliament. He and Renzi presented two competing visions for how
to remedy Italy’s  deepening recession , while trying to convince
voters and investors they won’t squander Monti’s budget
improvements.  Pension Reform  Renzi has opposed easing Monti’s budget-saving pension
reform, while Bersani said changes could be made to give workers
more flexibility, a move that may help appease his union base.
Bersani promised to champion the weakest members of society,
while Renzi invoked future generations when making a moral case
for budget rigor.  While Italian politics is defined by schisms and mergers of
convenience, both Renzi and Bersani have pledged to stick with
the Democratic Party, win or lose. The party, which had 26.7
percent support in a Nov. 23 SWG Institute poll, will need help
from both men to fend off Beppe Grillo’s euro-skeptic Five Star
Movement and win a stable parliamentary majority.  “The PD is benefitting from the primary effect in the
polls that has drawn attention to the party and raises its
visibility,”  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor of politics at
Luiss University in  Rome , said Nov. 30 in a phone interview.
“The primaries have been well managed and even though there are
diverse visions, they haven’t provoked a fracturing of the
left.”  Rivals in Disarray  The vote comes at a time when the other main political
rival that the Democratic Party will face in the national vote
is in turmoil. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said last
week that he may break away from the People of Liberty he
founded to start a new party and seek the premiership.  The announcement threatens to force the cancellation of the
PDL primary called for Dec. 16 that would have probably
consecrated Berlusconi’s hand-picked successor, Secretary-
General Angelino Alfano, to lead the PDL into the vote.  Italians will vote by May as debt market turmoil and
Monti’s austerity budgets sap economic growth. The last
parliamentary vote, in 2008, was won by Berlusconi and his
People of Liberty party. Berlusconi’s popularity has plummeted
since his government collapsed last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 