-- Liu Proposes ‘Green Apple Bonds’ to Remove School Toxins
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-11-30T21:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/liu-proposes-nyc-green-apple-bonds-to-remove-school-toxins.html
New York City  Comptroller  John Liu 
proposed issuing $407 million in so-called Green Apple Bonds to
speed the cleanup of toxins in 772 schools.  The comptroller, a Democrat considering running for mayor
in 2013, said the money raised by the general-obligation bonds
would allow the city to remove light fixtures carrying
polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, by 2015, six years ahead of
the current schedule. The plan would also reduce the Education
Department’s energy bills and cut  carbon emissions .  “Our students should learn about PCBs in class but through
their textbooks, not through first-hand exposure,” Liu, 45,
said in a  news release .  While the estimated debt service on the bonds would total
$380 million through 2021, the cost would be more than offset by
an estimated $719 million in savings from reduced energy
consumption, lower  interest rates  and federal subsidies for
energy conservation, Liu said. The improvements would cut the
city’s greenhouse-gas emissions by 1.4 million metric tons
through 2021, 47 percent more than the current plan.  The proposal adds to a plan announced last month by Liu,
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and City Council Speaker Christine Quinn
to accelerate spending on infrastructure, including bridges,
roads, schools and libraries. As part of that plan, PCB removal
would be sped up at 100 schools.  Cancer Cause  PCBs refer to a class of synthetic organic chemicals widely
used as additives in oils, electrical equipment and hydraulic
machinery. They have useful attributes such as fire resistance
and low electrical conductivity. However, PCBs have also been
shown to cause cancer and harm immune, reproductive, nervous and
endocrine systems,  according  to the U.S. Department of
Environmental Protection.  In July 2011, a group called New York Lawyers for the
Public Interest  filed  a federal lawsuit against the city
Education Department, alleging thousands of light fixtures were
leaking PCBs in violation of U.S. law and endangering the health
of students.  New York  has committed $838 million over 10 years to
replace fixtures and make schools more energy efficient, said
Marge Feinberg, an Education Department spokeswoman, in an e-
mailed statement.  “We have an aggressive, environmentally responsible plan
and are always happy to hear new ideas,” she said.  New York City had $77.3 billion in gross debt as of June
30, or $9,378 for each of the city’s more than 8 million
residents, according to its  comprehensive annual financial
report . About $42.3 billion of the total is general-obligation
debt backed by city’s full faith and credit.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  