-- J&J Wins Reversal of $1.1 Million Levaquin Punitive Award
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-30T19:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/j-j-wins-reversal-of-1-1-million-levaquin-punitive-award.html
Johnson & Johnson won a reversal of
$1.1 million in punitive damages awarded to a man who claimed
the company failed to properly warn of the risks of tendon
damage linked to its antibiotic Levaquin.  While erasing the punitive award, the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in  St. Louis  sustained a Minnesota jury’s 2010 finding that J&J
failed to warn plaintiff John Schedin. The court also upheld an
award of $630,000 in compensatory damages to Schedin, who sued
J&J and its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit in 2008.  “The evidence is neither clear nor convincing, as a matter
of law, that OMJP deliberately disregarded the safety of the
users of Levaquin,” U.S. Circuit Judge William Jay Riley said
today. Proving deliberate disregard is “required for punitive
damages under Minnesota law,” Riley said.  J&J has faced more than 3,400 state and federal lawsuits
alleging tendon injuries from Levaquin, according to court
filings. The company had settled about 845 of them by last
month, according to an Oct. 30 filing in federal court in
 Minneapolis , where a judge is overseeing about 1,900 Levaquin
lawsuits.  The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company has won three
of the four Levaquin cases that have gone to trial. Schedin’s
case was the only such victory for the plaintiffs.  Achilles Ruptures  Schedin, 84, who said he ruptured both Achilles tendons
after taking Levaquin, claimed the companies failed to warn
doctors and patients of the drug’s association with tendon
damage.  “We’re disappointed in the reversal of the punitive
damages award,” Ronald Goldser, Schedin’s attorney, said today
in a phone interview. The decision upholding the rest of the
verdict “makes it easier for consumers” to pursue such cases,
he said.  “We are pleased with the ruling by the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit overturning the award of punitive
damages,” Shaun Mickus, a J&J spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “When used according to the product labeling,
Levaquin has been proven to be a safe and effective
medication.”  The lower court case is Schedin v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , 08-
cv-05743, combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products
Liability Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District
of Minnesota (Minneapolis). The appellate case is In re Levaquin
Products Liability Litigation, 11-3117, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  