-- Japan Fund Said to Meet With Banks This Weekend on Renesas
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-11-30T07:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/japan-fund-said-to-meet-with-banks-this-weekend-for-renesas-plan.html
A Japan-backed fund will negotiate
with  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) ’s main banks this weekend and may
announce an investment of more than 180 billion yen ($2.2
billion) in the ailing chipmaker as early as next week, a person
with knowledge of the plan said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  and  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411)  are among the lenders, and at least one bank wants to
discuss whether to cut interest payments and extend loan
deadlines for Renesas, the person said, asking not to be named
because the negotiations aren’t public.  Renesas, a  supplier  to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Nintendo Co., is
cutting jobs and considering closing or selling plants to
recover from losses as demand drops for its system LSI chips,
used for functions including processing TV images. Some of
Renesas’s three biggest shareholders --  Mitsubishi Electric (6503) 
Corp.,  NEC Corp. (6701)  and  Hitachi (6501)  Ltd. -- will accept workers from
Renesas while others will pay into an early-retirement fund
instead, the person said.  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan  is close to reaching a
basic agreement with those shareholders to take a two-thirds
stake in the chipmaker, the person said Nov. 26. Renesas would
eliminate as many as 5,000 positions and shut more factories
under INCJ’s proposal, the person said.  Mitsubishi UFJ, Mizuho  “INCJ has just decided on the form of support, but the
most important thing is whether Renesas can generate profits,”
said  Yoshihiro Okumura , a general manager at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo . “We cannot see a way into the black at
this point.”  Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for Renesas, and an INCJ
spokeswoman declined to comment on the negotiations. Tomohiro
Kohsaka, a spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ, and Masako Shiono, a
spokeswoman for Mizuho, declined to comment.  Renesas fell 4.7 percent to 283 yen in Tokyo trading,
widening its decline to 40 percent this year,  compared  with a
7.3 percent climb for the broader Topix index.  “Investors and shareholders have a sense of crisis about
Renesas failing,” said Natsumu Tsujino, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  Eight other companies, including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , will
invest more than 10 billion yen total for minority stakes under
the proposal, the person said.  KKR Bid  INCJ competed for Renesas with New York-based private
equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) , which offered about 100 billion yen for
the chipmaker, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
August.  Renesas is a key  supplier  to  Japan ’s automakers as the
world’s largest maker of microcontrollers, with a 27 percent
market share last year. A lack of the microcontrollers, used in
cars to run systems including airbags and brakes, prompted
automakers to shut factories after last year’s earthquake and
tsunami in Japan.  Renesas has lost 177.6 billion yen since its formation in
2010 by the merger of money-losing chipmakers Renesas Technology
Corp., a venture between Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric, and
NEC Electronics Corp.  “INCJ has to choose new management to restructure
Renesas,” said  Takeo Miyamoto , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG
in Tokyo. “Renesas needs to narrow the number of products it
makes and reduce its scale.”  Cutting Jobs  Renesas’s net loss may widen to 150 billion yen for the
year ending March 31 from 62.6 billion yen a year earlier, the
company  predicted  Oct. 29. Operating profit, or sales minus the
cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative
expenses, may be 21 billion yen for the 12 months ending March
31, compared with a loss of 56.8 billion yen a year earlier,
Renesas said.  The chipmaker said Oct. 16 it booked a one-time charge of
about 84 billion yen to cut about 7,500 jobs. The company
employed 42,800 as of March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The manufacturer, with 18 factories in Japan, also plans to
sell its Renesas High Components Inc. subsidiary to  Aoi
Electronic Co. (6832)  in January, it said Oct. 12.  INCJ was formed in 2009 to invest in companies that support
Japanese industry and has spent about 400 billion yen on 29
projects,  according  to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  