-- Johnson & Johnson Chief Gorsky Elected to Chairman
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-30T21:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/johnson-johnson-chief-gorsky-elected-to-chairman.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of consumer health products, said Chief Executive
Officer  Alex Gorsky  was elected chairman of the board,
succeeding Bill Weldon who will retire next year.  Weldon, 64, will resign as chairman on Dec. 28 and plans to
retire in the first quarter of 2013, the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based company said today in a statement. Gorsky replaced
him as CEO in April.  Weldon will begin to receive $95.1 million in deferred and
long-term compensation and $48 million in pension payments upon
retirement, according to the company. He started at J&J as a
sales representative in 1971. Gorsky, 52, who had led J&J’s
device and supply chain units, said when he took over as CEO
that he saw value in J&J staying a large, diversified company.  “Gorsky now has the wheel, without a parent riding
shotgun,” said  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the
 University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor who follows the industry.
“Now it’s entirely his show to run and he can make changes
without insulting a chairman who was his predecessor. Those
changes aren’t going to be dramatic because Gorsky is Weldon’s
protégé and he is cut from the same mold.”  J&J has struggled with quality issues for the past several
years, recalling  prescription drugs  and over-the-counter
medicines like Tylenol, Motrin and Benadryl. It stopped selling
several types of vaginal mesh implants tied to internal injuries
in June and recalled a bone putty used to stop bleeding in
August because it could catch fire during surgery.  Steady Course  Gorsky is unlikely to “strike off in a sharp new direction
or make any hairpin turns” as chairman, said  Matt Miksic , an
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., in a telephone interview. “I’m
interested to see where the company goes under his leadership,
but I don’t look at it as if we are opening a brand new and
significant chapter for J&J. They will have to work through some
of the same issues they have has for the past couple of years.”  J&J also said today it is changing the board’s governance
structure by expanding the role of the independent presiding
director, who will now have more responsibility for shareholder
communications, executive performance evaluations and succession
planning.  J&J gained less than 1 percent to $69.73 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 6.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  