-- Katie Holmes, Plain Jane; Redgrave; ‘Asher Lev’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/katie-holmes-plain-jane-redgrave-asher-lev-review.html
Katie Holmes is fine, if oddly cast,
as the diet-obsessed homebody sister of a hopped-up embezzler in
“Dead Accounts,” an all-too-aptly-titled entry in one of the
worst seasons in memory for new shows on Broadway.  Set in a leafy Cincinnati suburb, Theresa Rebeck’s unfunny
comedy concerns a prodigal son who’s returned to  Ohio  from
 Manhattan  after stealing $27 million from inactive accounts at
the bank where he works.  Arriving home late at night, Jack (the terrific clown
Norbert Leo Butz, here reduced to speed-freakish self-parody)
has paid an after-hours store cleaner $1,000 for several pints
of Graeter’s ice cream, a prized local specialty.  This is not Cincinnati, but “Cincinnati” -- a caricature
of the flyover between the coasts, where wine is dispensed from
a box and a snobby visitor sneers, “Linoleum, it’s not a
myth.”  Rebeck’s “Manhattan” is similarly comic-book tired
(“What’s a Babbo?” one rube asks), described by Jack as a
hostile place absent trees, air and human contact, if abundant
with steaks “that I dream about to this day.”  Another Visitor  He’s on the lam from a stuck-up wife (Judy Greer) who shows
up late in the game -- not to turn him in but to claim her share
of his spoils.  Rebeck (primetime TV’s Broadway soap opera “Smash”) has a
biting wit and a black sense of relations between the sexes that
we saw in last year’s wicked, if equally unbelievable
“Seminar.”  “Dead Accounts,” on the other hand, seems phoned in, the
kind of TV sitcom Rebeck herself can tear into with delicious
spleen.  The squandered talent extends to director Jack O’Brien, who
fails to make anything here seem fresh; as well as to Jane
Houdyshell as Jack and Lorna’s mother, and Josh Hamilton as
Jack’s slacker friend.  There’s also an unseen father upstairs fighting a losing
battle against kidney stones. He had a better time than I did.  At the Music Box Theatre, 239 W. 45th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: *  Vanessa Redgrave  Vanessa Redgrave spent Wednesday and Thursday evenings at
Columbia University’s  Miller Theatre , leading a reading of
excerpts from “A World I Loved: The Story of an Arab Woman.”  An account of a privileged upbringing and four decades
spent running a girls’ school in  Beirut , “A World” is by Wadad
Makdisi Cortas, whose son-in-law was the late, revered Columbia
literature professor Edward Said. His widow and daughter also
participated in the presentation, along with Nadim Sawalha.  That it’s laced with anti-Israel venom is no more
surprising than Redgrave’s involvement. Her activism on behalf
of Palestinians is long-lived and, I believe, heartfelt.  What does surprise is the involvement of the Public Theater
in this event. Not because of the show’s intellectual dishonesty
-- memoirs are memoirs, after all -- but because the performance
I saw was so thoroughly soporific despite being embellished with
a girls’ chorus from the exclusive Spence School and a trio
playing Beethoven and Bach. (Closed; No rating).  Asher Lev  The title also provides the first line of “My Name Is
Asher Lev,” Aaron Posner’s adaptation of the popular 1972 novel
by Chaim Potok about a Hasidic Jew whose worldly success as a
modern artist puts him in painful conflict with his deeply
observant parents and their Brooklyn community.  Ari Brand is engaging as Asher, beginning as an
inquisitive, gifted child and later navigating a fate he cannot
renounce. Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon play Asher’s parents, as
well as many other roles, with varying levels of distinction.  Eugene Lee’s sky-lit set, grittily illuminated by James F.
Ingalls, exquisitely evokes the story’s several disparate
milieus.  The play is earnest and serious but the performance is
dramatically inert and rarely moving, even under the sensitive
direction of Gordon Edelstein.  At the Westside Theatre, 407 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 