-- Kenya November Inflation Slows for 12th Month, Rate Cut Expected
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-11-30T12:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/kenya-november-inflation-slows-for-12th-month-rate-cut-expected.html
Kenyan  inflation  slowed for the 12th
consecutive month in November, increasing pressure on the
country’s central bank to ease monetary policy further.  The inflation rate in  East Africa ’s largest economy dropped
to 3.3 percent from 4.1 percent in October, the Nairobi-based
 Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said today in an e-mailed
statement. Prices in the month rose 0.7 percent, the agency
said.  “The main factor is economic growth,” Robert Gatobu, a
dealer with Bank of Africa Ltd., said by phone from the capital,
Nairobi, before the figures were published. “The bank has
already reached the inflation target they’re looking for.”  Central bank policy makers have reversed a tight monetary
stance adopted last year by cutting Kenya’s key lending rate 7
percentage points to 11 percent since July in a bid to spur
expansion. While Kenya’s economy has been largely shielded from
economic turmoil in one of its largest trading partners,  Europe ,
economists have warned a sustained slowdown overseas could
damage exports, remittances, aid and investment flows.  Lower interest rates in Kenya could boost the economy by
strengthening domestic demand, Gatobu said. Pressure has also
been mounting from consumers and businesses for cheaper credit
before national elections scheduled for March 4.  Increases to the benchmark  interest rate  last year totaling
12.25 percent, to a record 18 percent, helped stabilize the
currency after it fell to an all-time low of 106.75 a dollar and
bring down inflation from a peak of almost 20 percent. Food
prices have eased after good rains ended a drought in 2011.  The government is targeting about 5 percent inflation in
the fiscal year through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  