-- Kleinheinz, Corriente Return Client Money as Funds Close
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t ,   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-11-30T22:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/kleinheinz-capital-to-return-client-money-as-fund-closes.html
Kleinheinz Capital Partners Inc.,
the Fort Worth, Texas-based hedge fund founded by John Kleinheinz, will return investors’ money as a rising number of
hedge-fund managers is calling it quits.  The firm has begun winding down the fund’s positions and is
65 percent “through the process,” Kleinheinz wrote in a letter
to clients today, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Separately, Corriente Advisors LLC, a hedge-fund that
handed investors a sixfold gain betting against U.S. subprime
mortgages during the financial crisis, said it’s closing its
main fund after poor returns.  “I am not enjoying running the fund as much as I used
to,” Kleinheinz said in his letter. “Managing a fund like ours
requires me to do a lot of things that make me a less effective
investor.”  Firms including Brencourt Advisors LLC and Weintraub
Capital Management LP have announced plans to close in the past
months, as the industry struggles with subpar performance and
new regulatory requirements. An estimated 424 hedge funds
globally were liquidated in the first half, 14 percent more than
a year earlier, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc. Corriente, founded by Mark Hart, told investors in a letter
this month it’s closing the firm’s master fund after almost four
years of “extremely poor and disappointing performance.”  Risk Assets  While the fund had annualized returns of 10 percent since
inception, poor results since early 2009 are due to Hart
“taking a far too bearish stance on risk assets in general and
on the sovereign debt crises in  Europe  and the economic
situation in  China ,” he wrote.  Hart, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , blamed central bank and
government intervention for reducing volatility and making macro
investing more difficult. He didn’t return a call seeking
comment. He said in the letter that he will continue managing
European and China funds.  Kleinheinz Capital plans to return “substantially all” of
investors’ money after the end of the year and the rest after an
audit, the firm said. About 2 percent of the portfolio is
illiquid and will take longer to give back, Kleinheinz said.  Kleinheinz Capital had $4.3 billion of assets and 24
employees as of Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing March
29. The firm was founded in 1996. It may employ “any and all
types of investment analysis and strategies, including
fundamental and technical analyses,” it said in the filing.
“We employ a macroeconomic approach in selecting investments.”  Mark Stupfel, who works at Kleinheinz, plans to start a
firm in the second quarter of next year that will hire some of
Kleinheinz’s analysts and administrators, Kleinheinz said,
adding that he will be the new company’s lead investor and won’t
have a management role. The new firm will be located at
Kleinheinz’s office in Fort Worth.  Kleinheinz didn’t respond to a telephone call seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  