-- Knight Board Said Meeting Dec. 3 to Study Getco, Virtu Bids
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-30T23:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/knight-board-said-meeting-next-week-to-study-getco-virtu-offers.html
Knight Capital Group Inc.’s (KCG)  board
plans to meet on Dec. 3 to resume assessing takeover offers from
Getco LLC and Virtu Financial LLC, its second gathering in five
days, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Directors yesterday evaluated bids submitted Oct. 28
without establishing a timeline for a decision, another person
said. The group is considering its alternatives and hasn’t ruled
out keeping the company independent, the person said. Both
declined to be named because the discussions are private. The
bids from closely held Getco and Virtu represent differing
 structures  and will force Knight to choose between cash and a
value that depends in part on the stock market’s view of Getco.  The cash-and-stock bid from Chicago-based Getco values
Knight at $3.50 a share and retains its public listing,
according to a filing two days ago from the high-frequency
trading firm. Virtu is pursuing a deal to buy Knight for about
$3 a share in cash, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said. Knight was bailed out by six financial firms in August
after losing more than $450 million in a trading malfunction.  “It’s a very competitive marketplace,” Sang Lee, managing
partner at Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in a phone interview.
“The equities trading market has not been great the last three
years. Given the issues Knight went through and the offers at
hand, they have to make a decision. They’re viable offers.”  Market Makers  The bids pushed  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight to its
biggest rally in nine years as shares rose 37 percent to $3.42
in the three days ending Nov. 28, when the offers were
submitted. Knight fell 1.8 percent yesterday to close at $3.36
and ended today at $3.37.  Virtu, Getco and Knight are automated market makers. While
Getco and Virtu operate across asset classes mainly on exchanges
and similar platforms around the world, Knight focuses on U.S.
equities. It’s also a wholesale market maker that services
hundreds of retail brokers including  Fidelity Investments  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  by executing buy and sell orders for
individuals. Getco and Virtu aren’t in that business.  Knight has declined to comment on Getco’s proposal, citing
a policy not to discuss shareholder activities. Alan Sobba, a
spokesman for Virtu, Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for Knight,
and Getco’s Sophie Sohn declined to comment today on the board’s
schedule.  Reverse Merger  Getco is proposing a two-step reverse merger in which
Knight would be reorganized as a holding company with Getco
receiving 242 million newly issued shares and warrants to buy 69
million more. The company would make a tender offer for as many
as 154 million Knight shares -- about half those outstanding,
excluding Getco’s current stake -- at $3.50, or about $539
million. Getco’s existing stake in Knight, about 57 million
shares, would be retired.  Automated market-maker Virtu asserted in talks with Knight
that its offer is more attractive than Getco’s because it is for
all of Knight’s shares and is more likely to be completed,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Virtu is seeking
to convince the board that Knight and its employees would be
better off if the firm is restructured as a private company. New
York-based Virtu would eventually go public, the person said.  The proposal would be financed by a loan commitment of at
least $1 billion led by Credit Suisse Group AG, one person said.
Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. would participate, according to
another person. Virtu is in talks with three other banks and
could raise an additional $100 million, that person said.  Silver Lake  The bid also included a commitment of new equity financing
from  Silver Lake  Management LLC, which owns a stake in Virtu,
another private equity firm, and management of the market-making
company, the person said. Virtu hasn’t been asked to increase
its bid, the person said.  U.S. equity volume averaged 6.5 billion shares a day this
year, down 17 percent from a daily average of 7.8 billion last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volume was 8.5
billion in 2010, the data show.  Knight, which owns the Hotspot FX and BondPoint platforms
and is in more trading businesses than either of its suitors,
had more than 1,545 employees at the end of September, it said
in a regulatory filing. Getco had more than 400 in June after
eliminating 40 jobs, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. Virtu has about 150.  Trading Algorithms  While Virtu and Getco are primarily market makers, Getco
started a customer business of providing algorithms, or trading
strategies that break larger orders into smaller pieces bought
or sold over a period of time, to institutions and brokers in
2011. That group executed an average of about 60 million shares
a day over the last three months, Sohn said. It has about 50
customers including large money managers, she said.  Getco, like Knight, also operates a dark pool or private
venue that doesn’t display prices publicly before transactions
occur.  Knight shares were above $10 before the trading malfunction
and bailout, which diluted existing owners by more than 70
percent. The company dodged bankruptcy almost four months ago
when six financial firms, including Getco, provided $400 million
to restore the company’s capital after the trading malfunction,
when incorrectly installed software caused it to bombard U.S.
exchanges with unintended orders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in  New York  at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  