-- Naira Heads for First Monthly Drop Since June on Holiday Imports
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-11-30T11:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/naira-heads-for-first-monthly-drop-since-june-on-holiday-imports.html
Nigeria ’s naira headed for the first
monthly decline since June against the U.S. currency as
companies sought dollars to import consumer goods for holidays
next month.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest oil producer depreciated
0.1 percent to 157.41 a dollar as of 12:05 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, and headed for a monthly drop of 0.2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Dollar demand increased this month, driven by companies
bringing in consumer and household goods for Christmas and year-
end celebrations in December,” Tunde Ladipo, chief executive
officer of Lagos-based Valuechain Investment Ltd., said by phone
today. “Demand is also boosted by companies bringing in
gasoline.”  The drive for  consumer goods  rises during religious
festivities in Nigeria, a nation of more than 160 million people
with a population almost evenly split between Muslims and
Christians. The country also relies on imports to meet 70
percent of its fuel needs because of inadequate refining
capacity, according to the Petroleum Ministry.  The  Central Bank  of Nigeria held its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record high 12 percent this year to ease inflation
pressures and stabilize the naira. Inflation, which accelerated
for the first time in four months to 11.7 percent in October,
remains above the bank’s target of less than 10 percent.  Yields on 10-year naira debt fell six basis points to 12.3
percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021 fell
two basis points to 4.256 percent.  Ghana ’s cedi appreciated for the first time in nine days,
rising 0.1 percent to 1.9075 a dollar in Accra, the capital.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  