-- Natural Gas Futures May Decline Next Week on Mild Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-11-30T20:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/natural-gas-futures-may-drop-next-week-on-mild-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas futures may fall next
week as mild weather reduces heating-fuel consumption, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Eight of 14 analysts, or 57 percent, forecast that futures
will decline on the New York Mercantile Exchange through Dec. 7.
Four, or 29 percent, said gas will advance and two said prices
will stay the same. Last week, 69 percent of participants said
gas would gain this week.  Forecasters including Weather Services International Corp.
in Andover,  Maryland , predicted above-normal temperatures across
the continental U.S. Dec. 4 through Dec. 8. Gas futures dropped
4 percent yesterday after the government reported an unexpected
increase in stockpiles, as moderate weather replaced a cold
spell earlier this month.  “Weather forecasts continue to be the chief culprit in
keeping gas prices capped,” Mike Fitzpatrick, editor of the
Energy OverView newsletter in New York, wrote yesterday. “The
earlier seasonal rally clearly expressed overly optimistic
expectations for initial heating demand. Good demand may still
materialize, but the enthusiastic aspirations of participants
need to be worked off.”  Natural gas declined 34 cents, or 8.7 percent, to $3.561
per million British thermal units this week in New York, the
biggest weekly drop since the seven days ended June 1. Prices
closed at a 13-month high of $3.901 a week ago and are up 0.3
percent from a year earlier.  Weather Forecasts  The high temperature in Philadelphia on Dec. 4 may be 64
degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius), 15 above normal, while Chicago
may be 46 degrees, 7 above the day’s average, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Heating demand in the lower 48 states will be 41 percent
below normal in the week ending Dec. 6, data from Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , show. About 50 percent of U.S.
households use gas for heating, according to the Energy
Department.  Gas inventories  rose 4 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Nov. 23 to 3.877 trillion, the department said yesterday. The
five-year average change for the week was a decline of 18
billion cubic feet. Analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg
showed an expected drop of 9 billion.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 49 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      8      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  