-- Natural Gas Pricing in U.K. Is No Libor as Probe Begins
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-30T14:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/natural-gas-pricing-in-u-k-is-no-libor-as-probe-begins.html
The regulatory investigation into
alleged manipulation in the U.K. gas market,  Europe ’s biggest,
may fail to undermine a price-setting system that relies on
daily conversations between journalists and traders.  While forcing more buying and selling onto an exchange
would improve transparency, scrapping reporters’ assessments of
the private over-the-counter market would increase prices for
end-users, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc., a
consultant whose clients include 70 of the U.K.’s 100 biggest
publicly traded companies. Whatever the merits of the probe,
regulators will have “great difficulty” finding evidence of
manipulation, Eddie Proffitt, chairman of the natural gas group
at the U.K.’s Major Energy Users’ Council, said Nov. 14.  Five months after the Libor-fixing scandal that led to a
record fine for Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s $480 billion gas market
has come under the spotlight after a journalist at the ICIS
price agency reported deals he suspected were being done below
“prevailing” levels. European gas trading increased 83 percent
in the past five years as utilities sought to cut purchases from
suppliers based on  oil prices , according Prospex Research Ltd.,
a London-based researcher.  “The European gas hubs are liquid markets, so it’s hard to
report a price to a price-reporting agency other than where it’s
trading,” Alex McDonald, chief executive officer of the  London 
Energy Brokers’ Association, said Nov. 28 by e-mail. “Libor, by
contrast, is a market that has not traded beyond the very short
dates since the crisis.”  Fair Prices  Every working day at 4:30 p.m. in London, a team of
journalists at ICIS, a unit of Reed Elsevier Plc, call or e-mail
about a dozen traders to collect prices of natural gas for
delivery from one day to five years ahead. They gather data on
completed deals as well as bids and offers, and then compare
those with trades on Trayport Ltd.’s online platform, which
aggregates prices from brokers including ICAP Plc and GFI Group
Inc., and make their assessments. The prices are published daily
and used to set contracts between buyers and sellers.  “Price-reporting agencies are generally efficient at
regulating themselves, with reporters applying editorial
judgment to decide what’s included,” Roderick Bruce, an analyst
at  IHS  in London who’s tracked energy markets for seven years,
said in a Nov. 16 e-mail. “Any other alternative, like forcing
all trades onto an exchange or through a registry, would result
in far higher costs for the industry and consumers.”  Traders and Journalists  The investigation was sparked after the ICIS journalist,
Seth Freedman, a former broker at Insinger de Beaufort NV and
Eden Financial Ltd., notified his managers of what he suspected
was an attempt to manipulate assessments on Sept. 28. ICIS in
turn reported the case last month to the Office of the Gas and
Electricity Markets, saying there had been “a series of deals
done below the prevailing market trend,” according to a Nov. 12
statement.  Ofgem , as the regulator is known, said in a Nov. 13
statement it’s “looking into the issue.” The Financial
Services Authority, or FSA, also said Nov. 12 it had received
the information.  “Traders run roughshod over unsuspecting, under-trained
journalists, leaning on them to influence the final prices in
their favor,” Freedman, 32, who joined ICIS in January, said in
a Nov. 16 phone interview. “Traders tried to influence me
regularly.”  Reporters working for ICIS receive “extensive training”
and are equipped to challenge any information they receive, Paul Abrahams, a Reed Elsevier spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in London, said yesterday by e-mail.  Prevailing Price  On the day in question, Freedman said he spotted deals in
the  day-ahead market  at 58 pence a therm while the prevailing
price quoted by other traders was 58.50 pence. ICIS’s eventual
assessment was 58.25 pence, according to its daily report
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Freedman said his manager set the
price halfway between the two.  Journalists at McGraw Hill Inc.’s Platts, which began to
publish oil prices in 1909, didn’t observe any irregular trading
activities or attempts to manipulate the market that day,
Kathleen Tanzy, a spokeswoman based in  New York , said Nov. 14 by
e-mail. Platts’s assessment was 59.1 pence. London-based Argus
Media Ltd., the largest publisher of coal prices, discounted
“unrepresentative trades” and put the price at 58.5 pence, it
said Nov. 14 on its  website .  ‘Pretty Subjective’  “It’s always been pretty subjective,” Kevin Alger, head
of gas trading at RWE Supply & Trading GmbH, a unit of  Germany ’s
second-biggest utility, said Nov. 14 at a conference in Vienna.
“You have someone calling up and asking for a price at a moment
in time, but it’s moving all the time.”  Unlike gas-price assessments, most submissions made by
banks to Libor, the London interbank offered rate that
determines  interest rates  on about $300 trillion of financial
products around the world, can’t be compared with real trades.  The FSA’s Managing Director Martin Wheatley on Sept. 28
proposed stripping the British Bankers’ Association of
responsibility for Libor and adopting criminal penalties for
rate rigging. The London-based BBA, which continues to manage
the rate, proposed Nov. 8 cutting the number of rates it sets
daily to 30 from 150 because many of them aren’t traded.  At least a dozen banks worldwide are being investigated
over allegations they colluded to manipulate Libor. Barclays was
fined 290 million pounds ($465 million) in June after admitting
manipulation, prompting Chief Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  to
resign. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said Nov. 2 it expects
to pay a fine in coming months to settle regulators’ probes into
the affair.  Electronic Systems  More than half the world’s oil is priced using Platts’s
Dated Brent crude assessment, according to the company. Its so-
called trading window, an electronic system that captures deals,
bids and offers, makes it more transparent than the gas market.
Argus operates a similar bulletin board.  The  International Energy Agency , OPEC and the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  said in an October 2011
report that “there is a risk that a price-reporting agency’s
benchmark price can be manipulated by the submission of false
prices or by over- or understating the volume transacted.”  ICIS’s methodology is “almost entirely subjective,”
compared with Argus and Platts, which use a “combination of
mechanistic analysis and judgment,” the report said.  ICIS is in talks with IOSCO on “how to maintain confidence
in the oil market indices published,”  Reed Elsevier ’s Abrahams
said.  Not Ready  Exchange trading is more transparent as prices are publicly
available, including those on ICE Futures Europe, the region’s
biggest energy exchange. Risk is also minimized as the exchange
or a clearing company instead becomes the counterparty.  The gas market may not be ready to move completely to
exchanges, according to Colin Lyle, chairman of the gas
committee at the European Federation of Energy Traders.  Exchanges tend to charge fees for every transaction, while
trades through a broker are typically cheaper or even free if
counterparties deal directly with one another.  In a market where “counterparties are substantial
companies well known to each other, the risks may well be better
managed, and at lower cost, by trading bespoke, un-cleared,
products” over the counter, Lyle said in a Nov. 22 e-mail.  About 34 percent of the gas on the U.K.’s National
Balancing Point, a virtual trading hub, is bought and sold on
exchanges, according to Patrick Heather, an independent
consultant and a former head of gas trading at BG Group Plc.
It’s 5.9 percent in the Netherlands, Europe’s second-biggest
market, he said.  ‘Untraceable Mobiles’  Even if all trading moved to exchanges, manipulation may
still occur, according to Proffitt, whose group represents
energy buyers including Trinity Mirror Plc, publisher of the
 Daily Mirror  and the Sunday Mirror tabloids in Britain, and
discount chain Aldi.  “Traders could use untraceable mobile phones to call each
other and arrange to hit bids or offers, even on exchange-traded
markets,” he said in a Nov. 14 telephone interview from London.
Proffitt said he hasn’t seen any evidence of price fixing.  If the allegations of manipulation made by Freedman and
ICIS are shown to be true, the U.K. government is prepared to
legislate to clamp down on wholesale natural-gas trading, Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey  said on Nov. 13 in Parliament.  “If we find we need more powers for the regulator, we will
act,” he said.  U.K. natural gas for next-day delivery rose 0.7 percent to
67.45 pence a therm at 2:04 p.m. London time, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  