-- NBA Commissioner Stern Vows Punishment After Spurs Rest Starters
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-11-30T05:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/nba-commissioner-stern-vows-punishment-after-spurs-rest-starters.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner David Stern vowed to impose “substantial
sanctions” on the San Antonio Spurs, who lost at Miami last
night after sending four top players home before the game.  Spurs coach Gregg Popovich sent 36-year-old Tim Duncan, 30-
year-old Tony Parker and 35-year-old Manu Ginobili, all former
All-Stars, and 25-year-old Danny Green back to San Antonio. The 
Heat won 105-100.  All normally are starters for the Spurs (13-4). Instead,
San Antonio’s starting lineup consisted of Matt Bonner, Tiago Splitter, Boris Diaw, Patrick Mills and Nando de Colo.  “I apologize to all NBA fans,” Stern said in an e-mailed
statement. “This was an unacceptable decision by the San
Antonio Spurs and substantial sanctions will be forthcoming.”  The Spurs, who already were missing injured players Stephen Jackson and Kawhi Leonard, were playing their fourth road game
in five nights. Miami has the best record in the Eastern
Conference at 11-3.  Including Jackson and Leonard, the six missing players have
averaged a combined 76.2 points a game this season.  Popovich said he decided to rest players for the game when
the league schedule came out in July and showed the Spurs, who
had nine players in uniform last night, would be completing a
six-game road trip in Miami.  ‘Macho Decision’  San Antonio tomorrow hosts the Memphis Grizzlies, who have
an NBA-best record of 11-2 and are in the Western Conference’s
Southwest Division with the Spurs.  “It’s the best thing for our team,” Popovich told
reporters before the Miami game. “Everybody has to make
decisions about their schedule. We’ve done this before in hopes
we’re making a wiser decision and not a macho decision.”  Even without the four regular starters, the Spurs led 98-93
with two minutes, 14 seconds left in the game before the Heat
took control by scoring eight straight points. Miami finished
the game with a 12-2 run.  Spurs owner Peter Holt recently was elected chairman of the
NBA’s Board of Governors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  