-- Nebraska Utility Raises Cooper Power as Nuclear Output Gains
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-30T16:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/nebraska-utility-raises-power-to-cooper-as-nuclear-output-gains.html
Nebraska  Public Power District
raised output from the 830-megawatt Cooper 1 reactor, sending
U.S. nuclear-power production higher for a fourth day.  Total  U.S. generation  advanced by 0.2 percent to 81,714
megawatts, or 80 percent of capacity, the highest level since
Oct. 11, according to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg. Output was 11 percent less than a  year
ago  with 17 of 104 nuclear reactors offline.  Cooper 1, about 64 miles (103 kilometers) south of Omaha,
operated at 50 percent of capacity, up from  15 percent 
yesterday. The unit is coming back online after refueling and
maintenance that began last month, according to Mark Becker, a
spokesman for the utility.  The plant synced to the electrical grid at about 5:11 p.m.
yesterday, Becker, who is based in Columbus, Nebraska, said in
an e-mail today. The unit “should be back at 100 percent
sometime over the weekend,” he said.  Cooper 1, which was formerly on an 18-month fuel cycle,
will run for 24 months before another refueling outage, he said.  Nebraska Public Power’s boost extended gains in  Western
regional output  for a  third day . Generation increased 2.5
percent to 19,465 megawatts, the highest since Oct. 5. Output in
the Southeast gained 0.5 percent to 22,885 megawatts.  Oconee, Susquehanna  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  started its 846-megawatt Oconee 1 reactor
in South Carolina after shutting it  Oct. 26  for refueling, NRC
reports show. The unit is about 30 miles west of Greenville and
operated at 20 percent of capacity.  In addition to refueling, crews upgraded controls on feed
water pumps, made modifications to the fuel transfer system and
completed a 10-year service inspection of the reactor vessel,
said Sandra Magee, a company spokeswoman based at the plant.  “We did identify a cracked screw during inspection and we
removed that screw and replaced it,” Magee said in a phone
interview today. “The unit is coming back into service and
continues to escalate in power.”  Susquehanna 2, a  PPL Corp. (PPL)  reactor with the capacity to
generate 1,140 megawatts near Brunswick,  Pennsylvania , ran at 22
percent of capacity early today. The unit reconnected to the
grid yesterday after repairs to a hydraulic system associated
with the main turbine, according to a company statement.  “We made repairs and, as part of our normal process for
resolving plant issues, we also inspected the soundness of other
related equipments,” Timothy Rausch, PPL’s Susquehanna senior
vice president and chief nuclear officer, said in the statement.  Oyster Creek  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  started its 619-megawatt Oyster Creek 1 in New
Jersey and boosted output to 2 percent of capacity early today.
The unit shut Oct. 21 for refueling and maintenance, according
to Suzanne D’Ambrosio, a plant spokeswoman.  During the closing, crews detected two pipe welds that
needed to be repaired and tested before restart, D’Ambrosio, who
is based at the plant, said in an e-mail today.  Constellation Energy Group Inc.’s 621-megawatt Nine Mile
Point 1 in New York operated at 22 percent of power, down from
87 percent yesterday. The unit was taken off the grid at 4:30
a.m. to conduct turbine system repairs, said Jill Lyon, a
company spokeswoman based in Scriba, New York.  Crews identified “abnormal indications on the turbine luke
oil system,” on Nov. 12, Lyon said.  Output in the Northeastern region declined by 0.8 percent
to 22,035 megawatts to snap a three-day advance.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the Nuclear Energy Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  