-- New U.S. Sanctions Proposed for Iranian Energy, Shipping
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-11-30T04:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/new-u-s-sanctions-proposed-for-iranian-energy-shipping.html
Two U.S. senators who pressed for
the economic sanctions that have reduced  Iran ’s crude oil
exports and earnings have proposed additional steps to force
Iran to curb its suspected nuclear weapons program.  Senators Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, and  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, yesterday introduced new U.S.
financial penalties on foreign businesses and banks involved in
Iran’s energy, ports, shipping, and shipbuilding sectors, plus
sanctions on metals trade with Iran.  The measure would target Iran’s main sources of revenue and
seek to prevent it from evading sanctions by buying gold with
local currency earnings. While almost all trade with Iran by any
U.S. business or individual has long been banned, yesterday’s
proposal would impose penalties on other nations’ trade with
Iran, a step closer to imposing a trade embargo on Iran.  “Our sanctions are making a significant impact, but Iran
is working just as hard to develop nuclear weapons,” Menendez
said in remarks prepared for delivery on the Senate floor. “By
passing these additional measures,” he said, the U.S. will send
a message to Iran that it must make concessions on  uranium
enrichment , or face the strangulation of its economy.  The existing sanctions have weakened Iran’s currency,
curtailed its oil exports, and forced Iran back to nuclear
talks. Still, Iran hasn’t slowed its enrichment efforts, making
new measures essential, Menendez said in an e-mail before his
planned speech.  The U.S., European Union and  Israel  say Iran is secretly
pursuing a nuclear weapons capability. Iran says its nuclear
program is strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  Reducing Imports  Yesterday’s proposal would continue to allow purchases of
Iranian crude as long as the buyer nation is able to show it’s
significantly reducing its oil imports from Iran.  The new measure also allows for purchases of Iranian
natural gas if payments are made in local currency into an
account that Iran could use only for approved trade. That
provision, according to advisers who’ve helped craft the
legislation, is especially important for  Turkey , a U.S. ally and
NATO member that’s a major buyer of Iranian natural gas.  While the U.S. and EU say the sanctions forced Iran back to
the negotiating table this year, talks stalled and no agreement
has been reached despite the steady tightening of economic
penalties on Iran.  Iran’s oil exports were down 1 million barrels a day last
month, or 40 percent, compared with October 2011, U.S. Energy
Department figures show.  Declining Prices  Crude for January delivery climbed $1.58 to settle at
$88.07 a barrel yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices are up 2.1 percent this month.  Yesterday’s proposal, offered as an amendment to the annual
defense authorization bill now on the Senate floor, would
include energy, ports, shipping and shipbuilding as sectors of
the Iranian economy that support the country’s nuclear program
and weapons proliferation. A vote on the amendment is scheduled 
for today.  If it’s passed by Congress and signed by President  Barack Obama , the legislation also would make it illegal to do business
or provide insurance or reinsurance to any Iranian business in
those sectors or to any Iranian individual sanctioned by the
U.S. government.  The proposed new amendment adds a special exemption from
sanctions on oil transactions for a country that may be facing
“exceptional circumstances” that make it impossible to further
reduce imports of Iranian oil. A hypothetical case, according to
those involved in crafting the measure, might be  Japan , which is
struggling to meet its energy needs in the aftermath of the
March 11, 2011, Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Commodities Targeted  The proposal is also aimed at blocking trade in commodities
used in Iran’s shipbuilding and nuclear sectors, such as
graphite, aluminum, steel, metallurgical coal and software for
integrating industrial processes. The measure also seeks to stop
Iran from circumventing sanctions by receiving payment in
precious metals such as gold, or using oil payments in local
currency to buy gold.  The proposal also would sanction Islamic Republic of Iran
Broadcasting for human rights abuses, including airing alleged
show trials and forced confessions, and would sanction anyone
involved in diverting humanitarian goods to the black market.  Mark Dubowitz , who has advised members of Congress and the
administration on pressuring Iran, praised the measure for
addressing “the Iranian game of ‘catch me if you can’” by
making it easier to crack down on front companies “and other
sanctions-busting techniques, like the use of gold or other
precious metals as a medium of exchange.”  The Senate defense bill is S 3254.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  