-- New Norm High Food Costs Boost Supply Risk as World Hunger Grows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/new-norm-high-food-costs-boost-supply-risk-as-world-hunger-grows.html
High and volatile global food prices
have become the “new norm,” creating increased risk for
supplies at a time when 12 percent of the population remains
chronically undernourished, the  World Bank  said.  Even after the World Bank’s food-price index slipped from a
record in July, the measure was still 7 percent higher in
October than a year earlier, the Washington-based lender said
today in a report. While costs have dropped in recent months,
fats and oils still are 12 percent more expensive than a year
earlier, and grains are “very close” to the all-time high
reached in 2008, the bank said.  “A new norm of high prices seems to be consolidating,”
Otaviano Canuto, the World Bank Group’s vice president for
poverty reduction and economic management, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Although we haven’t seen a food crisis as the one
of 2008,  food security  should remain a priority.”  Weather will play a large role in determining food prices
in the near future, along with the cost of fuel and export
competition, the bank said.  About 870 million people live in chronic undernourishment,
the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates.
The world population will rise to 7.02 billion this year,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Also, malnutrition accounts
for more than one-third of mortality of children under 5 years
old and is responsible for more than 20 percent of maternal
mortality, according to the World Bank report.  “The world cannot afford to get used to or be complacent”
about high food costs, Canuto said. The World Bank Group
committed more than $9 billion to agriculture and related
sectors in the year ended June 30, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  