-- New Jersey’s Mountain Lakes Has AAA Rating Suspended by S&P
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-30T22:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/new-jersey-s-mountain-lakes-has-aaa-rating-suspended-by-s-p.html
Mountain Lakes, a New Jersey borough
where more than half the households earn $150,000 or more, had
its AAA credit rating removed by  Standard & Poor’s , which said
the locality failed to supply financial information.  S&P on Nov. 14 warned Mountain Lakes, which is about 25
miles (40 kilometers) west of  Manhattan , that it would suspend
the top grade unless it received timely information about this
year’s finances.  “We did ask just for some updated current-year
information,” Nicole Ridberg, an S&P analyst, said in a
telephone interview. “We asked for additional information
regarding future debt and their local economic activity. We just
never got a response.”  S&P said it may reinstate the rating once Mountain Lakes
supplies the data. The New York-based company left phone
messages and sent e-mails asking for the information beginning
in August or September, Ridberg said.  Mayor Charles Gormally and D. Timothy Roberts, the
borough’s chief financial officer, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment by e-mail and phone.  In July, Pinnacle Foods Group LLC, maker of Duncan Hines
products and Birds Eye frozen foods, moved its headquarters from
Mountain Lakes to neighboring Parsippany, said Chris Spina, a
spokesman for Pinnacle. The company employs more than 4,300
people in  North America , according to its website.  Diverse Base  While the borough may receive less  tax revenue  because of
Pinnacle’s departure, the area has “a diverse regional base”
where workers can find employment elsewhere or travel to
Parsippany to continue working at the food company, Ridberg
said.  “Obviously, we haven’t spoken to them, so we’re not sure
about the loss in taxation and things like that,” Ridberg said.  Mountain Lakes had about $6.3 million of long-term debt as
of Dec. 31, 2011, according to financial documents. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the locality Aa1, its second-highest
grade,  David Jacobson , a spokesman for the ratings company, said
in an e-mail.  The borough’s median household income was $155,139 in 2010,
according to U.S. Census data. Of its 1,293 households, 685
earned at least $150,000.  Mountain Lakes has “good economic indicators” and is
“very wealthy, but it’s just making sure that we have that
updated information,” Ridberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  