-- New Jersey Split on Plan to Legalize Sports Gambling, Poll Shows
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/new-jersey-split-on-plan-to-legalize-sports-gambling-poll-shows.html
New Jersey residents are split on
their support for the legalization of sports gambling in the
state, according to a Seton Hall Sports Poll.  The poll found 47 percent of those surveyed were opposed to
legalized sports gambling, 44 percent were in favor and 10
percent were undecided. The margin of error was plus or minus
3.8 percent.  In mid-October, the state’s Division of Gaming
Enforcement adopted regulations that would allow casinos and
racetracks to apply for licenses to provide sports wagering
starting Jan. 9, 2013, with the applications costing $50,000.  “Despite the potential for the state raising needed
revenues through legalized gambling, especially after Superstorm
Sandy, opinions on this issue remain split,” Rick Gentile,
director of the poll, said yesterday. “This is possibly due to
the strong resistance by the sports leagues.”  The Seton Hall Sports Poll questioned 696 New Jersey
residents last week.  The poll also asked respondents for their reaction to
Rutgers University moving to the Big Ten conference from the Big
East. Forty-five percent thought the decision was good for the
New Brunswick school, while 48 percent believed it was a boost
for the state.  New Jersey residents also said they were more likely to
support the New York Giants than the Philadelphia Eagles or New
York Jets. Thirty-nine percent identify with the Giants, 12
percent with the Eagles and 10 percent with the Jets.  More than half also said the National Football League’s
Giants and Jets should carry New Jersey before the team names
instead of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  