-- New Jersey Lawmaker Seeks Report on Revel Casino’s Cash
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-01T03:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/new-jersey-lawmaker-seeks-report-on-revel-casino-s-cash.html
New Jersey Senate President Stephen Sweeney is seeking a detailed financial report on  Atlantic
City ’s Revel casino, saying the state-supported gaming operation
is “burning cash at an alarming rate.”  Revel received a $100 million line of credit from its
backers in August to help it through next year, Sweeney, a
Democrat from West Deptford, said today in a letter to David L. Rebuck, director of the state’s Gaming Enforcement division.
That credit has been used up and the casino is looking for
outside funding to survive through the end of the year, he said.  “I continue to receive a flood of reports that its
creditors are still waiting to be paid for services rendered,”
Sweeney wrote. He requested a detailed report on the casino’s
financial stability by Dec. 7, a week from today.  Revenue at Atlantic City’s 12 gaming venues fell 20 percent
to $209 million in October, including four days when they were
shut because of Sandy, the superstorm that ravaged New Jersey
Oct. 29. Moody’s Investors Service said casino profit in the
city could fall 25 percent to 50 percent this quarter and next.
Moody’s cited single-property operators such as Revel
Entertainment Group LLC as most at risk.  “Revel’s financial situation is not dire,” the company
said today in a statement. It said it is in discussions with its
lenders to provide more capital.  April Opening  The $2.4 billion casino, which opened in April, was to be a
catalyst for Atlantic City’s transition from day-trip to luxury
resort destination. Governor  Chris Christie  kept the project
alive with $260 million in tax incentives, part of a state-
sponsored marketing push urging customers to “Do AC.”  Instead Revel, which features 10 pools, 14 restaurants and
almost 1,900 hotel rooms, sucked business from neighboring
properties. The company’s $850 million  term loan  due in February
2017 fell to 54 cents on the dollar today, according to a person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the trades are private. The debt traded as high as 60.5 cents on
the dollar on Nov. 21 after the casino operator said it was
seeking to raise new money.  “The additional capital will provide us with the liquidity
necessary to allow the market to recover from  Hurricane Sandy ,
and execute our strategic build-out of exciting new gaming, food
and beverage, and entertainment amenities,” Chief Executive
Officer Kevin DeSanctis said in the Nov. 21 statement.  Unpaid Bills  Sweeney, an ironworkers union organizer, said he first
became concerned that Revel’s finances were in bad shape when he
began to hear from contractors that they weren’t getting paid.
More recently, he said the casino hasn’t paid $12 million in
property taxes, the first time a New Jersey casino has ever
fallen behind on any levies.  The city and the company issued a statement today saying
“they are amicably and expeditiously negotiating to resolve”
tax issues, without being more specific. Revel also said it has
made leadership changes in its hotel operations and casino
marketing that would lead to improvement.  “These guys are burning through money, things are not
getting any better and the state is a partner in all of this,”
Sweeney said today in an interview.  The state gaming agency has Sweeney’s letter “under
review,” according to Lisa Spengler, a spokeswoman.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  