-- Norilsk Owners Said to Head Into $1 Billion Arbitration
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-11-30T14:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/norilsk-owners-said-to-head-into-1-billion-arbitration.html
Russian billionaire  Vladimir Potanin 
and Oleg Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal are heading toward a more
than $1 billion arbitration case as they battle over rights at
 OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (MNOD) , according to four people with knowledge
of talks.  Potanin and Deripaska are negotiating the terms of a new
shareholder agreement and success may spur Rusal to withdraw its
claim that the previous accord was breached, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the issue is private.
Hearings by a London panel open Dec. 3, they said.  The billionaires have been fighting over the world’s
largest nickel producer since Rusal bought its 25 percent stake
from Potanin’s former business partner,  Mikhail Prokhorov . Rusal
sought arbitration in 2010, saying Potanin violated its rights
to board representation, a claim he has denied.  “Arbitration may delay a shareholder agreement as the
parties may want to see what the outcome may be, but still the
settlement is likely to be reached,” said Kirill Chuyko, head
of equity research at BCS Financial Group in Moscow.  The aluminum producer is demanding more than $1 billion in
compensation from Potanin’s Interros group, which controls 28
percent of the nickel mining company, for damages after
Norilsk’s share price declined, the people said.  The press services of Rusal, Potanin’s Interros and Norilsk
declined to comment on the process, saying it’s not public.  Shareholder Will  The start of arbitration won’t bar Interros and Rusal from
continuing discussions on a new shareholder agreement, said
Alexander Nadmitov, co-managing partner at Nadmitov, Ivanov &
Partners Law Firm LLC, which is not involved in the planned
hearings. It depends on their own will, he said.  Norilsk shares rose 2.4 percent to 4,823 rubles in Moscow,
the biggest gain since Sept. 14.  As part of the new agreement, Potanin may replace Vladimir Strzhalkovsky as chief executive officer at Norilsk, people said
Nov. 25. The talks include raising Norilsk’s dividends to at
least 50 percent of net income, they said. Billionaire  Roman
Abramovich  may become a Norilsk shareholder, buying 6.9 percent
of the treasury stock, to reduce conflicts over control, they
said this week. His spokesman,  John Mann , declined to comment.  The presence of Abramovich as a third party in the
agreement between Deripaska and Potanin may help ensure that it
lasts longer than the previous accord, Nikolay Sosnovskiy, a VTB
Capital analyst in Moscow, said in a Nov. 27 note to clients.  Potanin and Deripaska resumed discussions last month after
a break since June.  A sale of Rusal’s stake in Norilsk isn’t under discussion,
the people said last month. Deripaska’s company has rejected
three offers to sell out of Norilsk since October 2010,
rebuffing an approach of $8.75 billion for 15 percent in
September 2011.  “We see the shareholders reaching an agreement by the end
of this year,” said Dmitriy Kolomytsyn, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  