-- Norquist’s Tax Pledge Draws Fewer Freshmen: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-11-30T20:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/norquist-s-tax-pledge-draws-fewer-freshmen-bgov-barometer-1-.html
Fewer Republican freshmen in
Congress are joining the ranks of anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist  by signing his 26-year-old no-new-taxes pledge.  The BGOV Barometer shows that 26 out of 38 Republicans who
will be freshman members of the House or Senate in January have
signed the anti-tax  pledge , compared with 96 out of 99 in the
group that started in the 112th Congress in January 2011. So
far, 24 of 35 Republicans newly elected to the House have
signed, along with two of the party’s three new senators in the
incoming 113th Congress.  Americans for  Tax Reform , the Washington-based group headed
by Norquist, says on its website the pledge, which dates back to
1986, “is considered binding” as long as a lawmaker holds the
office to which he or she was elected when signing. The pledge
“has become de rigueur for Republicans seeking office,” the
organization says.  Among Republicans who don’t go along with that is Susan Brooks of  Indiana , who will begin her first term in Congress in
January.  “I am generally opposed to tax increases, and I said that
throughout the campaign trail,” she said yesterday in a phone
interview. “But that doesn’t mean I need to sign a pledge to
demonstrate my desire not to raise taxes. I know that governing
can be very difficult, and sometimes difficult decisions have to
be made.”  Fewer Takers  Norquist is getting fewer new takers while some previous
Republican signers are distancing themselves from the pledge, in
which lawmakers commit to oppose tax increases and to use any
revenue from limiting deductions and credits to reduce tax
rates.  Representative Chris Gibson, a Republican first elected to
Congress in 2010 from  New York ’s 20th congressional district,
says he’s no longer bound by the pledge he signed for his
freshman term in Congress. After district boundaries were
redrawn, Gibson was elected this year from the 19th district.
While his position on taxes hasn’t changed, Gibson has no plans
to sign a new pledge, said his spokeswoman, Stephanie Valle.  “The pledge is to your constituents of a numbered
district,” she said.  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  said Nov. 25 on
ABC’s “This Week” program that he “will violate the pledge,
long story short, for the good of the country, only if Democrats
will do entitlement reform.”  “I care more about my country than I do about a 20-year-
old pledge,” Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , who is seeking
a bipartisan deficit reduction plan, told a Georgia television
station on Nov. 21.  Adherents Remaining  Norquist still has prominent Republican decision-makers
among his pledge adherents, including House Speaker  John Boehner , his deputy House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .  A list published by Americans for Tax Reform shows that the
next Congress will have at least 218 House pledge-signers, the
exact number needed to constitute a majority in the 435-seat
chamber. There will be at least 234 Republicans in the House
next year, down from 241 in the outgoing Congress. The
Republican tally in the Senate will be 39, not enough to block
legislation through a filibuster without help from some non-
signers.  John Kartch , a spokesman at Americans for Tax Reform,
didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  