-- Norway Wealth Fund to Spend $11B Adding U.S. Real Estate
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/norway-wealth-fund-to-invest-11-billion-in-u-s-property.html
Norway’s $660 billion sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s largest, plans to invest about $11
billion as it enters the U.S. real estate market.  The fund, mandated by the country’s finance ministry to
eventually put 5 percent of assets in property, wants one-third
of that, or 1.7 percent, to be in the U.S., said  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Oslo-based  Norges Bank
Investment Management , which oversees the pool. The fund held
0.3 percent in real estate, 60.3 percent in stocks and 39.4
percent in bonds as of the end of September, according to its
quarterly report.  “The U.S. is the next real estate market to invest in,”
Slyngstad said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg LP’s
headquarters in  New York .  Sovereign wealth funds, or state-owned investment pools,
are seeking to diversify their risk by expanding investments
beyond stocks and bonds. China Investment Corp., which oversees
about $482 billion in assets, in 2010 helped refinance a
Manhattan office tower co-owned by private-equity firm  Carlyle
Group LP. (CG)   Norway , seeking higher returns and lower risk after
record losses in 2008, gave approval in 2010 for its fund to
invest as much as 5 percent of its value in real estate over
several years.  The fund is focusing on conservative property investments,
such as large office complexes in major cities and developed
malls, Slyngstad said in the interview. It has already bought
commercial property in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Berlin and
Sheffield in the U.K., and on Nov. 29 made its first real estate
investment in  Switzerland , buying a Zurich office complex from
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  for 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.08
billion).  Higher Yields  As sovereign wealth funds become more active buyers of real
estate, investors such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  expect to increase
sales of property holdings. New York-based Blackstone, the
largest alternative-asset manager, has $54 billion of real
estate assets, including office developments, shopping centers
and hotel chains such as Hilton Worldwide Inc.  “The other trend that will be helpful for us to exit some
of the larger things we own, particularly the higher-quality
assets in the gateway cities, is the rise of the sovereign
wealth fund,”  Jonathan Gray , Blackstone’s global head of real
estate, said last month at the Bloomberg Commercial Real Estate
Conference in New York. “Sovereign wealth funds are enormous
pools of capital around the world,” and real estate offers
higher yields than  government bonds , along with a hedge against
inflation.  Largest Funds  More than 60 percent of sovereign wealth funds invest in
real estate, either directly or indirectly through other funds,
according to  Preqin Ltd. , the London-based research company.
Larger government pools are more likely to make property
investments, Preqin said in an April  research note , with 83
percent of those managing at least $250 billion being active in
the asset class.  Norway,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil and gas exporter,
generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and gas,
ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67 percent
stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy company. The
fund last month said it returned 4.7 percent in the third
quarter, after a decline of 2.2 percent in the previous three
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  