-- Noyer Says Moody’s Reasoning Wrong in France Rating Downgrade
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-30T05:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/noyer-says-moody-s-reasoning-wrong-in-france-rating-downgrade.html
French central bank Governor
Christian Noyer said Moody’s Investors Service was wrong in its
reasoning for revoking the nation’s top credit rating last week.  Moody’s made a “factual mistake” in judging  France ’s
exposure to peripheral countries in  Europe  and the country has
substantially reduced risks, Noyer said today at a press
briefing in Hong Kong. Noyer said the ratings company also made
a “serious misconception” in its opinion that France doesn’t
have access to a national central bank to assist in case of a
market disruption.  “We have one of the most liquid and efficient bond markets
in the world,” Noyer said.  Moody’s said Nov. 19 that France’s trade and banking
exposure to peripheral Europe is “disproportionately large, and
its contingent obligations to support other euro area members
have been increasing.” The nation also has “deteriorating
economic prospects, both in the short term due to subdued
domestic and external demand” and “structural rigidities” in
the longer term, Moody’s said in a statement.  Eleanor Sheung, a spokeswoman for Moody’s in Hong Kong,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on Noyer’s
remarks today.  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
government bonds fall when a rating action by Standard & Poor’s
and Moody’s suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped France and the U.S. of AAA grades,
interest rates paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  