-- Obama Recess Appointments Face First Appeals Court Test
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-30T20:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/obama-recess-appointments-face-first-appeals-court-test.html
President  Barack Obama ’s authority
to make appointments without U.S. Senate approval is being
considered by an appeals court for the first time in a test of
so-called pro-forma sessions set up by Republican lawmakers.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago 
heard argument today over the president’s Jan. 4 naming of three
 National Labor Relations Board  members while the Senate was
holding pro-forma sessions that sometimes involved a single
senator appearing in the chamber every third day.  The nation’s founders “created a joint appointment
power,” Glenn Taubman, an attorney for the National Right to
Work Legal Foundation, told the judges.  The U.S.  Constitution  requires presidents to obtain
“advice and consent” of the Senate before filling federal
posts except when those vacancies occur during a recess.
Senators have the power to block a presidential nominee for any
reason or no reason at all, he said.  To prevent Obama from appointing officials after Congress
started a holiday break last December, House and Senate
Republicans refused to adopt a resolution to formally adjourn.  Congressional Republicans opposed to the powers granted the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, were seeking to block the
president from appointing former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  as the new agency’s first head, having refused a
confirmation vote since he was nominated in July.  Washington Lawsuit  Obama also appointed Cordray on Jan. 4. His appointment is
being contested in a  Washington  lawsuit while the validity of
the NLRB appointments has been raised in at least three other
cases.  Beth Brinkmann, a U.S.  Justice Department  attorney, told
the court today that the Senate wasn’t truly in session or
acting as a legislative body between Jan. 3 and Jan. 23.  “There was no debate, no speech, no vote, during that 20-
day period,” she said. The recess provision was created to
ensure that the power to fill federal posts vests somewhere at
all times, Brinkmann said.  Obama also named Sharon Block,  Richard Griffin  and  Terence Flynn  to the NLRB after Board Member  Craig Becker ’s recess
appointment ended on Jan. 3, leaving the five-person panel short
of a quorum. The NLRB still has one vacant seat.  Union Members  In the twin cases before the court today, four union
members seek reversal of two April 18 NLRB rulings. In court
papers, they argued the rulings were invalid because of the
recess appointments.  They also challenged a decision by the panel upholding an
earlier ruling that union members weren’t entitled to a refund
of union dues used to fund political activities they opposed,
even though the union couldn’t assess dues for such purposes in
the future.  “The president’s determination that the pro forma sessions
were ineffective shams is factually and legally wrong,” the
foundation’s lawyers said in a July 30 court filing.  Brinkmann’s comments today echoed the arguments the
administration made in court papers in September.  The Senate couldn’t transform a 20-day recess into a series
of non-recess periods by having a lone senator gavel in for a
few seconds every three or four days for what the Senate itself
designates “pro forma sessions only with no business
conducted,” the government argued.  29 Seconds  One such session, on Jan. 6, lasted 29 seconds before the
Virginia Democrat  Jim Webb , the sole Senator present, adjourned
proceedings until Jan. 10, the Justice Department said.  U.S. Circuit Judge Ilana Diamond Rovner, a 1992 appointee
of Republican President  George H.W. Bush , said the chamber could
only stop an appointment if it was willing to remain in session.  “Congress has the power under the rule-making clause to do
its business as it sees fit,” Taubman said.  “Isn’t the Senate having its cake and eating it too?”
asked U.S. Circuit Judge Ann Claire Williams, a 1999 appointee
of President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat.  “Should the court be in the business of deciding, or is
this the kind of decision that would enmesh us” in the business
of other branches of government? Rovner asked.  The panel, which included U.S. Circuit Judge William J. Bauer, appointed by Republican President Gerald R. Ford in 1974,
didn’t give any indication of when it might rule.  Too Political  University of Cincinnati  law professor Christopher Bryant,
who worked in the non-partisan Office of Senate Legal Counsel
from 1997 through 1999, said the judges will probably avoid a
decision on the merits of the recess appointments. They may rule
the matter is too political for their jurisdiction, he said in
an interview yesterday.  Rovner and Williams did press Taubman on whether his
clients had standing to challenge the NLRB ruling, as his
clients had consistently objected to their union dues being used
for politics and they were pressing claims on behalf of union
members who weren’t before the court.  On March 2, a federal judge in Washington declined to rule
on the recess appointments issue when it was raised in a lawsuit
over a rule requiring companies to tell workers of their rights
to form a union.  Republican lawmakers have filed a friend-of-the-court brief
in another dispute over recess appointments that is scheduled to
be heard by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington on Dec. 5.  The cases are Richards v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-1973, and Lugo v. National Labor Relations Board, 12-1984,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  