-- Obama Warns of Prolonged Talks as Republicans Rebuff Plan
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-11-30T23:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/obama-warns-of-prolonged-talks-as-republicans-rebuff-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker  John Boehner  stood their ground with opposing plans to
avert the fiscal cliff and warned there was no quick path to a
solution.  Obama has proposed a framework that would raise taxes
immediately on top earners and set an Aug. 1 deadline for
rewriting the  tax code  and deciding on spending cuts, according
to administration officials.  It calls for $1.6 trillion in tax increases, $350 billion
in cuts in health programs, $250 billion in cuts in other
programs and $800 billion in assumed savings from the wind-down
of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, according to the officials,
who asked for anonymity.  “In  Washington , nothing’s easy, so there’s going to be
some prolonged negotiations,” Obama said today from the floor
of a toy factory in Hatfield,  Pennsylvania .  Boehner said less than 30 minutes later during a news
conference at the Capitol in Washington, that the proposal,
presented to congressional leaders by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , did nothing to move talks along.  “There’s a  stalemate, let’s not kid ourselves,” he said.  The deadlock is over  tax rates  for the top 2 percent of
wage earners in country, extending a battle that has been waged
for more than a year between Obama and Republicans in Congress.
The issue has gained more urgency as the clock ticks down on
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
scheduled to start taking effect in January.  Tax Debate  In a campaign-style appearance a facility of the Rodon
Group that makes Tinkertoys and K’NEX building sets, Obama said
quick action by lawmakers to extend Bush-era tax cuts for
middle-income Americans -- while letting top rates rise -- would
give time for tougher negotiations on cutting spending to rein
in a budget  deficit  that has exceeded $1 trillion during each of
the four years he’s been in office.  With the approach of Christmas, and the retail sales the
season sparks, Obama said acting on rates would give consumers
certainty even if the debate on spending isn’t settled. Consumer
spending accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Where the clock is really ticking, right now, is on
middle-class taxes,” he said. Settling the tax issue “would
then give us in Washington more time to work together on that
long-range plan to bring down deficits in a balanced way.”  Deficit Reduction  The administration’s framework calls for a total of $4.4
trillion in  deficit reduction  over the next decade. About $2.4
trillion would come from spending cuts, including $1 trillion
already passed into law in 2011. Another $600 billion would come
from savings on interest, and the plan also calls for $200
billion in economic growth efforts such as spending on
infrastructure.  Boehner refused to give on raising tax rates on high
earners, saying that doing so would deal a “crippling blow” to
small business and hurt economic growth.  “We’re willing to put revenues on the table, but revenues
that come from closing loopholes, getting rid of special
interest deductions and not raising rates,” Boehner said. “We
think it is better for the economy clear and simple.”  The dueling appearances followed Geithner’s shuttling among
congressional leaders yesterday with the administration’s plan.  Public Campaign  As part of the administration’s campaign for public
support, Geithner also will appear on the five main Sunday news
interview shows, on NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox and  CNN . Next week, Obama
will meet with a group of governors on the fiscal cliff and
address the  Business Roundtable ,  Josh Earnest , a White House
spokesman, said.  Republicans complained that the offer was little more than
a rehash of old budget proposals, setting the stage for more
contentious negotiations over the next several weeks.  Republicans also are seeking an overhaul of entitlement
programs in exchange for raising  tax revenue  through other
methods, such as limiting deductions. They want a higher
Medicare eligibility age and an alternative yardstick for
calculating inflation that would reduce Social Security cost-of-
living adjustments, according to a Republican aide who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Economic Impact  The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned that if Congress
doesn’t avert the fiscal cliff, the economy might slip into
recession next year and boost the  unemployment  rate to 9.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with 7.9 percent
now.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slipped 0.2 percent to
1,413.71 at 1:21 p.m. in  New York  amid skepticism that a budget
deal will be reached. Yields on 10-year U.S. notes fell less
than one basis point to 1.61 percent after falling two points
earlier.  Democrats rebuffed complaints from Republicans about the
plan they were presented with yesterday and criticism that Obama
wasn’t giving enough details in his offer.  Geithner brought a “very specific offer” to Republicans,
Maryland Representative  Steny Hoyer , the second-ranking House
Democrat, said.  “I don’t think it’s a take it or leave it offer,” he told
reporters. If Republicans “don’t like it, which apparently they
do not, they need to counter-offer.”  Political Influence  Obama and his allies argue the president’s re-election
demonstrates public support for his position because he made it
clear during the campaign.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said Obama “made it
very clear he was supporting tax cuts for the middle class”
during his re-election campaign.  “The people spoke in the election,” said Jack Hansen, a
Democrat and a borough councilman in Lansdale, near Hatfield,
who was at Obama’s event at the factory.  K’NEX Industries Inc. Chief Executive Officer Michael
Araten, a Democrat and Obama supporter, said raising taxes for
middle-income families would have a bigger impact than raising
taxes on top earners.  “If you remove $200 billion of discretionary spending from
the American economy, that’s going to hurt businesses a lot more
than the incremental 3 percent I might pay on my taxes,” he
told reporters after Obama spoke.  Boehner, who will also appear on “Fox News Sunday,” and
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  accused
Obama of extending his political campaign rather than
negotiating. Representative Pat Tiberi, an  Ohio Republican , said
he’s frustrated with Obama’s approach.  “The president won 50 states and 75 percent of the vote,”
he said. “That’s what they’re acting like.”  Campaign Working  Still, Tiberi, a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee, said Obama’s strategy may be working.  “We’re getting our socks cleaned by the president in the
PR war,” he said.  Geithner’s offer is based on Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget and
his 2011 proposal to the deficit-cutting supercommittee, which
last year didn’t come up with a plan all sides could accept.  It would raise  taxes  for top earners by $1.6 trillion over
the next decade with higher rates on income,  capital gains ,
dividends and estates, along with limits on tax breaks. It would
call for about $400 billion in cuts to entitlement programs,
which Republicans have deemed insufficient.  The plan would either extend or replace a payroll tax cut
that is set to expire at the end of the year, according to
Republican aides. It would protect millions more people from
having to pay the alternative minimum tax and defer by a year
the federal spending cuts set to begin in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Hatfield, Pennsylvania at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  