-- Ofwat May Relax Water Price Proposals on U.K. Opposition
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-11-30T15:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ofwat-may-relax-water-price-proposals-on-u-k-opposition.html
Ofwat, Britain’s water regulator,
may soften proposals rejected by utilities over price reviews
not linked to inflation that have created investor uncertainty
and fears of possible rate increases,  RBC Capital Markets  said.  A compromise may have to be found with water companies
after Ofwat said last month it wants flexibility to hold price
reviews more often than the current five-year period, which may
lead to rates not linked to inflation or a company’s assets.  “We are more encouraged that a middle ground is a viable
option where investor confidence can be reinforced whilst
allowing increased competition in areas that will ultimately
benefit consumers,” John Musk, an analyst at RBC in London, and
associate Maurice Choy said in an e-mailed note.  Companies including United Utilities Plc, Britain’s biggest
publicly traded water company, and Severn Trent Plc on Nov. 23
submitted alternative suggestions to the proposals designed to
boost competition and secure future water supplies.  Severn Trent suggested the proposal that may expose 40
percent of a company’s wholesale revenue to more frequent price
reviews should be cut by half to 20 percent. Other utilities may
have gone “even further” in their responses, suggesting a
compromise could be in the offing, RBC said.  This would be “positive” for the sector, Musk and Choy
said. United Utilities’s shares have fallen almost 4 percent
since the proposals were made public in October and Severn Trent
has slumped about 10 percent.  “Ofwat, I believe, realizes it is in a minority of one and
unlikely to win this battle,” Musk said in an e-mail. “I fully
believe there will be a near full climb-down by Ofwat.”  The regulator said today that it’s “in the process of
considering all responses and will provide an update on next
steps in due course.”  Ofwat could respond as early as next week, and it’s likely
to start another round of discussions before year-end, RBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  