-- Oil Caps First Monthly Gain Since August on Economy
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-30T20:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/oil-fluctuates-as-u-s-lawmakers-negotiate.html
Oil capped its first monthly
increase since August on signals that economic expansion in the
U.S. is accelerating.  Futures rose 1 percent after the MNI Chicago Report’s
 business barometer  showed activity in the U.S. grew in November
for the first time in three months. Investors also weighed
developments in U.S. budget talks as Democrats and Republicans
discussed how to avoid more than $600 billion a year in spending
cuts and tax increases known as the fiscal cliff.  “The Chicago numbers were a little better than expected,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut. “It’s likely that we will end the
year above $90 a barrel because of tightening inventories and
the likelihood that there will be a budget agreement.”  Crude oil for January delivery advanced 84 cents to $88.91
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Nov. 19. Futures increased 0.7 percent this
week and gained 3.1 percent this month. Prices are down 10
percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement rose 47 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $111.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer rose to 50.4 in
November from 49.9 the prior month. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  West Texas Intermediate crude in New York advanced
yesterday after revised figures from the Commerce Department
showed U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual
rate last quarter, up from a 2 percent prior estimate.  Republican Rejection  Congressional Republicans  rejected President  Barack Obama ’s
tax-and-spending proposal. The plan calls for $1.6 trillion in
tax increases and $400 billion in unspecified cuts. Republicans
complained that Obama’s offer was little more than a rehash of
old budget proposals, setting the stage for more contentious
negotiations over the next several weeks.  “We are stalled in this area after reeling on each and
every comment about the budget negotiations,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.
“Some of the anxiety that would send the market one way or
another has burned off.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  met separately
yesterday with each of the top four leaders in Congress in their
first direct talks since Nov. 16, when Obama hosted the leaders
at the White House.  ‘Early Bargaining’  “We’re still in the early bargaining stage over the
budget,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “There will
probably be a lot more whining before there’s progress. This
should keep the market in a tight range.”  Prices also rose after the euro climbed against the dollar
for a third day, increasing oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative. The euro gained as much as 0.4 percent to $1.3028.  Oil surged earlier this month amid eight days of fighting
between Israel and Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip , before
the two sides signed a Nov. 21 truce agreement. Protests erupted
in  Egypt  after President Mohamed Mursi issued a Nov. 22 decree
that prevents his actions from being challenged by the courts.  The  U.S. Senate  approved expanding the economic sanctions
that have reduced Iran’s crude exports and earnings in an effort
to force it to curb its suspected nuclear weapons program.
Senators voted 94-0 today to add the new sanctions to the annual
defense authorization bill under consideration on the floor.  Middle East  “Geopolitical issues in the  Middle East  continue to
support the oil market,” McGillian said.  The Middle East and North Africa accounted for 36 percent
of global oil output and held 52 percent of proved reserves last
year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  OPEC  oil production fell the most in 20 months in November,
a Bloomberg survey showed. Output in the 12-member Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries slipped 333,000 barrels, or 1
percent, to an average 31.519 million barrels a day this month
from a revised 31.852 million in October, according to the
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 368,770
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. Volume totaled 532,570 contracts
yesterday, 1.4 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.53 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  