-- London-Luxury Homes Gain Least in More Than Two Years
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-30T10:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/london-luxury-homes-gain-least-in-more-than-two-years.html
Luxury-home prices in central London
rose at their slowest rate in more than two years in November as
investors delayed purchases ahead of possible new property
taxes, according to  Knight Frank  LLP.  The average price of a house or apartment in the U.K.
capital’s most expensive neighborhoods climbed 0.4 percent from
October, according to an index compiled by the London-based
broker. That’s the smallest increase since October 2010, when
prices fell 0.2 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may introduce
levies on homes valued at 2 million pounds ($3.2 million) or
more in his Autumn Statement next month. The U.K. government is
weighing an annual charge of as much as 140,000 pounds on
properties owned by offshore companies and may charge capital
gains tax on the sale of luxury homes by nonresidents who aren’t
naturalized.  “An air of uncertainty among buyers has greeted the
prospect of a new capital-gains tax regime and an annual
charge,” said  Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s global head of
residential research. “This element of ’wait and see’ in the
market from potential homeowners has resulted in a significant
rise in prime central London residential stock.”  The number of homes available in areas such as Chelsea and
Knightsbridge is about 47 percent higher than the same period a
year ago, Knight Frank said. Sales of properties valued at more
than 2 million pounds fell by a third in the quarter through
September compared with a year earlier. The biggest decline was
in the 2 million-pound to 5 million-pound range, which dropped
by 44 percent, Knight Frank said.  Price Forecasts  Brokers like Knight Frank, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. and
 Savills Plc (SVS)  forecast that prime central London home prices will
be little changed in 2013.  A sharp drop in values in the short-term is unlikely,
Camilla Dell, managing partner at Black Brick Property Solutions
LLP, which advises prime-home buyers in southeast London, said
in a report.  “The shrinking of bank balance sheets and the increasing
in lending standards has actually helped create a more stable
ownership dynamic,” Dell said in the e-mailed report. “We
therefore see the number of potential ’distressed’ sellers as
relatively insignificant.”  Knight Frank compiles the Prime Central London Index from
its own appraisal values of a sample of properties in the 13
most expensive central London neighborhoods. Brokers including
Savills Plc and Knight Frank define prime central  London  real
estate as homes in the most expensive parts of the city such as
Belgravia, St. John’s Wood and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 