-- Longest Winning Streak Since ’05 Shows Tax-Rise Bet: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/longest-winning-streak-since-05-shows-tax-rise-bet-muni-credit.html
U.S. state and city debt is set to
outpace Treasuries for the longest stretch since 2005 on bets
that tax increases will be part of lawmakers’ plans to shrink
the nation’s deficit.  The $3.7 trillion municipal market has rallied each week
since the Nov. 6 re-election of President  Barack Obama , who
wants to make top earners pay higher taxes on ordinary income,
 capital gains  and dividends. Helping fuel the gains, U.S. muni
mutual funds added $1.1 billion in the week to Nov. 21, the most
since August, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Investors are also set to receive about $21 billion next
month from maturing local bonds, funds they will be looking to
reinvest, according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  “There’s a wall of cash out there right now that’s waiting
for debt to come to the market,” said Michael Pietronico, who
manages $860 million of munis as chief executive officer of
Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York.  Obama has proposed raising the top federal  tax rate  on
ordinary income to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. His
administration is talking with congressional leaders about ways
to avert more than $600 billion of spending cuts and tax
increases set to start in January, in the so-called fiscal
cliff.  47 Years  The surge in demand pushed muni yields to the lowest since
1965 last week, according to a Bond Buyer  index . Munis have
earned 1.7 percent this month, compared with 0.6 percent for
Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Local debt
has been the better bet each month since June, the longest span
since February 2005.  Benchmark tax-free bonds due in 10 years yield 1.43
percent, the lowest since a Bloomberg Valuation index began in
January 2009. The securities are on pace for a fifth straight
week of gains, the longest since May. In comparison, Treasuries
due in 2022 yielded 1.62 percent as of about 4 p.m. yesterday in
New York.  The ratio of the two  interest rates  fell to 86 percent last
week, the  lowest  in 17 months, a signal that AAA munis were
getting expensive relative to federal debt.  Investors can still find yields higher than Treasuries on
lower-rated munis.  More Room  Interest rates on 10-year munis rated A,  Standard & Poor’s 
sixth-highest grade, are about 165 percent of yields on their
federal counterparts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a pretty easy asset class to like on a relative
basis,” Christine Thompson, who helps oversee about $32 billion
of tax-exempts as chief investment officer for bonds at Boston-
based  Fidelity Investments , said in an interview. “There is
room for the muni market to continue to outperform equivalent-
quality debt in the taxable market.”  Investors hunting for a shelter from possible tax increases
should be able to absorb a pickup in muni supply anticipated in
the next few weeks, said David Frank, managing director of muni
trading at CastleOak Securities LP, an investment bank in  New
York .  Local issuers such as the New Jersey Transportation Trust
Fund, which finances roads and mass-transit projects, and the
New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority plan to sell
about $12 billion of long-term debt in the next 30 days,
compared with a one-year average of $8.7 billion, Bloomberg data
show.  ‘Heavy Demand’  “They’re talking about a lot of issuance through year-end,
but we’re going into a period of pretty heavy demand for
munis,” Frank said. “I don’t think that rates are going to
shoot up.”  Investors will be looking to buy in December before
issuance drops off in January. Supply has decreased in January
from December in all but one year since 2003, Bloomberg data
show.  “The idea is to put the money to work as soon as possible
because when the new-issue supply dries up, and it will for a
period of weeks, it’s going to be a very difficult time to find
bonds,” Pietronico said.  The iShares S&P National AMT-Free  Municipal Bond Fund (MUB) , the
largest exchange-traded fund tracking munis, rose yesterday to
$113.84, the highest since February.  Following are pending municipal sales:  NEW YORK CITY plans to issue $850 million of tax-exempt
general obligations as soon as Dec. 11, according to the city’s
Office of Management and Budget. Proceeds will refund debt.
(Added Nov. 30)  ALABAMA FEDERAL AID HIGHWAY FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to
borrow $337 million of federal highway grant-anticipation bonds
as soon as next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds
will help finance roads and bridges, according to bond
documents. (Added Nov. 30)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  