-- Monti Government Passes Decree to Salvage Ilva Steel Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-11-30T16:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/monti-government-passes-decree-to-salvage-ilva-steel-plant.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet
passed a decree law allowing  Italy ’s biggest steel mill to
reopen, setting up a showdown with the judiciary that ordered a
seizure of the plant’s output after linking it to rising cancer
rates in the region.  Monti’s government is trying to protect more than 5,000
jobs in Taranto in southern Italy at a plant that accounts for
30 percent of Italy’s steel production and 5 percent of European
output. Italy’s CGIL Union estimates another 7,000 jobs linked
to the plant’s production are also at risk from a closure. Italy
said the impact from the plant shutdown would be 8 billion euros
($10.4 billion).  The government has already targeted 3 billion euros for the
plant’s clean-up, under a plan to keep production going at the
site. The  Environment Ministry  issued an environmental license
on Oct. 26, subject to the adoption of some measures. Ilva said
on Nov. 28 it would shut down the facility after magistrates
ordered that the plant’s steel be seized and arrested seven
people, including its executives in a criminal pollution probe.  The decree seeks to guarantee production and jobs at the
plant, the Cabinet said in an e-mailed statement. Ilva is
authorized for production as part of the environmental license
agreement, while the seizure by magistrates doesn’t prevent the
company to carry out its obligations and to continue output, it
said. The owner of the plant will be fined 10 percent of its
revenue if the clean-up isn’t done, Environment Minister Corrado Clini said at a press conference in Rome.  “The government’s choice goes in the right direction,”
European Union Industry Commissioner Antonio Tajani said in a
phone interview. “We are working with institutions and Ilva to
give an important European contribution.”  The Riva Group is the biggest steel producer in Italy and
the fourth in  Europe , with 36 production sites, with 62 percent
of its total output coming from its 19 sites in Italy, according
to the company’s website. Riva manufactured 11 million tons of
raw steel in 2011.  The possible closure of Ilva Taranto mill in Italy,
Europe’s largest, may fail to bolster steel prices as production
rises across the continent and imports increase, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said in a Sept. 28 report.  “Despite the risk that production at Taranto falls
significantly, we would still expect EU-wide steel production to
grow materially in September and October,” Nomura said in a
note to investors.  The plant was hit by a tornado this week that caused
“serious structural damage” at a warehouse and a chimney stack
and knocked off a crane, killing one worker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  