-- Los Angeles Gasoline Drops as BP Cracker Runs Through Repairs
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-30T22:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/los-angeles-gasoline-drops-as-bp-cracker-runs-through-repairs.html
Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles 
weakened against futures as  BP Plc (BP/)  kept a catalytic cracker at
the Carson refinery in  Southern California  running during
repairs on a hydrotreater.  The hydrotreater, which removes impurities from refined
products and feeds into the catalytic cracker, was shut after a
hydrogen leak, a person with direct knowledge of the situation
said yesterday. Work on the unit was expected to be brief, and
the cracker will remain operating, a person familiar with
operations there said today.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob , in Los Angeles fell
3.88 cents to a discount of 1 cent a gallon against futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:08 p.m.  New York 
time, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The fuel jumped 7.13
cents yesterday after the 266,000-barrel-a-day Carson refinery
reported flaring that may last through Dec. 4.  Carbob in  San Francisco  tumbled 7.87 cents to 16 cents a
gallon below futures, the lowest level since June.  California-grade diesel, or CARB, in Los Angeles fell 1.5
cents to 1.5 cents a gallon under Nymex heating oil futures. The
same fuel in San Francisco gained 1.5 cents to a discount of 0.5
cent versus futures.  Conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol in  Portland ,  Oregon , rose 1.5 cents to 5.5 cents a
gallon under gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  dropped 6
cents to a discount of 0.5 cent against heating oil futures.  BP’s 234,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point refinery in
Washington state was operating normally after reporting a
compressor upset to state regulators yesterday, a person
familiar with operations there said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  