-- OSHA to Get Oversight of Flight-Attendant Work Conditions
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-30T18:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/osha-to-get-oversight-of-flight-attendant-work-conditions.html
U.S. aviation and labor agencies
today proposed expanding workplace protections to flight
attendants, something airline unions have sought for 37 years.  Attendants have said health issues associated with air
quality, noise and  radiation exposure  haven’t been adequately
addressed. In 1975, the  Federal Aviation Administration  claimed
jurisdiction over such matters, the agencies said in a  draft 
agreement.  The proposal would give the U.S. Occupational Safety and
Health Administration authority over at least some of those
issues, according to an e-mailed release. FAA regulations would
continue to take precedence in matters of flight safety, the
agency said in the release.  “The policy announced today with the FAA will not only
enhance the health and safety of flight attendants by connecting
them directly with OSHA, but will by extension improve the
flying experience of millions of airline passengers,” Labor
Secretary Hilda Solis said in a release.  The  Association of Flight Attendants  and the Association of
Professional Flight Attendants praised the move in statements.  “AFA looks forward to continuing work with the FAA and
OSHA as we finally bring vital safety and health protections to
our nation’s flight attendants,” Veda Shook, president of the
union, said in a release. The AFA, with almost 60,000 members,
is the largest flight-attendant union.  Airline Objections  “Though long overdue, I believe OSHA protection is a huge
step forward for the flight-attendant profession,” APFA
President  Laura Glading  said in an e-mail. The APFA represents
almost 18,000 employees at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines .  Airlines believe expanding safety oversight to multiple
agencies is unnecessary and creates the potential for regulatory
and logistical confusion, Victoria Day, a spokeswoman for the
Washington-based trade group Airlines for America, said in an e-
mail. The group represents carriers including  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV)  and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   “Workplace safety remains a top priority for U.S.
carriers, and the current FAA health and safety programs in
place are effectively ensuring the industry’s high standards are
met,” Day said.  The industry needs to analyze the proposal before
estimating its costs, she said.  A draft proposal issued by the agencies said issues
unregulated by FAA, such as cabin noise levels and the threat of
blood-borne disease, could be overseen by OSHA.  Air Quality  Existing FAA regulations cover sanitation aboard aircraft,
so OSHA wouldn’t enforce its rules in that area, according to
the proposal.  The draft didn’t mention regulation of  air quality  within
the cabin, an issue that’s been a concern for flight attendants.
The FAA’s rules govern air flow and pressurization within an
aircraft.  Airlines, unions and others have 30 days to comment on the
proposal.  A law passed earlier this year by Congress required the FAA
to outline how to apply OSHA requirements to flight-crew
members.  “Safety is our highest priority and that certainly extends
to those who work in the  transportation industry ,”
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  