-- Asian Stocks Rise, Extend Weekly Gain, on Japan Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-30T09:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/most-asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-budget-japan-production.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark regional index heading for its  second weekly  advance,
as Japan’s cabinet approved an economic stimulus package and the
country’s industrial production unexpectedly increased.  Nissan Motor Co., which gets 79 percent of its sales
outside Japan, gained 0.9 percent as the yen dropped to a seven-
month low against the euro.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  rose 2.8 percent in
Sydney as JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the mining company’s plan to
cut costs by $5 billion may boost shareholder returns.
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and Hitachi Ltd. rose after
agreeing to merge thermal-energy businesses.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent to 124.54 as
of 6:54 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than twice as many shares
rising as falling. The gauge has advanced 1.4 percent this week.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.5 percent today, capping
its best month since February, as the government boosted
stimulus measures ahead of elections that polls suggest will be
won by an opposition party calling for unlimited monetary easing
until a 2 percent inflation goal is reached.  “If the  Bank of Japan  is forced to become even looser, the
yen will be potentially even weaker, and that’s relatively good
news for exports,”  Andrew Freris , chief  investment adviser  for
Asia at BNP Paribas Wealth Management, told Bloomberg TV today.
“Being elected in December, they are not going to have the time
to do anything really dramatic, except looser monetary policy.”  Japan Stimulus  Japan’s cabinet today approved a second round of fiscal
stimulus worth 880 billion yen ($10.7 billion) using budget
reserves as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  attempts to boost the
economy before next month’s election. The yen weakened against
all of its 16 major peers. Nissan added 0.9 percent to 799 yen.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  advanced 0.6 percent as Rio
Tinto climbed 2.8 percent to A$58.75. South Korea’s Kospi Index
slid 0.1 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.5 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.9 percent. Confidence in
 China’s economy  is at the highest level in more than a year amid
optimism that the new leadership headed by Xi Jinping will be
better for the financial climate, according to a Bloomberg
investor poll. Over half of 862 Bloomberg global customers
polled said they were more optimistic about the effect of Xi’s
policies on investors, up from 42 percent of those asked in
September about President Hu Jintao.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The  S&P 500  gained 0.4 percent yesterday.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  offered Republican
House Speaker  John Boehner  a proposal to avert an end-of-the-
year fiscal cliff that would trade $1.6 trillion in tax
increases for $400 billion in unspecified entitlement program
cuts, a Republican aide said.  Debt Limit  The proposal calls for a permanent increase in the U.S.
debt limit that would avoid the need for congressional action,
said the aide, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Boehner
said he remains “hopeful” about talks to avert more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to begin in
January.  “The market can go higher even if U.S. lawmakers drag out
budget discussions all the way to the last minute,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion.
“They will not let the  U.S. economy  shrink. There’s a lot of
room for negotiation and compromise.”  Relative Value  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 14 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added
stimulus to spur growth and data showed a slowdown in China may
be ending. The gauge traded at 14 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 12.5 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Mitsubishi Heavy gained 3 percent to 383 yen and Hitachi
advanced 4.2 percent to 476 yen. The companies, two of Japan’s
largest manufacturers, agreed to merge businesses with combined
sales of 1.1 trillion yen ($13 billion). This unites Mitsubishi
Heavy’s large-turbine technology with Hitachi’s expertise in
smaller models as Japan steps up investment in thermal-power
plants following a shutdown of atomic facilities triggered by
last year’s Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Northern Star Resources Ltd. (NST)  slumped 11 percent to A$1.355
in Sydney as the company’s biggest shareholder and other board
members sold a combined 10 percent stake in the gold producer.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s No. 2
bourse operator by market value, dropped 0.8 percent to
HK$123.80 after saying it’s selling $1 billion in new shares to
fund its purchase of the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  