-- Lotus Sues Fired CEO Over Spending on Homes, Helicopters
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-30T16:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/lotus-sues-fired-ceo-over-spending-on-homes-helicopters.html
Group Lotus Plc  said ousted chief
executive officer Dany Bahar stuck the British carmaker with the
cost of his luxury lifestyle including a chauffeur, helicopter
travel and 10 wristwatches.  Lotus is seeking to recoup about 2.5 million pounds ($4
million) for unauthorized expenses and overpaid salary and
bonuses, according to its October court filing in a lawsuit over
Bahar’s departure. The claim came in response to Bahar’s own
U.K. lawsuit against Lotus and Malaysian parent company  DRB-
Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , which seeks 6.7 million pounds for wrongful
dismissal.  DRB, controlled by billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary,
took control of the unprofitable British sports-car maker
through its January purchase of Proton Holdings Bhd. Bahar was
fired in June. According to an interview with Bahar last year,
Lotus hadn’t generated any profit since it was acquired by
Proton in 1996 as the maker of the Elise sports car struggled to
compete against Porsche AG and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari in  Europe .  The Proton board felt Bahar had “done an ‘abysmal’ job as
CEO, was excessively extravagant and mercenary and was
preoccupied with his own interests,” according to the Lotus
counterclaim. His expenses “were all the more unacceptable
given that his brief was to turn the business around, which he
singularly failed to do.”  The legal dispute has shed light on Bahar’s acrimonious
departure from Lotus after his hiring in 2009 to rejuvenate the
Hethel, U.K.-based company. Neil Adams, a lawyer representing
Bahar, didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking
comment. Daniel Aherne, a lawyer for Lotus, declined to comment.  ‘Ill Founded’  Lotus’s allegations are “ill-founded and unjustified,”
Bahar said in court documents filed in August. DRB fired several
managers on unfounded claims of gross misconduct in order to
avoid its contractual promise to pay them in the event it sold
the Lotus unit, Bahar said.  Bahar spent about a million pounds renting and refitting
two U.K. properties, which he charged to the company, according
to its counterclaim. He claimed expenses for about 1.2 million
pounds in travel, including the cost of private jets and use of
a helicopter, as well as about 3,000 pounds on watches he said
were for Lotus managers.  He also made damaging statements to the media and breached
his contract and duties as a director, Lotus said.  “The spending pattern of the group was not justifiable or
sustainable, including the lavish lifestyle of the claimant who
appeared to have ignored internal controls,” Lotus claimed.  E-mails to Lotus’s U.K. headquarters and DRB spokesman
Sulaiman Yahya seeking comment weren’t immediately returned.  DRB, which initially warned it may sell Lotus if it doesn’t
meet performance targets, said in May it had decided against a
sale.  The Elise, at 2,010 pounds (912 kilograms), is the lightest
performance car sold in the U.S., according to Edmunds.com.
Electric carmaker  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  has used Lotus chassis
designs since 2008 for its Roadster sports car.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  