-- Louisville Beats Rutgers 20-17 to Share Big East Football Title
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-30T05:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/louisville-beats-rutgers-20-17-to-share-big-east-football-title.html
John Wallace’s 29-yard field goal
with less than two minutes remaining gave the  University of
Louisville  a 20-17 win against Rutgers University and a probable
Bowl Championship Series bid, the Cardinals’ first since 2007.  Louisville’s victory prevented the Scarlet Knights from
winning their first outright Big East conference football title
and ensures at least a three-way tie for the league title.  Rutgers (9-3) led 14-3 at halftime in last night’s game at
High Point Solutions Stadium in New Brunswick, New Jersey,
before Teddy Bridgewater rallied the Cardinals (10-2) by
throwing a pair of third-quarter touchdown passes.  “They have a tremendous playmaker at the quarterback
position,” Rutgers coach Kyle Flood said. “We just weren’t
able to match him in the end.”  Louisville and Rutgers both finished with 5-2 records in
the Big East, good for a share of the conference title. Syracuse
also is 5-2 in conference play, and Cincinnati is 4-2 with a
game remaining.  Rutgers’ Gary Nova threw two long scoring passes in the
first half, hitting Brandon Coleman with an 85-yard pass and
connecting with Mark Harrison on a 68-yard throw to give the
Scarlet Knights a 14-3 halftime advantage.  Bridgewater’s Throws  Bridgewater connected with Jeremy Wright on a 14-yard pass
with 49 seconds left in the third quarter and then found DeVante
Parker with a 20-yard scoring pass 16 seconds later to give the
Cardinals a 17-14 lead.  Nick Borgese tied the score at 17-17 with a 38-yard field
goal midway through the fourth quarter for Rutgers before
Wallace kicked his second three-pointer for the win.  “We were never able to swing the momentum back, and that’s
my job,” Flood said.  The Big East may lose its automatic bid when the BCS adopts
changes beginning with the 2014 season. Under that system, the
Atlantic Coast Conference, Southeastern Conference, Big Ten, Big
12 and Pac-12 will retain automatic berths, with the sixth spot
awarded to the highest-rated champion from a cluster of leagues.
That “Group of Five” includes the Mountain West, Big East,
Conference USA, Mid-American and Sun Belt.  Syracuse (7-5), which has finished its regular season, is
mathematically alive for a possible BCS bid. Cincinnati (8-3)
can win a share of the league title, though it cannot go to a
BCS game.  According to the Big East  website , if Cincinnati loses
tomorrow, Rutgers, Syracuse and Louisville would tie for the
league title, with the BCS bid going to the team with the
highest ranking, most likely Louisville. If the Bearcats win,
the four-way tie would be broken first by head-to-head record,
eliminating Syracuse and Cincinnati, then by BCS rank, which
would likely favor Louisville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  