-- Pakistan Rules, CME Suit Dropped, ECB Power: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-30T13:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/pakistan-rules-cme-suit-dropped-ecb-power-endorsed-compliance.html
Pakistan’s central bank said new
Islamic banking rules will help meet a goal of almost doubling
the industry’s market share to 15 percent in five years.  The State Bank of Pakistan issued  profit-sharing  guidelines
on Nov. 19, exempting Shariah-compliant lenders from paying the
minimum rate of return on deposits that is required of non-
Islamic banks. This will help sustain growth of around 35
percent a year, Saleem Ullah, Islamic banking director at the
authority, said Nov. 27. Karachi-based Standard Chartered Bank
Pakistan, BankIslami Pakistan Ltd. and  Bank Alfalah Ltd. (BAFL) , said
the rule would level the playing field and boost profits.  Islamic finance is a niche industry and support from the
central bank will help it expand even if overall economic growth
slows, Sayem Ali, an economist at Standard Chartered in Karachi,
said in a Nov. 27 interview.  The regulation requires Shariah-compliant banks to set up
 pools of deposits  with specific assets, income and expenses.
Customers will earn a pre-agreed share of any profit or loss
earned on the financing and investments made with each pool, the
State Bank said in a statement last week. Previously, all banks
were required to pay a prescribed  minimum rate  on their
deposits, which was raised to 6 percent from 5 percent in April.  Lenders may not claim more than 50 percent of the profit or
loss ratio, according to the central bank statement. The rule
will also require Islamic banks to disclose their ratios, as
well as the risk and reward profile and makeup of each pool.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Dodd-Frank Swap-Clearing Rule Gets Final Approval From CFTC  Wall Street’s largest swap dealers, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , will be required to
guarantee trades at clearinghouses starting in March under a
rule made final by the top U.S. derivatives regulator.  The five-member Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted
unanimously in a private process Nov. 28 to complete the final
determinations, the agency said in a statement. The rule, which
had been scheduled for a public vote, determines which credit
and interest-rate swaps must be guaranteed at clearinghouses
owned by LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
 Intercontinental Exchange  Inc. The commissioners can vote on
paper outside of their public meetings in a process known as
seriatim.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in statement that central
clearing lowers risk and democratizes the market by eliminating
the need for market participants to individually determine
counterparty credit risk.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to write rules to curb risk
in a $639 trillion global market. Lawmakers took action after
unregulated trades helped fuel a credit crisis that in 2008 led
to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and U.S.
bailouts for companies including  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based insurer.  Clearinghouses accept collateral from buyers and sellers to
reduce the risk from default in a trade. The commission’s  rule 
requires swaps in four interest-rate swap classes and two
credit-default classes to be submitted to clearinghouses.
Goldman, JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp.  and other banks that
dominate the swaps market will face the clearing requirement by
March 11.  For more, click here.  House Republicans Seek Delay of Volcker Rule Implementation  Two top Republican Congressmen have asked regulators to
further delay the so-called Volcker rule that would ban U.S.
banks from proprietary trading.  Representatives Spencer Bachus of Alabama and Jeb
Hensarling of Texas sent a letter to regulators yesterday
requesting a delay of the rule’s effective date for two years
after the final version is issued. They cited concerns about
disagreements among regulators and a lack of transparency in the
rule writing. Bachus is the  House Financial Services Committee 
chairman; Hensarling will succeed him in the next Congress.  Regulators expect to finish writing the rule in the first
quarter of 2013, according to a person familiar with the process
who requested anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Mary Miller , the U.S. Treasury’s undersecretary for
domestic finance, said in a speech on Nov. 16 that “the process
is not as easy or simple as any of us would like.”  The process may be further delayed by the departure of the
Mary Schapiro as chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission next month. Until President Barack Obama can confirm
a fifth member of the commission, the remaining members face a
partisan split that will make controversial rulemaking
difficult.  The Volcker rule, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010,
was the subject of complaints from banking industry groups that
it was confusing and potentially harmful. The Fed has the
authority to further extend the period of compliance beyond July
2014.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Bats Retail Stock Program Starts Dec. 17 to Compete With NYSE  Bats Global Markets Inc. plans to start a one-year program
Dec. 17 to compete with the New York Stock Exchange by giving
retail investors better prices.  The service will allow orders from individuals to get
prices at least a tenth of a cent better than those available to
mutual and hedge funds, brokers, and other firms, according to
Chris Isaacson, chief operating officer at the third-largest
U.S. stock market operator. Bats BYX Exchange, one of its two
equity markets, is seeking more orders from individuals and will
compete with firms like Knight Capital Group Inc. and Citadel
LLC that provide transactions to clients of retail brokers.  NYSE’s retail-liquidity program, which began in August, was
the first by a stock exchange to segment orders and offer
different prices based on the type of user. Chief executives of
NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Bats have said in
congressional testimony, at conferences and on calls with
analysts that their markets are hurt by restrictions about how
they execute orders that don’t apply to brokers and off-exchange
venues that trade within their own walls.  For more, click here.  EU Parliament Endorses Handing ECB Bank Supervisory Powers  European Union lawmakers gave broad approval to plans for
the European Central Bank to take on bank oversight duties in a
bid to tame the bloc’s fiscal crisis.  In a vote in Brussels yesterday, the European Parliament’s
 Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee  backed the plan, calling
for the ECB to be given far-reaching powers over bank capital
and the granting of bank licenses, while saying it should
cooperate closely with national regulators.  EU leaders agreed in June and October to move forward with
common ECB-led bank supervision to separate financial-sector
risks from sovereign debt troubles, with the goal of agreeing on
a political framework by Jan. 1. If a common supervisor is set
up next year, it would open the door for the euro area’s
firewall fund to offer direct aid to banks. The EU is racing to
meet an end-2012 deadline for agreeing on how the ECB
supervision should work.  Sharon Bowles , the committee’s chairwoman, said that
finance ministers must reach a deal on the supervisory law at
their meeting on Dec. 4 if a final agreement on the legislation
is to be achieved by year-end.  For more, click here.  Standard Chartered Near Accord on Iranian Clients, WSJ Says  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  is nearing a settlement with the
U.S. to pay around $300 million in fines over transactions with
Iranian clients that may have violated sanctions against the
country, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The move would end investigations brought by the U.S.
Justice Department, the U.S. Treasury Department, the  Federal
Reserve  and the Manhattan District Attorney’s office, the
newspaper said, citing unnamed people involved in the
negotiations. Talks to resolve the matter are continuing and all
sides aim to conclude discussions in coming days, it said.  An accord with the U.S. would follow a consent order signed
by the London-based bank in September that completed a record
$340 million settlement with New York’s Department of Financial
Services involving wire transfers on behalf of Iranian clients.
The bank also agreed to install a monitor for two years,
according to the New York regulator.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan District
Attorney, and  Bill Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s
office in Washington, declined to comment on the report. Julie
Gibson, a spokeswoman at Standard Chartered, declined to
comment, as did  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman at the Federal
Reserve.  The New York settlement amount was the largest ever paid to
an individual regulator as part of a money-laundering accord.  ECB Wins Ruling to Deny Access to Secret Greek Swap Files  The European Central Bank will be allowed to keep private
files showing how Greece used derivatives to hide its debt after
defeating the first court challenge using the bloc’s freedom of
information rules.  “Disclosure of those documents would have undermined the
protection of the public interest so far as concerns the
economic policy of the European Union and Greece,” the  EU
General Court  in Luxembourg said yesterday, rejecting a request
by Bloomberg News initially filed in August 2010.  Yesterday’s ruling by three judges denies European
taxpayers, on the hook for the cost of Greece’s 240 billion-euro
($311 billion) bailout, the opportunity to see whether EU
officials knew of irregularities in Greece’s public accounts
before they became public in 2009. The decision underscores the
ECB’s lack of accountability as it expands its powers to become
the euro area’s chief banking regulator, said Georg Erber, a
research associate at the German Institute for Economic
Research.  Bloomberg’s freedom-of-information request was twice
rejected by the ECB before the news organization sued in
December 2010. Bloomberg sought access to two internal papers
drafted for the central bank’s six-member Executive Board.  The ECB said at a June hearing that publishing the files
could still aggravate the sovereign-debt crisis, putting the
future of the single currency at risk.  The ruling bodes badly for transparency in Europe, said
Gunnar Beck, a barrister and a reader in EU law at the
University of London.  For more, click here.  Michigan Professor Linked to SAC Insider Trading Case Resigns  Sid Gilman, the University of Michigan neurologist linked
to an insider-trading case, has resigned his university
position.  Gilman, 80 was named by authorities as the person who
leaked data to Mathew Martoma, 38, an SAC Capital Advisors LP
hedge fund manager charged with insider trading. Gilman quit his
university post on Nov. 27, Pete Barkey, a spokesman for the Ann
Arbor-based university’s medical school, said in an e-mail.  Gilman had been paid $1,000 an hour to act as a consultant
to Martoma and in 2008 allegedly gave the hedge fund manager
details of a clinical trial for an Alzheimer’s drug being
developed by Wyeth LLC. The neurologist treated Martoma as a
“friend and pupil” while leaking him secret data for 18
months, authorities said.  Martoma has been arrested and charged with insider trading,
and is accused of helping the firm make $276 million using the
information provided by the university researcher.  Gilman was chairman of a safety-monitoring committee that
oversaw a clinical trial by Wyeth, now owned by Pfizer Inc., and
Elan Corp. into whether the drug bapineuzumab was safe for
patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. He also
moonlighted for a New York-based expert network, providing
advice at a fee, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the U.S. Justice Department.  The university said in a  statement  Nov. 21 that it “is
carefully reviewing all of Dr. Gilman’s activities while a
faculty member.” Barkey said he had no further comment about
what other steps the university might take.  Gilman wasn’t charged. The non-prosecution agreement
between Gilman and prosecutors, dated Nov. 15, requires him to
forfeit $186,781, representing his payments from Elan and an
expert-networking post that connected him with Martoma.  Separately the SEC will likely hold off, if the past is any
guide, on its threat to sue SAC Capital until prosecutors
determine whether they can build a criminal insider-trading case
against the hedge fund’s founder,  Steven A. Cohen .  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan took a step closer
to the billionaire on Nov. 20, when Martoma was arrested on the
charges of using inside information to trade the stocks of Elan
and Wyeth. Cohen sold the stocks after speaking with Martoma,
according to prosecutors and an SEC complaint, the first time
they had linked him to trades at the center of an insider case.  The same day, the SEC notified Stamford, Connecticut-based
SAC Capital that it’s considering pursuing civil fraud claims
against the $14 billion firm related to Martoma’s trading, three
people with knowledge of the matter said two days ago. It was
another example of how the SEC and Bharara have cooperated in
their probe of insider trading that has led to more than 80
people, with prosecutors often going to court first.  “The U.S. attorney brought a case against Martoma to try
to force him to cooperate against Cohen to the extent that there
is a case against him,” said Marc Powers, the leader of Baker &
Hostetler LLP’s national litigation and regulatory enforcement
practice in New York.  In addition to fraud, the SEC’s so-called Wells notice to
SAC Capital also outlined claims related to the firm’s
responsibility for overseeing CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, the
unit that employed Martoma, said one of the people, who like the
others asked not to be named because the information is private.
The regulator may extend the fraud and oversight claims to Cohen
himself, the person said.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment on whether or how the agency would proceed
against SAC Capital.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Courts  CME Group Drops Suit Challenging Swap-Data Repository Rules  CME Group Inc., owner of the world’s largest futures
market, dropped a lawsuit challenging the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s new rules on trade-data reporting after the
agency backed away from the requirements.  CME, in a filing yesterday in federal court in Washington,
said it was dismissing the case at least for now that sought to
block the agency’s cleared-swaps reporting regulations under the
Dodd-Frank Act financial reform legislation. Nov. 28, the agency
amended one policy and said it’s seeking public comment on how
CME proposes to report swap data.  Laurie Bischel, a CME Group spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the group hopes the CFTC “will reconsider” the redundant
rules over the coming months.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail message seeking comment on the dismissal.  CME sued the commission on Nov. 8 seeking a permanent
injunction against rules requiring registered derivatives-
clearing organizations, such as itself, to provide nonpublic
reports of cleared swap transactions to a new swap data
repository established under the act.  Nov. 28, the commission withdrew part of a document
governing how trade price and volume information is routed to
new databases under the Dodd-Frank Act. The agency also  sought 
comment Nov. 28 on CME’s proposed policy of having data for
trades guaranteed by its clearinghouse sent to its own so-called
swap-data repository.  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Porsche Seeks to Overturn Hedge Fund Suit Ruling in New York  Porsche SE (PAH3)  urged an appeals court to overturn a ruling that
the carmaker must face a lawsuit by hedge funds accusing it of
hiding a plan to corner the market in  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares.  Porsche yesterday asked the New York State Supreme Court’s
Appellate Division in Manhattan to reverse Justice Charles
Ramos’s August decision that had rejected the carmaker’s motion
to dismiss the 2011 lawsuit.  The suit was brought 26 hedge funds including David
Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital Inc.  The funds, which bet that Volkswagen stock would fall,
claim Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche misled investors by
denying through much of 2008 that it intended to acquire
Volkswagen and by using manipulative trades to hide its stock
positions. The plaintiffs are seeking more than $1 billion in
damages.  Robert J. Giuffra Jr., an attorney for Porsche with
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP in New York, told the appellate panel
yesterday that the lawsuits don’t belong in New York because
“Germany has a far greater connection to the issues in this
case than does the U.S. and New York.” Some of the plaintiffs
have also sued the carmaker in Germany.  None of the plaintiffs are organized under the laws of New
York and 10 of the funds are domiciled outside the U.S., Giuffra
said in court documents.  Porsche is also being sued in Europe over the issue. A
court in Braunschweig, Germany, in September dismissed two
cases, seeking less than 5 million euros combined. Four more
cases, asking for more than 4 billion euros combined, are still
pending at that court.  The New York cases are Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche
Automobil Holdings SE, 650435/2011, and Glenhill Capital LP v.
Porsche Automobil Holding SE, 650678-2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Interviews  King Signals U.K. Banks Need More Capital Against Losses  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  signaled U.K. banks
may need to build up the capital they hold against potential
losses, and asked regulators to report back by March on how
lenders will comply.  He made the remarks at a news conference yesterday in
London.  Banks may need to make bigger provisions for future loan
losses and the cost of regulatory fines and customer redress,
King said. He also noted that risk-weightings may be
inappropriate, and referred to a report that said the capital
ratios that are used to calculate may be overstated by as much
as 35 billion pounds ($56 billion) by  the country’s four biggest
banks .  King is trying to press banks to raise capital levels
without prompting them to shrink lending, threatening economic
growth. Regulators are also increasingly concerned that banks
may be altering risk-weightings to bolster capital ratios
artificially. By changing how they calculate risk-weightings --
the probability of default assigned to loans, mortgages and
derivatives -- lenders can boost capital ratios without cutting
loans, selling assets or tapping investors.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 