-- Palm Oil Set for Bear Market on Record Output, Mistry Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-11-30T10:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/palm-oil-may-tumble-next-year-as-production-climbs-mistry-says.html
Palm oil will probably tumble into a
bear market next year as monthly output in Malaysia and
Indonesia surges to records, compounding the impact of the
biggest ever stockpiles, according to Godrej International Ltd.  Prices will drop below 2,200 ringgit ($723) a metric ton in
August or earlier after trading between 2,300 ringgit and 2,600
ringgit between now and February,  Dorab Mistry , director at
Godrej, told a conference, giving his first outlook for 2013.
The most-active contract closed at 2,370 ringgit on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange today, after touching a three-year low of
2,220 ringgit on Nov. 12.  Palm oil, used in everything from biofuels to noodles, fell
25 percent this year, extending a loss from 2011, as slowdowns
in  China  and the European Union cut demand and boosted
stockpiles. Mistry’s forecast raises the prospect that prices
may drop for three straight years in what would be the worst run
of losses since at least 1996, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I expect vegetable oil prices to remain range-bound in
the first half of the year and to begin a major bear market in
the second half,” Mistry said in Bali,  Indonesia . “How low
they will go is very difficult to predict at this stage.”  Rabobank Forecast  The outlook from Godrej contrasts with a forecast this week
from Rabobank International, the world’s biggest agricultural
lender, that picked palm oil to be the best-performing
agricultural commodity in 2013. Prices will rise as  inventories 
decline from record levels and demand increases from importers
including China and India, the Amsterdam-based bank said in a
report on Nov. 28.  Falling prices may contribute to lower global food costs in
2013, while paring profits and revenues at producers including
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR)  Palm oil may
trade between 2,500 ringgit and 3,000 ringgit for the next six
months, supported by lower production in the first quarter of
the next year and higher demand, Sime Chief Executive Officer
Mohd Bakke Salleh said Nov. 27.  Output in Indonesia and  Malaysia , which account for 87
percent of global production, may reach monthly records between
September to December next year if weather remains normal, said
Mistry. Malaysia may produce a record 19 million tons in 2013,
while Indonesian output may reach as much as 30 million tons, an
all-time high, he said. Production is forecast at 18.4 million
tons and more than 27.5 million tons this year, he said.  Monthly Loss  Futures dropped 5 percent in November, a third monthly
loss. Mistry didn’t define what he meant by a bear market. A
bear market is typically defined as a decline of 20 percent or
more from a closing high and is compared with a closing low.  Prices may have bottomed out as stockpiles are set to
decline amid a pick-up in demand from buyers including  India ,
Thomas Mielke, executive director of Oil World, told the
conference. Futures may rebound to 3,100 ringgit to 3,200
ringgit between March and May, he said.  “Prices will strengthen quite a bit more than 2,600
ringgit as we’re in this inventory downcycle, which follows
production,” Alvin Tai, an analyst at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.,
said by phone in Kuala Lumpur. Inventory in Malaysia may fall to
about 1.6 million tons by May, he said.  Global food use of vegetable oils may grow by about 3.5
million tons as lower prices stimulate consumption, while
biodiesel usage will expand 500,000 tons in the year that began
on Oct. 1, said Mistry, who’s worked in the industry for 35
years. The increase in demand of 4 million tons will exceed
incremental supply of 3.15 million tons, he said.  ‘Heaviest Stocks’  The new season is starting with the “heaviest stocks in
history” and this overhang will cushion the impact of the lower
production of vegetable oils in the first half, said Mistry.
Malaysia’s reserves climbed to a record of 2.51 million tons in
October, according to the nation’s palm oil board. Stockpiles in
Indonesia may be more than 4 million tons,  Mistry said.  India, the biggest buyer of palm oil, started its new oil
year with record inventories of 1.65 million tons, said Mistry.
Domestic cooking oil output should expand this year due to a
bigger mustard crop, he said. That may prompt the government to
impose a 10 percent duty on crude palm oil imports and more than
double taxes on refined oils to 20 percent, he said.  “I am bearish on the soya complex post-May with a gradual
erosion of risk premium from as early as February,” he said.
“Old crop soya oil needs to control demand and will therefore
remain at a big premium to palm.”  Soybean Oil  Soybean oil futures in  Chicago  may trade in a range of 48
cents and 53 cents a pound, while the new soybean oil crop from
May onwards should see prices between $900 and $1,020 a ton on a
free-on-board basis in  Argentina , he said. Soybean oil for
delivery in January traded at 49.92 cents today. Soybeans are
crushed to make an oil that competes with palm oil.  Global economic growth is expected to be better in 2013,
compared with this year, with the U.S. avoiding or resolving the
so-called fiscal cliff, leading to a stronger dollar and gains
for equities in most markets, said Mistry.  “The end of the cyclical bull market in  commodities  leads
me to believe that profitability in agriculture and in
plantations will soon revert to more normal levels,” he said.
“The days of super-normal profits in palm oil cultivation are
coming to a close.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  