-- Pelosi, Princess Michael, David Rubenstein: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-30T16:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/pelosi-princess-michael-david-rubenstein-d-c-scene.html
Like two conspiring schoolgirls,
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  and Jillian Sackler held hands and
giggled as they walked through the “Roads of Arabia”
exhibition last night at the  Arthur M. Sackler Gallery .  The occasion was the 25th anniversary gala of the
Smithsonian collection of Asian art and antiquities named for
Jillian Sackler’s late husband.  Pelosi was in pale-blue Jean Muir and Sackler in champagne
Carolina Herrera. “I invited her,” Sackler said of the fashion
designer. “She was in London.”  Arthur Sackler died just months before the unveiling of the
museum in 1987. His widow said he lived long enough to see its
installation and thought it was amusing that the museum was
underground as that’s where most of his Asian artifacts were
found.  Guests were greeted by gala co-chairwomen Ann Nitze and
Susan Pillsbury, both Washington private-art collectors.  Princess Michael of Kent, in off-the-shoulder white, sat
between Smithsonian Secretary G. Wayne Clough and Hungarian
Ambassador Gyorgy Szapary.  “We’re cousins,” the ambassador said proudly about his
connection to the royal guest.  Nearby sat Egyptian tycoon Mohammed Shafik Gabr, founder
and chairman of  Artoc  Group for Investment and Development.  He’s adding Washington to his stable of international homes
and deciding which pieces from his vast Ludwig Deutsch and
Orientalist art collection to add to his place in the capital’s
Northwest district.  Glenn Lowry  The evening was a reunion of sorts for  New York  Museum of
Modern Art Director  Glenn Lowry  who worked with the late Sackler
as a young curator in the Washington museum’s early days. He
attended with his wife, Susan, and moderated a panel discussion
on art and diplomacy with artist  Jeff Koons  right before the
gala, as part of the Department of State’s Art in Embassies
celebration.  American Red Cross chairman Bonnie McElveen Hunter, a
former ambassador to  Finland , wore Oscar de la Renta and chatted
with Eric Motley of the  Aspen Institute .  The 400 guests gathered for dinner at tables adorned with
pink and purple orchids. The heated tent outside the museum was
scattered with rose petals, while butterflies dangled from the
ceiling.  The first course was a bento box with shrimp, lobster and
rice noodles served with Cape Mentelle Sauvignon Blanc Semillon
2012. The entree was short ribs followed by Indian ice cream. A
champagne toast was made with Moet & Chandon Nectar Imperial.
Violinist Amadeus Leopold played “Over the Rainbow.”  An after-party hosted by the Silk Road Society, the
museum’s young professionals’ organization, closed out the
celebrations with drinking, desserts and dancing in the upstairs
gallery, which is anchored by an Ai Weiwei work.  Organ Donor  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  co-founder  David Rubenstein  is now
officially an organ donor.  The Rubenstein Family Organ made its debut Tuesday night at
a free concert in the Kennedy Center’s Concert Hall.  Rubenstein attended the celebratory concert and after-party
with his parents, Bob and Bettie Rubenstein, who made the trip
from  Florida  to hear their namesake organ.  Organist William Neil inaugurated the 4,972 pipes with
Bach’s haunting “Toccata and Fugue in D Minor.” He joined the
National Symphony Orchestra for Saint-Saens’s “Organ
Symphony.”  The Casavant Freres organ was purchased in Canada after an
exhaustive search and underwent months of redesign,
installation, and tonal finishing to get it ready for its big
day.  Kennedy Center President Michael Kaiser and board member
Adrienne Arsht were also in attendance.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg
Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 