-- Videgaray to Be Mexican Finance Head as Pena Nieto Takes Power
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a ,   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-11-30T23:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/pena-nieto-said-to-name-luis-videgaray-as-finance-minister.html
 Luis Videgaray was named as
Mexico’s next finance minister a day before President-elect
Enrique Pena Nieto takes power, making him the point man on
budget and spending in the $1.2 trillion economy.  Outgoing Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade, 43, becomes
foreign minister and Ildefonso Guajardo, 55, a top economic
adviser on the president-elect’s transition team, will be Pena
Nieto’s economy minister, Miguel Osorio Chong, Pena Nieto’s
interior minister, said at an event in Mexico City today. Emilio Lozoya Austin, the son of a former energy minister, will lead
state-owned oil company  Petroleos Mexicanos , and Pedro Joaquin Coldwell will head the Energy Ministry, Osorio Chong said.  Videgaray, 44, ran Pena Nieto’s campaign, helping return
the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  to power after a 12-year
hiatus from seven decades of uninterrupted rule. He also headed
the new leader’s transition team and served as finance minister
when Pena Nieto was governor of Mexico state, winning an upgrade
in the region’s debt to investment grade. His most immediate
challenges will be to overhaul the tax system and open the
 energy industry  to more private investment.  “It’s absolutely a fantastic choice,” said Duncan Wood,
director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington . “It’s
recognition for all the hard work and it gives him a very
powerful position in Mexico. I think markets are going to see
that as a very positive step forward.”  One position Pena Nieto has yet to name is his ambassador
to the U.S., Mexico’s top trade partner and its neighbor along a
2,000-mile border.  Old Taboos  Pena Nieto’s proposals are similar to the economic bills
his party helped block under outgoing President  Felipe Calderon .
To ensure their approval, Videgaray must now convince PRI
lawmakers to break with decades-old taboos against stripping
power from unions and raising taxes.  Mexico’s peso fell for the first time in three days,
dropping 0.2 percent to 12.9667 per  U.S. dollar . Yields on peso
bonds due in 2024 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 5.52 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Guajardo takes over a ministry that under Bruno Ferrari,
its outgoing head, helped lead Mexico’s push to join Trans-
Pacific Partnership trade negotiations that include the U.S.,
 Canada  and eight other nations in the Americas and  Asia . Mexico
in June was invited to join the talks, whose next round is
scheduled for Auckland,  New Zealand  in December.  Osorio Chong will lead an  Interior Ministry  that Pena Nieto
wants to put in charge of security, by folding the Public
Security Ministry into it, to streamline the nation’s fight
against crime. Mexico’s drug war has cost more than 57,000 lives
since Calderon sent the army to take on the cartels after taking
office in December 2006, according to a count kept by Mexico
City newspaper Milenio.  Party Resistance  Pena Nieto, who takes office tomorrow, has pledged to
increase tax collection and boost private investment in Pemex,
as Petroleos Mexicanos is known, even as the oil workers’ union
led by PRI stalwarts fought prior energy bills.  The new president will inherit an economy forecast to grow
3.8 percent this year, twice as fast as Brazil’s 1.5 percent and
compared with 2.2 percent in the U.S., according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The  International Monetary Fund  in April projected Mexico’s
government debt will equal 43 percent of gross domestic product
next year, versus 110 percent for the U.S., 77 percent in
 Germany , 91 percent for the euro area and 77 percent overall for
the Group of 20 nations.  MIT Graduate  Videgaray, a  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  graduate
in economics who wrote his doctorate thesis on how oil price
changes have “shocked” governments reliant on crude, got his
start in politics when then-Mexico state Governor Pena Nieto
appointed him finance minister in 2005. He had helped
restructure the state’s debt a year earlier while working for
the Mexico City-based investment bank Protego, headed by former
PRI Finance Minister Pedro Aspe.  Videgaray has the experience and closeness to Pena Nieto to
take on a similar role to the one current central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens played previously as Calderon’s finance
minister, promoting his economic agenda that included a pension
overhaul, Wood said.  Videgaray helped Mexico’s most populous state lift its
 credit rating  to investment grade as its debt fell by 46 percent
in real terms over the past decade to 28.7 billion pesos ($2.2
billion), according to Aregional, a Mexico City-based public
finance research organization.  Guajardo, an economist who got his doctorate from the
 University of Pennsylvania , previously served as a
representative in Mexico’s lower house. He also worked in the
Foreign Ministry, as a negotiator on the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  with the U.S. and Canada that took effect in
1994, and as an economist at the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  