-- Pimco Leads Bullish Investors Backing Pena Nieto: Mexico Credit
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-11-30T13:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/pimco-leads-bullish-investors-backing-pena-nieto-mexico-credit.html
When Enrique Pena Nieto becomes
Mexico’s president tomorrow, he will be taking control of a
country with more support from foreign investors than at any
time in a decade.  Led by  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co.,
international investors now own 53 percent of Mexico’s $144
billion fixed-rate peso  bond market , the highest proportion
since February 2000. Record overseas buying propelled returns on
peso debt to 19.6 percent in dollars this year, or eight times
the advance in local-currency Brazilian bonds, pushing Mexico’s
borrowing costs to an all-time low in July.  The 46-year-old Pena Nieto, who inherits a $1.2 trillion
economy that grew faster than Brazil last year for the first
time since 2006, has pledged to open the state-controlled  energy
industry  to more private investment and bolster  tax revenue . In
the past decade, Mexico has almost doubled auto exports, tamed
double-digit inflation and lifted about a fifth of its
population into the middle class. Nomura Holdings Inc. says
yields will fall to a record next year as Pena Nieto bolsters
growth in  Latin America ’s second-largest economy.  Foreign investors “continue to like Mexico because they
believe there’s a deeper story in terms of growth with Pena
Nieto on the back of these reforms,”  Benito Berber , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura, said in a telephone interview from
New York. Mexico’s economic outlook is “very appealing” for
global bondholders, he said.  Yields Tumble  Yields on Mexican peso debt due in 2024 have fallen 228
basis points, or 2.28 percentage point, in the six years since
outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  took office, to 5.59 percent.
The yield, which touched a record low 5.10 percent on July 20,
will fall to near 5 percent next year as Pena Nieto gets
lawmakers, including those in his Institutional Revolutionary
Party, known as the PRI, to back the reform proposals, according
to Berber.  To push his policy agenda, Pena Nieto plans to name today
Luis Videgaray, an economist trained at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , as the nation’s finance minister and
former trade negotiator Ildefonso Guajardo as economy minister,
two people familiar with the announcement said. Videgaray, 44,
headed Pena Nieto’s transition team and served as his finance
chief when he was governor of Mexico state from 2005 to 2011,
winning an upgrade in the region’s debt to investment grade.  Economy Performance  The economy will grow 3.8 percent this year, compared with
1.5 percent for Brazil, 2.2 percent for the U.S. and a 0.5
percent contraction in the euro area, according to the median
forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Mexico’s growth
comes in spite of a drug war that has cost more than 57,000
lives since Calderon sent the army to take on the cartels six
years ago. The violence shaves 1 percentage point off annual
gross domestic product, according to government estimates.  Mexico’s stock market has surged under Calderon, with the
 IPC Index (MEXBOL)  recovering from a two-year low reached in October 2008
as the economy shrank at the start of the worst slowdown in a
decade. The measure has more than doubled since then and climbed
to a record last month.  The nation’s access to cheap energy, low wages and
proximity to U.S. consumers are sparking a manufacturing boom
that has lured investment from Ford Motor Co. to  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) 
and is on pace to boost exports to a record this year.  Car Boom  Over the past two years, automakers have said they plan to
pour an additional $7.8 billion into plants in Mexico, according
to  Sean McAlinden , a labor economist with the Center for
Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Nissan Motor Co. is
spending $2 billion to build its third plant in Mexico, while
Honda Motor Co. is investing $800 million in its first large
Mexican assembly plant. Mazda Motor Corp. is building a $500
million factory. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said in March it
was planning $1.3 billion in plant upgrades in Mexico.  Volkswagen AG’s Audi unit is building the nation’s first
luxury-car factory.  “All of the conditions to grow with more vigor are
there,” Agustin Coppel, the billionaire chairman of Coppel SA,
a countrywide network of 1,000 stores where low-income shoppers
buy goods such as smartphones and Lacoste perfumes on credit,
said in a Nov. 12 interview in Queretaro. “There’s potential,
and I hope that energy reform comes quickly so it can be a lever
for productivity and growth in the country.”  Private Investment  Pena Nieto has said he favors allowing more private
investment in the nation’s energy sector and accelerating
Mexico’s development of shale gas reserves and deep-water oil
deposits as state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos seeks to reverse
seven years of declining crude production. Depending on their
scope, his plans may require changes to at least one article of
the constitution drawn up in 1938 when the government of PRI
President  Lazaro Cardenas  seized  oil fields  and assets belonging
to British and U.S. companies.  A fiscal overhaul would help boost tax revenue that equaled
19 percent of gross domestic product in 2010, the lowest among
34 nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Calderon’s National Action Party, known as the PAN, has
pushed for similar changes during his six-year term, only to be
blocked by the PRI. Gustavo Madero, the PAN’s president,
reiterated on Nov. 24 that his party will work with the PRI to
pass the overhauls that it proposed under Calderon.  Pena Nieto may face resistance to his energy reform agenda
from the oil workers’ union, said James R. Jones, a former U.S.
congressman and ambassador to Mexico under President  Bill Clinton .  Antitrust Agenda  Pena Nieto has said he also wants to spur more business
competition and to give antitrust regulators more power.
Billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest person, controls 80
percent of Mexico’s landlines and 70 percent of its mobile-phone
lines through  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)  Grupo Bimbo SAB controls the
majority of the packaged bread industry, while Grupo Televisa
SAB and TV Azteca SAB represent a broadcast television duopoly.  Central bank governor Agustin Carstens said last month that
the lack of competition pushes up prices for goods bought by
Mexican consumers. The social benefits from breaking the
monopolies could help lower inflation and benefit the nation as
much as the North American Free Trade Agreement that was
implemented in 1994, he said.  Nafta helped spur a sixfold increase in Mexican exports to
the U.S., and the economy has almost tripled since it took
effect.  “The welfare gains in terms of applying stronger laws in
that respect would be very useful,” Carstens said at an event
in Minneapolis on Oct. 26.  Pimco View  Pimco, the biggest holder of Mexican fixed-rate debt due in
2024, said that the Latin American country’s debt was one of its
favorites on Oct. 3, three months after Gross, the firm’s co-chief investment officer, said he preferred them over German
bunds. Similar maturity securities from the European country
yield 1.46 percent.  Mexico’s lower debt levels and higher yields made investing
in the nation’s debt instead of German notes a decision so
obvious to Gross that he ended his June comments on the Pimco
Twitter account with the word “duh.”  Pimco spokesman  Mark Porterfield  said that the firm’s
officials weren’t available to comment further.  The  International Monetary Fund  in April projected Mexico’s
government debt will equal 43 percent of gross domestic product
next year, versus 110 percent for the U.S., 77 percent in
Germany, 91 percent for the euro area and 77 percent overall for
the Group of 20 nations.  Mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds  outside Mexico
tracked by EPFR Global have poured a record $7.94 billion into
the nation’s debt securities this year through Nov. 21,
according to the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm.  ‘Consensus Trade’  Mexico “is probably the biggest consensus trade in the
investment community,” Alejandro Silva, who helps oversee about
$800 million of emerging-market assets at Silva Capital
Management in Chicago, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The ability with which you can get in and out of
the market, the size, the laissez-faire approach to  capital
markets  just make it the best place in Latin America to
invest.”  Mexico’s 4.5 percent interest rate compares with near-zero
benchmarks in the U.S., Europe and Japan.  Alejandro Diaz de Leon, Mexico’s head of public credit,
said in telephone interview from Mexico City on Nov. 22 that a
lack of barriers for foreigners entering the fixed-income market
has helped the country obtain lower funding costs and deepen its
local market.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 100 basis points at 7 a.m. in
Mexico City, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements. The price was 47 basis points before Calderon
took office Dec. 1, 2006.  The peso advanced 0.2 percent to 12.9164 per dollar. It has
fallen 15 percent during Calderon’s term.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to
165 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index.  Pablo Cisilino, who helps oversee about $50 billion of
emerging-market debt, including Mexican assets, at Stone Harbor
Investment Partners, says that while investors expect Pena Nieto
to push through legislative changes, there’s a risk that the new
administration will fail to achieve the reforms.  ‘See an Impact’  “If he doesn’t come through and he doesn’t deliver, you’ll
start to see an impact at some point” on the bond market, he
said in a telephone interview from New York.  Responsible economic management has been a hallmark of the
Calderon administration, said Duncan Wood, director of the
Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in Washington.  “If Pena Nieto can continue to follow those conservative
approaches, he’ll have a huge benefit over the next six years,”
Wood said in a telephone interview. “Mexico has every
possibility of really booming as an economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  