-- Pitt’s Somber Killer; Ginger Baker Clocks Director: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/pitt-s-somber-killer-ginger-baker-clocks-director-film.html
In 1975, David Mamet’s play
“American Buffalo” used three foul-mouthed lowlifes planning a
petty theft to portray the sordid state of the American soul. It
had a huge influence on the vernacular of theater and film in
the decades following.  Sometimes I find it hard to be grateful -- while sitting,
for example, through “Killing Them Softly,” a mopey thriller
in which thieves knock over a mob-sponsored card game and the
mob sends enforcers to punish them.  The action takes place during the 2008 presidential
campaign, and the voices of  Barack Obama  and  George W. Bush  are
used on the soundtrack to suggest that these crimes are a
metaphor for the national condition.  But in case it isn’t clear, the writer-director, Andrew
Dominik (working from “Cogan’s Trade,” a 1974 George V.
Higgins novel), gives the chief enforcer a climactic epigram:
“America’s not a country -- it’s just a business.”  The speaker is a sleazy-looking  Brad Pitt .  James Gandolfini 
plays a second killer who turns out to be an ineffectual lush.
 Richard Jenkins  brings them instructions from an unknown Them at
the top.  They’re all good actors, but they’re overwhelmed by the
picture’s moroseness, and so was I. Nor was I convinced that it
had anything new to report about the American soul.  My main reaction, though, was: How long do I have to spend
with these creeps?  “Killing Them Softly,” from the Weinstein Company, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  Ginger Baker  Ginger Baker, one of rock’s great wild-man drummers,
demonstrates his prowess with a stick in the first scene of Jay
Bulger’s wily new documentary “ Beware of Mr. Baker .”  He bloodies the filmmaker’s nose with a cane.  The encounter, prompted by Bulger’s decision to interview
the drummer’s old compadres in Cream and Blind Faith, captures
an aged rock legend’s anger, ego and self-sabotaging impulses
better than any anecdote his estranged friends might summon.  With its assemblage of fresh interviews, concert footage
and the odd dash of animation, “Beware of Mr. Baker” presents
an artist slipping not so quietly away.  Sucking Air  From the looks of him, it won’t be a long trip. After
decades of substance abuse, hard living and combative
relationships with just about everyone, the arthritic Baker,
sucking on oxygen or a cigarette, seems here to be taking one
last rim shot at the world.  “I’m talking to a block of wood,” he grumbles to (and
about) Bulger, whose off-screen questions Baker barely
tolerates.  His once wild tangle of red hair now white and thinned,
Baker, 73, had retreated to the obscurity of his South African
farm when Bulger tracked him down for a Rolling Stone profile.  That article led to this documentary, and the frail,
irascible Baker’s participation says as much about his own
tenacity as Bulger’s.  “I find him quite hard to be around for any length of
time,” says old pal  Eric Clapton , who disbanded the hugely
successful Cream after only two years because of the
perfectionist Baker’s constant fighting with singer/bassist Jack
Bruce.  Baker was no easier on his wives and children.  Kid Coke  “He left my mum for my first boyfriend’s sister,” recalls
one daughter -- and that’s not even as off-putting as the story
his son tells of being introduced by dad to cocaine at 15.  “Mr. Baker,” though, is convinced and convincing of
Baker’s artistry, both as a powerhouse rock pounder and a more
than credible jazz drummer. The  Rolling Stones ’ Charlie Watts
and the Police’s Stewart Copeland are among the drummers paying
tribute.  Clapton all but scoffs when Bulger compares Baker to Led
Zeppelin’s John Bonham and the Who’s Keith Moon.  “No, no, no,” Clapton says. “Ginger was nothing like
those players. He’s a fully formed musician.”  “Beware of Mr. Baker” -- the title is taken from a sign
at the entrance of the drummer’s farm -- ponders the sacrifices
made in the name of art. And not just by the artist himself.  “Beware of Mr. Baker,” from SnagFilms/Insurgent Media, is
playing in  New York , with a national release on January 25.
Rating: **** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 