-- Polish Growth Slows More Than Forecast on Weak Demand
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-11-30T13:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/polish-growth-slows-more-than-forecast-on-weak-demand.html
Poland ’s  economy  slowed more than
economists forecast in the third quarter as export gains failed
to offset weaker  consumer spending , boosting expectations for an
interest-rate cut next week.  Gross domestic product climbed 1.4 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since the second quarter of 2009 and
compared with a 2.3 percent increase in the previous three
months, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics Office  said today.
Economists predicted a 1.8 percent increase, according to the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. GDP rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from the previous quarter.  Poland, the only economy in the 27-nation European Union to
keep expanding through the global slump in 2009, is battling to
avoid its first recession of the post-communist era. Prime
Minister Donald Tusk has eased his deficit goals for this year
and next to maintain growth, while the central bank reduced its
main rate this month for the first time in three years.  “It’s another very bad surprise, with the biggest shock
coming from the drop-off in consumption,” Tomasz Kaczor, chief
economist at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in Warsaw, said by e-
mail. “Basically, this means that future economic growth is
entirely at the mercy of foreign demand.”  Zloty Weakens  The zloty weakened to 4.1052 per euro at 12:50 p.m. in
Warsaw, down from 4.0893 before the release, extending its
decline to 0.4 percent on the day, the steepest among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The average
 yield  on the two-year government bond fell six basis points a
record-low 3.42 percent.  Domestic demand dropped 0.7 percent in the third quarter
after declining 0.4 percent in the second quarter, according to
the report. Individual consumption rose 0.1 percent, the lowest
rate since 2003, while fixed investments declined 1.5 percent,
the office said.  Metro AG (MEO)  said today that it agreed had to sell its Real
grocery stores in eastern  Europe  to  France ’s Groupe Auchan SA
for 1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion).  Germany ’s biggest retailer
cut its 2012 profit forecast last month, saying Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis is hurting sales.  ‘Strong Argument’  The Polish GDP data provide a “strong argument for more
monetary easing, especially in a situation when further fiscal
tightening isn’t possible,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at Bank
Zachodni WBK, said by phone.  The rate will be cut by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent at
the Monetary Policy Council meeting on Dec. 5, according to 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One economist expects the rate
will be cut by 50 basis points.  Household-credit growth slowed to 1.2 percent from a year
earlier after 14.5 percent expansion a year ago, while corporate
borrowing decelerated to 9 percent from 13 percent in last
September, according to the central bank. No new jobs were
created in the past three months and the jobless rate rose to
12.5 percent in October, compared with 11.8 percent a year ago.  The downturn is hurting earnings at Polish banks.  PKO Bank
Polski SA (PKO) , Poland’s biggest lender, posted a 9.4 percent drop in
third-quarter profit as bad-loan provisions increased, the
Warsaw-based lender said on Nov. 12.  No Cushion  “Consumption growth is systematically decreasing and its
sluggishness means there’s not much to cushion the economy in
the event of a powerful negative external shock,” said Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  Exports grew 0.7 percent from a year earlier in the third
quarter, even as the euro area, Poland’s biggest trading
partner, fell into a recession. Exporters cut their reliance on
the currency area to 52.2 percent of total foreign sales through
September from 54.3 percent in the same period last year.  The decline was offset by a 16 percent increase in
shipments to  developing countries , while exports to central and
eastern Europe grew 20 percent, including an almost 12 percent
expansion in sales to  Russia . Grupa Konspol Sp. z o.o., a
privately held Polish food producer that’s the main provider of
processed chicken products for  Portugal ’s Jeronimo Martin SGPS
SA retailer, began exports to  Japan  this year.  Polish growth will ease to 1.5 percent next year, the
weakest since 2002, according to central bank forecasts. To
counteract the deeper-than-expected slowdown, policy makers cut
 interest rates  on Nov. 7 for the first time since 2009 and
Governor  Marek Belka  announced the start of an easing cycle.  The bank will trim the benchmark by another quarter-point
next week, policy maker  Adam Glapinski  said in an interview in
Warsaw on Nov. 26.  “I believe there will be a cut in December, but I don’t
think panic is the right response,” Elzbieta Chojna-Duch of
Polish central bank’s Monetary Policy Council was quoted today
as saying by Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  