-- PTT Exploration to Raise $3 Billion in Thai Rights Offering
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-11-30T09:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/ptt-exploration-to-raise-3-billion-in-thai-rights-offering-1-.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ,
Thailand’s biggest publicly traded oil and gas explorer, will
raise about $3 billion in the nation’s biggest equity offering.  PTT Exploration will sell shares at 142 baht ($4.62)
apiece, near the high end of a marketed range of 135 baht to 145
baht, it said today in a statement. That’s a discount of 7.8
percent to the closing price of PTTEP’s  shares  yesterday.  The share sale comes as state-owned oil and gas companies
in Asia try to secure more reserves. PTTEP is seeking funds to
help finance its 1.2 billion pound ($1.9 billion) acquisition of
Cove Energy Pcl after beating Royal Dutch Shell Plc in the
contest for control of the East Africa-focused explorer.  “The equity raising will enable PTTEP to strengthen its
 capital structure  and allow the company to achieve its growth
plans,” Chief Executive Officer Tevin Vongvanich said today in
a statement on the company’s website. He said the sale would
“help ensure Thailand’s energy security.”  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer,
agreed in July to buy Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in a deal that’s
awaiting Canadian approval. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the
Malaysian producer known as Petronas, offered in June to acquire
 Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  While that agreement was
rejected by Canada, Petronas was allowed to appeal.  PTTEP will sell 650 million shares at a ratio of one
existing share to 0.195783 new shares from Dec. 3 to Dec. 5,
according to its statement.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , which owns 65 percent of
PTTEP, will subscribe to its full entitlement of shares,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘Concerns Ease’  Shares of PTTEP  rose the most in a month in Bangkok
trading, gaining 3.3 percent to 159 baht. The stock has fallen
5.6 percent this year, compared with a 2.4 percent decline for
the 18-member  Bloomberg Asia Pacific Oil and Gas Index .  “Prolonged capital raising and concerns over benefits from
the Cove acquisition have put pressure on the price,”  Kavee Chukitkasem , an investment strategist at Kasikorn Securities
Co., said today by phone. “After the capital is raised and
concerns ease, prices should climb.” Kasikorn has a 12-month
 price target  of 165 baht on PTTEP shares, Kavee said.  The stock sale will help PTTEP meet a target to increase
daily production of oil and natural gas to 900,000 barrels of
oil equivalent by 2020, Tevin said in July. PTTEP plans to spend
about $20 billion by 2016 to raise output.  The sale will be Thailand’s biggest ever equity offering,
topping  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) ’s 65 billion baht share sale in
1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PTTEP has oil and gas projects in countries including
 Canada , Australia, Myanmar, Indonesia, Vietnam and Oman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  