-- QE Backfires as Dividend Quest Usurps Growth: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-11-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/qe-backfires-as-dividend-quest-usurps-growth-cutting-research.html
Worldwide quantitative easing may be
making investors richer rather than encouraging business
investment, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Fulfilling the goals of central bankers such as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , ultra-low  interest rates  and
bond purchases are encouraging investors to buy stocks. Policy
makers’ intent was that asset prices and wealth would rise,
encouraging consumers and businesses to spend more.  The sticking point is the particular equities investors are
favoring,  Robert Buckland , Citigroup’s London-based chief global
equity strategist, said in a Nov. 21 report. His research
suggests they tend to choose companies that issue dividends and
buy back shares rather than those that invest in the economy.  “They’ll take a bigger dividend over a new factory,
anytime,” Buckland wrote. “Policy makers may succeed in
forcing capital into equities, but from their perspective, it is
the wrong kind of capital: income seeking rather than growth
seeking.”  U.S. companies spent $650 billion on share buybacks and
dividends in 2011, compared with $580 billion for  capital
spending , the report said. In  Europe , Citigroup found, the
sectors that spent the most capital were given the lowest stock
valuations by investors.  Executives are reacting to the incentives in a bid to
encourage stock outperformance, Buckland said. Healthcare
companies are cutting back on research, freeing up cash for
dividends, for example. Telecommunications businesses now have
the highest dividend yield and payout ratio of all sectors.  Buckland also found dividend funds have replaced growth-
oriented emerging market funds as the best-selling equity
products.  The perverse effects won’t stop policy makers from keeping
rates low and eschewing the purchase of riskier assets such as
stocks, Buckland said. Of concern, he said, is that governments
may use taxes to clamp down on capital returns to shareholders.  * * *  The world economy could get a boost of as much as $15
trillion, equivalent to the size of U.S. gross domestic product,
if companies embrace something  General Electric Co. (GE)  calls the
“Industrial Internet.”  A November 26 study by Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
says greater use of networks in which Internet-connected
machines communicate and operate automatically could deliver
efficiency gains. So-called intelligent machines could be better
used to manage inventories and control deliveries, while workers
could be better connected and become more efficient.  An example is the  transportation industry , which GE
estimates could reduce management costs by 10 percent, yielding
$5.6 billion in savings a year. In aviation, a 1 percent
reduction in jet fuel by better management of technology use
could yield $30 billion in fuel savings over 15 years.  “The full potential of the Industrial Internet will be
felt when the three primary digital elements -- intelligent
devices, intelligent systems and intelligent automation -- fully
merge with physical machines, facilities, fleets and networks,”
wrote  Marco Annunziata , GE’s chief economist. “When this occurs
the benefits of enhanced productivity, lower costs and reduced
waste will propagate through the entire industrial economy.”  If U.S. companies boosted annual productivity growth by as
much as 1.5 percentage points, the payoff could be $15 trillion
over two decades, said Annunziata and co-writer Peter C. Evans,
GE’s director of global strategy and analytics.  Closer links between computer and machine would reduce
wasted time and resources by allowing businesses to become more
efficient and better predict customer needs, they said.  The first wave of Internet and communications technology
boosted labor productivity growth to an annual average rate of
3.1 percent from 1995 to 2004, twice the pace of the previous 25
years. If the “Industrial Internet” reaped such growth by 2030,
average income could rise by $20,000 per person.  * * *  The global financial turmoil may have been triggered by an
energy crisis rather than by excessive leverage among banks and
governments.  So says Giles Keating, Geneva-based head of research for
private banking and asset management at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN) 
In a Nov. 27 report, he said the crisis was exacerbated and
perhaps caused by the run-up in  oil prices  after 2005. That
ended up with a barrel of oil costing almost $150 in 2008.  The oil constraint slowed economic growth and “debts that
previously had seemed good turned sour and the financial crisis
exploded,” Keating said.  Because the crisis “shockingly revealed to a complacent
world” the lack of oil, governments may now pursue greater
supply and make their economies less energy-dependent, Keating
said. That could pave the way for a resumption of robust
economic growth sooner than economists, focused on deleveraging,
may assume, he said.  “The world can escape the ‘new normal’ of slow growth by
increasing energy supply and efficiency,” he said.  * * *  China ’s investment may need to be cut by 10 percentage
points from almost 50 percent of GDP to ensure better economic
balance, according to a working paper published this month by
the  International Monetary Fund .  While China’s investment level is within the range of
counterpart countries, it has surged in the last decade. That
raises doubts over sustainability given that much of the
investment is financed domestically, wrote IMF economists Il
Houng Lee and Murtaza Syed, alongside Liu Xueyan of China’s
Institute of  Economic Research .  “The challenge is to engineer a gradual reduction in
investment to a path that would maximize social welfare,” the
report said, noting a crisis still appears unlikely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 