-- Questcor Falls as Aetna Keeps Acthar Limits: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-11-30T21:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/questcor-falls-as-aetna-keeps-acthar-limits-los-angeles-mover.html
Questcor Pharmaceuticals Inc. (QCOR) 
slipped the most in two months after a review by insurer  Aetna
Inc. (AET)  left in place limits on coverage for the drugmaker’s top-
selling drug.  Questcor fell 8.1 percent to $25.90 at the close of  New
York  trading on Aetna’s review yesterday that found the drug
H.P. Acthar Gel was “medically necessary” only for infant
seizures. It was the biggest one-day decline for the Anaheim,
California-based company since it said on Sept. 24 that the U.S.
government was investigating its marketing practices and shares
dropped 37 percent.  Questcor plunged the most in 20 years on Sept. 19 after
Aetna said it would limit payment for H.P. Acthar, which is also
used to treat multiple sclerosis, allergic conditions and other
illnesses. In a  follow-up review  posted on Aetna’s website this
week, the insurer said the drug’s benefit still hadn’t been
proven for conditions beyond the infant spasms known as West
syndrome.  “There are a lack of clinical studies comparing the
effectiveness” of Acthar and steroids, according to the posting
from Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. insurer by membership. “In
addition, there is no reliable evidence of the effectiveness”
of the product “in persons who have failed to respond to
corticosteroids.”  Aetna generally reimburses drugs only when they’re deemed
medically necessary, a spokeswoman for the Hartford,
Connecticut-based carrier,  Cynthia Michener , said Sept. 19. The
insurer will still cover Acthar for members who have been using
the drug in the past 12 months, she said at the time.  Questcor said in a Sept. 19 statement that it did not
expect the Aetna decision to have a “material impact” on the
company’s finances. Aetna has accounted for about 5 percent of
shipped prescriptions for the gel, Questcor said.  The shares have dropped 38 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  