-- RBS Sale of Indian Consumer Division to HSBC Collapses
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-11-30T17:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/rbs-sale-of-indian-consumer-division-to-hsbc-collapses.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, said the sale of its
Indian consumer and commercial-banking operations to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  collapsed.  RBS will wind down the unit, the 81 percent taxpayer-owned
bank said in a statement today. RBS announced the sale to
London-based HSBC for an undisclosed sum in July 2010.  “Consistent with RBS’s strategic objective to reduce or
exit its non-core assets and businesses, it will begin to wind-
down its retail and commercial banking business in India, whilst
meeting all customer obligations,” the Edinburgh-based firm
said in the statement.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  is pressuring U.K.
banks to raise capital levels by selling assets to guard against
loan losses. Banks are struggling to find buyers for assets:
last month,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  walked away from buying 316
branches that RBS has to sell by 2014 to comply with a European
Union state-aid ruling after being bailed out by U.K. taxpayers.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  has cut assets by
more than 800 billion pounds ($1.28 trillion), eliminated 36,000
jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and Irish units since
2008.  RBS’s Indian unit has about 190 million pounds of assets,
31 branches and serves 400,000 customers, the bank said. It
generated revenue of 42 million pounds in the nine months to the
end of November. RBS expected to sell the unit at a premium of
60 million pounds over book value, according to  Ian Gordon , a
London-based analyst at  Investec Plc. (INVP)   ‘Mutual Decision’  India’s central bank “has been tightening regulations for
foreign banks operating here in an attempt to ring fence the
domestic banking system from outside risks,” said Dolly Parmar,
a Mumbai-based banking analyst at IFCI Financial Services Ltd.
“The concerns raised by the central bank seem to have spoiled
the deal.”  HSBC said in a separate statement that it remained
committed to the Indian market and would expand there through
its existing operations.  “HSBC and RBS took a mutual decision to discontinue this
transaction as we had spent more than three years working on
this deal but had not been able to conclude the transaction,”
HSBC said in the statement.  RBS’s  shares  fell 1.3 percent to 295.2 pence in  London ,
little more than half the average price the government paid when
it provided the bank with a 45.5 billion-pound rescue during the
financial crisis. The  stock  has climbed 46 percent this year.
HSBC’s  shares  rose 1 percent to 637.7 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  