-- Treasuries Set to Beat Corporate Bonds in November
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-11-30T11:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/treasuries-set-to-beat-corporate-bonds-in-november.html
Treasuries halted a four-day gain on
speculation U.S. lawmakers will reach a deal to avert the so-
called fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending cuts,
undermining demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year notes  trimmed a weekly advance before an industry
report that analysts said will show U.S. business activity
expanded in November, adding to signs the economy is recovering.
U.S. government bonds were poised to beat corporate debt this
month for the first time since May. The U.S. Treasury Master
returned 0.5 percent this month through yesterday, while an
index of investment-grade and high-yield debt was little
changed, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “Behind the scenes we think there is some slow progress on
the fiscal cliff,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , global head of
interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “Risk
sentiment is going to be quite positive going into the end of
the year and bond prices will pull back. Worries that the
discussions are not progressing quickly enough has supported
prices over the past few days.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  rose less than one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.62 percent at 6:24 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note maturing in November 2022 dropped 1/32, or 31 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  Fiscal Cliff  More than $600 billion of tax increases and automatic
spending cuts are scheduled to start in January if no deal on
the fiscal cliff is reached. The  Congressional Budget Office  has
said failure to reach an accord may push the world’s largest
economy into a recession.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  shuttled among
congressional leaders yesterday with a plan to trade $1.6
trillion in tax increases for $400 billion in unspecified
entitlement program cuts, Republican congressional aides said.  A gauge of business activity from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. rose to 50.5 this month from 49.9 in
October, according to a Bloomberg survey before the report at
9:45 a.m. New York time. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  U.S. household purchases were unchanged in October, after
increasing 0.8 percent in September, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed before a Commerce Department report today.  ‘Low Yield’  The 10-year Treasury yield fell as low as 1.60 percent this
week, the lowest since Nov. 19. It declined to a record 1.379
percent on July 25.  “We have such a low yield on bonds,” Guy Spier, chief
executive officer of Aquamarine Capital Management LLC in
Zurich, said on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “I really don’t understand why anybody who didn’t have
a gun to their head saying ‘buy bonds’ would buy them.”  The  Federal Reserve  is selling shorter-term Treasuries from
its holdings and buying those due in six to 30 years as it seeks
to spur the economy by capping borrowing costs, under a program
scheduled to end in December.  The central bank plans to purchase as much as $2.25 billion
of Treasuries maturing from February 2036 to November 2042
today, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  