-- Treasuries Advance on Fiscal-Cliff Doubts, U.S. Growth Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-30T22:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/treasuries-are-little-changed-as-fiscal-cliff-concern-lingers.html
Treasuries  rose  for the third week
since the U.S. presidential elections as concern increased that
U.S. policy makers will fail to avert the so-called fiscal cliff
and risk pushing the U.S. economy into a recession.  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped to the lowest level
in more than a week a day after the U.S. completed the final of
three note auctions totaling $99 billion, drawing strong demand.
U.S. debt extended gains after a report showed a measure of
prices tied to spending, a gauge preferred by the Federal
Reserve, advanced at a rate less than the central bank’s target.
The Fed acquired $1.85 billion in Treasuries today.  “It’s about the fiscal cliff; it’s all about not reaching
a deal,” said Adrian Miller, director of global-market strategy
at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “It’s about eliminating the
acute negative impact on the economy.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year traded at 1.62 percent
at 5 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 1.625 percent note due in November 2022 was at 100
3/32.  The yield is down eight basis points this week, the fifth
decline in the past six weeks and the third time since the Nov.
6 presidential elections.  Miller said he expects the 10-year yield to trade between
1.5 percent and 1.8 percent during the next month.  The U.S. Treasury Master returned 0.5 percent this month
through yesterday, the first gain since July, while an index of
investment-grade and high-yield debt was little changed,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Treasuries have
returned 2.6 percent this year, down from 9.8 percent last year,
according to the indexes.  Index Matching  Government debt was supported as some investors bought debt
to increase the duration of their portfolios to match benchmarks
at the end of the month, such as the Barclays Plc U.S. Treasury
Index. Duration measures price sensitivity to changes in yield,
and is partly a function of maturity.  The Barclays U.S. Treasury index is projected to extend by
0.07 year for November, the most since extending by 0.08 year in
August, according to the firm.  “There’s a fairly sizable extension, so you will see
decent month-end index switching,” said Sean Murphy, a trader
at Societe Generale SA in New York, one of the 21 primary
dealers that are required to bid at government debt auctions.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee next meets
on Dec. 11-12 to assess the impact of record accommodation,
including a plan to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds per month
to reduce unemployment. The central bank said last month it will
buy bonds until the job market improves “substantially.”  Fed Policy  The central bank is selling shorter-term Treasuries from
its holdings and buying those due in six to 30 years under a
program known as Operation Twist, which is scheduled to end next
month. It bought $16.8 billion this week in six operations.  More than $600 billion of tax increases and automatic
spending cuts are scheduled to start in January if no deal on
the so-called fiscal cliff is reached. President  Barack Obama 
warned of “prolonged negotiations” ahead, while House Speaker
John Boehner said “right now, we’re almost nowhere” in the
negotiations.  “Our sense is that we are no closer to a deal than we were
two weeks ago,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The primary
issue at hand is the fiscal cliff and the likelihood that any
budget agreement negatively affects gross domestic product in
2013,”  The Congressional Budget Office has warned that if Congress
doesn’t avert the fiscal cliff, the economy might slip into
recession next year.  Economic Data  Today’s Commerce Department report showed a measure of
prices tied to consumer spending advanced 1.7 percent in October
from the same month last year, less than the Fed’s long-run goal
of 2 percent. Excluding food and energy costs, the personal
consumption expenditures index price gauge increased 1.6 percent
from a year earlier.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and TIPS
rose to 2.42 percentage points, the most since Nov. 21. The gap,
known as the 10-year break-even rate, is down from 2.7
percentage points on Sept. 17, the most since May 2006.  Volatility in Treasuries dropped yesterday to the lowest in
five years. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which
measures price swings based on options, matched the 51.7 basis
points recorded Nov. 27, the lowest level of price swings since
May 2007. It hit a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15.
Volatility climbed to 264.6 basis points in October 2008 as the
financial crisis intensified.  Trading Level  Treasury trading volume dropped yesterday to $247.4 billion
from $281.5 billion Nov. 28 that was the most in three weeks,
according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S.
government debt. The 2012 daily average is $240 billion.  The government sold $29 billion in seven-year notes
yesterday as direct bidders purchased a record 19.7 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 14.4 percent at the past
10 auctions. The U.S. sold $35 billion in five-year securities
the previous day with direct bidders winning 15.9 percent of the
offering, the most since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  