-- Rousseff Vetoes Part of Royalties Law to Avoid Delay in Auctions
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-11-30T20:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/rousseff-vetoes-part-of-royalties-law-to-avoid-delay-in-auctions.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
vetoed parts of a royalties law, siding with petroleum-producing
states whose fight to preserve their take from the nation’s
expanding oil wealth could delay the first auctions since 2008.  A law passed this month by Congress granted more revenue
from recent offshore oil finds to non-producing states, a move
that Rio de Janeiro Governor Sergio Cabral said could bankrupt
his state ahead of its hosting of the 2016  Summer Olympics .  Rousseff left in place parts of the bill spreading the oil
wealth from un-auctioned blocks to all of  Brazil ’s 26 states but
overturned lawmakers’ application of the new formula to existing
concessions, Institutional Affairs Minister Ideli Salvatti told
reporters in Brasilia. Cabral has threatened to take his fight
to the  Supreme Court  to preserve existing revenues of 3.4
billion reais ($1.6 billion) next year.  The new formula for distributing royalties must be
established by the end of January in order for Brazil to hold in
May a scheduled auction of exploration blocks that has been
delayed since 2008, according to Brazil’s oil regulator.  Tens of thousands of residents in Rio attended a rally last
week urging Rousseff to veto the bill ahead of today’s deadline
to do so. Cabral has if the law is allowed to take effect, it
will jeopardize $13.5 billion in stadium and transportation
projects planned for the 2014 soccer World Cup and Olympics two
years later.  As output has risen in the world’s 13th largest crude
producer, Brazil’s total royalty income jumped to 13 billion
reais in 2011 from 9.9 billion reais in 2010.  Much of that income currently goes to Rio and the
neighboring states of  Sao Paulo  and Espirito Santo, whose
coastal beaches would be at risk in the event of a spill from
exploration of the so-called pre-salt region. The deepwater
deposits, being developed mainly by state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , contain at least 50 billion barrels of oil.  Education Minister Aloizio Mercadante said today that 100
percent of the revenue from future oil concessions will be used
to fund improvements in education. That echoes the wishes of
former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who called the 2007
oil discovery -- the biggest in the Americas in three decades --
“Brazil’s second independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  