-- Russia Probes Mass Bird Flu Deaths for Danger to Humans
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-11-30T10:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/russia-probes-mass-bird-flu-deaths-for-danger-to-humans.html
Russian health officials are
investigating the potential danger to humans from a strain of
flu that killed hundreds of wild ducks in the southern Krasnodar
region, a key route for migration.  Preliminary lab tests showed the birds died of a strain
that belongs to the H5 sub-group of an A-type bird flu,
according to the country’s food and safety watchdog,
Rosselkhoznadzor.  “We have registered the outbreak in coastal lakes, in wild
nature,” Rosselkhoznadzor spokesman Alexei Alekseenko said by
phone from Moscow today. “There is no threat to public
livestock and private poultry farms yet.”  Results should show Monday or Tuesday if the strain is the
H5N1 type that can be deadly for humans, Alekseenko said.
Officials have ordered a poultry farm with 40,000 chicken and
within 50 kilometers of the outbreak to strengthen preventative
measures to limit the outbreak, Alekseenko said.  Most bird flu viruses don’t infect humans, according to the
 World Health Organization , and the strain of highly pathogenic
avian influenza that has killed hundreds of people is H5N1. The
disease can be spread by wild water fowl, the WHO says. It can
be transferred from birds to humans, but is not transmittable
from human to human, Alekseenko said.  Wild ducks use lakes in Krasnodar region as stopovers
during winter migration from southern Asia to southern  Europe ,
including  Italy  and the Balkan states, Alekseenko said. It is
not known when exactly birds may take off to their final
destination from  Russia , because it depends on weather
conditions, he said.  There are about 12,000 wild ducks currently in the area
around the outbreak area in Krasnodar, all of which will be
culled if tests show the virus is H5N1, Alekseenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  