-- S&P 500 Rises Second Week Amid Government Budget Talks
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-12-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/s-p-500-rises-second-week-amid-government-budget-talks.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
a second week, the longest advance since September, as investors
watched developments in government budget negotiations amid
better-than-anticipated economic reports.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and EBay Inc. gained more than 5 percent
for the week as online spending surged 17 percent on the Monday
after Thanksgiving.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  added 6.1 percent as
the largest U.S. warehouse-club chain announced a special
dividend.  Knight Capital  Group Inc. soared 35 percent after
receiving takeover bids from Getco LLC and Virtu Financial LLC.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  increased 0.5 percent to 1,416.18 for the week.
The benchmark measure for American equities extended its rally
since Nov. 16 to 4.1 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
advanced 15.90 points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,025.58.  “The market has been incredibly reactive to what’s coming
out of Washington with regards to the fiscal cliff issue,” said
Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and
derivatives at Charles Schwab Corp. in Austin,  Texas . His firm
has $1.9 trillion in client assets. “In general, the consensus
is that they are going to get this resolved at least to some
degree that the market will be satisfied with.”  Stocks were whipsawed as Congress returned from the
Thanksgiving recess, seeking a budget deal to avoid $607 billion
of automatic tax increases and spending cuts from kicking in
next year. On Nov. 27, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said
Democrats and Republicans have made “little progress” in
negotiations. A day later, President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker John Boehner talked about the possibility of a deal
before the end of the year.  ‘Almost Nowhere’  By the end of the week, Obama warned of “prolonged
negotiations” ahead, while Boehner told reporters “right now
we’re almost nowhere” on talks.  Among the week’s economic reports, U.S. orders for durable
goods in October topped economists’ forecasts, while  consumer
confidence  rose in November to the highest level in more than
four years. Gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, up from a 2 percent prior estimate.  Investors also watched the latest developments in Europe’s
attempts to tame its debt-crisis. German lawmakers approved
 Greece ’s latest rescue package as Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble warned that a default in the country where the debt
crisis began could trigger the collapse of the single currency.  “There’s less pressure on Greece near term,” said  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees about $47 billion. He spoke
in a phone interview. “Ultimately, Greece has the same issues
with revenue generation and expense control that it’s had in the
past. It just has longer time to deal with them.”  Corporate Earnings  The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent in November, following a 2
percent slump in October, amid optimism on global central bank
stimulus and better-than-estimated corporate  earnings . Third-
quarter profits at 72 percent of S&P 500 companies have beaten
analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Online retailers rallied during the week as consumers spent
about $1.46 billion on so-called Cyber Monday, compared with
$1.25 billion a year ago, making it the heaviest online spending
day in history, research firm ComScore Inc. said. Amazon.com,
the world’s largest online retailer, increased 5.1 percent to
$252.05. EBay, the biggest online marketplace, advanced 7.8
percent to $52.82.  Costco Wholesale added 6.1 percent to $103.92. It joined a
growing number of companies, from Wynn Resorts Ltd. to Tyson
Foods Inc., which are announcing special dividends at four times
the pace of last year ahead of pending tax increases in 2013.
The rate on dividends, which was reduced to 15 percent during
the George W. Bush administration, is set to go up as President
Obama and Congress work to draw more revenue from top earners.  Knight Capital  Knight Capital surged 35 percent, the most since 1999, to
$3.37. Getco’s cash and stock offer values Knight at $3.50 a
share, an 18 percent premium from the Nov. 27 close, and retains
its public listing. Virtu submitted a bid to buy Knight for
about $3 a share, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said. Knight was bailed out by six financial companies in August
after losing more than $450 million in a trading malfunction.  Corning Inc. (GLW)  climbed 8.3 percent to $12.23. The world’s
largest maker of glass for flat-panel televisions forecast
stronger-than-anticipated retail demand for consumer electronics
this quarter.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  advanced 13 percent to $2.20.
The second-largest maker of personal-computer processors rose on
optimism that the  sale  of its campus in Austin, Texas, may help
shore up its cash reserves.  20-Month Standoff  ConAgra Foods Inc. jumped 5.1 percent to $29.86. It won the
backing of  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  for a takeover with a $5
billion bid, ending a 20-month standoff after Ralcorp
shareholders pressured the maker of private brand foods to stop
opposing the deal. Buying Ralcorp will more than quadruple
ConAgra’s private-label sales to $4.5 billion. Ralcorp surged 25
percent to $89.14.  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  surged 13 percent, the biggest gain
since 2009, to $52.05. The  largest  U.S. energy drink maker by
sales volume rose after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said a Food and
Drug Administration response to questions over the safety of
energy drinks was “encouraging.” Any regulatory outcome is
likely to be “benign,”  Judy Hong , an analyst with Goldman
Sachs, said in a note.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Target Corp. slumped after posting November
same-store sales that trailed analysts’ estimates as superstorm
Sandy depressed traffic early in the month. Macy’s, the second-
biggest U.S. department-store company dropped 7.3 percent to
$38.70. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, slid 2.1
percent to $63.13.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  sank 5 percent to $58.98. The second-largest
luxury jewelry retailer cut its annual profit forecast for the
third time this year after higher diamond costs ate into margins
and customers curbed spending in weak economies.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  sank 9.4 percent to $67.08. The owner of
the Taco Bell and KFC fast-food chains said same-store  sales  in
 China  will fall in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  