-- SEC Seen Waiting for Prosecutors Before Pursuing SAC
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-11-30T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/sec-seen-waiting-for-prosecutors-before-pursuing-sac.html
If the past is any guide, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission will probably hold off on its
threat to sue SAC Capital Advisors LP until prosecutors
determine whether they can build a criminal insider-trading case
against the hedge fund’s founder,  Steven A. Cohen .  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan took a step closer
to the billionaire on Nov. 20, when former SAC Capital portfolio
manager Mathew Martoma was arrested on charges of using inside
information to trade the stocks of drugmakers Elan Corp. and
Wyeth LLC. Cohen sold the stocks after speaking with Martoma,
according to prosecutors and an SEC complaint, the first time
they had linked him to trades at the center of an insider case.  The same day the SEC notified  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC Capital that it’s considering pursuing civil fraud claims
against the $14 billion firm related to Martoma’s trading, three
people with knowledge of the matter said two days ago. It was
another example of how the SEC and U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
have cooperated in their probe of  insider trading  that has led
to more than 80 people, with prosecutors often going to court
first.  “The U.S. attorney brought a case against Martoma to try
to force him to cooperate against Cohen to the extent that there
is a case against him,” said Marc Powers, the leader of Baker &
Hostetler LLP’s national litigation and regulatory enforcement
practice in New York. “The SEC is likely waiting to see if the
U.S. attorney’s office is able to flip Martoma against Cohen
before they provide Cohen with a Wells notice.  Oversight Responsibility  In addition to fraud, the SEC’s so-called Wells notice to
SAC Capital also outlined claims related to the firm’s
responsibility for overseeing CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, the
unit that employed the Martoma, said one of the people, who like
the others asked not to be named because the information is
private. The regulator may extend the fraud and oversight claims
to Cohen himself, the person said.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment on whether or how the agency would proceed
against SAC Capital.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara,
declined to comment.  Cohen, 56, told investors two days ago on a conference 
call that he acted appropriately when he sold shares of Wyeth 
and Elan on the advice of Martoma. Neither Cohen nor SAC 
Capital was accused of wrongdoing in last week’s criminal
complaints.  ‘‘Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” a spokesman for SAC Capital said last
week in an e-mailed statement.  Cohen Call  The complaint against Martoma said that the 38-year-old
portfolio manager had a 20-minute phone call with Cohen, who in
court papers is described as the “hedge fund owner” and not
identified. The next day, the billionaire ordered his head
trader to start selling the firm’s $700 million position in the
two companies. The sale was done through dark pools, which
conceal the identity of the buyers and sellers, to hide it from
other investors both inside and outside of SAC Capital,
according to the complaint.  The SEC sends a Wells notice to a company or an individual
after its staff has determined that sufficient wrongdoing has
occurred to warrant civil claims being filed. The notice gives
the recipient a chance to try to dissuade the SEC from taking
action. In some cases, the SEC has decided to refrain from
filing a complaint after sending a Wells notice. Under a
provision of the Dodd-Frank bill, the SEC must bring an action
within 180 days, though the director of enforcement can extend
the deadline with agreement of the recipient of the notice.  Evidence Rules  The SEC, which is a civil enforcement agency, typically
coordinates with federal prosecutors who pursue criminal claims
in insider-trading cases, said former SEC lawyers and
prosecutors. While the SEC often brings insider-trading claims
using circumstantial evidence, criminal prosecutors face a
higher burden of proof at trial, which can prolong
investigations as they seek to pin down needed corroborating
witnesses.  “The  Justice Department ’s interest is keeping its cards
close to its chest, said David Gourevitch, a former SEC attorney
now practicing  securities law  and white-collar defense in New
York.  Civil cases allow broad discovery of depositions and
documents that could give defendants a preview of the evidence
for the government’s potential criminal case, Gourevitch said.  Gilman Cooperates  Prosecutors say Martoma received illegal inside information
on the trial of an Alzheimer’s drug being conducted by  Elan (ELN)  and
Wyeth from Sidney Gilman, 80, a doctor involved in the tests.
Gilman has reached a non-prosecution agreement with
the government and will testify against Martoma, prosecutors
said. Gilman earlier this week quit his neurology research
position at the  University of Michigan , Pete Barkey, a spokesman
for the school in  Ann Arbor , said in an e-mail.  ‘‘It appears they’ve got substantial evidence against
Martoma, so he would be looking to cut as good a deal as he can,
and that’s through cooperation,” said William Mateja, a former
federal prosecutor who is now a principal at law firm Fish &
Richardson P.C. in  Dallas . “There’s always been smoke around
Cohen,” he said, referring to the involvement of former SAC
Capital employees in other cases. “But there’s never been the
direct link. Criminal prosecutors need that direct link.”  Cohen was deposed by the SEC earlier this year about trades
in Elan and Wyeth that he and the firm made, Tom Conheeney, SAC
president, told investors on Wednesday’s call. Cohen answered
all the SEC’s questions, he said.  “Mathew Martoma was an exceptional portfolio manager who
succeeded through hard work and the dogged pursuit of
information in the public domain,” his lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said last week in an e-mailed statement, adding that
he expected Martoma to be fully exonerated.  Gupta Case  The current case with Cohen and SAC Capital may end up
mirroring the cooperation that took place between the two
agencies in the case involving  Rajat Gupta , the former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. board member who was convicted this year for
passing confidential information to Galleon Group founder  Raj
Rajaratnam .  The SEC moved first, filing an administration proceeding
against Gupta. Gupta then sued the SEC, claiming that an
administrative proceeding, which doesn’t allow the same amount
of discovery as a lawsuit in U.S. court, would deprive him of
multiple rights, including a  jury trial . The SEC dropped the
administrative case and waited for prosecutors to charge Gupta
before filing its suit in federal court.  Triple Penalties  Donald Longueuil, a former junior portfolio manager at SAC
Capital, was arrested in Feb. 8, 2011, for insider trading and
was sued by the SEC on the same day. While he pleaded guilty a
month later, it wasn’t until September of that year that
Longueuil settled the SEC’s civil suit.  If the U.S. attorney doesn’t make a criminal case against
Cohen, the SEC can continue with a civil action.  In insider-trading cases, the SEC can seek disgorgement of
illegal profits, as well as three times that amount in
penalties. It alleges that SAC Capital reaped $276 million in
profit and losses averted as a result of trading on material,
nonpublic information. The agency can also file administrative
actions to bar offenders from the securities industry.  James Cox , a professor at  Duke University School of Law  in
Durham,  North Carolina , said Congress in 1988 expanded a
provision regarding oversight, called control-person liability,
to insider trading. It exposes managers who fail to maintain a
system to discourage and detect insider trading to action by the
SEC. The provision wouldn’t require the SEC to prove Cohen knew
about the trades, just that the compliance system broke down,
Cox said.  CR Intrinsic  CR Intrinsic employed Martoma from 2006 to 2010, was named
last week as a defendant in a civil complaint by the SEC, along
with Martoma and Gilman.  SAC Capital first was linked to the government’s
investigation of insider trading on  Wall Street  shortly after
the October 2009 arrest of Rajaratnam, when former SAC Capital
employee Richard Choo-Beng Lee was among those charged with
insider trading at another firm. Six former or current SAC
Capital employees have been tied to insider trading while
working at the firm, including three who have pleaded guilty.  Previous insider cases involving former SAC employees
haven’t deterred investors. Cohen’s main fund saw net deposits
last year before he closed it to new money, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Withdrawal Terms  One investor, who asked not to be named because the fund is
private, said he wouldn’t feel compelled to pull out his money
unless there was a criminal indictment against Cohen.  Clients can only pull 25 percent of their investment every
quarter after giving 45 days notice, meaning it would take them
a year to redeem in full. The next deadline for putting in a
redemption notice is mid-February.  If enough people wanted to pull their money, Cohen could
turn SAC into a family office, said Brad Balter, head of Boston-
based Balter Capital Management LLC, which invests client money
in  hedge funds . About $8.4 billion, or 60 percent, of SAC’s
assets belong to Cohen and his employees.  “If the owner gets sued by the SEC, what’s the rationale
to stay?” said Balter, who has never invested in SAC or in any
of its spinoffs. “You know your investors will ask you why you
have that in your portfolio.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-mj-02985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-08466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  