-- Senate Votes to Add Iran Sanctions as White House Objects
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-01T04:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/senate-votes-to-add-iran-sanctions-as-white-house-objects.html
The  U.S. Senate  approved new economic
sanctions on Iran, overriding objections from the White House
that the legislation could undercut existing efforts to rein in
Iran’s nuclear ambitions.  The Senate voted 94-0 yesterday to impose additional U.S.
financial penalties on foreign businesses and banks involved in
Iran’s energy, ports, shipping and shipbuilding sectors, and
impose sanctions on metals trade with Iran.  Senators Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, and  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, the architects of a year-old law
that has curtailed Iran’s oil exports and revenues, said the new
measure would go further toward squeezing Iran’s economy and
increase the pressure on the Islamic Republic to negotiate on
its disputed nuclear program.  White House officials told Senate Democratic leaders in a 
late-night e-mail on Nov. 29 that the administration didn’t 
think more sanctions are needed yet and asked them to hold off 
until next year, according to the e-mail to the lawmakers 
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The new provisions were confusing 
and inconsistent in applying sanctions, according to the e-mail, 
and the ambiguities “would hamper implementation” of sanctions.  “We believe additional authorities now threaten to
undercut” existing sanctions, National Security Council 
spokesman Tommy Vietor said yesterday in a statement. “We also 
have concerns with some of the formulations as currently drafted 
in the text and want to work through them with our congressional 
partners to make the law more effective and consistent with the 
current sanctions law to ensure we don’t undercut our success 
to date.”  Defense Bill  The new package is an amendment to the annual defense
authorization bill that awaits a vote that may come as soon as
Dec 3. The measure would still have to be reconciled with a
House of Representatives’ version, and already faces a potential
veto by Obama over provisions unrelated to Iran sanctions.  While almost all trade with Iran by any U.S. business or
individual has long been banned, the amendment approved
yesterday would impose penalties on other nations’ trade with
the nation, a step closer to a trade embargo on Iran.  The existing sanctions have weakened Iran’s currency,
curtailed its  oil  exports and forced Iran back to nuclear talks.
Still, Iran hasn’t slowed its enrichment efforts, making new
measures essential, Menendez said in an e-mail.  The U.S., European Union and  Israel  say Iran is secretly
pursuing a nuclear weapons capability. Iran says its nuclear
program is strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  ‘Thoughtful Diplomacy’  USA*Engage, a coalition of U.S. business, agriculture and
trade associations, expressed disappointment at the proposed
additional sanctions, calling them “at odds with the U.S.
government’s official position of pursuing a dual track of
multilateral sanctions and diplomatic engagement.”  The Senate-approved amendment would continue to allow
purchases of Iranian crude as long as the buyer nation is able
to show it’s significantly reducing its oil imports from Iran.  Publicly available oil-trading figures indicate that seven 
nations, including  India ,  Turkey  and  South Korea , have continued 
to significantly reduce their Iranian oil imports over the last 
six months, two U.S. officials said yesterday. The nations 
appear to be on track to earn a second round of exceptions from 
sanctions next week, the officials said, speaking on condition 
of anonymity because no final decision has been made by 
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Natural Gas  The new Menendez-Kirk amendment would allow purchases of
Iranian  natural gas  if payments are made in local currency into
an account that Iran could use only for approved trade. That
provision, according to advisers who helped craft the
legislation, is especially important for Turkey, a U.S. ally and
NATO member that is a major buyer of Iranian natural gas.  While the U.S. and EU say the current sanctions forced Iran
back to the negotiating table this year, talks stalled and no
agreement has been reached despite the steady tightening of
economic penalties. Iran’s oil exports were down 1 million
barrels a day last month, or 40 percent, compared with October
2011, U.S. Energy Department figures show.  Oil capped its first monthly increase since August on
signals that economic expansion in the U.S. is accelerating.
Crude oil for January delivery advanced 84 cents to $88.91 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday, the
highest settlement since Nov. 19. Futures increased 0.7 percent
this week and gained 3.1 percent this month. Prices are down 10
percent this year.  ‘Time Burdens’  The new sanctions would include energy, ports, shipping and
shipbuilding as parts of Iran’s economy that support its nuclear
program and weapons proliferation. The legislation also would
make it illegal to do business or provide insurance or
reinsurance to any Iranian business in those areas or to any
Iranian individual sanctioned by the U.S. government.  The White House said in its e-mail to  Senate Democrats  that
reporting requirements about vessels docking at Iranian ports
and landings of Iranian planes would “impose serious time
burdens” on the U.S. intelligence community and sanctions
officers.  The expanded sanctions would require the president to issue
a special exemption from sanctions, in addition to a national
interest waiver, if an oil-importing country is facing
“exceptional circumstances” that make it impossible to reduce
Iranian oil imports further.  The Senate measure is also aimed at blocking trade in
commodities used in  Iran ’s shipbuilding and nuclear sectors,
such as graphite, aluminum, steel, metallurgical coal and 
software for integrating industrial processes.  The measure also seeks to stop Iran from circumventing
sanctions by receiving payment in precious metals such as gold,
or using oil payments in local currencies to buy gold. Obama
issued an executive order several months ago to impose sanctions
on any precious metal sales to Iran’s government.  The Senate defense bill is S 3254.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  