-- Senate Approves Amendment That Would Add More Iran Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-30T16:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/senate-approves-amendment-that-would-add-more-iran-sanctions.html
The  U.S. Senate  approved expanding
the economic sanctions that have reduced  Iran ’s crude oil
exports and earnings in an effort to force it to curb its
suspected nuclear weapons program.  Senators voted 94-0 today to add the new sanctions to the
annual defense authorization bill under consideration on the
floor.  Senators Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, and  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, yesterday introduced the added
U.S. financial penalties on foreign businesses and banks
involved in Iran’s energy, ports, shipping, and shipbuilding
sectors, plus sanctions on metals trade with Iran. The lawmakers
have led the push in Congress for economic pressure on Iran.  “Our sanctions are making a significant impact, but Iran
is working just as hard to develop nuclear weapons,” Menendez
said in a statement. “By passing these additional measures,”
he said, the U.S. will send a message to Iran that it must make
concessions on  uranium enrichment , or face the strangulation of
its economy.  The Senate defense measure for the current fiscal year
still awaits a vote on passage. The measure would still have to
be reconciled with a House version and already faces a potential
veto by President  Barack Obama  over provisions unrelated to Iran
sanctions.  Revenue Sources  The new sanctions would target Iran’s main sources of
revenue and seek to prevent it from evading sanctions by buying
gold with local currency earnings. While almost all trade with
Iran by any U.S. business or individual has long been banned,
yesterday’s proposal would impose penalties on other nations’
trade with Iran, a step closer to imposing a trade embargo on
Iran.  The existing sanctions have weakened Iran’s currency,
curtailed its oil exports, and forced Iran back to nuclear
talks. Still, Iran hasn’t slowed its enrichment efforts, making
new measures essential, Menendez said in an e-mail before his
planned speech.  The U.S., European Union and  Israel  say Iran is secretly
pursuing a nuclear weapons capability. Iran says its nuclear
program is strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  The Senate-backed proposal would continue to allow
purchases of Iranian crude as long as the buyer nation is able
to show it’s significantly reducing its oil imports from Iran.  Natural Gas  The new measure also allows for purchases of Iranian
 natural gas  if payments are made in local currency into an
account that Iran could use only for approved trade. That
provision, according to advisers who’ve helped craft the
legislation, is especially important for  Turkey , a U.S. ally and
NATO member that’s a major buyer of Iranian natural gas.  While the U.S. and EU say the sanctions forced Iran back to
the negotiating table this year, talks stalled and no agreement
has been reached despite the steady tightening of economic
penalties on Iran.  Iran’s oil exports were down 1 million barrels a day last
month, or 40 percent, compared with October 2011, U.S. Energy
Department figures show.  Oil  rose today, heading for its first monthly gain since
August, on signals U.S. economic expansion is accelerating,
while investors weighed developments in government budget
negotiations.  Crude oil for January delivery  climbed 43 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $88.50 a barrel at 10:40 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Futures are up 0.2 percent this week and
are 2.6 percent higher this month. Prices are down 10 percent
this year.  The new sanctions would include energy, ports, shipping and
shipbuilding as sectors of the Iranian economy that support the
country’s nuclear program and weapons proliferation.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  The legislation also would make it illegal to do business
or provide insurance or reinsurance to any Iranian business in
those sectors or to any Iranian individual sanctioned by the
U.S. government.  The provision would add a special exemption from sanctions
on oil transactions for a country that may be facing
“exceptional circumstances” that make it impossible to further
reduce imports of Iranian oil. A hypothetical case, according to
those involved in crafting the measure, might be  Japan , which is
struggling to meet its energy needs in the aftermath of the
March 11, 2011, Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The proposal is also aimed at blocking trade in commodities
used in Iran’s shipbuilding and nuclear sectors, such as
graphite, aluminum, steel, metallurgical coal and software for
integrating industrial processes. The measure also seeks to stop
Iran from circumventing sanctions by receiving payment in
precious metals such as gold, or using oil payments in local
currency to buy gold.  ‘Sanctions-Busting Techniques’  The proposal would sanction Islamic Republic of Iran
Broadcasting for human rights abuses, including airing alleged
show trials and forced confessions, and would sanction anyone
involved in diverting humanitarian goods to the black market.  Mark Dubowitz , who has advised members of Congress and the
administration on pressuring Iran, praised the measure for
addressing “the Iranian game of ‘catch me if you can’” by
making it easier to crack down on front companies “and other
sanctions-busting techniques, like the use of gold or other
precious metals as a medium of exchange.”  The Senate defense bill is S. 3254.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  