-- Sino-American Silicon Advances on Improving Orders: Taipei Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-30T05:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/sino-american-silicon-advances-on-improving-orders-taipei-mover.html
Sino-American Silicon Products Inc. (5483) ,
a Taiwanese maker of solar wafers, rose the most in three weeks
after the company said it plans to hire 350 more workers because
of improving orders for its products.  The stock increased as much as  6.9 percent , the biggest
intra-period gain since Nov. 9, and was 1.3 percent higher at
NT$31.70 as of 1:13 p.m. local time in Taipei trading.  Motech
Industries Inc. (6244) ,  Taiwan ’s biggest solar cell producer, gained
0.8 percent. The benchmark Taiex index gained 0.8 percent.  Visibility for orders is improving and demand for solar
energy is expected to rebound in 2013, Sino-American Silicon
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. One reason for the
improvement may be a European Union anti-dumping probe of
Chinese manufacturers that’s causing orders to be redirected to
Taiwanese competitors, said Lian Rui, a Beijing-based analyst at
research company NPD Solarbuzz.  “Taiwanese makers will face a completely different
situation compared with Chinese rivals if the European Union
impose duties on Chinese solar-energy imports,” Lian said.
“They may start to see more orders next year.”  The EU began an investigation in September into if Chinese
manufacturers of solar panels sell them in the 27-nation bloc
below cost. The inquiry covers 21 billion euros ($27 billion) of
imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic modules or panels,
as well as the cells and wafers used in them.  EU duties would be in addition to ones imposed by the U.S.
Commerce Department in October ranging from 18 percent to 250
percent on solar-energy cells imported from  China , and anti-
subsidy penalties of about 15 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  