-- Smith to Target Electric-Truck Clients From Chicago Plant
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-11-30T20:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/smith-to-target-electric-truck-clients-from-chicago-plant.html
Smith Electric Vehicles Corp.’s
expansion into  Chicago  gives the maker of battery-powered
commercial trucks an urban hub to target new customers, the
company’s chief executive officer said.  The company’s Chicago factory will help it service large,
existing customers and boost sales to smaller ones, Chief
Executive Officer Bryan Hansel said in an interview yesterday.  Smith, based in Kansas City,  Missouri , may use the same
strategy in other large cities as demand for electric vehicles
grows, Hansel said.  “Today, I wouldn’t sell to a small fleet because I don’t
have a practical way to service them,” Hansel said. A local
plant “will absolutely increase the number of customers we have
in that market, because we can effectively sell to small
fleets.” The company announced plans to build a Chicago factory
Nov. 28.  A Smith customer such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which has hundreds
of trucks in Chicago, can maintains its own fleet, while a local
business with 20 trucks can’t, Hansel said.  “If we’re sitting in Kansas City and they’re in Chicago,
and they have a truck go down, they’re going to have to wait for
me to send technicians,” he said. “Previously, there’s
probably a half a dozen customers total I would have done
business with in Chicago.”  Selling commercial-scale, zero-emissions trucks to smaller
companies in dense cities where Smith already has established
national customers may prove a winning strategy, and it’s one
the company has discussed for several years, said Josh Landess,
an analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  ‘Smaller Customers’  “It’s hard to argue with the business model -- if you have
a large customer, that can allow you to have many smaller
customers,” Landess said in a phone interview today. “And they
have earned a certain amount of respect, because they’ve been
making and delivering vehicles a lot longer than most of the
startups.”  Smith was also drawn to Chicago by a $15 million voucher
program aimed at encouraging individuals and companies to switch
to all-electric trucks from diesel, which have higher operating
costs, Hansel said.  Chicago also is considering additional incentives such as
preferential loading zones for no-emissions trucks and
decreasing registration costs for electric vehicles, according
to a  statement  from the office of Chicago’s Mayor Rahm Emanuel.  “There are a number of cash and non-cash incentives,”
Hansel said. “Not only is this important for the city of
Chicago, but it’s also important, as a trend, to show that
markets need to be aggressive to get this kind of technology out
on the street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  