-- South Africa Posts Record Trade Gap as Strikes Curb Output
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-30T13:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/south-africa-posts-record-trade-gap-as-mine-strikes-halt-output.html
South Africa posted a record trade
deficit in October as mining strikes cut output and machinery
and chemical imports surged.  The  shortfall  widened to 21.2 billion rand ($2.4 billion)
from 13.8 billion rand in September, the Pretoria-based South
African Revenue Service said today in an e-mailed statement. The
 median estimate  of seven economists in a Bloomberg survey was
15.5 billion rand.  South Africa’s trade gap of 104.6 billion rand in the first
10 months of this year is more than 10-times bigger than a year
ago as a series of strikes since August shut mines owned by
companies including  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) 
The labor turmoil will reduce this year’s  economic growth  rate
by 0.5 percentage point and lower exports by more than 12.5
billion rand, according to the National Treasury.  “South Africa’s trade performance will remain weak in the
coming months on the back of the unfavorable global and local
environment,” Dennis Dykes, chief economist of Nedbank Group
Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a note to clients. The current
account deficit, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, “will deteriorate to well over 6 percent.”  Mineral exports, which includes iron-ore and coal,
increased 2.9 billion rand, or 22 percent, in the month.
Shipments of precious and semi-precious stones and metals, which
includes gold and platinum, dropped 1.9 billion rand, or 14
percent. Total exports rose 7.8 percent in the month to 61
billion rand, the revenue service said.  Undermine Rand  Imports climbed 17 percent to 82 billion rand, led by a 27
percent surge in machinery and 19 percent increase in chemical
purchases.  The widening trade gap is adding to pressure on the current
account and threatening to undermine the rand. South Africa
posted a  current-account deficit  of 6.4 percent of gross
domestic product in the second quarter, the most in almost four
years.  Africa’s biggest economy relies on foreign investment in
stocks and bonds to finance the shortfall, inflows that have
fluctuated this year as slower economic growth led some
investors to sell riskier, emerging-market assets.  The monthly trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as  oil  and diamonds.  The rand erased its gain after the data was released,
dropping 0.7 percent to 8.8443 per dollar at 3:30 p.m. The
currency has declined 8.5 percent this year, the second-worst
performer of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  