-- South Africa’s Zuma May Learn If ANC Backs Him as Leader
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-30T06:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/south-africa-s-zuma-may-learn-if-anc-backs-him-as-leader.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
may learn today if he has enough support from  African National
Congress  members to remain head of the ruling party and be its
presidential candidate in elections in 2014.  ANC members from all nine provinces are due to nominate
candidates to lead the party for the next five years. While Zuma
is the favorite to retain the party presidency, during his
tenure he’s faced internal party divisions, an unemployment
crisis and a wave of mining strikes that helped to cut growth in
 Africa ’s biggest economy by more than half.  “The ANC under the leadership of Zuma has gone through a
torrid time,” Nic Borain, a Cape Town-based political analyst
who advises BNP Paribas Cadiz Securities, said in a phone
interview. “The combination of the strikes as well as the
intensity of the clashes within the ANC has been very shocking
to the party.”  Several provinces have swung their support behind Deputy
President  Kgalema Motlanthe , who’s made speeches criticizing the
way the country is run. Should he challenge Zuma, he’ll probably
be replaced by former labor leader turned tycoon  Cyril Ramaphosa , who’s already been nominated by the province with the
most votes, KwaZulu-Natal.  Growth Slows  Zuma’s government drew widespread criticism when police
opened fire on striking workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana
platinum mine on Aug. 16, killing 34 people. That was followed
by a wave of industrial action in mining, transportation and
agriculture that has stunted economic growth. Output grew an
annualized  1.2 percent  in the third quarter, the slowest since a
recession in 2009 and down from 3.4 percent in the previous
three months, Statistics  South Africa  said on Nov. 27.  The rand has plunged 7.9 percent this year, the second-
worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
cost to protect South African debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps has jumped 20 basis points
since the beginning of August, indicating deteriorating risk
perception among investors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Zuma has failed to tackle the one-in-four  jobless rate ,
which he had said was his top priority. The government estimates
the economy needs to expand 7 percent a year to meet its goal of
creating 5 million new jobs by 2020.  National Presidency  The leader of the 100-year-old ANC is almost guaranteed the
national presidency because the party controls almost two-thirds
of Parliament, which elects the president.  While the provincial nominations aren’t binding on the
4,500 party delegates who will vote at the Dec. 16-20 party
conference, they’re a strong indicator of who will probably win.
The percentage of delegates who back Zuma and Motlanthe during
the nominations in each province will show who has more support
nationwide.  To enter the contest, a candidate must be nominated by a
province, a party structure, such as the Women’s League, or have
the support of 25 percent of the delegates at the conference.  The provinces “will express a very clear view on whether
they want Zuma there for a second term or not,” Abdul Waheed
Patel, managing director of Ethicore Consulting and Advisory
Solutions, a political advisory service, said in an interview
from  Cape Town .  Unanimous Backing  Zuma received unanimous support this week from his home
province of KwaZulu-Natal, which has 22 percent of the voting
delegates. Yesterday, he won unanimous backing in Free State,
which has 8 percent of the vote, and 96 percent in Mpumalanga,
which makes up 11 percent of delegates voting in December.  Gauteng, the nation’s commercial hub that includes
Johannesburg and  Pretoria , was the first province to back
Motlanthe as leader to replace Zuma. He won unanimous support
from ANC branches in the region, which accounts for 12 percent
of votes at the national conference. Housing Minister  Tokyo
Sexwale  was selected as deputy president, party spokesman Dumisa
Ntuli said in a phone interview.  Earlier this week, the ANC military veteran’s association
and the Women’s League agreed to back Zuma, while the Youth
League nominated Motlanthe. The three structures each have 1
percent of the vote.  Swing State  The Eastern Cape has become the key swing state in the
race, Borain said. Home to former presidents  Nelson Mandela  and
 Thabo Mbeki , it has the second-biggest provincial vote, with 15
percent of delegates.  Opposition to Zuma has been spear-headed by  Julius Malema ,
the former ANC youth wing leader who was expelled in March after
being charged with dividing the party and bringing it into
disrepute. Malema called Zuma a “dictator” after police opened
fire on the miners at Marikana.  Zuma has also faced allegations that he abused public funds
to refurbish his private home.  The government paid 250 million rand ($28 million) for 31
new buildings at his rural residence in KwaZulu-Natal, Lindiwe Mazibuko, the parliamentary leader of the main opposition
 Democratic Alliance , said Nov. 15. The state paid for elevators
for Zuma’s bunker and built a visitors’ center, gymnasium and
guest rooms at his homestead, she said.  Zuma denied the charges the same day, telling lawmakers in
Cape Town that he wasn’t responsible for the security upgrade
because it was requested by the government.  “The president is faced with some very big challenges,”
Borain said. “Zuma is still relatively secure within the ANC
though.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  