-- Sperling Challenges Republicans to Offer Cliff Plan (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-11-30T21:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/sperling-challenges-republicans-to-offer-cliff-plan-transcript-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top
economic adviser, Gene Sperling, challenged Republican
congressional leaders to put an offer on the table in fiscal-
cliff talks and defended Obama’s debt-reduction proposals as
concrete and detailed. Sperling spoke in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Julianna Goldman  on “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JULIANA GOLDMAN: Hello. I’m Julianna Goldman, in for Al
Hunt this week. We begin the show with Gene Sperling, White
House National Economic Council director and a key principal
negotiator on the fiscal cliff.  Gene, thank you so much for the time. So the White House
made its opening offer this week.  Tim Geithner  went up to the
Hill. But what he proposed was largely what’s already been in
the president’s budget. You guys knew this would be dead on
arrival. So how can you take these negotiations seriously with
this kind of offer?  GENE SPERLING : Well, because what Tim was showing --
Secretary Geithner -- was making clear is that the president
does have a strong and balanced plan to have over $4 trillion in
deficit reduction, that it is a plan that includes significant
spending cuts, it does ask for rates to go up for the most well-
off, to raise well over $1 trillion in revenues, and it has
significant entitlement savings.  They should recognize that the president has a very
detailed plan, that it would bring our deficit and debt down as
a percentage of our economy, and is -- and is balanced.  But it’s a negotiation. If they have other ideas, if they
have a different way of doing the composition of those spending
cuts or those savings, it’s for them now to come forward with
their plan, with their details, so that we can start working
quickly to getting an agreement.  GOLDMAN: So when you have Republicans essentially saying
that this was a non-starter, how can you say that we’ve made
progress this week?  SPERLING: Well, remember, the president has put forward a
detailed plan.  GOLDMAN: Well, was there progress this week?  SPERLING: Well, I think there’s progress in the sense that
you’ve got the president’s point person, Secretary Geithner,
going up, saying, here is a detailed plan, it adds up, it would
bring our debt and deficit down. It’s a framework that I think
would have a lot of support from the American people. I think it
would have a lot of support from the business community.  The president’s made clear, he’s willing to listen to other
ideas. He’s never been a “My way or the highway” type of
person. But at this point, rather than simply complaining, they
need to now step up and come forward.  The president, you know, has made clear a few things.
Number one, you have to have a plan in which -- including the
significant spending cuts and entitlement savings -- you’re
going to have rates go up on the most high-income, most
fortunate Americans, to be part of a balanced deal. He’s also
made clear that the era of threatening defaults is over.  GOLDMAN: But doesn’t throwing the debt ceiling into this
just complicate talks?  SPERLING: Not at all. You know, what every business leader
says to us is that what’s so important is to make sure that you
have this type of agreement and you create some of the economic
-- you reduce the economic uncertainty that gives them the
confidence to start moving cash off the sidelines into
investment and job creation.  If you had an agreement in December and those same job-
creators, business leaders, think that every three to six months
we’re going to go through this debacle, this ritual of people
threatening the default of the  United States  as a way to get
their way in a budget agreement, that will not achieve the type
of economic certainty that I think everybody wants.  And so, again, I think there’s lots of ways to debate on
the budget, but Democrats and Republicans should all come
together and say now that the era of threatening the default of
the United States is over. That should not be part of our budget
negotiations going forward.  GOLDMAN: Well, you’re also asking for an extension of the
payroll tax cut,  unemployment benefits . Are those non-
negotiable?  SPERLING: Well, I think what the president believes a
balanced plan is that’s good for economic growth is that, in the
context of an overall $4 trillion plan, you could still have
room to do a little more to help jobs, to help middle-class
families in the immediate term so we give this recovery more
momentum. I think that’s good for jobs. It’s good for growth. I
think it will also in the long run be good for the deficit, to
get this recovery going.  We’ve mentioned things in the president’s American Jobs
Act, things like infrastructure.  GOLDMAN: But this is the first time you’re -- you’re saying
that you want to see the  payroll tax  cut extended.  SPERLING: Well, I think what we want to do is see things
that will strengthen middle-class families and make sure that we
are getting momentum in this recovery. The sweet spot of a
strong fiscal deal is one that gives you confidence that you’re
going to strengthen the recovery in the short term and bring
down long-term deficits in the long term, while still making
room to invest in our competitiveness. And we’ve always had in
our plans, the American Jobs Act, things like extending
 unemployment insurance , infrastructure, the payroll tax.  So the important thing is that that, that those type of
measures need to be part of a strong plan that’s good for growth
in the short term, good for growth in the long term.  GOLDMAN: Now, on the spending side, you’re asking for $400
billion in entitlement cuts, but we all know that . . .  SPERLING: Can I just say . . .  GOLDMAN: Savings, savings. Entitlement savings. But we all
know that $800 billion . . .  SPERLING: Oh, no, no, I’m not, I’m not . . .  GOLDMAN:  . . . in savings was on the table in the summer
of 2011. So why are you starting at the halfway point?  SPERLING: That was, unfortunately, misreported in a lot of
newspapers. Just to be clear, on spending savings, you already
have locked in $1 trillion, actually, $1.1 trillion in
discretionary savings and interest savings from the
negotiations, the Budget Control Act last year, very
significant. You have hundreds of billions of more spending
savings that are coming from ending the war in Iraq and
 Afghanistan .  On top of that, the president’s budget puts forward $600
billion in entitlement savings, about $350 billion in health
entitlement savings, such as in Medicare, and another $250
billion. That together with the revenue you’d raise from raising
rates on the highest-income Americans also reduces significant
spending in interest.  So this is a plan that’s very balanced. It’s strong on
spending cuts. But, listen, we are in divided government. We
know there has to be back-and-forth and compromise. So if they
disagree on the -- what the components of or the form or shape
or even size of our spending cuts, they should come forward with
a specific offer, and then we can have that discussion.  It doesn’t have to be public. It could be private. But it’s
time for them to say, here’s what our counteroffer is.  GOLDMAN: Well, we have less than a minute left, but I want
to ask you on rates, is there any daylight for the White House
in raising the rates between what they are now and the Clinton-
era levels for the top earners?  SPERLING: You know what? The president has said is there’s
no way he’s extending rates at the current Bush level. We’ve
made very clear that rates have to go up, that while limiting
deductions for high-income Americans can be part of an overall
revenue solution, it’s actually part of the president’s current
plan, you can’t get there just by limiting deductions. If you do
that, you will inevitably force the need to raise taxes on
middle-class Americans simply to not raise rates on the most
fortunate. That’s not something the American public supports.
That’s something President Obama has clearly been against. That
was a key issue in this election.  So the president’s been pretty -- been quite strong. Again,
the president -- you know, if they have specific ideas they want
to put forward, they should do so. The president’s always been
clear. He’s willing to review specific ideas they put forward,
but he’s been very clear, rates have to go up, and he’s also
been quite clear in saying that the rates that existed under
President Clinton, we know from past, the past, are consistent
with an era of strong job growth, strong small-business growth,
and strong productivity.  GOLDMAN: All right. Gene Sperling, thank you very much.
Hopefully we’ll be able to talk to you more between now and
whenever we do get that deal.  SPERLING: We’d be happy to. Thank you.  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 