-- Sperling Challenges Republicans to Offer Own Fiscal Cliff Plans
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-12-01T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/sperling-challenges-republicans-to-offer-own-fiscal-cliff-plan.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top economic
adviser challenged Republican congressional leaders to put an
offer on the table in fiscal-cliff talks and defended Obama’s
debt-reduction proposals as concrete and detailed.  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National
Economic Council, laid out markers for the negotiations in an
interview on Bloomberg Television, saying the president would
insist on tax-rate increases for the wealthy, a long-term
extension in the legal  debt  limit, and maintenance of some
stimulus measures to support the economy.  Sperling, 53, one of the administration’s principal
negotiators, signaled flexibility on how high tax rates would go
and the composition of continued stimulus.  “It’s for them now to come forward with their plan, with
their details, so that we can start working quickly to getting
an agreement,” Sperling said on “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” which airs this weekend.  Obama and congressional Republicans are deadlocked as the
year-end deadline approaches for the so-called fiscal cliff --
more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases that
will be triggered unless Congress acts.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  shuttled among
congressional leaders Nov. 29 with a plan to trade $400 billion
in cuts to entitlement programs for $1.6 trillion in  tax
increases , primarily targeting families with more than $250,000
in annual income.  Prolonged Talks  Obama warned of “prolonged negotiations” in an appearance
yesterday at a toy factory in Hatfield,  Pennsylvania . Republican
House Speaker  John Boehner  declared the talks at a
“stalemate,” saying the president hasn’t made a serious
proposal for compromise.  Sperling said Obama has offered “very specific savings
that have been detailed in our budget.” Obama’s budget proposal
calls for “$600 billion in entitlement savings,” which
includes “about $350 billion in health entitlement savings,
such as in Medicare,” he said.  The president “has made clear” that “you’re going to
have rates go up on the most high-income, most fortunate
Americans,” and that “the era of threatening defaults is
over,” Sperling said.  Business leaders won’t have the confidence to invest money
if they “think that every three to six months we’re going to go
through this debacle, this ritual of people threatening the
default of the  United States  as a way to get their way in a
budget agreement,” Sperling said.  2011 Dispute  After partisan disputes dragged out negotiations over
raising the debt limit last year,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
U.S.’s credit rating to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5, 2011. The rating
firm said the deadlock showed the government was becoming “less
stable, less effective and less predictable.”  Sperling said the administration has advanced proposals to
maintain economic stimulus into next year through infrastructure
spending, an extension of expiring payroll tax cuts and
continuation of extended  unemployment  benefits.  “Those type of measures need to be part of” a deal, he
said.  Asked if Obama would agree to a deal that didn’t return the
income-tax rate for top earners to the full 39.6 percent rate in
effect before President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts, Sperling
suggested the flexibility on the issue by saying “there’s no
way he’s extending rates at the current Bush level” of 35
percent.  Boehner’s Position  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said letting tax rates
increase for top earners would boost taxes on some small
businesses.  “Raising taxes on small businesses instead of taking a
balanced approach that also cuts spending is wrong,” he said.
“It’s only going to make it harder for our economy to grow.”  Erskine Bowles, a co-chairman of Obama’s 2010 deficit-
reduction commission, said this week that based on a meeting
with the president on Nov. 27, he believed there’s some
“flexibility” in Obama’s position on tax rates for the
wealthiest Americans.  Bowles, who isn’t part of the current negotiations,
expressed skepticism that Obama and the Republicans would reach
a deal by year’s end to avert the fiscal cliff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 