-- State Street Pares Provincials as Deficits Rise: Canada Credit
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-11-30T14:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/state-street-pares-provincials-as-deficits-rise-canada-credit.html
State Street Global Advisors , which
manages about C$2 trillion ($2.01 trillion) in assets, is
reducing its holdings of provincial bonds as Canadian local
governments wrestle with record deficits.  Provincial debt has gained 3.1 percent since December and
is on pace for its worst annual return since investors realized
losses on the securities in 1999, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Provincial bonds, which returned 11.6
percent last year, trailed both corporate and federal government
securities in November.  Ontario and Quebec are seeking to cut deficits as reduced
growth forecasts and rising costs jeopardize revenue assumptions
amid political turmoil in the nation’s two most populous
provinces. The Montreal-based unit of State Street Corp., the
third-largest custody bank, is concerned slower-than-expected
growth in  Europe  and the U.S. will make it more difficult to
return to balanced budgets while the nation also faces a
possible housing-market correction.  “There’s a lot of headwinds coming up in terms of
growth,” Claudio Ferri,  State Street (STT) ’s vice president and
senior portfolio manager of fixed income, said in a telephone
interview Nov 28. “We’ve been underweight provincial bonds for
about a month or so.”  Unresolved Leadership  Ontario,  Canada ’s most populous province, plans to
eliminate its C$14.4 billion deficit by the year beginning April
2017. Those plans may be tentative after the province’s premier,
Dalton McGuinty, resigned Oct. 15, leaving his party’s
leadership unresolved.  “That’s way out there,” said Ferri, who’s in charge of
his firm’s provincial strategy. He declined to give specific
weightings. “God knows what can happen between now and then.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the federal housing agency
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp. said yesterday its mortgage
insurance balance rose 1.6 percent this year through Sept. 30 to
C$576 billion.  Cominar Real Estate Investment Trust (CUF-U)  sold C$200 million of
4.23 percent notes maturing Dec. 4, 2019. Hydro-Quebec sold
C$500 million of 5 percent notes maturing Feb. 15, 2050. The
notes yield 119.5 basis points more than federal benchmarks.
 Paramount Resources Ltd. (POU)  issued C$300 million of sub-investment
grade bonds due in December 2019 yielding 7.625 percent.  The province of British Columbia issued C$500 million of
3.2 percent notes maturing June 18, 2044 yielding 94.5 basis
points more than federal benchmarks.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government was steady yesterday from a day earlier at 139 basis
points, or 1.39 percentage points, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. The yields were little changed at
2.9 percent.  In the provincial  bond market , relative yields were
unchanged at 80 basis points yesterday. Yields rose to 2.51
percent, from 2.5 percent on Nov. 28, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing yields on benchmark
 10-year debt  down one basis point to 1.69 percent at 9:38 a.m.
in Toronto. The price of the 2.75 percent security maturing in
June 2022 increased 11 cents to C$109.24 in Toronto.  Canadian corporate bonds have returned 6.4 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 2.62 percent by government bonds,
Merrill Lynch data show.  Provincial bonds have risen 0.35 percent in November,
compared with gains of 0.68 percent by corporate debt and 0.54
percent by government bonds.  Housing Market  Canada’s economy is losing some of the steam from a record
housing binge since 2008 as consumers respond to steps by policy
makers to tighten mortgage lending. In July, Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  toughened rules on government-insured
mortgages for the fourth time in four years, while the Office of
the Superintendent of Financial Institutions, the country’s
banking regulator also introduced stricter standards.  Existing-home sales were 0.1 percent lower in October than
the previous month, according to a report from the  Canadian Real
Estate Association .  In Ontario, home to the nation’s auto factories,
manufacturing is in decline, eroding  tax revenue , as a stronger
Canadian dollar has made it less competitive globally. The
loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, has appreciated almost 60 percent
against its U.S. counterpart in the past decade.  ‘Still Struggling’  “It takes provincials a bit longer to get their budgets in
order than federal governments following a recession,” said
James Price, director of fixed income in Toronto at Macquarie
Private Wealth, which oversees about C$15 billion in assets.
“We’re in that stage where provincial governments are still
struggling to put together balanced budgets, and it’s weighing
in the credit markets.” Price holds fewer provincial bonds in
his fixed-income portfolios than benchmarks recommend.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ontario’s debt rating
to Aa2 from Aa1 in April and remains skeptical it can achieve
its budget targets.  “We will have to wait and see whether there are any changes
to the province’s fiscal plan,” Jennifer Wong, lead analyst at
Moody’s for Ontario, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“We did note when we downgraded the province’s ratings earlier
this year that there were risks to the province achieving its
medium-term fiscal plan given the subdued growth outlook,
extended timeframe back to balance and ambitious expenditure
targets. We’ll be keeping an eye on things.”  Quebec Budget  In  Quebec , Finance Minister Nicolas Marceau has projected
the budget will be returned to balance next year. The budget is
the first introduced by the Parti Quebecois government of
Premier Pauline Marois since it won a provincial election in
September. Because Marois failed to win a majority of seats in
the legislature, her government needs opposition support to pass
laws.  “The Quebec budget has always been an issue,” State
Street’s Ferri said. “Another issue with Quebec is the
election. With the separatist party taking power now, a lot of
people believe that they may not get many things done, that the
economy may flounder from here on in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  