-- STMicroelectronics Plans to Unveil New Strategic Plan
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-30T13:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/stmicroelectronics-plans-to-unveil-new-strategic-plan.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest semiconductor maker, will unveil a new strategic plan on
Dec. 10 after weighing options for a revamp to adjust the
company to weakening demand.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  so far has said the
new plan will present Geneva-based STMicroelectronics’ strategy
for the coming years as well as the structure of the company.
The group said today it will present a plan on Dec. 10 before
the stock market opens. A company representative declined to
provide more details.  Under Bozotti, in his seventh year as CEO, STMicro has
pushed to put chips in cars, health and fitness machines to make
up for the decline of business from phone-maker Nokia Oyj, one
of its biggest customers. The company has also said it plans to
cut costs by $150 million a year by the end of 2013, in a move
that may affect as many as 500 jobs.  The stock today rose as much as 1.2 percent in Paris
intraday trading after STMicroelectronics said it would unveil
the plan next month and was up 1 percent at 4.85 euros as of
1:44 p.m.  Breakup Proposal  Earlier this month, people familiar with the situation said
that STMicroelectronics will probably decide against splitting
itself into two units after disagreements between French and
Italian executives over a breakup proposal.  A proposed split between analog and digital businesses
hadn’t won the full support of STMicroelectronics’ board, and
will probably be shelved in favor of smaller asset sales, the
people said this month, asking not to be identified discussing
private deliberations. French executives including Chairman
 Didier Lombard  and Chief Operating Officer Didier Lamouche had
failed to convince Bozotti to support the plan, they said.  STMicroelectronics reiterated this month that it has no
plans to divide the company.  On Oct. 12, STMicroelectronics’ shares rose as much as 19
percent, the biggest intraday gain since it started trading in
1994, after  Bloomberg News  reported the company was evaluating a
breakup.  The semiconductor manufacturer has been dragged down by its
digital business, which manufactures chips for handsets and set-
top boxes, as key customers like Nokia and BlackBerry maker
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  see their own sales decline.  More broadly, European semiconductor makers have struggled
to cope with the industry’s sharp price and demand swings. They
are losing market share to Asian and U.S. competitors who have
switched to so-called fabless models, dispensing with factories
in favor of outsourcing to foundries such as those of  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  That allows semiconductor makers
to adjust their designs and production more quickly without the
overhead of running their own plants.  Analysts predict that sales of STMicroelectronics will fall
5 percent this year to $6.57 billion, based on  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  