-- Stock Inflows Beat Bonds First Time in 10 Weeks, Citigroup Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-11-30T03:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/stock-inflows-beat-bonds-first-time-in-10-weeks-citigroup-says.html
Equity funds drew more money than
bonds for the first time in 10 weeks as economic data improved
and amid optimism that U.S. lawmakers will reach a budget
compromise, according to Citigroup Inc.  Stock funds attracted $14.9 billion in the week ended Nov.
28, the second-largest weekly inflows this year, more than the
$5.1 billion lured by bond funds,  Markus Rosgen  and Yue Hin Pong
wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.
U.S. funds lured $10.7 billion, reversing an outflow trend,
while Asia drew $1 billion inflows, the second-largest this
year, the analysts said.  “Most of the economic data have positively surprised, and
more people are starting to believe the U.S. fiscal cliff may
turn out to be ok,” Pong wrote in an e-mail response to a
query. Still, “it would take more time for equities to gain
full speed against bonds” given lingering issues in  Europe  and
weak global trade, the analyst said.  A Chinese purchasing managers’ index released on Nov. 21
signaled the first expansion in the nation’s manufacturing
industry in 13 months, while figures this week showed  consumer
confidence  in the U.S. rose in November to the highest level in
more than four years.  The world economy is in its best shape in 18 months as the
U.S. looks likely to avoid the tax increases and spending cuts
known as the fiscal cliff, according to the latest Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors, which was conducted on Nov. 27. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  offered Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  a proposal to avert the fiscal cliff, a
Republican aide said.  Cyclical Markets  In markets such as  Taiwan  and  South Korea  that are most
tied to the global economy, exchange-traded funds saw inflows of
$250 million and $177 million respectively, according to
Citigroup’s report.  Strategists at three of the world’s biggest banks are
advising investors to buy  Asian equities  most tied to economic
growth after valuations fell and the global economy showed signs
of recovery.  Technology, industrial and materials  stocks  will climb next
year as China’s expansion accelerates and fiscal-cliff concerns
fade, Niall MacLeod, a strategist at UBS AG, wrote in a Nov. 28
report. Valuations for cyclical shares are about 40 percent
lower than defensive equities, including household-products
makers, according to a Nov. 26 note by Morgan Stanley’s  Jonathan Garner . An improving earnings outlook will help lure investors,
Citigroup’s Rosgen wrote on Nov. 26.  -- Editors: Darren Boey, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  