-- Stocks Trail Oil on Putin-Backed Pension Plan: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-11-30T00:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/stocks-trail-oil-on-putin-backed-pension-plan-russia-overnight.html
Russian stocks are defying oil’s
advance, heading for a second monthly slide as concern over
pension fund investment in the market overshadows gains in the
nation’s biggest source of export revenue.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  has slumped 2.6 percent in
November and the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-
traded Russian stocks in the U.S. lost 2.1 percent, with both
gauges extending declines in October. Futures on Moscow’s
dollar-denominated RTS Index were little changed yesterday at
141,980, while contracts expiring in December on the ruble were
also steady at 30.936 per dollar.  Russian equities have been falling even as oil, which along
with natural gas contributed about 50 percent of budget revenue
last year, gained 2.1 percent in the month. The Russia-
US index’s 80-day correlation coefficient with New York crude
was at 50.3 on Nov.28, the least since March 30, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. President  Vladimir Putin  backed an overhaul
of Russia’s pension system this month that his own  Finance
Ministry  says will deplete a source of investment capital.  “Although the potential is huge, the market underperforms
as investors want to see more reforms,” Timur Nasardinov,
managing director and head of the equity division at Sberbank
CIB, a unit of Russia’s biggest lender, said by phone yesterday.
“The market is waiting for more proactive reforms, including
infrastructure and pension reforms.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 0.4 percent to $27.52 in New
York. The Bloomberg Russia-US Index gained 0.8 percent to 91.74
yesterday, rising for the first time in four days. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in futures,
slipped 1 percent to 23.38 points.  Pension Revamp  Putin backed a planned pension overhaul on Nov. 14 that was
opposed by the Finance Ministry, Economy Ministry and asset
managers, who warn it would curb economic growth.  Russian asset-management companies appealed to Putin in a
letter on Nov. 2 to block the legislation after Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s Cabinet proposed diverting taxes from future
 retirement plans  to meet current pension payments.  The amount of long-term investment from pension funds,
insurers and mutual funds in Russia is equivalent to 8 percent
of gross domestic product, below the global average of 120
percent of economic output, Siluanov said on Nov. 28 in Moscow.  Oil rose for the first time in four days in New York
yesterday as the U.S. economy expanded more than previously
estimated last quarter and on optimism that President Barack Obama will reach an agreement with Congress over a new budget.  ‘Periods of Weakness’  Crude for January delivery climbed 1.8 percent to $88.07 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Brent for
January settlement rose 1.1 percent to $110.76 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange yesterday. Urals crude,
Russia’s main export oil blend, increased 0.8 percent to
$109.18.  The benchmark Micex Index traded for 5.28 times estimated
company earnings on Nov. 28, the lowest since August. That
compares with a multiple of 15.7 for the main index in  India (SENSEX) ,
16.6 for Brazil and  China (SHCOMP) ’s 9.3.  American depositary receipts of  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , the
nation’s fourth-biggest crude producer, jumped 2.9 percent to
$6.38, the highest level since Oct. 24. The company’s preferred
shares advanced 2.6 percent to 20.08 rubles, or 65 U.S. cents,
in Moscow yesterday. One ADR equals 10 preferred shares.  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , Russia’s biggest lender, headed for a 2.3
percent drop in November, the first monthly slump since May. The
ADRs were unchanged at $11.38 in New York yesterday. The stock
rose 0.1 percent to 87.88 rubles in Moscow, or $2.84, poised for
a 4.3 percent retreat in November. One ADR is equal to four
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  