-- Strauss-Kahn Discussed Settling Suit, His Lawyers Say
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-01T00:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/strauss-kahn-lawyers-deny-reports-he-settled-suit-with-maid.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  has discussed resolving a lawsuit
brought by a hotel maid who accused him of attempted rape and
may have a deal in a few days, his lawyers said.  One of the lawyers, William Taylor III, hopes to sign an
agreement to end the lawsuit in a few days, his spokeswoman
Marina Ein said today in an e-mail. The two sides have
“discussed a resolution but there has been no settlement,”
Taylor and Amit Mehta, attorneys with Zuckerman Spaeder LLP in
 Washington , said earlier today in a statement. Reports that
Strauss-Kahn may pay $6 million to resolve the suit are “flatly
false,” they said.  The two sides have been meeting with  New York  State Supreme
Court Justice Douglas McKeon in the Bronx in an effort to
resolve the case, and the parties are expected to be in court
next week, David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the New York State
Unified Court System, said in a telephone interview.  The New York Times reported yesterday that Strauss-Kahn has
agreed to settle, citing unidentified people with knowledge of
the matter.  ‘Truly Astounding’  Strauss-Kahn may pay a $6 million settlement, borrowing $3
million from his wife,  Anne Sinclair , and the rest from a bank,
to the French daily Le Monde reported today, citing unidentified
people close to the former IMF chief. Strauss-Kahn and Sinclair,
the editor of the French version of the  Huffington Post ,
separated this year.  A $6 million settlement would be “truly astounding,” said
 Paul Callan  of Callan Koster Brady & Brennan LLP in New York, a
former prosecutor in the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office who
represented Nicole Brown Simpson’s estate in a civil case
against former pro football star  O.J. Simpson .  A civil jury found Simpson liable for the deaths of Nicole
Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman after another jury acquitted
him of murder in the criminal case.  “I’m highly skeptical that a number of that magnitude was
negotiated,” Callan said in a telephone interview. “It’s
possible, but if that’s the number it’s an extraordinarily good
result” for the plaintiff.  Negotiations  It’s possible that a settlement amount reported in the
press could hamper negotiations, said Stuart Slotnick, a
criminal defense lawyer with Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC in
New York.  “If, for example, it’s true that Strauss-Kahn was to pay a
significant amount of money but wanted to keep that confidential
and somehow a large number was leaked into the public domain, he
may react emotionally and say ‘I thought this was going to be
confidential and forget it, I’m not interested in paying a large
sum’ because confidentiality was breached by someone,” Slotnick
said in a telephone interview.  Douglas Wigdor, an attorney in New York representing the
plaintiff, Nafissatou Diallo, and a partner of Thompson,
declined to comment on both the New York Times story and the Le
Monde report in an e-mail. Thompson didn’t respond to e-mail and
telephone messages seeking comment on the report.  Strauss-Kahn “vigorously denies the fantastical and
erroneous information in Le Monde,” his French lawyers
Frederique Baulieu, Richard Malka and Henri Leclerc said today
in an e-mail. They didn’t elaborate on what information was
incorrect and declined to comment on the U.S. case.  Midtown Hotel  Strauss-Kahn, 63, was pulled off an Air  France  flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  on May 14, 2011, arrested
and charged with trying to rape Diallo at the Sofitel in midtown
 Manhattan .  Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn in the Bronx in August 2011, weeks
before Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. dropped
criminal charges against the former IMF chief after concluding
Diallo had lied about events surrounding the alleged attack.  The settlement agreement was facilitated by McKeon along
with a separate agreement to end another lawsuit filed by Diallo
against the New York Post over stories that said she was a
prostitute, the  Associated Press  reported, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the case who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.  The Post has no comment on the AP story,  Suzanne Halpin  of
Rubenstein Communications, a spokeswoman for the News Corp.-
owned newspaper, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Classic Case’  The lawsuit is a “classic case” for a negotiated
settlement, as Strauss-Kahn was facing the prospect of having to
return to the U.S. and testifying under oath, Callan said.  “Statistically 90 percent of civil cases are settled
ultimately,” Callan said. “This case there was an even higher
probability of settlement because of the high-profile nature of
the case and specifically because of Strauss-Kahn’s high profile
in France. Even if there was no merit to the case whatsoever the
potential embarrassment for Strauss-Kahn would have been so
great that there would be pressure on him to settle.”  Strauss-Kahn may have decided not to fight the suit because
of fear that he wouldn’t win in the Bronx, where juries are
known for being friendly to plaintiffs in civil cases, Slotnick
said.  “Obviously he fought the criminal case hard because he
didn’t want to go to jail,” Slotnick said. “This case, if it
wasn’t settled, was destined for a trial and Strauss-Kahn may
have felt that he would not be believed by a Bronx jury.”  Diplomatic Immunity  McKeon in May denied a motion by Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers to
dismiss the lawsuit on the grounds that he enjoyed diplomatic
immunity. Strauss-Kahn subsequently filed a counterclaim against
the maid seeking more than $1 million in damages.  Before his arrest, polls showed Strauss-Kahn as the
Socialist Party politician best placed to defeat then-president
 Nicolas Sarkozy . Eventual Socialist nominee  Francois Hollande 
defeated Sarkozy in May this year.  Strauss-Kahn became managing director of the IMF in
November 2007 after Segolene Royal beat him to become the
Socialist Party’s presidential candidate. He was French finance
minister from 1997 to 1999. Strauss-Kahn, who holds a doctoral
degree in economics from the  University of Paris , worked as a
corporate lawyer from 1993 to 1997.  Prosecutors in Lille in northern France last month dropped
an inquiry into allegations that Strauss-Kahn and other men
raped a prostitute in Washington in December 2010 after the
woman wrote to them to say she wouldn’t file a criminal
complaint.  Investigation  The inquiry was an offshoot of the so-called Carlton
affair, an investigation into claims about a prostitution ring
linked to a hotel by the same name in Lille. Strauss-Kahn was
charged with procurement in that case and has appealed -- along
with others accused in the matter -- to end the investigation.  An appeals court in Douai is scheduled to announce on Dec.
19 whether the probe should be dropped, curtailed or continued.  The timing of a settlement would be “perfect for this type
of a case,” Callan said.  “The parties fight it out over motions to dismiss and then
they face the reality of testifying under oath and depositions
and it’s at that point that settlements are negotiated,” Callan
said. “Strauss-Kahn was facing coming back to the  United
States , testifying under oath and recreating in the public eye
all of the embarrassment surrounding the case. He avoids all of
that by a settlement.”  The civil case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New
York State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  