-- Strauss-Kahn to Pay Maid $6 Million to End Suit: Le Monde
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-30T14:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/strauss-kahn-to-pay-maid-6-million-to-settle-suit-monde-says.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  may pay the
maid who accused him of attempted rape $6 million to resolve her
civil lawsuit,  Le Monde  said today, citing unnamed people close
to the former head of the  International Monetary Fund .  Strauss-Kahn “vigorously denies the fantastical and
erroneous information in Le Monde,” his French lawyers
Frederique Baulieu, Richard Malka and Henri Leclerc said today
in an e-mailed statement. They didn’t elaborate on what was
mistaken, and declined to comment on the U.S. case.  Strauss-Kahn will need to borrow $3 million from his wife,
 Anne Sinclair , and the rest from a bank, according to the French
daily. Strauss-Kahn and Sinclair, editor of the French version
of the  Huffington Post , separated earlier this year.  Strauss-Kahn, 63, was pulled off an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  on May 14, 2011, arrested
and charged with trying to rape Nafissatou Diallo at the Sofitel
in midtown  Manhattan . Diallo filed a civil lawsuit against
Strauss-Kahn in the Bronx in August 2011, weeks before Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. dropped the criminal charges
against the former IMF chief, after concluding Diallo had lied
about events surrounding the alleged attack.  The settlement was largely concluded in late summer, during
multiple trips by Strauss-Kahn to  New York , according to Le
Monde.  Lawyers for Diallo in New York and Paris didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking comment on the reports of the
settlement. Marina Ein, a spokeswoman for his U.S. attorneys in
the case, William Taylor III and Amit Mehta, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  The New York Times reported the settlement earlier, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. The parties
are scheduled to appear before New York State Supreme Court
Justice Douglas E. McKeon in the Bronx, who is overseeing the
case, on Dec. 7 to finalize the accord, the Times said.  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  