-- Stuyvesant Tenants Reach $68.8 Million Settlement
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/stuyvesant-tenants-reach-68-8-million-settlement.html
Tenants of Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village in New York who sued alleging they were
overcharged for rent reached a $68.8 million settlement with
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and CWCapital Asset Management, lawyers said.  The settlement received preliminary approval yesterday from
Richard Lowe, chief justice of the New York State Appellate
Term,  First Department , according to a statement yesterday by
Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP and Bernstein Liebhard
LLP, the law firms for the tenants. A hearing on final approval
of the settlement is set for April 9.  Tenants sued MetLife and Tishman Speyer Properties LP in
2007, claiming the companies improperly forced at least one-
fourth of the complex’s residents to pay market rents while the
owners received more than $25 million in tax breaks. CWCapital
gained control of the property after Tishman defaulted on its
senior mortgage in 2010.  The settlement clears the way for the eventual sale of
 Manhattan ’s largest apartment complex, which has been held up by
uncertainty over how high legal rents can be set at the rent-
stabilized property, according to commentary by the property’s
loan servicer compiled by Bloomberg. The value of commercial
property is determined by the rental income an owner can receive
from it.  In January 2010, Tishman Speyer and BlackRock missed a
$16.1 million debt payment on the mortgage and said they would
cede control of the complex to lenders after its value fell and
they were prevented from raising rents.  “When the settlement is approved, it will give us much
more certainty with respect to rents and the  cash flow  on the
property,” said  Greg Cross , a lawyer for CWCapital.  Ultimate Disposition  “CWCapital’s position has been that it needed to resolve
this issue before it considered what the ultimate disposition of
the property may be,” Cross said.  CWCapital, the so-called special servicer for the $3
billion senior loan on the property, represents investors of
that mortgage debt. The firm has controlled the 11,000-unit
complex since the mortgage went into default in 2010. As special
servicer, it is advancing interest payments on the loan to
investors as it manages the property, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg  “We took over property operations in October 2010, nearly
four years after the suit was originally filed,” Andrew
MacArthur, managing director of CWCapital, said in a statement.
“Since then we have worked hard to try to balance the interests
of residents and bondholders.”  Combined with other refunds, the total recovery in the suit
is at least $146.9 million, the law firms claimed. They said
that total could “significantly increase,” depending on future
rental market conditions and tenant turnover rates.  The appeal is Roberts v. Tishman Speyer,  New York  State
Supreme Court, Appellate Division (Manhattan). The lower court
case is Roberts v. Tishman Speyer, 100956/2007, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  