-- Summers Opposed as Fed Chairman by Almost 50% in Survey
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-11-30T17:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/summers-opposed-as-fed-chairman-by-almost-50-in-survey.html
Almost half of global investors say
President  Barack Obama  shouldn’t select former Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers  as the next chairman of Federal
Reserve Board, according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll of
investors.  Only 17 percent of the 862 surveyed say it would be a good
idea to appoint Summers, 57, to replace current Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , 58, whose term expires in January 2014. Thirty-four
percent didn’t have an opinion and 49 percent said it was a bad
idea.  The Nov. 27 poll of Bloomberg customers who are investors,
traders or analysts was conducted by Selzer & Co., a Des Moines,
Iowa-based company. It has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.3 percentage points.  “Although Lawrence Summers is an exceptionally talented
man, the Fed chair is in need of a man with less connections and
entanglements to the establishment,” Fredrik Fyring, a
derivatives trader at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken in
Stockholm, said in an e-mail. The recent choice of  Mark Carney 
to head the  Bank of England  shows that an “outsider to the
current establishment can be a good choice,” he said.  Bernanke said at a Sept. 13 press conference that he
doesn’t “have any decision or any information to give” on his
personal plans after his term runs out, and former colleagues
say he’s unlikely to stay on.  Passed Over  When Obama reappointed Bernanke in the summer of 2009 to a
second four-year term, he passed over Summers, who was then
serving as director of the National Economic Council, according
to two people familiar with the matter. Earlier this year, Obama
considered Summers as a candidate to become president of the
 World Bank , a position that ultimately went to Jim Yong Kim,
then the president of Dartmouth College, said the people
familiar with the president’s deliberations.  The Bloomberg poll showed that investors have mixed views
on whether Obama should elevate  Janet Yellen , the Fed’s vice-
chairman, to head the central bank. Thirty percent of
respondents say Yellen would be a good choice as chairman, 32
percent say it would be a bad idea and 38 percent say they’ve no
opinion.  Yellen, 66, has joined three other Fed officials in support
of a policy to tie zero  interest rates  with progress on fighting
 unemployment  as a way to provide more clarity on the central
bank’s outlook for monetary policy.  Return to Harvard  After leaving government in late 2010, Summers returned to
 Harvard University , where he was president from 2001 to 2006, to
teach at the John F. Kennedy School of Government.  Summers didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Last month, when asked if he would like to become chairman
of the Fed, he demurred.  “I have served my time, been privileged to be in two
administrations,” he said Oct. 26 on CNBC. “Right now, my
focus is on trying to think through some of the longer-term
challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  