-- U.K. Stocks Close Little Changed Near Three-Week High
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-30T17:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-data.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed,
after the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index rallied to a three-week high yesterday,
as American lawmakers continued to negotiate a deal on the
federal budget.  Intertek (ITRK)  Group Plc paced rising shares after Berenberg Bank
recommended investors buy the company.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  led
homebuilders higher as UBS AG upgraded the shares.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell after as the lender said it won’t
proceed with the sale of its Indian retail and commercial unit.  The FTSE 100 dropped 3.48, less than 0.1 percent, to
5,866.82 in London, trimming its rally in November to 1.5
percent. The gauge increased for a sixth month -- its longest
stretch of gains since 2006 -- boosted by speculation that
Congress will agree on a new budget to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff. The broader FTSE All-Share Index was also little
changed today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.3 percent.  “We’re entering a period where markets traditionally see
trading volumes start to thin out,” wrote Oliver Wallin, an
investment director at Octopus Investments in a note to clients.
“Thoughts in December often turn wistfully to a seasonal Santa
rally. Any chance of that this year will rest with the policy
makers on  Capitol Hill .”  Christmas Deadline  U.K. stocks rallied yesterday to the highest since the re-
election of  Barack Obama  on Nov. 6, as the president expressed
optimism that Democrats and Republicans can strike a deal before
Christmas, thus preventing $607 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts from coming into effect next year.  Speaker of the House  John Boehner  told reporters after the
close of European trading yesterday that there’s been “no
substantive progress” in budget talks.  Congressional
Republicans  also complained that a budget plan outlined
yesterday by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  was little more
than a rehash of old proposals.  The FTSE 100 earlier today climbed as much 0.6 percent
after a report showed an unexpected rise in U.K.  consumer
confidence  this month.  A  sentiment index  rose to minus 22, the strongest reading
since May 2011, from minus 30 in October, according to London-
based GfK NOP Ltd. Economists had forecast that the index would
remain unchanged, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Intertek, Capita  Intertek climbed 1 percent to 3,090 pence after Berenberg
raised its recommendation for the world’s largest consumer-goods
testing company to buy from hold and lifted its price estimate
for the stock by 23 percent to 3,340 pence.  Taylor Wimpey and  Bellway Plc (BWY)  led house-builders higher,
rallying 3 percent to 61 pence and 1 percent to 997.5 pence,
respectively. UBS upgraded the companies to buy from neutral,
saying this year’s improvement in returns will continue for at
least the next three years.  The bank also reiterated its buy recommendations on Barratt
Developments Plc, Berkeley Group Holdings Plc and Persimmon Plc
in a note to clients dated today.  HSBC Holdings Plc recommended the U.K. homebuilders
yesterday, upgrading the industry to overweight, the equivalent
of a buy rating.  Royal Bank of Scotland  fell 1.3 percent to 295.2 pence
after Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender said the sale of
its Indian consumer and commercial-banking operations to HSBC
Holdings Plc collapsed. RBS will wind down the unit, the 81
percent taxpayer-owned bank said in a statement today. RBS
announced the sale to London-based HSBC for an undisclosed sum
in July 2010.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  dropped 2.3 percent to 1,287 pence, the
biggest decline on the FTSE 100. The shares had rallied 6.5
percent over the previous three days as London-based newspapers
speculated that the luxury-goods maker may be a takeover target.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  dropped 5 percent to 258.10 pence. The platinum
producer has tumbled 13 percent this week as fund managers that
track benchmark indexes sold the platinum producer before it
exits the MSCI Europe Index after the close of trading today.  Lonmin is the second most shorted stock on the FTSE All-
Share Index -- only behind CSR Plc -- with 18.5 percent of
shares outstanding as of Nov. 28, according to Markit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  