-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Rises to Highest in 18 Months, GfK Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/u-k-consumer-confidence-rises-to-highest-in-18-months-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly increased to an 18-month high in November as
Britons become more optimistic about the economy and their
finances, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  A sentiment index rose to minus 22, the strongest reading
since May 2011, from minus 30 in October, the London-based
research group said in an e-mailed report today. Economists had
forecast that the index would remain unchanged, according to the
median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The surprise jump in sentiment contrasts with the Bank of
England’s downbeat assessment of the economy earlier this month
and Governor Mervyn King’s acknowledgment that its previous
forecasts were too optimistic. GfK said its gauges of consumers’
expectations for the economy and personal finances both
increased this month.  The increase “could be because consumers now think things
can’t get any worse or it may be for more positive reasons, but
either way it is good news,” said Nick Moon, managing director
of social research at GfK. “The direction things head in the
New Year will be crucial in determining whether this is a short-
term spike or the start of a long-term improvement in people’s
spending habits.”  A measure of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the next
12 months jumped 14 points to minus 15, while the outlook for
their personal finances rose 6 points to minus 7. The climate
for making major purchases increased 7 points to minus 26. GfK
interviewed 2,001 people between Nov. 2 and Nov. 11.  Britain exited recession in the  third quarter  with the
strongest growth in five years as the Olympics gave a boost to
stores, hotels and restaurants. The  Bank of England  says the
economy may shrink again in the current quarter as temporary
factors create a “zig zag” effect on gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  