-- U.S. Fiscal Cliff Is Still a ‘Real Risk,’ UBS CIO Friedman Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-11-30T12:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/u-s-fiscal-cliff-is-still-a-real-risk-ubs-cio-friedman-says.html
UBS AG Chief Investment Officer
 Alexander Friedman  recommends investors refrain from adding risk
to their portfolios before the U.S. reaches agreement to avert
more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to begin on Jan. 1.  “We should not delude ourselves: this is a real risk,”
Friedman said in his monthly letter to UBS client advisers
yesterday. “If you and I had dinner and then I offered to give
you a ride home and said there might be a 10-20 percent chance I
would crash the car, would you come with me? I doubt it.”  Three out of four global investors expect President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders to reach a short-term agreement
to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll conducted on Nov. 27. Only 6 percent of investors
anticipate a political impasse that would send the  U.S. economy 
into a recession, according to the poll, which surveyed 862
Bloomberg customers who are investors, traders or analysts.  “The main argument for not going over the cliff is
political self-preservation,” Friedman wrote. “A recession
would be a disaster for the U.S. economic recovery and
politicians in both parties appear to understand this.”  If the situation is resolved, markets would probably rally
on the news, he wrote, adding that UBS would be likely to raise
its recommendation on equities to overweight from neutral. This
could be implemented by closing the bank’s existing underweight
positions in Australia and  Canada , while keeping the current
overweight positions in the U.S. and emerging market equities,
Friedman wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
UBSN VX <Equity> 