-- U.S. ‘Disturbed’ by China's Trial of Dissdent's Nephew
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-30T23:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/u-s-disturbed-by-china-s-trial-of-dissdent-s-nephew.html
The U.S. is “deeply disturbed” by
reports that Chinese courts have sentenced the nephew of blind
dissident Chen Guangcheng to more than three years in prison and
is urging a review of the case, State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland said.  China  sentenced Chen Kegui to 39 months in prison yesterday
after being convicted of assault for injuring government
officials who had stormed into his home in April to search for
his uncle, who had fled house arrest and sought sanctuary at the
U.S. Embassy in Beijing.  The nephew’s trial “lacked basic due process guarantees”
and failed to meet either Chinese or international standards,
Nuland told reporters in Washington yesterday. She said that the
33-year-old Chen Kegui wasn’t represented by legal counsel of
his own choosing and that Chinese officials warned lawyers who
volunteered to represent him that their licenses would be
suspended if they did so.  “This was a deeply flawed legal process that convicted him
and sentenced him to three years in prison,” Nuland said. “We
regret China’s failure to honor its international commitments
and we call on them to review this case.”  International human rights groups also expressed strong
criticism of the Chinese actions. Amnesty International
yesterday  called  the sentencing “obvious retaliation for his
uncle’s escape from house arrest last spring.”  Rights Tests  “Prosecuting Chen Guangcheng’s nephew was a test of
China’s respect for the rule of law, and both the nephew, Chen
Kegui, and the rule of law lost,” Sophie Richardson, China
director at Human Rights Watch said on the group’s  website .
“This case bore the same disturbing hallmarks as Chen
Guangcheng’s persecution – incommunicado detention, denial of
lawyers of his choice, and a politicized and closed trial.”  The case “suggests that the new leadership in Beijing
can’t or won’t follow through on commitments to investigate
local officials implicated in wrongdoing and egregious human
rights abuses,” said Richardson.  The elder Chen clashed with authorities in his native
Shandong Province over his campaign against the official family
planning policy of forced abortion. The dissident, blind since
birth, has expressed concern that his nephew would be made to
pay the price for his escape from house arrest and the
embarrassment he brought the Chinese government.  Visiting lawmakers on Capitol Hill on Aug. 1, Chen said his
nephew’s case “is essentially a continuance of my own case.”  Self Defense  Chen, who now studies law at  New York  University, and other
family members have said the younger Chen was acting in self-
defense.  “After I had escaped house arrest, local government
officials and their hired thugs broke into his home,” the
dissident said in Washington in August. “In order to protect
himself and to avoid being beaten to death by those thugs,” the
younger man “was compelled to defend himself using a kitchen
knife.”  The trial dredges up one of the most difficult moments in
Sino-U.S. diplomacy in years, as Chen’s escape to the embassy
came shortly before a May visit to Beijing by Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton to discuss strategic and economic issues.  Clinton, speaking Nov. 29 in  Washington , recalled that “an
already delicate trip had become an outsized test of the U.S.-
China relationship.” In the end, Clinton said, “the
relationship we’ve worked so hard to build with China proved
more durable and dynamic than many feared” and they weathered
the storm Chen’s escape created.  Chen, along with U.S. officials and lawmakers, has
presented the fallout from Chen’s flight to the embassy as a
litmus test for the Chinese legal system.  Speaking at the Aug. 1 press conference while flanked by
leading House Republicans and Democrats, Chen said that, “if a
case as high profile as mine cannot be properly handled in
accordance with Chinese law and with international legal norms,
how are we able to believe that China will respect human rights
and their rule of law?”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  