-- U.S. House Votes to Increase Number of High-Tech Work Visas
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-11-30T16:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/u-s-house-votes-to-increase-number-of-high-tech-work-visas.html
House Republicans , under pressure to
improve their standing among Hispanic voters, passed legislation
that would make it easier for foreigners with advanced degrees
to obtain green cards.  The chamber today voted 245-139 to increase the number of
permanent-residence visas for those graduating from U.S.
universities with doctoral or master’s degrees in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics.  Republicans said the measure, backed by many prominent
technology companies, would help the economy by capturing a
bigger share of the world’s most economically productive
citizens.  “We can only gain by asking as many people who are smart
and who create opportunities far beyond just their own to be
part of our society,” said Representative  Darrell Issa , a
 California  Republican. “The benefit to our economy is
undeniable.”  It was opposed by most Democrats, with many complaining
that the measure would simultaneously eliminate a similar number
of visas for people from countries that send relatively few
immigrants to the U.S.  “You can’t pretend to be pro-immigrant and then eliminate
immigration for one group to allow immigration for another,”
said Representative Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat. “If
you support this bill, you’re saying that one group of
immigrants is better than another.”  Senate Prospects  The bill now heads to the Democratic-controlled Senate,
where it is doomed. The Obama administration opposes the plan,
though it said in a statement of administration policy that it
was pleased to see immigration on lawmakers’ agenda.  “The administration is encouraged that the Congress
appears to be ready to begin serious debate on the need to fix
our broken immigration system and looks forward to working with
both Democrats and Republicans,” the Office of Management and
Budget said in the Nov. 28 statement.  The vote, coming just weeks after the 2012 elections, will
give Republicans a chance to say they are acting on warnings
from party strategists they must improve their standing among
the quickly growing Hispanic population. Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  took just 27 percent of the Hispanic vote,
compared with President  Barack Obama ’s 71 percent.  The legislation is supported by Apple Inc., Microsoft
Corp.,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , among other
companies, according to Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of
California, the chamber’s No. 3 Republican.  Doctorate Holders  At issue is how many, and what sort of, immigrants the U.S.
ought to be admitting. The legislation passed today would
reserve 55,000 visas for those with doctorates in the designated
fields, though graduates with master’s degrees could benefit if
not all of those green cards are taken. The bill would also make
it easier for recipients’ spouses and under-age children to join
them by allowing them to wait in the U.S. after spending one
year on the green card wait list.  The bill wouldn’t result in an increase in total
immigration because it would eliminate a similar number of visas
offered through a program designed to encourage diversity among
immigrants.  That program -- which sets aside green cards for countries
with low rates of immigration to the U.S., such as  Ethiopia ,
 Nigeria , Uzbekistan, Albania,  Ghana  and  Morocco  -- was created
in 1990 as a counterweight to immigration policies biased toward
applications of people who either already have family in the
U.S. or fill certain employment needs.  Fraud Possible  Critics say that program is more vulnerable to fraud
because it’s more difficult to conduct background checks in many
of those countries. Supporters say without the program,
immigration to the U.S. would be dominated by people from a few
countries, such as Mexico, China, India and the U.K.  Lawmakers shouldn’t have to choose between the programs,
said Representative  Jared Polis , a Colorado Democrat.  “In many cases, this is the only way that people from
Nepal or Albania or Ethiopia have a shot at coming to this
country,” he said. “There’s added value in having people from
all corners of the world.”  “We also need people in this country across all different
skill levels in our labor market,” said Polis, regardless of
whether that includes “toiling in the field or toiling in
downtown buildings at night or programming computers or
designing aircraft.”  The bill is H.R. 6429.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ; 