-- Stocks Erase Drop Before Index Changes; Commodities Rise
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2012-11-30T22:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/u-s-stock-futures-decline-with-oil-on-u-s-budget-negotiations.html
U.S. stocks  erased losses  in the
final 15 minutes as investors bought shares before changes to
MSCI Inc. indexes and weighed developments in budget
negotiations. Commodities rose. Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed up less than 0.1
percent at 1,416.18 at 4 p.m. in  New York , erasing an earlier
0.3 percent drop and capping a second straight  weekly gain .
Yields on 10-year U.S. notes were little changed at 1.62 percent
after losing seven basis points during the week amid concern
about the U.S. budget talks. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials added 0.1 percent as industrial metals led gains.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks added 0.1
percent. Some $321.9 billion was invested in exchange-traded
funds linked to MSCI indexes at the end of October, according to
MSCI, and about $3 trillion of funds are benchmarked against its
indexes globally. Earlier losses in U.S. equities were triggered
by skepticism that lawmakers will agree on a budget to avoid the
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  “Rebalances can sometimes create price dislocation and
excessive volatility,”  Mike Shea , a managing partner at New
York-based brokerage firm Direct Access Partners LLC, wrote in
an e-mail. “There’s a fair amount of potential for price
dislocation there.”  MSCI Changes  Changes to MSCI’s  global indexes  were implemented at the
close of trading today, causing the  S&P 500  to jump as much as
0.2 percent to its highest intraday level of 1,418.86 within the
final two minutes of trading before paring most of its gain by
the close. The eight U.S. companies that were added included
homebuilder Lennar Corp. and Under Armour Inc., a sportswear
maker. For-profit education company Apollo Group Inc. and coal
miner Walter Energy Inc. were among the seven stocks removed.  MSCI made the changes after a semi-annual review.
Amendments to indexes can alter share prices as passively
managed funds buy and sell stocks to mirror the benchmark
indexes.  “A lot of the volatility near today’s close is due to the
MSCI rebalance,”  Ryan Larson , the Chicago-based head of U.S.
equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc., said
by e-mail. His firm oversees $250 billion. “Outside of that,
we’ve been trading solely on political rhetoric in  Washington .”  Equities also recovered after Norway’s sovereign wealth
fund said it plans to invest in U.S. real estate. The $660
billion sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest, plans to
invest about $11 billion as it enters the U.S. property market,
according to the chief executive officer of Norges Bank
Investment Management, which oversees the pool.  Norway Investment  The fund, mandated by the country’s finance ministry to
eventually put 5 percent of assets in property, wants one-third
of that, or 1.7 percent, to be in the U.S., said  Yngve
Slyngstad , CEO of Oslo-based NBIM. The pool held 0.3 percent in
real estate, 60.3 percent in stocks and 39.4 percent in bonds as
of the end of September, according to its quarterly report.  Stocks, commodities, bonds and the euro rose this month on
signs of growth in the U.S. and  Asia  and speculation political
leaders in America and  Europe  will take steps to keep their
economies from deteriorating.  Market Movers  The S&P 500 closed at the  highest level  since the election
on Nov. 6 and capped a 0.3 percent gain for November.  U.S.
equity funds tracked by EPFR Global attracted more than $10
billion in net inflows during the fourth week of November, their
best showing in more than a year, according to the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm.  Utility, telephone and consumer-staples companies led gains
among the index’s  10 main industry groups  today, while
industrial and technology stocks retreated. Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., Home Depot Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. added at least 0.8
percent for the biggest gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average. (INDU)   VeriSign Inc. plunged 13 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
after a contract extension letting the company register Web
sites ending in .com limited price increases. Yum! Brands Inc.
lost 9.9 percent after saying quarterly same-store sales in
 China  will decline. MetroPCS Communications Inc. rallied 5 as
Guggenheim Securities LLC said the wireless carrier may get a
bid from Sprint Nextel Corp.  D.C. ’Stalemate’  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  stood
their ground with opposing plans to avert the fiscal cliff and
warned there was no quick path to a solution.  “In Washington, nothing’s easy so there’s going to be some
prolonged negotiations,” Obama said today from the floor of a
toy factory in Hatfield,  Pennsylvania .  “There’s a stalemate, let’s not kid ourselves,” Boehner
said less than 30 minutes later during a news conference at the
Capitol in Washington.  Stocks also fell earlier as government data this morning
showed spending by U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined and
incomes stagnated in October as superstorm Sandy kept those in
the Northeast from getting to work or from shopping. Purchases
decreased 0.2 percent, the weakest reading since May, after a
0.8 percent gain in the prior month, Commerce Department figures
showed. Personal incomes were unchanged.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.2 percent today,
erasing earlier gains in the final hour of trading. The regional
benchmark index climbed 0.9 percent this week, extending the
November advance to 1.5 percent.  The euro appreciated 0.5 percent versus the yen, extending
this month’s advance to almost 4 percent. It also capped a
fourth-straight monthly gain versus the dollar.  German lawmakers approved today  Greece ’s latest rescue
package designed to ease terms for aid and help resolve the
three-year-old debt crisis.  Asian Currencies  The  Dollar Index , a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, was little changed today and up 0.4 percent for November,
snapping a three-month retreat.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding  Japan , rose for a
sixth month, touching the strongest level since September 2011.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index, a benchmark for corporate
credit risk, capped a six month of declines, dropping more than
30 percent during the period. The index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 investment grade companies rose less than one
basis point today to 123, and is down from 177 basis points at
the end of May.  Oil rose 1 percent to $88.94 a barrel and rallied more than
3 percent this month, after falling 11 percent in September and
October. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities increased 0.1
percent and capped its first monthly advance since August.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.3 percent,
extending this month’s advance to 1.2 percent.  India ’s Sensex
index added 0.9 percent to a 19-month high as the country’s
quarterly gross domestic product growth matched estimates.
Russia’s Micex Index gained 1.3 percent and the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  increased 0.9 percent. Benchmark gauges in
Taiwan and Thailand added more than 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  