-- Unilever Chief Executive Polman Says More Food Disposals to Come
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-11-30T13:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/unilever-chief-executive-polman-says-more-food-disposals-to-come.html
Unilever, (UNA)  the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods company, will sell more parts of its food
business as it focuses on faster-growing personal care products
and  emerging markets , Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said.  “You’ve seen us do divestitures, but there is still a
little bit more to be done,” Polman said at an investor
conference in Paris today.  Unilever, based in London and Rotterdam, has sold its North
American frozen meals businesses and is seeking a buyer for
Skippy peanut butter. About 60 percent of the company’s food
sales come from developed markets such as  Europe  and the U.S.
and have been hurt by declining  consumer confidence . More than
half of Unilever’s total  revenue  comes from emerging regions.  The company’s food unit includes Hellmann’s mayonnaise,
Knorr soups and Country Crock margarine, and comprises about 30
percent of total sales. In 2011, food was Unilever’s only
segment to post a decline in sales by volume, and through nine
months this year shipments declined 1.2 percent. Unilever’s ice
cream and tea brands are reported in a separate unit.  Polman said the company has “worked hard” to shift more
food sales to developing markets such as  Indonesia , where items
like Blue Band margarine and Bango soy sauce make up 27 percent
of sales. Still, “too much is dragging us down,” he said.  The CEO also said Unilever has “failed” to get the heart-
healthy selling points of its margarines across to consumers.
Sales of Unilever spreads, which include Flora and I Can’t
Believe It’s Not Butter, have also been hurt by private-label
goods and lower butter prices, he said.  Sales Growth  Revenue growth in the home and personal-care units should
“come down a little bit” in 2013, Polman said. In the first
nine months of this year, both units increased so-called
underlying sales by about 10 percent. Underlying revenue
excludes the impact of acquisitions and currency fluctuations.  Earlier at the conference, Unilever said full-year sales
would exceed 50 billion euros ($65 billion), in line with
analyst estimates. Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said
the company would seek to expand profit margins in the year
ahead by introducing a wider range of more-expensive products
such as Dove VisibleCare body washes. He didn’t give a forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  