-- Turkey Gold Exports Help Trade Deficit Narrow for 12th Month
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-11-30T12:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/turkey-gold-exports-help-trade-deficit-narrow-for-12th-month-1-.html
Turkey ’s  trade deficit  narrowed for
a 12th month in October, as a slowing economy sapped demand for
imports and Iranian demand for Turkish gold continued to push
exports up.  The gap shrank to $5.5 billion from $8 billion a year
earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its  website 
today. It was expected at $7.5 billion, according to the median
estimate of  eight economists   surveyed  by Bloomberg. Imports fell
5.6 percent to $18.8 billion and exports rose 12 percent to
$13.3 billion, helped by higher sales of precious metals.  “Re-balancing in economic activity continues” Inanc Sozer, an economist at Odea Bank AS, said in e-mailed comments
from Istanbul. “After today’s figures both the current account
deficit to GDP ratio and the inflation rate may ease to below 7
percent by 2012 year.”  Turkey’s trade gap narrowed from a record high as central
bank Governor Erdem Basci tightened policy to curb a spending
boom that helped make the country the third fastest-growing
major economy last year after  China  and  Argentina . In recent
months he has reversed course, lowering borrowing costs to shore
up growth, which slowed to 2.9 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since the 2009 recession.  Bond Yields Fall  Two-year benchmark Turkish bonds extended gains today after
the trade figures were published. Yields fell 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to a record low of 5.96 percent at 1:40
p.m. in Istanbul. The yield has declined 112 basis points this
month, the most among major  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  Imports shrank in October partly because businesses shut
down for an Islamic religious holiday late in the month, and the
narrowing of the deficit will end soon, according to Finansbank
AS in Istanbul.  When that happens, “we expect external balance to gain
more prominence in the monetary policy focus,” the bank said.
The result will probably be a policy stance “characterized by
low short-term  interest rates  and tight macro-prudential
measures to lean against the appreciation pressures on the
currency and excessive loan growth rates.”  Concern that Turkey would struggle to finance its current-
account gap, which reached 10 percent of economic output, helped
weaken the lira 18 percent against the dollar last year, the
most among global currencies.  Rate Expectations  The lira has pared losses this year, adding about 5.4
percent. It was little changed today at 1.7855 per dollar.  The currency probably didn’t move because improvement in
the external deficit was offset by expectations the central bank
will cut rates in response to signs of weakness in the economy,
Yarkin Cebeci, an economist at JP Morgan Chase Bank in Istanbul,
said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey has diversified its exports away from crisis-hit
 Europe  toward the  Middle East . Gold exports to  Iran  and the
 United Arab Emirates , which has close commercial links with the
Islamic Republic, have surged this year.  Turkey exported $14.3 billion in precious metals in the
first 10 months, more than five times the year-earlier figure,
with 90 percent going to Iran and the U.A.E. Imports of such
goods were $7.7 billion in the same period.  Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said on Nov. 22 that
Iran, which is under international financial sanctions to curb
its nuclear program, was buying Turkish gold with liras it
obtained for gas sold to Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  