-- Turkey Bond Yields Drop to Record Low as Trade Deficit Narrows
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-11-30T12:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/turkey-bond-yields-drop-to-record-low-as-trade-deficit-narrows.html
Turkey ’s  bond yields  dropped to a
record as its trade deficit contracted for a 12th month on
weaker domestic demand, supporting bets the central bank will
cut interest rates next month.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt slid 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 5.95 percent at 12:08 p.m. in
Istanbul, the lowest since at least 2005. The lira gained less
than 0.1 percent to 1.7861 per dollar, strengthening for a
second day.  Turkey’s  trade gap  shrank to $5.5 billion in October from
$8 billion a year earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said
on its website today. The reduction will help extend a narrowing
trend in the nation’s  current-account deficit , which reached a
record high at $77.1 billion last year, or about 10 percent of
gross domestic product, before contracting for an 11th month in
September. The  inflation  rate fell to 7.8 percent last month
from 10.5 percent at the end of 2011.  “Today’s data supports the central bank’s accommodative
monetary policy and, in this sense, a rate cut,” Ibrahim Aksoy,
an economist at Seker Securities in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The trade shortfall was expected at $7.5 billion, according
to the median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Imports dropped 5.6 percent to $18.8 billion and
exports increased 12 percent to $13.3 billion.  A rate reduction “would favor economic activity and
prevent real appreciation of the lira in a lower-than-expected
current-account deficit environment,” Aksoy said.  Turkey’s monetary policy committee is due for a meeting on
Dec. 18.  Lira Advances  Fitch Ratings raised Turkey to investment grade on Nov. 5
and central bank Governor Erdem Basci said on Nov. 12 he won’t
tolerate any unwarranted currency gain jeopardizing the
country’s external balances.  The lira’s advance today extends its gain this month to 0.4
percent. The benchmark yield has slumped 113 basis points this
month in the biggest retreat among the  emerging markets  tracked
by Bloomberg.  The improvement in risk appetite for Turkish assets may
increase “appreciation pressure” on lira, according to a
 central bank  report on financial stability published yesterday
on its website. One-year  interest-rate swaps , which indicate
investor expectations on borrowing costs, were steady at 6.30
percent today, the lowest level since at least 2004.  “Given today’s merchandise trade figures, October’s
current-account deficit is also likely to show a sharp
narrowing,” Melis Metiner, an economist at HSBC Bank AS in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  