-- Networks Ask Appeals Court to Shut Down Aereo TV Service
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-30T19:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/tv-networks-ask-appeals-court-to-shut-down-aereo-service.html
Television networks including  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC asked an appeals court
to shut down  Aereo Inc.,  the online TV service backed by  Barry Diller , claiming it violates their copyrights.  The broadcasters, which also include  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Television and  CBS Corp. (CBS) , made oral arguments today in federal
appeals court in  Manhattan , seeking to overturn a lower-court
judge’s refusal to put New York-based Aereo out of business.
They said the judge erred in relying on an appeals court ruling
in a case involving a  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  video recorder.  The networks sued in March, claiming Aereo infringed their
copyrights by capturing over-the-air signals and retransmitting
them without a license to subscriber smartphones and computers.
Aereo’s service would devalue programming and cut ratings,
jeopardizing revenue from advertisers and pay-TV providers, they
argued.  “Cablevision was a storage service, not a retransmission
service,” Bruce Keller, a lawyer for the networks, told the
three-judge appeals panel today. “Aereo is a retransmission
service by its own design. Without a license, it violates
copyrights. It sells our broadcasts, our performances, to its
customers.”  Video Recorder  Aereo said in court papers that its service gives
individual subscribers access to broadcast programming and lets
them record it using remotely located individual antennas and
digital video recorders. That constitutes a private performance
under the law, according to Aereo.  “Consumers have the right to make private performances,”
David Hosp, a lawyer for Aereo, told the appeals panel.
“Supplying the technology to accomplish this does not violate
the public-performance right.”  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan in July
denied the networks’ motion for an injunction, ruling that
Aereo’s retransmissions weren’t public performances requiring a
license under copyright law.  Nathan cited the case involving Cablevision, the Bethpage,
New York-based pay-TV provider that was sued by the networks for
offering subscribers a remote-DVR service.  The same appeals court considering the Aereo case found for
Cablevision, saying the cable company wasn’t providing public
performances of copyrighted works.  Cablevision’s Relevance  The judges today repeatedly questioned Aereo’s lawyer about
the Cablevision ruling’s relevance to the current dispute.  “Are you asking us to go one step further than the
Cablevision case?” U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  asked. He said
that Cablevision, unlike Aereo, had licenses from the networks
to retransmit their shows.  Aereo has argued that providing a copy of a program through
an individual antenna that transmits to one subscriber and no
others constitutes a private performance. Using one antenna to
gather a signal before redistributing it to many subscribers
would constitute a public performance requiring a license.  The judges asked whether Aereo’s individual dime-sized
remote antenna wasn’t a way of circumventing copyright laws.  “It’s like constructing your business to avoid taxes,”
John Gleeson, a district court judge who was sitting on the
appeals panel today, said of Aereo’s approach. “The reason you
have all these little antennas is simple: to avoid copyright
violations.”  Private Performance  Hosp said each individual antenna transmits a different
fixed copy of a program to a listener. He compared Aereo’s case
to one in which the appeals court ruled that when someone
downloads a copy of a song it’s not a public performance,
whereas when a service streams a song to a listener it is.  Aereo subscribers in  New York  can get TV broadcasts for $12
a month, according to court papers. The service began in March.
After the injunction was denied, the company said it planned to
expand to other cities.  Before the service began, Aereo received support from
Diller’s digital media company  IAC/InterActive Corp. (IACI) , which led
a $20.5 million round of financing. Diller, who is on Aereo’s
board, once ran News Corp.’s Fox Broadcasting. Chet Kanojia is
the founder and chief executive officer of Aereo.  The plaintiffs also include the Public Broadcasting Service
and WNET, a New York-based nonprofit licensee of TV stations.  The appeals are American Broadcasting Cos. v Aereo, 12-
2807, and WNET v. Aereo, 12-2786,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court cases are American
Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-1540, and WNET v. Aereo, 12-1543,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  