-- Vale Investment Cut Seen Bigger on Price Slump: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-30T19:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/vale-investment-cut-seen-bigger-on-price-slump-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the worst performer of the
world’s three top mining companies this year, is poised to
undertake the largest spending cuts since 2009 as iron-ore
markets signal prices are set to drop for almost three years.  The biggest iron-ore producer will probably announce next
week a $15.3 billion business plan for 2013, according to nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A similar survey in
September put the program at $16.8 billion. The reduction from
$21.4 billion in spending budgeted for 2012 would be the first
since 2009, when Vale announced a 36 percent mid-year reduction
in capital expenditure to about $9 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is selling assets,
looking for partners and writing off unprofitable projects after
Vale  shares  slumped to the lowest in almost three years in
September on slowing demand from  China . The Rio de Janeiro-based
company’s leaner budget will probably help bolster investor
confidence that his plan will improve profit margins,
Renaissance Capital’s Rene Kleyweg said.  “The CEO is starting to make the right decisions in terms
of cost cuts and capital discipline,” Kleyweg, an equity
analyst at Renaissance, said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg on Nov. 27. “Vale is a better company than it was
two years ago.”  Vale lost 11.8 percent for investors in dollar terms
including dividends this year through yesterday, compared with a
4.8 percent return for Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
biggest mining company, and 0.2 percent for London-based Rio
Tinto Group. The shares  gained  0.3 percent to 36.70 reais in  Sao
Paulo  after  falling  3.2 percent this year before today, more
than the 1.1 slide for Rio and the 0.6 percent drop for BHP.  Vale trades at 6.5 times earnings estimates for the next
year, compared with 13.6 at BHP and 8.6 at Rio.  New Management  December iron-ore swaps  declined 1.5 percent to $111.96 a
dry metric on Nov. 28, according to data from SGX AsiaClear, the
largest clearer of the swaps. October 2015 contracts traded at
$99 a ton, the data show.  Ferreira, who succeeded  Roger Agnelli  in May 2011 amid
government criticism that Vale wasn’t investing enough, this
year cut output of premium pellet products, suspended projects
and sold assets for about $1.2 billion as demand wanes in China
and  Europe , the company’s two biggest markets. China’s economic
growth probably will slow to 7.7 percent this year from 9.3
percent last year, according to the average of 56 economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The asset sales included a
thermal-coal project in  Colombia .  The company, which is analyzing bids for its oil and gas
assets, hired Banco BTG Pactual SA and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch to sell a stake in its logistics unit for about $1
billion, two people with direct knowledge of the plan said
earlier this month.  ‘Many Possibilities’  Ferreira is also seeking to sell stakes in fertilizer and
non-iron ore units including its $5.9 billion potash project in
 Argentina . Partners for core projects are also being considered,
Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said on an Oct. 25
conference call.  “The decision has been made but we are still exploring the
market to see what’s the possibility to realize value,” Siani
said about the possible stake sales. “We have many
possibilities but we will manage those very carefully.”  A  Vale  press official in Rio said the company won’t comment
before its investment program is released.  The company’s share price still doesn’t reflect the efforts
to cut costs and spending, JPMorgan Chase & Co equity analyst
Rodolfo De Angele said.  “We believe the shares are not pricing in the
implementation of changes and a more cautious approach towards
growth marked by higher discipline and lower capex,” De Angele
wrote in a Nov. 26 note to clients. “Looking ahead, we expect
iron-ore prices to stabilize and capital allocation to continue
to improve.”  ‘Key Risk’  Vale’s net income excluding some items will slump to $10.7
billion this year and $10.6 billion in 2013 from $22.9 billion
in 2011,  according  to the average of six estimates compiled by
Bloomberg in the past 28 days. That would be the lowest since
the $5.35 billion  reported  in 2009.  While Vale has taken steps to reduce  capital expenditures ,
it would still need to spend about $40 billion to finish its
expansion projects between 2013 and 2017, implying investments
of at least $13 billion a year, Alexander Hacking, a  New York- 
based equity analyst at Citigroup Inc., said.  “Many investors are hoping Vale could reduce capex to $12
billion to balance its budget, but this appears unlikely looking
at the current stage of key projects,” he wrote in a research
note on Nov. 13. “The trend towards lower iron-ore prices in
future years is a key risk.”  Cost Discipline  Iron-ore delivered to China’s Tianjin port, a benchmark for
 Asia , sank to a  three-year low  of $86.70 per metric ton on Sept.
5. after plummeting 55 percent from a record $191.9 in February
2011. The price has since rebounded 33 percent through today.  Vale’s executives probably will emphasize the cost
discipline efforts as they meet with investors in  New York  and
 London  next week to present the spending plan, Renaissance’s
Kleyweg said.  “We are getting some positive momentum in terms of
operational issues and management recognizing the mistakes of
the past,” he said. “This is a stock that is fundamentally
attractive now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  