-- Vast Pools of Money Still Ignore Sustainable Investing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a l d i n g e r ,   R o b e r t   G .   E c c l e s   a n d   G e o r g e   S e r a f e i m
-- 2012-11-30T16:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/vast-pools-of-money-still-ignore-sustainable-investing.html
The short-term financial orientation of the investment
community is one of the greatest barriers we face to creating a sustainable
society. The corporate community has made significant progress since
2000 in planning for the long term. Focus on environmental and social issues
and corporate governance should give investors confidence and contribute to “external”
benefits -- a stable society -- in the long run.  A common complaint among CEOs is that their shareholders,
particularly the largest institutional investors, are indifferent to the banner
issues of sustainability -- resource scarcity, human capital development and
risk management, to name three. These issues rarely come up in quarterly
analyst calls, and investors continue to focus on short-term financial
performance. Without the support of their investors, who have the opportunity
to earn substantial returns by thinking long-term, companies can only do so
much. In a  previous
article  we noted the tremendous concentration of economic power in the
world’s largest 1000 companies. In 2010 their aggregate revenues were $32 trillion.
Their aggregate market cap of $28 trillion made up 49 percent of global market
cap. Within this elite group a high level of concentration exists. Just 83
companies account for one-third of the group’s revenues; the top 172 accounts
account for one half. Resource allocation decisions by the Global 1000,
especially the largest ones, can have tremendous positive and negative impact
on how millions of people live today, and how many more will live in the future. Wealth concentration is even
greater on the investor side, which unfortunately lags behind corporations in
building long-term considerations into core strategy. The world’s largest 500
asset managers hold around $42 trillion in assets. The top 10 percent have 37
percent of this total, and the top 50 control 75 percent. According to the
United Nations  Report on Progress 2011 , one-quarter
of asset owners who are signatories to the  Principles
of Responsible Investment  actively monitor how much attention their investment
managers pay to environmental, social and corporate governance issues
(abbreviated to ESG by professionals). Perhaps this is not surprising. Asset
owners operate under the fiduciary obligation to deliver maximum returns to
their beneficiaries. However, they tend to do so based on the  false assumption  that weighing ESG
performance will hurt the overall performance of portfolios.  Other significant institutional barriers prevent asset
managers from rigorously integrating ESG analysis into their decisions. Mandates
from asset owners typically run only three years. Annual performance-based
compensation is benchmarked by a set of peers and enforces short-term thinking.
The failure of asset owners to include ESG scoring in their investment selection
procedures and mandates virtually guarantees that there won’t be any. Short-term
pressures on the asset owners themselves come from government regulators. The
lack of rigorous measurement and reporting standards on ESG performance is a
difficult challenge but is now being addressed by the new  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (Eccles is the chairman
of SASB and Serafeim is on its Standards Council). Corporate pension funds are not subject to most of these
barriers to long-term investment -- unless they create them for themselves. The
sad fact is that they do. Corporate pension funds are no better than others in
sustainable investment.  This leaves companies that are embedding sustainability into
their organization and supply chain in a curious situation. Even as they are working
hard to formulate and execute a long-term strategy, companies’ own pension funds
are often putting pressure on other companies to deliver short-term results. It’s
worthy noting that sustainability success stories in the corporate sector are
achieved despite these headwinds.  Corporate pension funds are a significant asset class, representing
around $7.3 trillion in defined benefit and defined contribution plans. If
corporations were to give pension managers explicit instructions to evaluate
ESG performance with traditional scoring, they would doubtless screen out
companies whose short-term performance is coming at the risk of longer-term stability.
ESG investment analysis would also identify companies that are likelier to
outperform over time. As these asset managers begin to see the positive
financial returns they can generate from incorporating ESG into their
fundamental analysis, they will adopt this approach for the assets they are
managing for others. That will help make the investment management industry
part of the solution rather than part of the problem. It’s happening already,
but not quickly enough. Corporate pension funds see great concentration, too. Just
four funds account for one-third of these assets, eight account for half and 26
account for three-quarters. A simple exercise could have a very positive
impact: The very largest corporations should instruct the very largest asset
managers to perform ESG analysis -- just as many companies themselves now do. Logic
suggests that the largest 100 companies in the world own a vast percentage of
corporate pension assets. Thus a small number of companies directing an even
smaller number of asset managers should make a real and positive difference.  Most surprising is the $43 billion in pension assets held by
the United Nations Investment Management Division, 96% of which is managed
in-house. While the United Nations and its Secretary General are involved in a
plethora of worthy initiatives to create a more sustainable society, according
to SAM, its pension fund appears uninterested in sophisticated ESG integration
strategies when it makes decisions. Until all organizations—corporations,
governments, and multilateral organizations like the UN—manage their pension
assets in a way consistent with their rhetoric, the sustainability movement
will lag behind its potential.  Baldinger is chief executive officer of  SAM .  Eccles  is professor of management practice at Harvard Business School.  Serafeim  is assistant professor of business administration at Harvard Business School. Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global business.  