-- Wells Fargo Lawsuit Not Barred by Earlier Deal, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/wells-fargo-lawsuit-not-barred-by-earlier-deal-u-s-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  can be sued in a
federal lawsuit in  New York  over mortgage foreclosure practices
without violating the terms of a settlement reached with the
bank in another case, the  Justice Department  said.  The department, in a filing yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , said the bank’s allegation that the U.S. breached
the terms of the $5 billion deal by suing in federal court in
New York for hundreds of millions of dollars based on conduct
that Wells Fargo is no longer liable for is “flatly
inconsistent” with the terms of the settlement.  The New York case is premised on Wells Fargo, the biggest
U.S. home lender, knowing that the origination of loans insured
by the  Federal Housing Administration  didn’t meet agency
requirements, resulting in “substantial losses” to the FHA
insurance fund, according to the filing.  The settlement “only bars the government from asserting a
very specific type of claim, i.e., where its ’sole basis’ is
Wells Fargo’s submission of a false annual certification in
connection with maintaining its status as an FHA-approved Direct
Endorsement Lender,” John Warshawsky, a Justice Department
lawyer, said in the filing.  $25 Billion Deal  The department’s filing was submitted to U.S. District
Judge Rosemary Collyer, who on April 4 approved a $25 billion
agreement with five banks to settle U.S. and state probes into
abusive foreclosure practices. On Oct. 9, the U.S. sued Wells
Fargo in New York, claiming the bank made reckless  mortgage
loans  that caused losses for a federal insurance program when
they defaulted.  On Nov. 1, Wells Fargo accused the U.S. of violating the
settlement by filing the New York lawsuit.  Oscar Suris, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on the filing.  The Washington case is U.S. v.  Bank of America  Corp., 12-
cv-00361, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The New York case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank
N.A., 12-cv-07527, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  