-- Western Refining at Five-Year High on Oil Discount: Dallas Mover
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-11-30T22:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/western-refining-at-five-year-high-on-oil-discount-dallas-mover.html
Western Refining Inc. (WNR) , the owner of
refineries in  Texas  and  New Mexico , rose to the highest in five
years as oil produced in Midland, Texas, continued to sell at a
record discount to the U.S. benchmark.  Western climbed 1.4 percent to $29.05 at the close in New
York, the highest since Nov. 26, 2007. Western has been gaining
as a surge in oil production in West Texas’s Permian basin and a
refinery outage have combined to push down crude prices in the
region. Western shares have more than doubled this year amid a
U.S. refining rally spurred by cheap and abundant oil.  Midland oil has sold for an  average  of $78.52 a barrel in
November, a record $8.14  lower  than West Texas Intermediate
crude, allowing El Paso-based Western to save money on the crude
they buy to run their refineries.  The company has paid off debt as refining margins have
surged in the past two years, leading investors to anticipate
higher cash returns when crude discounts break out in the
region, said Sam Margolin, an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in
 New York .  “When you see a quarter of historically wide differentials
in their Permian Basin exposure, investors expect dividends or
buybacks or some kind of accelerated cash returns in the
aftermath,” he said.  Western’s two plants are among the closest to the Permian
Basin, where output has grown to 1.3 million barrels a day,
according to Simmons & Co., an energy investment bank in
Houston. In 2011, crude production in the region averaged
772,602 barrels a day in Texas, according to the Texas Railroad
Commission, which aggregates drilling data in the state.  Exceeding Pipelines  Crude production has exceeded pipeline capacity out of the
region, prompting  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,  Magellan Midstream
Partners LP (MMP)  and  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  to build new
pipelines to transport oil to the Texas Gulf Coast.  The glut has worsened as maintenance at  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s
Borger, Texas refinery lasted longer than expected, reducing
demand for crude. Production units at the plant were shut on
Sept. 22.  Midland oil has  historically  traded less than $1 below the
West Texas Intermediate price in Cushing, Oklahoma, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, it has traded at an
average of $3.34 less, and is $8.50 lower than WTI today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  