-- You'll Have to Pry This Dollar Bill From My Cold, Dead Hands
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-11-30T17:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/you-ll-have-to-pry-this-dollar-bill-from-my-cold-dead-hands.html
As seems to happen every few years, there's another  report out from a federal
agency  urging the U.S. to withdraw $1 bills from circulation and replace them
with coins. The arguments are always the same: Coins last longer! We'd save a
bunch of money! Everyone else is doing it! Switching to dollar coins is a dumb idea, and I'm glad to see that a member
of Congress has finally, succinctly explained why. The AP  reports : This. This. A thousand times this. The Government Accountability Office estimates that switching to dollar coins
would save the U.S. government $4.4 billion over 30 years. That's about $150
million a year, or 50 cents per year per American. What you get in exchange for that 50 cents a year is that you never really
need to think about change. You stick it in your pockets when a cashier hands it
to you, you collect it in a jar on your desk, and every few months, you take
that jar to a Coinstar machine. If you take your Coinstar voucher in the form of
a gift card, you don't even have to pay a counting fee. But when you go to Canada or Europe, suddenly change becomes real money. The
largest coin is worth $2.60 in the euro-zone, $3.20 in the U.K. and a whopping
$5.40 in  Switzerland . At the end of the day, not only are your pockets full of
large, bulky coins, but those coins are also probably worth enough to buy a
sandwich and a beer. That's annoying. I don't want to have to get money from both my wallet and my
pockets. I don't want to expend any mental energy thinking about change. I just
want to dump it in a jar. Getting the freedom to do that for just 50 cents a year is the steal of the
century. It's one of a handful of things (along with movies, bathroom fixtures
and hotel mattresses) that America does much better than  Europe . If Congress wants to fiddle with our change-production practices, it should
abolish the penny, which actually costs the government more than one cent to
make. The dollar bill is one of the things that makes America great. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .  