-- Huaneng Trims Monthly Drop on Recovery: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-30T21:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/youku-trims-monthly-drop-on-recovery-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  climbed in New York,
paring the benchmark index’s first monthly drop since July, on
prospects expansion in manufacturing will add to signs of a
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 0.6 percent to 92.81, trimming
its November loss to 1.2 percent. Electricity producer  Huaneng
Power International Inc. (HNP)  surged to a four-year high on falling
coal prices, while solar company  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) 
capped a 40 percent weekly advance, the most since 2009.  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU)  dropped as smaller rival  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd. (QIHU)  said
its market share increased.  China’s  purchasing managers’ index  rose to 50.8 in October,
increasing for a second month, according to the median forecast
of 28 economists ahead of data due out today. The data may be
another signal China is emerging from its seven-quarter
slowdown, after factory production and retail sales picked up
last month and inflation slowed. Confidence in  China’s economy 
is at the highest level in more than a year on optimism the
nation’s new incoming leaders will provide a boost to the
financial climate, according to a Bloomberg investor poll.  “The November PMI should continue to strengthen, helping
boost sentiment toward Chinese stocks,” Michael Ding, lead
manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX)  at U.S. Global Investors Inc.,
which oversees $2.2 billion, said by phone from  San Antonio ,
Texas yesterday. “People are trying to interpret the latest
public activities of China’s new leadership, which seem to
indicate they have pro-growth policies.”  ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 0.8 percent to
$37.15, leaving the ETF up 1 percent for November. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index slipped was little changed at 1,416.18 for a
weekly advance of 0.5 percent, as lawmakers negotiate over the
U.S.  federal budget .  Huaneng Power climbed 3.3 percent to $34.09, highest
closing price since September 2008. The benchmark Chinese  price
index  for coal used in power stations slid 0.2 percent from a
week earlier, according to the Qinhuangdao Seaborne Coal Market
website.  Yingli Green Energy surged 4.7 percent to $1.8, its highest
price in more than two months. Trading volumes were almost three
times the daily average over the past three months. Chief
Executive Officer Miao Liansheng said Nov. 28 he expects the
company will be the world’s biggest panel supplier this year.  Baidu, owner of China’s most popular search engine, dropped
2.7 percent to $96.31 as smaller rival Qihoo said its share of
the Chinese Internet market had grown to 10 percent, according
to a report in the Wall Street Journal. Baidu’s decline added to
a monthly drop of 9.8 percent, the steepest since May.  Youku Earnings  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online video company,
gained 1.1 percent to $17.06 as it reported third-quarter
revenue that beat analysts’ estimates. Sales almost doubled to
$79.9 million, beating the $73 million projected by six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Youku, which  acquired  Tudou Holdings Ltd. in March, said it
achieved operating profitability for the first time in its
history and announced it will begin to monetize its mobile
traffic next year.  “This indicates that if it can make profit on a smaller
scale, the combined company will also become profitable as the
merger’s benefits take effect gradually,” Tian X. Hou, the
founder of T.H. Capital LLC, said in by phone from Beijing.
“The merged company can reach more audience and set higher
prices for advertisers.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rallied 1.3 percent
yesterday to gain 0.4 percent in the month, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed for the first time in five days, adding
0.9 percent. The gauge of domestic Chinese stocks lost 4.3
percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  