-- Yum Brands Falls After Projecting China Store Sales Drop
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-11-30T21:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-30/yum-brands-falls-after-projecting-china-store-sales-drop.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the Taco
Bell and KFC fast-food chains, declined the most in more than 10
years after saying same-store sales in  China  will fall in the
fourth quarter.  The shares  declined  9.9 percent to $67.08 at the close in
New York, for the biggest drop since Oct. 10, 2002. Louisville,
Kentucky-based Yum has advanced 14 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  David Novak  said same-store sales
in China will decline 4 percent in the fourth quarter compared
with a gain of 21 percent a year earlier. China, which accounted
for 44 percent of Yum’s total  revenue  last year, is grappling
with an economy where growth has slowed for seven quarters.
Earlier this month,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  said same-store sales fell
in China in October.  “China softness may reflect choppy macroeconomic
conditions, cautious consumer sentiment surrounding the recent
government transition” and the company is going up against
“tough” comparable-store sales from last year, David Tarantino, a Milwaukee-based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.,
said in a note today. He rates the company outperform, the
equivalent of a buy rating.  Yum said in a statement yesterday it will open at least 700
units in China next year, down from 800 in 2012.  Bryan Elliott, an analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc.,
downgraded the shares to underperform, the equivalent of a sell
rating, calling the slowdown in China “shocking.” Analysts at
Susquehanna Financial and UBS AG also reduced their ratings on
the company.  Comparable-store sales are forecast to rise 4 percent in
Yum’s international division and 3 percent in the U.S. in the
fourth quarter. Yum has more than 38,000 restaurants worldwide
and also owns the Pizza Hut dining brand.  Yum is  scheduled  to host an investor and analyst conference
on Dec. 6 in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  