-- Japan’s Amari Says Markets Set Currencies Amid Yen Criticism
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-27T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/amari-says-japan-s-focus-is-to-end-deflation-amid-yen-criticism.html
Economy Minister Akira Amari denied
 Japan ’s new government is actively targeting a weaker yen,
taking to the international stage to argue that economic policy
is instead aimed at defeating deflation.  Japan is “absolutely not deviating from global
standards,” Amari told the  World Economic Forum ’s annual
meeting in Davos,  Switzerland  on Jan. 26. “I don’t comment on a
foreign-exchange rate because it should be determined by the
market. What we do is to implement policies.”  Amari spoke at the end of a week in which German and
Canadian policy makers joined a worldwide chorus highlighting a
recent plunge in the yen as a worry. The currency has declined
to its lowest against the dollar since June 2010 as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pushes for easier monetary policy.  That strategy has sparked criticism that Abe is trying to
weaken the yen to stoke exports, breaching a pledge by Group of
20 economies not to competitively devalue exchange rates for
fear of sparking a so-called currency war.  “The Abe administration attaches its highest priority to
exiting from prolonged deflation partly accompanied by the
appreciation of the yen, and revitalizing the economy,” Amari
said.  “Many nations said they welcome and support Japan’s new
measures,” he told reporters. “Misunderstandings held by a
small group of people have been cleared up.”  Budget Plan   Abe's government is wrestling with reviving growth and
ending deflation without triggering a surge in bond yields as 
the nation labors under debt already more than twice the size
of the economy.  Japan's  tax revenue  for the fiscal year starting in April 
is projected to be larger than the money raised from government 
bond sales for the first time in four years, according to 
figures released by Finance Minister Taro Aso in  Tokyo 
yesterday evening.  The government forecasts 43.1 trillion yen ($474 billion) 
of tax revenue, compared with 42.85 trillion yen from issuing 
bonds. Total spending will be 92.6 trillion yen, Aso said.  ``We've been saying for three years that bond issuance 
exceeding tax revenue is abnormal,'' Aso told reporters. That 
tax receipts will be higher this time is ``a big deal,''
he said.  Beating Deflation  Speaking on the same Davos panel, Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  commended Japan’s focus on beating deflation. Carney,
who will move to the  Bank of England  in July, said Amari had
been “very clear and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is clear in terms of the
policy focused on a domestic inflation target.”  Japan’s  currency  has dropped for 11 straight weeks versus
the dollar, the longest losing streak in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1971. It has depreciated about 9 percent
in the past two months and closed at 90.91 per dollar on Jan. 25.  A weaker currency helps Japanese exporters such as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , whose shares have gained about 20 percent in the
last two months because that boosts profits when repatriated
from overseas.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Jan. 24 in Davos
that “I can’t say I’m completely free of worry when I look at
Japan right now.” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  three days ago that he’s
spoken to Japan Finance Minister Taro Aso about exchange rates.  International Consequences  “I said ‘my concern is that you act too quickly and it
causes international consequences,’” Flaherty said in Davos.  U.S. Treasury Undersecretary Lael Brainard said in an
interview in Davos that she expected major economies to obey the
“rules of the game” in  currency markets . The deputy governor
of China’s central bank, Yi Gang, said that there needs to be
“better communication and coordination” on foreign exchange
among G-20 countries.  Finance chiefs from the bloc next meet in Moscow in
February.  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, said when it comes to
currency surges “there is a certain legitimacy in trying to
defend yourself against the onslaught.”  That drew a rebuttal from Carney.  “There is understanding within the G-7 that has existed
and for good benefit and for the benefit of the global economy
that there is not unilateral currency intervention,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Davos, Switzerland at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  