-- Assad Running Out of Time, Russia’s Medvedev Says on CNN
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/assad-running-out-of-time-russia-s-medvedev-says-on-cnn.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
chances of remaining in power are diminishing and he must sit at
the negotiating table with all of  Syria ’s ethnic and religious
groups to bring an end to the country’s civil war, Russian Prime
Minister Dmitry Medvedev said.  Medvedev has called Assad several times urging him to
negotiate, the Russian premier said in an interview with CNN’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” program at the World Economic Forum in
Davos. The interview is scheduled for broadcast today.  The conflict in Syria is a threat to ally Russia as well as
 Europe  and the U.S. because Syria’s opposition is increasingly
represented by Islamic radicals who will infiltrate other
countries, Medvedev said. The Syrian people must decide their
own future through “genuine national dialogue,” he said.
Russia’s goal has never been to preserve Syria’s current
political regime, he said.  “With every day, with every week, with every month, the
chances of him surviving are becoming less and less,” Medvedev
said through a translator, according to a transcript provided by
 CNN . “I personally a few times called Assad and said ‘You need
to start reforms, you need to sit at the negotiating table.’
Unfortunately, the Syrian authorities turned out not to be ready
for this.”  Civil War  Sunnis, Shiites, Alawites, Druze and Christians need to be
represented in efforts to end a civil war for which both sides,
the Syrian authorities and the opposition, are responsible,
Medvedev said.  Syrian rebels, mostly Sunni Muslims, have been fighting to
oust Assad since March 2011 in a conflict that, according to the
United Nations, has left at least 60,000 people dead. Along with
winter weather, shortages of food and fuel have increased the
hardships for Syrians in cities torn by fighting.  Medvedev was also asked about  Russia ’s decision to halt
U.S. adoptions of Russian children, which he said was motivated
by cases of mistreatment of Russian orphans adopted by
Americans, and wasn’t retaliation for U.S. actions in the case
of Sergei Magnitsky.  Magnitsky, a lawyer for Hermitage Capital Management Ltd.,
died at the age of 37 while in pre-trial detention after
uncovering the biggest known tax fraud in Russian history, a
theft of $230 million from the national treasury. The case
sparked a diplomatic row, with the U.S. imposing sanctions on
Russian officials accused of having a role in Magnitsky’s death.
Moscow barred Americans from adopting Russian orphans last
month.  Discussing his own political career, Medvedev said it would
have been “pointless” and “counterproductive” to fight
against his friend Vladimir Putin to win a second term as
president. Medvedev’s switch to the role of prime minister last
year as Putin assumed the presidential role “achieved the main
goal, to ensure continuity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  