-- Australian Coal Ports Shut as Storm Dumps Rain on Queensland
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-01-26T06:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/australian-coal-ports-shut-as-storm-dumps-rain-on-queensland.html
Coal export ports on  Australia ’s
eastern coast closed as  ex-tropical cyclone  Oswald dumped heavy
rain on Queensland state and moved south toward New South  Wales ,
prompting  emergency services  to issue flood warnings.  The weather system will today reach the northeast of New
South Wales, Australia’s most populous state, the Bureau of
Meteorology said in an advisory. Heavy rain that may lead to
 flooding  is forecast to hit an area stretching more than 500
kilometers (310 miles) from the Queensland border to the Lower
Hunter region north of Sydney, the capital of New South Wales,
the State Emergency Service said on its website.  “We now have a very significant rain event for central and
southeast Queensland,” Premier  Campbell Newman  said at a press
conference today. “The situation has deteriorated.”  Queensland was devastated by  Cyclone Yasi  in February 2011,
a storm that killed at least 35 people and contributed to floods
throughout Australia’s eastern states that cost the nation’s
economy A$9 billion ($9.4 billion) in lost output. Gladstone,
430 kilometers north of Brisbane, went on alert as flood levels
along the Boyne River were forecast to breach one-in-100 year
heights, according to a government advisory.  A mini-tornedo felled trees and power lines at Bargara near
Bundaberg, 385 kilometers north of the state capital, Brisbane.  Storm Stalled  “Nearly 1,000 millimeters (39 inches) of rain has fallen
in the Gladstone area over the last few days,” Rob Webb, the
Queensland regional director at the Bureau of Meteorology, said
at the press conference. “To put that into perspective, the
average annual rainfall for Brisbane is around 1.2 meters.”  The storm stalled above the Gladstone area last night and
is projected to move toward the southeast of the state today,
according to Webb.  Gladstone port and Hay Point, the world’s biggest export
harbor for metallurgical coal, suspended ship loading because of
the weather, according to port authorities and the  Queensland
government . Coal prices surged in 2011 as heavy rainfall and
flooding inundated mines and crimped production from companies
including Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s biggest
exporter of the commodity used in power stations.  Rescue Teams  Heavy rainfall of about 200 millimeters is forecast to
continue in the eastern region in the next few days, the bureau
of meteorology said in an e-mailed advisory. Localized falls of
more than 300 millimeters may lead to flash flooding in some
areas, it said. As many as 2,000 homes may be affected by a
possible tidal surge in the Moreton Bay Region, the local
council said in an advisory.  Flood rescue teams along with four helicopters have been
deployed in New South Wales in preparation for the storm,
according to an advisory from emergency services. Flooding has
submerged town streets in Queensland, with television images
showing water inundating homes.  Operations suspended at  Hay Point  port are affecting the
Dalrymple Bay and Hay Point coal terminals, Tom Hilston,
spokesman for state government agency Maritime Safety
Queensland, said by phone yesterday. Ship loading was suspended
at the RG Tanna and Barney Point coal terminals on Jan. 24, a
Gladstone Ports Corp. spokeswoman said in an e-mail yesterday.  Thermal coal at the port of Newcastle in New South Wales, a
benchmark price for  Asia ,  surged  to $138.50 a metric ton in
January 2011 after rainfall and flooding crimped output and
shipments. Prices have since declined and were at $91.15 last
week, according to data from IHS McCloskey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  