-- Azarenka Overcomes Li to Win Back-to-Back Australian Open Titles
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-26T14:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/azarenka-beats-li-to-win-back-to-back-australian-open-titles-1-.html
Victoria Azarenka broke down in
tears after fighting back to beat Li Na in an incident-filled
Australian Open final to retain her title and the top ranking in
women’s tennis.  The No. 1 seed from  Belarus  won 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 last night at
Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne, where she secured her first major
title 12 months ago. Li, the No. 6 seed from  China , took medical
timeouts after twice tumbling to the court during a match that
was also interrupted by a fireworks display.  Azarenka, 23, held her face in her hands before sobbing
into her towel after becoming the eighth woman to win back-to-
back championships at the season-opening Grand Slam since the
sport’s professional era began in 1968. Defeat in the final
would have seen her lose the top ranking to  Serena Williams .  “This one is way more emotional,” Azarenka said in a news
conference. “It’s gonna be extra special for me. It’s just a
matter of the feeling that you get, things you’ve been through,
because you’re the only one who knows what you’ve been going
through these two weeks.”  In a match lasting two hours, 40 minutes and featuring 16
service breaks, Li’s injury timeouts and a nine-minute break for
the fireworks, Azarenka secured the victory on her first match
point when her opponent sent a forehand long for her 57th
unforced error. Azarenka made 28, though hit half as many
winners as Li.  Second Defeat  It was Li’s second three-set defeat in the Melbourne final
in three years following her loss to  Kim Clijsters  in 2011, when
she also won the first set. She went on to become the first
Asian-born player to win a Grand Slam singles title later that
year at the  French Open .  “Without falling down I was feeling pretty good,” Li, who
at 30 years, 335 days was trying to become the oldest woman to
win the tournament in the Open era, said. “In important games
she played better than me, so that’s why she can win the
title.”  Li was met with louder cheers from the crowd when the
players were introduced and enjoyed more support throughout the
match. She began with a double-fault before losing her opening
service game by putting a backhand long.  After Li took the first set, Azarenka raced into a 3-0 lead
in the second before Li pulled it back to 4-4 even after
receiving a medical timeout in the fifth game to have her left
ankle taped following a fall. Azarenka won the next two games to
take the match into a third set as Li mixed winners with
unforced errors.  Li held for a 2-1 lead before play took a break for
Melbourne’s annual Australia Day fireworks display. Li then
rolled her ankle again on the opening point when they returned,
banging her head on the court. She was left her dazed and
requiring another medical timeout.  Multiple Titles  Azarenka broke for a 3-2 lead and jumped out to a two-game
advantage by holding to love. She then broke Li’s service for
the ninth time to secure the championship and join Serena and
 Venus Williams ,  Maria Sharapova  and  Svetlana Kuznetsova  as the
only active female players with at least two major singles
titles.  While Azarenka becomes the first No. 1 seed to win a major
since Serena Williams at Wimbledon in 2010, her run to the title
hasn’t been smooth in a country where she’s now won 21 straight
matches in the month of January.  She was forced to withdraw before the semifinals of the
Brisbane International, her only tuneup event, after her right
big toe got infected following a pedicure.  Timeout Troubles  Three days ago, her semifinal victory over U.S. teenager
Sloane Stephens was marred by a controversial medical timeout.
In getting treatment after blowing five match points, Azarenka
attracted criticism from former players including Brad Gilbert
and was accused of gamesmanship on social networking sites.  After making five unforced errors on match points in the
ninth game of the second set against Stephens, Azarenka got a
10-minute reprieve that was mostly spent off the court. When she
returned, she broke back to close out a 6-1, 6-4 win and then
gave contradictory answers about her reasons for the timeout.
She initially indicated that she was struggling to breathe
because of nerves, then said that she had been treated for a rib
injury that affected her breathing.  “What happened with Sloane, it was a big deal,” Azarenka
said after beating Li. “But I take it as a great learning
experience and just try to live the moment and take the best
things out of what happened and move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  