-- Boeing Issues Don’t Affect Toray, Embraer, Managers Say
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-26T18:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/boeing-issues-don-t-affect-toray-embraer-managers-say.html
The grounding of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787
Dreamliner amid safety concerns is not affecting business at
 Toray Industries Inc. (3402) , the Japanese company which makes the
carbon-fiber for the aircraft’s body, and Brazilian planemaker
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) , executives of the two firms said.  “At this moment, there’s no sudden impact we’d expect,”
Toray Executive Vice-President Shinichi Koizumi said in an
interview at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
“There is no announcement of the reduction of production.”  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  grounded all 787s
on Jan. 16 after an emergency landing by an  All Nippon Airways
Co. (9202)  plane on a domestic flight in Japan. A lithium-ion battery
on the jet emitted fumes and became charred, making it the
second similar incident in a little more than a week. Aviation
regulators in other countries where airlines operate the 787
followed the FAA’s lead.  “There are no issues at all,” Jackson Schneider, the
Embraer executive vice president of institutional relations,
said when asked about potential concerns related to the use of
 lithium-ion batteries  for its planes. The Brazilian firm has a
“different company and different supplier,” he said, adding
that he expects Boeing to solve its problems “very soon.”  Both Koizumi and Schneider, who spoke in separate
interviews, voiced optimism for their businesses this year.  Toray is targeting record profit for the 2013 fiscal year,
Koizumi said. The Japanese chemical, biotech and nanotech
company makes  products  ranging from golf club shafts and bathing
suits to water purifiers and airbag textiles.  “We are very optimistic,” Schneider said, citing a
contract it signed this week that may total $4 billion to sell
regional jets to Republic Airways Holdings Inc. “The year has
started exactly as we thought it would” and the company is “on
track” to reach its targets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  