-- Canada Dollar Falls Most Since May as BOC Cuts Growth Estimate
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-01-26T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/canada-dollar-falls-most-since-may-as-boc-cuts-growth-estimate.html
The Canadian dollar fell the most in
eight months versus its U.S. counterpart after the  Bank of
Canada  said the need for interest-rate increases was less urgent
as it trimmed its economic-growth forecast.  The loonie, as  Canada ’s dollar is nicknamed, weakened
beyond parity with the greenback for the first time since
November after Governor  Mark Carney  said Jan. 23 the nation’s
economy won’t reach full output until the second half of 2014.
The currency declined for the third week against the euro as the
 European Central Bank  said banks will return a greater amount of
three-year loans than estimated, boosting short-term borrowing
costs. Canada’s economy grew 0.2 percent in November from the
previous month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 18
economists, before a  Statistics Canada  report Jan. 31.  “I would attribute much of the Canadian dollar’s weakness
this week to the change in guidance by the Bank of Canada, from
tacitly hawkish to unambiguously dovish,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange trading at  National Bank
of Canada , by phone from Toronto.  The loonie fell 1.4 percent to C$1.0058 per U.S. dollar
this week in Toronto, the largest decline since the five days
ended May 18. It lost 2.5 percent to C$1.3541 per euro. One
loonie buys 99.42 U.S. cents.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie reached 6.7 percent yesterday, the most
since Nov. 1. Implied volatility signals the expected pace of
currency swings and is quoted by traders to set option prices.  Options traders became more bearish on the Canadian dollar.
The three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate, which measures the
premium charged for the right to buy the  U.S. dollar  against the
loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at as high as 1.1
percentage point, the highest level since Nov. 15. It averaged
1.5 percentage points during the past 12 months.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  decreased  their
bets that the Canadian dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers by on an
advance in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop --
so-called net longs -- was 57,952 on Jan. 22, compared with
68,668 a week earlier.  Inflation Data  The currency fell to an almost six-month low yesterday
after a report showed Canadian annual inflation rate held at a
three-year low of 0.8 percent in December, keeping it below the
bottom of the central bank’s target band, as food and shelter
costs moderated.  The Bank of Canada has kept its policy interest rate at 1
percent since September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s,
while lowering this week the possibility of a rate increase. The
bank cut its forecast for growth this year to 2 percent from an
October forecast of 2.3 percent.  “The Canadian dollar was doing well until the Bank of
Canada made its statement,”  David Watt , chief economist at HSBC
Holdings Inc., said in a telephone interview from Toronto.  The loonie’s 14-day relative strength index against the
U.S. dollar reached 26.1 yesterday, below the 30 level that some
traders see as sign that an asset may be about to reverse
direction.  Bonds Drop  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell, with yields
rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.95
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 fell 27
cents to C$106.84.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$2.9 billion ($2.87
billion) of 10-year notes maturing June 2023 with a 1.5 percent
coupon on Jan. 30.  Canadian retail sales rose for a fifth straight month in
November, led by record car purchases, Statistics Canada
reported Jan. 22. Canada is the third-largest AAA-rated
sovereign, behind Germany and Britain, and its  unemployment rate 
dropped to a four-year low of 7.1 percent earlier this month.  In the long term, Canada will reap benefits from a rebound
in commodities and fiscally conservative policies that have kept
debt low, Matthew Eagan, a Boston-based  money manager  at Loomis
Sayles & Co., which manages $186 billion including Canadian
bonds and securities, said in an interview Jan. 23.  “What I like about Canada, long term, it’s got an economy
that is, even though it’s North American-centric and tied at the
hip to the U.S., they still have a lot of exposure to
commodities,,” Egan said. “The other thing is their fiscal
situation and their debt burden is just not even close to the
problems we have here in the U.S. and other developed nations.”  The loonie will strengthen to 98 cents per U.S. dollar by
the end of the March and 97 cents by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
45 analysts and strategists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  