-- Credit Suisse Inherits $2 Billion National Century Claim
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/credit-suisse-inherits-2-billion-national-century-claim.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  was ruled by
a judge to be liable for all damages that could be awarded to
noteholders suing the bank over fraud at National Century
Financial Enterprises Inc., a figure investors’ lawyers put at
more than $2 billion.  U.S. District Judge James Graham said yesterday that
because New York law governs apportionment of fault in the case,
Credit Suisse will be liable for 100 percent of former Chief
Executive Officer Lance Poulsen’s share of damages.  “If the jury finds at trial that Credit Suisse and Poulsen
each committed fraud that caused plaintiff’s losses, then under
New York law Credit Suisse will be liable, as to plaintiffs, for
100 percent of Poulsen’s share,” Graham said.  Noteholders claim the bank, the placement agent, knew or
should have known of a $2.9 billion fraud that led to National
Century’s collapse in 2002. Ten executives of the Dublin, Ohio-
based health-care financer were convicted of crimes, including
Poulsen, who is serving 30 years in prison.  Kathy Patrick, an attorney for investors, said a trial is
scheduled for April.  “Our clients are eagerly looking forward to presenting
this case to a jury,” she said in a phone interview. “We will
ask the jury to hold both Credit Suisse and Poulsen responsible
for the $1.5 billion in damages the plaintiffs have suffered as
a result of their investment in NSFE-related investments.”  Interest would drive the damages to more than $2 billion,
Patrick said.  Credit Suisse argued that the share of liability assigned
to Poulsen, presumed insolvent, should be divided among the bank
and other defendants that settled with noteholders, according to
Graham’s ruling.  Katherine Herring, a spokeswoman in New York for Zurich-
based Credit Suisse, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment
on the ruling.  The case is Crown Cork & Seal v. Credit Suisse, 12-5803,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  