-- Democrat Tom Harkin Won’t Seek Re-Election to Senate
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/democrat-tom-harkin-not-seeking-reelection-for-iowa-senate-seat.html
Democrat  Tom Harkin  has decided not
to seek re-election to his U.S. Senate seat in 2014, when
Republicans try to gain control of the chamber.  Harkin’s decision, which he has been considering for
months, was motivated by a desire to spend time with his wife
after nearly 40 years of public service, he said in a statement
yesterday.  “I am going to fulfill a promise that I made to my wife
Ruth, and that I also made to myself,” Harkin said in the
 statement . “It’s a promise that we are going to do certain
things together -- and that we are going to live together in a
way we’ve often talked about, before it gets too late.”  The open seat in Iowa, which voted for Democratic President
 Barack Obama  in 2012 and 2008 and Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004, will be part of the contest for control of the
Senate in 2014. Democrats and independents aligned with them
control 55 seats in the 100-member Senate. The party will be
defending seats next year in several states that Obama lost in
the 2012 election, including West Virginia,  Louisiana ,  Montana 
and  North Carolina .  Harkin, 73, said he will be 75 when his current term ends.
He first won election to the  U.S. Congress  in 1974, and became
senator in 1984.  ‘Someone New’  “It’s somebody else’s turn,” Harkin said. “I am going to
make way for someone new in this Senate seat.”  Harkin is the third senator to decide not to seek re-
election next near. Republican Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of
 Georgia , 69, announced Jan. 25 he won’t seek a third term,
giving Democrats a chance to win an open Senate seat in a state
that backed Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney in the
2012 election. West Virginia Democrat  Jay Rockefeller , 75, said
Jan. 11 that he wouldn’t seek a sixth term, giving Republicans
an opportunity to win a Senate seat that Democrats have held
since the 1950s in a state that also backed Romney in 2012.  “I appreciate that Senator Harkin has made his decision so
early in the cycle, giving us ample time to recruit a strong
Democratic candidate for this seat,” Senator Michael Bennet,
chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said
in a statement.  While Obama carried Iowa by six points, “Democrats will
still have to pay attention to the state,”  Charlie Cook , editor
and publisher of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report said.  Democratic Headaches  “There are seven Democratic Senate seats up in states
carried by  Mitt Romney , including six in states Romney won by 14
points or more, so clearly Iowa won’t be one of their biggest
headaches,” Cook said in an e-mail. “But they still will have
to fight to hold it.”  During his tenure, Harkin pushed for legislation banning
discrimination against people with disabilities, called for
revamping the U.S. health-care system and fought against child
labor. In his two remaining years, he said, he will also promote
secure pension plans and education.  “Senator Harkin will be missed,” Obama said in an e-
mailed statement.  Harkin has been in the Senate longer than any Democrat in
Iowa’s history, Obama said in the statement. “He has fought
passionately to improve quality of life for Americans with
disabilities and their families, to reform our education system
and ensure that every American has access to affordable health
care.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada issued a
statement calling Harkin “a passionate progressive” with
“deeply held principles.”  Harkin unsuccessfully pursued his party’s presidential
nomination in 1992.  Harkin has $2.7 million in his campaign fund at of the end
of December and had been planning a fundraiser next month,
Harkin spokeswoman Kate Frischmann said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  