-- Djokovic Says Extra Rest May Not Help in Final Against Murray
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-26T13:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/djokovic-says-extra-rest-may-not-help-in-final-against-murray.html
Novak Djokovic takes on  Andy Murray 
in the Australian Open tennis final today having had more than
24 hours longer to rest. The defending champion said it won’t be
an advantage as he seeks a third straight title.  A day after Djokovic routed No. 4 seed  David Ferrer  in 89
minutes in the first semifinal, Murray took four hours to get
past four-time winner  Roger Federer  in five sets and reach the
championship match in Melbourne for the third time.  “Aside that, he hasn’t been really tested the whole
tournament,” Djokovic said of Murray at his pre-final news
conference yesterday. “Also he’s considered as one of the
physically strongest and fittest guys around. So I’m sure he’s
going to be fit for the finals.”  While third-seeded Murray didn’t drop a set before facing
Federer, Djokovic almost went out of the season-opening Grand
Slam tournament in a five-hour fourth-round match against 15th-
seeded  Stanislas Wawrinka , winning the final set 12-10. The Serb
then took four sets to get past No. 6 Tomas Berdych.  Recent finals history at Melbourne Park is on Murray’s
side, with the man who played his semifinal second going on to
win the title in four of the past five years.  Still, Djokovic is the 8-15 favorite to take the trophy,
meaning a successful $15 bet would return $8 plus the original
stake, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill, which rates
Murray a 6-4 chance.  Djokovic, who won the first of his five Grand Slam singles
titles at Melbourne Park in 2008, is seeking to become the first
man to win the tournament three years in a row since the
professional era began in 1968.  ‘Incredible Feeling’  “Being in a third consecutive final is an incredible
feeling and achievement,” Djokovic said. “You come out here
and you want to win the first big trophy of the year. I guess
that’s a fresh start that everybody wants.”  Djokovic takes a 10-7 lead in career meetings into the
match, a repeat of September’s U.S. Open final, which Murray won
to secure his first Grand Slam title after four previous losses
in major finals. One of those defeats came against Djokovic at
Rod Laver Arena two years ago.  After winning his semifinal, Murray said he wasn’t sure how
much his victory in  New York  would help at a venue where
Djokovic has reached four of the past six finals.  “The task isn’t any easier,” Murray told reporters. “I’m
playing Novak again on this court. This has been his best court
for sure.”  British Best  Should Murray get the better of his fellow 25-year-old, he
would become the first man in the Open era to win his first two
major championships back-to-back. He’d also be the first Briton
win the Australian Open men’s title since  Fred Perry  in 1934.  En route to the final, Murray tied Perry’s mark of 106
career match wins at the majors, the most by a British man, and
would take sole ownership of the record by lifting the trophy.  With his past two Grand Slam matches against Djokovic
having gone five sets, Murray said immediately after beating
Federer that he was preparing to experience more pain in the
final. His opponent is also planning to go the distance.  “Every time we played in last probably six, seven
encounters, it was always a long matches, physically very
demanding,” Djokovic said. “I guess we have to expect
something similar to happen, long rallies. I’m ready for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  