-- Medvedev Says Investors Aren’t Interested in Magnitsky Death
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-01-26T13:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/medvedev-says-investors-aren-t-interested-in-magnitsky-death.html
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said that business leaders aren’t concerned about the
case of Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer for Hermitage Capital
Management Ltd. who died in prison in 2009.  “Not a single businessman is bringing this up,” Medvedev
said in an  interview  with state-run Vesti television at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos broadcast today. “It doesn’t
interest anyone, except perhaps certain individuals who are
earning political capital from it.”  Magnitsky died at the age of 37 while in pre-trial
detention after uncovering the biggest known  tax fraud  in
Russian history, a theft of $230 million from the national
treasury. The case sparked a diplomatic row, with the U.S.
imposing sanctions on Russian officials accused of having a role
in Magnitsky’s death and Moscow retaliating last month by
barring Americans from adopting Russian orphans.  Bill Browder, head of London-based Hermitage, which was
once  Russia ’s biggest foreign investor, has lobbied for U.S. and
European legislation targeting Russian officials he says are
responsible for Magnitsky’s death with visa bans and asset
freezes.  Magnitsky was “not a truth-seeker,” Medvedev said in an
interview in Davos with Bloomberg Television on Jan. 23,
defending the decision to try him posthumously. “He was a
corporate lawyer or accountant, and defended the interests of
the people who hired him.”  The lack of a single conviction of officials implicated in
the case is a symbol of the Russian government’s failure to
tackle corruption, said Christopher Granville, managing director
of Trusted Sources, a London-based emerging-markets research
group. The only official to face trial over Magnitsky’s death, a
prison doctor, was acquitted in December.  “The Magnitsky case is a very emotional black mark against
the Russian investment environment,”  Roland Nash , chief
investment strategist at Moscow-based Verno Capital, which
manages about $200 million in Russian equities, said by phone on
Jan. 17. “It harms sentiment.”  An investigation by Hermitage Capital, a London-based
investment fund, has traced $134 million through bank accounts
and shell companies in at least 17 countries. Hermitage accused
government officials of stealing from taxpayers.  A human rights council, under then-President Medvedev,
urged the prosecution of officials in 2011 for Magnitksy’s
death. It said he was bludgeoned with rubber batons in prison
after being denied medical care during almost a year of pre-trial detention on trumped-up  tax evasion  charges.  Russian prosecutors in November sent to court the tax
evasion charges against Browder and the deceased Magnitsky and
the trial is due to start later this month. Browder’s Russian
visa was revoked in 2005, and he hasn’t been back since.  Russia kept its ranking as the most corrupt country of any
Group-of-20 nation, according to Transparency International’s
2012 Corruption Perceptions Index published last month, placing
it at 133rd place out of 176 countries, below Uganda and
 Nicaragua .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  