-- Merkel Rebuffs Rajoy’s Call to Do More to Boost Euro Stimulus
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-01-26T18:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/merkel-rebuffs-rajoy-s-call-to-do-more-to-boost-euro-stimulus.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
rebuffed calls by Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  that euro
nations in better financial health should help the bloc out of
its economic slump by spurring growth.  Merkel, in the Chilean capital Santiago today for a meeting
of European and Latin American leaders, said euro member states
need to focus on both fiscal consolidation and growth. Rajoy
said yesterday countries that have the funds should use them.  “There is no either/or,” Merkel said today after meeting
with Chilean President Sebastian Pinera. “Confidence can only
increase if you have solid finances on the one hand, and on the
other hand have the structures of reform in such a way that the
economy can grow. We are trying to make a contribution.”  European leaders declaring an end to the worst of their
three-year-old debt crisis are still grappling with recession
and soaring unemployment. Joblessness in  Spain  climbed to a
record of more than 26 percent in the last quarter, putting
almost 6 million people out of work, as Rajoy imposed the
deepest budget cuts in the country’s democratic history.  The German leader was unmoved by calls for wealthier
countries such as hers to loosen tight spending, saying that the
17-member currency union must focus on boosting competitiveness
with respect to the rest of the world.  Germany  is leading the
way in implementing that agenda, Merkel said.  “We in Germany believe we’re contributing to a robust euro
area,” the chancellor said in Santiago’s presidential palace
after signing an agreement on mining and economic growth with
Chilean leader Pinera.  U.K. Referendum  Merkel and Rajoy are among 43 state leaders in the Andean
capital for a summit of the EU and the Community of Latin
American and Caribbean States. Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  and Cuban leader  Raul Castro  are attending.  Asked about U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s absence,
Merkel reiterated that she’ll engage with the British leader
after he called for a referendum on U.K. membership.  “I met David Cameron two days ago in Davos and he told me
he is working to push  Great Britain  in the direction of
remaining part of the European Union,” Merkel said. “He also
indicated that we need to change things. We’ll have to discuss
these things with Great Britain. In the end, in Europe we will
always have to come to a compromise. We work well together.”  Merkel also said that the Group of 20 wealthiest global
economies aren’t “where we need to be” in imposing financial
regulation, citing the proliferation of  tax fraud  and evasion.  The global economy has “too much tax fraud, evasion --
competition, low tax areas where we have to do much more,” the
German leader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Santiago at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 