-- Hewlett-Packard Bid to Query Former Executives Denied
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-26T00:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/hewlett-packard-bid-to-query-former-executives-denied.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  lost a bid for a
Texas court order allowing it to question under oath two former
information technology workers who were among 18 people that
quit the company in November to join  General Motors Co, (GM)   Judge  Tim Sulak  in Austin denied H-P’s request with
permission to renew it at a later date “based on additional or
future developments” in a case docket entry on Jan. 23.  “The sudden departures affected at least four teams within
H-P’s IT organization, and H-P expects that additional
resignations will follow,” company lawyers said in court papers
filed last month seeking pre-lawsuit depositions of the two
executives. Six subordinates left with one man, Gregg Hansen,
while three more workers quit with the other, Todd MacKenzie,
according to Hewlett-Packard.  GM, based in  Detroit , is hiring about 7,500 information and
technology workers over a five-year period in a shift to move
that work in house in lieu of using outside contractors.  “We’re looking for talent, is the short answer, and we’re
looking for the best talent,” GM Chief Information Officer
Randy Mott told reporters on a Jan. 10 conference call.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for the Palo Alto, California-
based computer and printer maker, declined today to comment on
the judge’s ruling.  “H-P failed to advise the court that the loss of these 18
employees is minuscule compared to the tens of thousands of jobs
H-P is slashing across its workforce,” lawyers for the men said
in opposition papers filed with Sulak on Jan. 22.  “Hansen and MacKenzie did not orchestrate the departures
of the 16 other H-P employees, which had nothing to do with
anything Hansen or MacKenzie (or any other former HP employee)
said or did,” their attorneys said.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co v. Hansen, D-1-GN-12-004027,
District Court of Travis County, (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  