-- French Troops Capture Gao in North Mali From Islamist Rebels
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-26T20:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/french-troops-take-airport-and-bridge-of-gao-in-northern-mali.html
French troops captured the city of
Gao in northeast  Mali  from Islamist rebels today,  France ’s
 Defense Ministry  said, in a further step toward driving the
militants out of the country.  Malian and African forces were being deployed to secure the
area around the city, about 590 miles (950 kilometers) northeast
of the capital, Bamako, following the overnight action by French
special forces, according to the ministry. French troops were
playing a supporting role after taking the airport and a bridge
over the River Niger to the south of the city, French military
spokesman  Thierry Burkhard  said by phone.  “Malian and French forces liberate Gao,” the ministry
said in its e-mailed statement today. “Several terrorist groups
battled with the French forces intervening in support of the
Malian army."  Rebel transport equipment and several logistic sites were
destroyed, according to the ministry.  France intervened in Mali on Jan. 11 after Islamist
fighters overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might
advance to Bamako. The French defense ministry said 3,700 French
soldiers are involved in the operation, including 2,500 on Mali
soil.  The mayor of Gao, Sadou Diallo, returned to the city after
having taken refugee in Bamako, the French Defense Ministry
said. Troops from Nigeria and  Chad  are arriving to take over
from the French forces in Gao, it said.  African Forces  African nations are deploying a force that may total as
many as 3,300 soldiers to aid the fight against the rebels, who
include Islamist militants and ethnic Touareg separatists, in
the country that gained independence from France in 1960.  West African nations have decided to increase their Mali
mission to 5,700 troops, General Shehu Abdulkadir, commander of
the African-led  international support mission to Mali, or
Afisma, said today in Abidjan,  Ivory Coast . Separately, Chad
also is sending 2,250 soldiers, Abdulkadir said.  A new contingent of African forces from Togo arrived
yesterday in the central town of San, Radio Mali reported,
citing Thierno Boubacar Cisse, the governor of Segou, with 209
soldiers joining Togolese troops already deployed there.  Nigerian troops started deploying on Jan. 17. President
President Goodluck Jonathan has offered 1,200 soldiers to join
the African force.  African Union Summit  African leaders start a two-day meeting Sunday, Jan. 27, in
the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, to discuss how to make sure
their force has enough resources to sustain a campaign against
insurgents who control the north of Mali. The force may cost
$300 million a year, the African Union Commission’s Peace and
Security Director, El-Ghassim Wane, told reporters Jan. 24.  Togo, Nigeria,  Burkina Faso , Guinea,  Senegal ,  Benin  and
Ghana have pledged to contribute troops to the African-led
force.  The insurgents took control of northern Mali, including the
historic town of Timbuktu, after a coup in March last year by
government soldiers complaining that they hadn’t received
weapons and vehicles to fight the rebels.  Mali vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-largest producer
of gold, with  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
among the companies operating in the country. It ranks 175th out
of 187 nations on the UN Human Development Index, which measures
indicators including literacy, income and gender equality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  