-- Kim Vows to Defend North Korea’s Dignity Against U.S. Hostility
-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2013-01-26T23:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/images-indicate-n-korea-s-state-of-readiness-for-nuclear-test.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
vowed to defend his country against hostility from the U.S.
after the totalitarian state said last week it will test a
nuclear weapon.  Kim supported government statements that “powerful
physical countermeasures would be taken to defend” the dignity
and sovereignty of the nation, the official Korean Central  News
Agency  reported late yesterday.  North  Korea  has probably made enough progress to test a
weapon in “a few weeks or less” once the leadership gives the
order, according to a  statement  posted on the  38north.org 
website of the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins School of
Advanced International Studies, where recent satellite photos
were analyzed.  North Korea on Jan. 24 threatened to test a nuclear weapons
to derail “hostile” U.S. policies, after the Obama
administration pushed through United Nations sanctions against
the country for launching a rocket last month. The White House
said the threat is “needlessly provocative” and will lead to
further isolation and sanctions.  Kim spoke at a meeting of foreign affairs and security
officials discussing events on the Korean Peninsula, KCNA said.
U.S. reaction to  North Korea ’s rocket “indicates that the U.S.
has reached its height in its anti-DPRK strategy,” the news
agency said, citing a report to the meeting. DPRK refers to the
country’s official name, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  Test Site  The Punggye-ri nuclear site, where previous detonations
were conducted in 2006 and 2009, may be in a continued state of
readiness, according to the 38north.org website. Analysis of the
area was based upon satellite imagery taken Jan. 23 and previous
images, it said.  “Snowfall and subsequent clearing operations as well as
tracks in the snow reveal ongoing activity at buildings and on
roadways near the possible test tunnel,” 38north reported.  A photo from Jan. 4 shows a group of personnel, troops or
security guards, in formation in the yard of the administrative
area near the test tunnel entrance, the institute said.  Imagery from Dec. 24 shows a new pile of material near the
command bunker in the same area, although the purpose of the
material remains unclear, 38north said. One possible explanation
is that it is intended for “stemming” or sealing the tunnel in
preparation for a detonation, it said. In the Jan. 23 image, the
size of the pile appears to be diminished.  Possible Deception  U.S. government officials have cautioned that North Korea
is aware that American reconnaissance satellites are monitoring
its nuclear, missile and other military sites, and often tries
to deceive them. Such deception succeeded in the case of the
December rocket launch that the officials said caught the U.S.
off guard after North Korea made it appear that it had delayed
the launch.  Kim has worked to bolster his legitimacy by continuing a
military-first policy while seeking to boost an impoverished
economy since inheriting the leadership from his late father in
December 2011. Six-nation talks on dismantling the North Korean
nuclear program, involving the U.S.,  China ,  South Korea ,  Japan ,
 Russia  and North Korea, haven’t convened since December 2008.  North Korea has enough plutonium to produce four to eight
basic nuclear weapons, according to estimates by Stanford
University nuclear scientist Siegfried Hecker, who visited North
Korea’s uranium-enrichment and other atomic facilities in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  