-- Obama Affirms Support for French in Mali in Hollande Call
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/obama-affirms-support-for-french-in-mali-in-hollande-call.html
President  Barack Obama  reiterated
U.S. support for France’s fight against Islamist militants in
Mali as part of a broader effort to strengthen security in North
Africa and the  Middle East , according to a White House
statement.  Obama spoke yesterday by telephone with French President
 Francois Hollande  as part of regular consultations on “shared
security concerns” that also include Algeria, Libya and  Syria ,
according to the e-mailed statement.  During the call, Hollande thanked Obama for U.S. assistance
to France in its battle against Islamic radicals and other
militants that have strengthened their hold over much of
northern Mali. The U.S. has agreed to supply French forces with
intelligence support, as well as logistical aid, including
airlift capability.  France  intervened on Jan. 11 after Islamist fighters
overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might advance
toward Bamako, the capital. The French Defense Ministry said
yesterday that 2,500 soldiers have arrived in the landlocked
West African country, which gained independence from France in
1960. African nations are deploying a force that may total as
many as 3,300 troops.  French and Malian forces pushed back Islamist rebels from
Diabaly, 425 kilometers (264 miles) north of Bamako and three
other towns this week.  At least 11,000 people have been forced from their homes by
the recent fighting, according to the United Nations Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. About 230,000 have
been displaced since the crisis began, the agency said Jan. 22.  In their call, Obama and Hollande also affirmed their
broader interest in containing terrorist groups, such as al-
Qaeda in the Islamic Magreb, blamed for a surge of violence in
North Africa. The two leaders also discussed the humanitarian
crisis in Syria and the need for a swift political transition
there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Niono, Mali at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  