-- Peru to Buy Back as Much as $2 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-01-26T15:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/peru-to-buy-back-as-much-as-2-billion-in-bonds.html
Peru  will buy back as much as $2
billion in international bonds next month, more than initially
planned, and the treasury will begin purchasing dollars to stem
the sol’s appreciation, Finance Minister Luis Castilla said.  Peru’s sol gained 5.7 percent last year, the best annual
performance since 2009, even after the central bank bought a
record $13.9 billion in the  spot market  to soak up excess
greenbacks. The currency reached a 16-year high this month.  “The great challenge we have right now is how to deal with
the entrance of capital into our country that’s making the
currency stronger,” Castilla said in an interview in Davos,
 Switzerland . “We aren’t opting for capital controls at the
moment. The central bank can continue intervening
aggressively.”  Peruvian officials are studying which securities to target
in the buyback and will seek to purchase $1 billion to $2
billion in foreign debt, he said. Castilla in December had said
Peru would purchase as much as $1.5 billion of foreign debt.  Peru’s central bank ruled out using  capital controls  to
stem the sol’s gain. Nations from  Russia  to  Chile  have warned of
another currency war to curb the appreciation of emerging-market
currencies as investors from developed markets plow money into
higher-yielding assets.  Silver, Copper  Peru is the largest producer of silver in the world and
third-largest in copper. Record foreign investment is fueling
the surge in the sol.  “The appreciation corresponds principally to fundamentals,
like foreign direct investment,” Castilla said. “Speculative
money is not the main reason, like in other markets.”  Peru’s economy expanded 6.3 percent last year and will grow
at a similar pace this year, as exports rebound and internal
demand continues to grow at about a 9 percent pace, he said. The
 budget surplus  was 2 percent last year and will be about 1
percent this year, according to the minister.  The yield on Peru’s dollar bond due in August 2020 has
dropped 190 basis points to 3.8 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  