-- Senate Democrats to Rework U.S. Immigration Law This Week
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-27T16:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/senate-democrats-to-rework-u-s-immigration-law-next-week.html
Senate Democrats plan to put forward
an immigration proposal this week, with President  Barack Obama 
telling Hispanic lawmakers that he intends to push legislation
as quickly as possible.  Obama this week will begin a public campaign to build
support for an immigration package that will include a pathway
to citizenship for the country’s 11 million undocumented
immigrants. A bipartisan group of six senators also plans to
release a detailed framework laying out their principals for a
bill as soon as the end of this week, Senate aides said.  The president “made it very clear that this is his number-
one legislative priority,” Democratic Representative Xavier Becerra of California said after meeting last week with Obama at
the White House. “In every sense of the word he is in the
starting gate.”  The immigration proposal will be the centerpiece of the
president’s planned stop on Jan. 29 in  Las Vegas , Nevada, a
state that Obama won in the last two elections and where
Hispanics make up 27 percent of the population.  Passage of a comprehensive immigration bill would fulfill a
promise Obama made in both of his presidential campaigns. He won
71 percent of Hispanic voters in his re-election victory. Last
June, he took executive action to halt deportations of young
people brought illegally to the U.S. as children and make them
eligible for work permits.  Since Obama won a second term, the administration has
intensified its work on a legislative plan with immigrant-rights
advocates, law-enforcement officials, and religious leaders who
support a change.  Senate Action  A bipartisan group of senators is working on a parallel
track to write a bill, and they may release an agreement as soon
as this week. White House officials and Democratic leaders are
negotiating over who will release their plan first, according to
congressional aides.  The Senate proposal will cover four major areas: border
enforcement, managing the future flow of immigrants to the U.S.,
workplace verification standards and a pathway for citizenship
for undocumented immigrants, Senate aides said. While
Republicans have pushed a piecemeal approach, taking up the
different components in separate bills, the legislation will be
comprehensive, the aides said.  Bipartisan Effort  The group includes Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of
 South Carolina ,  John McCain  of  Arizona  and Marco Rubio of
 Florida , along with Democrats Chuck Schumer of New York,  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois  and  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey , aides
said. Rubio, who’s been weighing whether to offer his own
legislation, joined the group after the election. Republican
Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, Democratic Senator Michael Bennet
of  Colorado  and Utah Republican Senator  Mike Lee  have also been
involved in the discussions, according to Senate aides.  “There is a new, I think, appreciation on both sides of
the aisle -- including maybe more importantly on the Republican
side of the aisle -- that we have to enact a comprehensive
immigration reform bill,” McCain said on ABC’s “This Week”
program today.  He said that, in addition to border enforcement, a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants has to be part of the
proposal, a view that was echoed by Durbin on “Fox News
Sunday.”  Hispanic Vote  “Look at the last election,” McCain said. “We are losing
dramatically the Hispanic vote, which we think should be ours,
for a variety of reasons, and we’ve got to understand that.”  Menendez said on “This Week” that Latino voters expect
citizenship to be a part of legislation.  “At one time, pathway to earned legalization was off the
table,” Menendez said. “We were talking about sending people
back as touchbacks, if they had any opportunity. That’s not
really being discussed. We’re making significant progress.”  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, plans to hold hearings on the
topic next month. The goal is for legislation to reach the
Senate floor by May or June.  While many Republicans in Congress have criticized creating
a system to grant citizenship to undocumented immigrants as an
amnesty for people who entered the U.S. illegally, the party has
softened its stance as Hispanic political clout has grown.  Minority Outreach  Former Republican National Committee Chairman  Haley Barbour 
said the nation needs to revamp immigration laws, including
citizenship for undocumented people, and he urged his party to
reach out to minorities or face more electoral losses.  “We’ve got to face up to some demographic issues” if
Republicans hope to win the White House in 2016, he said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  National exit polls showed 10 percent of the electorate was
Latino, compared with 9 percent four years ago and 8 percent in
2004. Hispanics constitute 16.7 percent of the total  U.S.
population , the largest ethnic or racial minority, according to
the Census Bureau.  Barbour, the former Mississippi governor, 65, said allowing
many of the illegal immigrants in the U.S. to stay makes
economic as well as political sense.  Economic Policy  “If we will follow what’s good economic policy, we will
recognize that we are in a global battle for capital and for
labor,” Barbour said. “We need the labor, not just H-1B visas
for PhDs and engineering from India, but also we need
agricultural labor.”  Technology companies, from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , have backed efforts to
make it easier for scientists and engineers from abroad to come
to the U.S.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said Obama will be
promoting the same set of proposals that were part of his
election campaign.  In his Jan. 21 inaugural address, Obama said the
immigration issue is tied to economic growth.  “Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to
welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America
as a land of opportunity, until bright young students and
engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled
from our country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  