-- Egypt’s National Defense Council May Declare Emergency
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-26T18:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/seven-dead-in-egypt-anniversary-clashes-injuring-hundreds.html
Egypt ’s National Defense Council
said it may declare a state of emergency and a curfew after
dozens of people died in violence between protesters and police
two years after the uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak .  The council, which is headed by President Mohamed Mursi and
includes the ministries of Defense and Interior, called for
national dialogue among politicians to end the crisis,
Information Minister Salah Abdel-Maqsoud said on state
television.  “The National Defense Council may declare the state of
emergency in the troubled areas,” he said. “The armed forces
don’t interfere in the political process, but in the meantime it
recognizes its national duty to secure the country’s vital
institutions.”  At least 30 people died and 312 were injured today in
clashes that erupted in Port Said after a court sentenced 21
defendants to death for their role in the nation’s worst-ever
soccer-related rioting, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported. Overnight battles between opponents of Mursi and
security forces, which followed yesterday’s demonstrations to
mark the two-year anniversary of the uprising, killed nine
people and injured 534 nationwide, the Health Ministry said.  The opposition National Salvation Front today called for
another round of protests against Mursi on Feb. 1 unless its
demands for a new government and constitutional amendments are
met.  Army Deployment  “The protests all across the country show opposition is
strong and the regime, which has been exclusionary, must
respond,” Hussein Abdel Ghani, a spokesman for the NSF, said in
a telephone interview. “This is a new wave for the revolution.
We will continue to call on Egyptians to use all legitimate and
peaceful means to make change.”  Soldiers were deployed in Suez, at the southern entrance of
the  Suez Canal , to protect state institutions,  Al Arabiya 
reported, citing state television, and in Port Said to halt the
clashes.  Today’s violence in Port Said after a criminal court handed
down sentences earlier today for those convicted of killing more
than 70 fans during a game on Feb. 1 between Port Said’s al-
Masri team and Cairo’s al-Ahly club.  A final verdict in the soccer case is scheduled for March
9. It will come after a review by the Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa,
Egypt’s highest religious authority, the court in Cairo said.  Prosecutor-General Talaat Ibrahim ordered his staff in
Ismaliya, Suez and Port Said to investigate the death of
protesters yesterday, according to e-mailed statement from his
office.  Expanding Powers  Mursi, a former member of the Muslim Brotherhood was
narrowly elected in June in a runoff against Mubarak’s last
premier. He’s fueled discontent by issuing decrees that
temporarily expanded his powers and pushing through ratification
of an Islamist-drafted constitution.  “The people decided to take to the streets to put the
revolution back on track,” said Emad Gad, a former lawmaker
with a secular party in the now-dissolved parliament’s lower
house. “Neither the president, nor the Muslim Brotherhood honor
any of the pledges they make.”  “Mursi is working for the Brotherhood and not for Egypt,”
Gad said.  Mursi has struggled to revive an economy that, since the
revolution, has  grown  at the slowest pace for two decades in the
two years since the revolution, as tourists and investors stayed
away. Authorities are battling to defend the pound, which has
plunged almost 7 percent in the past month. The central bank has
spent about 60 percent of its  foreign reserves  since the start
of 2011. The  budget deficit  exceeded 11 percent of economic
output last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  IMF Talks  While the government is in talks with the IMF on a $4.8
billion loan that officials say will boost investor confidence
and unlock more funds, the negotiations have repeatedly stalled
amid political bickering. An IMF delegation will arrive within
two weeks to “finalize” the deal, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil
said Jan. 24.  Ahmed Sobea, a media adviser for the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, said it was too early to judge Mursi,
especially given the challenges he inherited. He urged the
opposition to propose solutions and not put up obstacles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  