-- Singaporeans Vote for Parliament Representative in Test for Lee
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-01-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/singaporeans-vote-for-parliament-representative-in-test-for-lee.html
Singapore’s ruling party faces its
latest test in winning back support in a by-election, nearly two
years after its weakest performance at nationwide polls.  About 31,649 people, or 1.4 percent of the electorate, are
 expected  to vote today in Punggol East district. The seat in the
northeastern district fell vacant after Speaker of Parliament
Michael Palmer, a candidate from the ruling party who won with
54.5 percent of the vote in 2011, stepped down in December over
an extramarital affair. Polls close at 8 p.m. Singapore time.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s People’s Action Party is
struggling to hold on to support as record-high housing and
transport costs, public discontent over an influx of foreigners
and infrastructure strains weakened approval for the party. The
party retained power with 60.1 percent of the popular vote in
May 2011, the smallest margin since independence in 1965.  “It’s a litmus test, to what extent the PAP have support,
the backing of the people,” said  Terence Lee , an assistant
professor of political science at National University of
Singapore. “There is probably some amount of trust deficit.”  Candidates for the seat include surgeon  Koh Poh Koon  from
the PAP and sales trainer Lee Li Lian of the Workers’ Party, the
only opposition group with elected members in Parliament.
Desmond Lim from the Singapore Democratic Alliance and Kenneth
Jeyaretnam of the Reform Party are also contesting.  While today’s poll will test support for the government, it
won’t alter the balance in Parliament, where the PAP has 80 out
of 87 seats. The count for the party excludes the district being
contested today.  The election comes as the government struggles to cope with
a labor shortage brought on by tighter rules on foreign labor,
an aging population and quickening  inflation .  Since the 2011 polls, the administration has raised
property taxes for non-Singaporeans, cut ministerial pay and
speeded up construction of housing. Lee also made permanent a
program to provide cash, utility rebates and medical funds for
the elderly and low-income households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  