-- Luton Knocks Norwich of Premier League Out of F.A. Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-26T19:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/luton-knocks-premier-league-s-norwich-out-of-soccer-s-f-a-cup.html
Luton Town produced a F.A. Cup
fourth-round upset when the club from English soccer’s fifth
tier beat Norwich of the Premier League 1-0.  Scott Rendell scored the only goal at Norwich’s Carrow
Road. Luton is in sixth place in the Football Conference Premier
League, 85 places below Norwich in the English rankings.  “It’s a wonderful day for this football club,” Luton
manager Paul Buckle said on the club’s  website . “The players
deserve all the plaudits because it was an unbelievable
performance that will go down in history.”  Queens Park Rangers, sitting at the bottom of the Premier
League, were also knocked out by a lower-level opponent, while
fellow top flight rivals  Manchester City , Arsenal and Everton
had to rely on late goals to advance.  Manchester United , the
record 11-time F.A. Cup winner, beat Fulham 4-1.  Luton becomes the first non-league team to win an away game
over a Premier League team and the seventh to reach the fifth
round of  England ’s top club competition since World War Two,
according to the F.A. website.  Norwich had an 11-6 advantage in shots, with a Leon Barnett
header hitting the post in the first half and Luton goalkeeper
Mark Tyler saving  Grant Holt ’s close-range shot in the second
half.  Winning Goal  But Luton took the lead with 10 minutes remaining as JJ
O’Donnell made a run down the left side and sent a cross to
Rendell, who directed the ball into the top corner of the net.  “It hasn’t really sunk in yet, to score the winning goal
in the F.A. Cup against a Premier League club,” Rendell said in
a televised interview. “It’s fantastic to be part of history.”  Milton Keynes Dons, which plays in third-tier League One,
scored twice in each half to win 4-2 at QPR.  The Dons took the lead on Armand Traore’s own goal in the
fourth minute and Ryan Lowe doubled the advantage just before
halftime. Ryan Harley and Darren Potter scored six minutes apart
early in the second half made it 4-0 before QPR got two late
consolation goals.  Pablo Zabaleta ’s goal in the 85th minute gave Manchester
City a 1-0 win over Stoke in a matchup of Premier League clubs,
while Johnny Heitinga scored in the 90th minute as Everton won
2-1 at Bolton.  Theo Walcott’s goal with five minutes left gave Arsenal a
3-2 win at Reading. Olivier Giroud scored twice for the Gunners.
 Javier Hernandez  scored two goals, with  Ryan Giggs  and  Wayne Rooney  adding one each, as Manchester United routed Fulham.  No Upset  Non-league Macclesfield was unable to upset Premier League
opposition, falling 1-0 to Wigan on Jordi Gomez’s first-half
penalty kick. Reading routed Sheffield United 4-0 as Noel Hunt
scored twice, while Lukas Jutkiewicz netted in the 83rd and 90th
minutes to give Middlesbrough a 2-1 home win over Aldershot.  In matchups of teams from the second-tier Championship,
Chris Dagnall’s goal gave Barnsley a 1-0 win at Hull, Blackburn
was a comfortable 3-0 winner at Derby, and Huddersfield and
Leicester drew 1-1 to set up a replay.  Three Premier League clubs all play away games at lower-
level teams tomorrow. Chelsea and Liverpool visit League One
clubs Brentford and Oldham, respectively, while Tottenham goes
to Leeds of the Championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 