-- Chavez Orders Move to Boost Venezuela’s Exports, Maduro Says
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-01-26T23:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/venezuela-to-announce-chavez-economic-decisions-maduro-says-1-.html
Venezuela ’s cancer-stricken
President  Hugo Chavez , who still has breathing problems,
approved from Cuba an economic plan to boost exports that will
be announced this weekend, said Vice President  Nicolas Maduro .  “Chavez reviewed the budget, financing, economic
development and the theme of promoting exporters,” Maduro said
on state television at about 12:30 a.m. in Caracas, after
returning from  Havana . “We’re going to develop the export
capacity of our economy, and not just through our great oil
enterprise.”  The measures will allow the government to manage its budget
in a way that will ensure the implementation of social and
development policies this year, he said, without providing
details. Chavez, whose status is now “favorable,” has overcome
a lung infection even as breathing problems continue after a
Dec. 11 surgery in Havana that aimed to extract a malignant
lesion in his pelvis, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said
today on state television.  The economic plan may include the devaluation of the
currency to help Venezuela pare the world’s second-largest
budget deficit, said  Asdrubal Oliveros , the director of Caracas-
based financial consulting firm Ecoanalitica, after listening to
Maduro’s comment. Economists at banks from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to Barclays Plc have said that it’s inevitable to devalue
the currency to prevent a recession.  “Clearly, when you talk about stimulating the export
market, you’re talking about the  exchange rate ,” Oliveros said
in a phone interview today. “For political reasons, the
government won’t talk about a devaluation.”  Timid devaluation  The government may employ a “timid” devaluation to get
them through 2013, said Oliveros.  While a weaker bolivar would swell government revenue by
increasing the bolivar-based value of the country’s oil exports,
it would risk pushing up consumer prices that are already rising
20 percent a year.  Barclays’ Alejandro Grisanti, Goldman Sach’s  Alberto Ramos 
and HSBC Holdings Plc’s Ramiro Blazquez predicted earlier this
month the government will weaken the bolivar as much as 50
percent by March 31. Still, they said the power vacuum created
by Chavez’s absence could delay the decision.  Chavez, who is being treated for an undisclosed type of
cancer, hasn’t been seen in public since his fourth cancer-
related surgery last month.  The former paratrooper is now receiving complementary
medical treatments for the cancer, Villegas said.  “He has a smile and a face full of light,” Maduro said in
his midnight speech. “He’s optimistic and full of faith.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 