-- Venezuela Government to Investigate Prison Riot After 54 Die
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-01-26T22:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/venezuela-government-to-investigate-prison-riot-after-54-die.html
Venezuela ’s government will conduct
an investigation into a prison riot that left at least 54 dead
and 93 injured, Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said.  Fighting broke out yesterday between guards and inmates
prior to a planned search of the Uribana prison in the western
state of Lara, Maduro said early today.  “There was a situation of tragic confusion that we greatly
regret,” Maduro said on state television. “The plan to reform
our prisons will continue to ensure they aren’t ruled by
violence, Mafia, drugs and death, as they have been for a long
time.”  Prisons Minister Iris Varela said the riot occurred after
local media alerted inmates to the imminent search for weapons
by prison guards. Interior Ministry spokesman Jorge Galindo
didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  The government, which began moving inmates to other
prisons, will evacuate Uribana, Varela said today in a televised
press conference.  “We exhort the Uribana inmates to quickly collaborate in
the evacuation to eradicate this chapter of violence,” Varela
said.  Riots at Venezuela’s Yare I prison left at least 20 dead in
August 2012, underscoring conditions of crowding and rivalries
between criminal gangs, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Uribana, designed to hold 850 prisoners, houses 1,400,
according to Venezuelan Prisons Observatory, a watchdog agency.
At least 22 inmates died in rioting at Uribana in 2007.  “Our country’s prisons are an example of the incapacity of
this government and its leaders, who never solved the problem,”
Opposition leader Henrique Capriles wrote on his Twitter
account. “How many more deaths do there have to be in the
prisons for the government to acknowledge its failure and make
changes?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  