-- Volvo to Invest in Truck Venture With China’s Dongfeng Motor
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-26T06:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/volvo-to-invest-in-truck-making-venture-with-china-s-dongfeng.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB)  agreed to pay 5.6 billion
 yuan  ($890 million) for a minority stake in the commercial
vehicle unit of China’s  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) , a transaction
the Swedish company said will make it the world largest maker of
heavy-duty trucks.  Volvo, the world’s second-biggest truck manufacturer, will
hold a 45 percent share of the unit, which will make and sell
Dongfeng-brand trucks, buses and so-called special-purpose
vehicles, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based company said in a
statement before a press conference in Beijing today.  Volvo is expanding in China as manufacturing in the world’s
second-biggest economy grows at the fastest rate in two years,
according to a survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Market Economics.
Truck deliveries are forecast to rise to 3.33 million units this
year after two annual declines, according to the  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  “China is the world’s largest truck market with a total
market for heavy trucks equivalent to the European and North
American markets combined,” Olof Persson, chief executive
officer of Volvo, said at the press conference. The venture will
improve Volvo’s position in the Chinese market and help it to
become more globally competitive, he said.  Dongfeng Motor, China’s second-biggest automaker by vehicle
sales, makes passenger cars with Nissan Motor Co., Honda Motor
Co. and PSA Peugeot Citroen in China. In an e-mailed statement
today, Nissan said it agreed to the divestment of the medium and
heavy commercial vehicle business unit of its joint venture with
Dongfeng.  Outside China    “The alliance will help Dongfeng go outside of China,”
Zhu Fushou, president of the Chinese company, said at the press
conference. “It will also help reinforce branding impact of
Volvo in China.”  Dongfeng will have four places on the seven-member board of
the venture and Volvo three, according to the statement.
Dongfeng will nominate the managing director, while Volvo will
designate the chief financial officer.  Completion of the deal is subject to regulatory approvals
and is expected within a year, Volvo said.  --Tian Ying and William Bi. Editors:  Garry Smith , Stanley James  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  