-- Vonn Wins World Cup Giant Slalom as Paris Takes Downhill
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-26T16:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/vonn-wins-world-cup-giant-slalom-as-paris-takes-men-s-downhill.html
Lindsey Vonn  of the U.S. won today’s
women’s  World Cup  skiing giant slalom, as  Italy ’s Dominik Paris
took the men’s downhill.  Vonn, 28, had a combined time of 2 minutes, 22.20 seconds
over two runs on the Pohorje run in Maribor, Slovenia, to beat
local favorite and World Cup leader Tina Maze by 0.08 seconds,
with Austria’s Anna Fenninger 0.57 second back in third.  Vonn was third after the first run, nearly a half-second
behind leader Maze. She then posted the fastest second-run time
of 1:09.42, while Maze finished in 1:09.98, to earn her sixth
World Cup victory of the season and her first in the giant
slalom since March 2012.  “ I skied well the first run, but I didn’t ski the bottom
very well,” Vonn said on the U.S. Ski Team’s website. ‘In the
second run I just said ’Ok, it’s all or nothing, I have to go
for it.’’’  The win moves Vonn, a four-time World Cup champion, within
three of Austrian Annemarie Moser-Proell’s record of 62 women’s
World Cup victories.  Maze increased her lead in the overall World Cup standings
to 748 points over German Maria Hoefl-Riesch, who was fourth
today, while Vonn jumped over Fenninger into third place.  Paris took the men’s downhill in Kitzbuehel,  Austria , over
Canada’s Eric Guay and Austria’s Hannes Reichelt.  Paris’s time of 1:57.66 on the Streif course was 0.13
seconds faster than Guay and 0.36 better than Reichelt. It was
Paris’s second downhill win of the season, after tying Reichelt
for first place in Bormio, Italy, in December.  “I really didn’t expect it,” Paris said on the World Cup
website. “Winning Kitzbuehel is something I wanted to do since
I was about six years old.”  The victory also moved Paris to the top of the downhill
standings over Aksel Lund Svindal of  Norway . Svindal, who won
yesterday’s super-G race, finished ninth today.  Austria’s Marcel Hirscher, who didn’t race the downhill,
continues to lead the overall standings by 59 points over
Svindal.  The women will race a slalom tomorrow in Maribor, as the
men run combined and slalom races in Kitzbuehel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 