-- Twitter Is Said to Be Worth $9 Billion as BlackRock Buys Shares
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-26/twitter-is-said-to-be-worth-9-billion-as-blackrock-buys-shares.html
Twitter Inc. was valued at about $9
billion after early employees sold $80 million in shares to a
fund managed by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , three people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The sales were overseen by Twitter Chief Operating Officer
Ali Rowghani, said one of the people yesterday, who asked not to
be identified because the transactions were private.  Twitter is helping early shareholders realize part of the
value of their holdings while letting select investors obtain
equity in the fast-growing  Internet company  before it holds an
initial public offering. The deal with BlackRock, the largest
 money manager , marks an increase in the blog-site’s value since
2011, when an investment led by DST Global valued Twitter at $8
billion, people with knowledge of the plan said then.  Farrell Denby, a spokesman for New York-based BlackRock,
declined to comment yesterday, as did  Gabriel Stricker , a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter.  Rowghani, who was promoted from the role of finance chief
last month, has taken an active role in lining up buyers for
shares, according to the person with knowledge of the matter. In
doing so, he may seek to limit pressure on Twitter’s valuation
that could result from employees dumping a large amount of stock
after post-IPO “lockups” on their shares are lifted. A tighter
rein on who holds stock can also limit the amount of inside
information circulated ahead of an IPO.  The close involvement of Twitter in private-share sales is
a shift from the freewheeling marketplace for shares of Facebook
Inc. that arose before the social network’s 2012 public
offering.  Confidential Data  On websites such as SecondMarket Inc. and SharesPost Inc.,
Facebook shares were traded freely among employees and investors
with little intervention from the company -- often resulting in
the exchange of confidential data about its financials and daily
projections on its valuation that loomed over the IPO.  By contrast, Rowghani and his team have turned away many
potential buyers and limited access to Twitter’s financials to a
select few investors, a person said.  Twitter, founded in 2006, has sought to limit private-share
sales in the past. In 2011, the company asked shareholders to
refrain from selling on Web exchanges, two people said at the
time.  The company allocated half of its $800 million investment
from DST for buying shares back from employees and investors,
people said at the time. Twitter hasn’t disclosed plans for a
public-market debut, though Rowghani’s promotion was a possible
precursor to an eventual IPO filing.  BlackRock’s purchase and Twitter’s valuation were
previously reported by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  