-- ‘Obama’s America’ Director Emulates Moore to Boost Movie
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/-obama-s-america-director-emulates-moore-to-boost-movie.html
With his election-year release of
“2016: Obama’s America,” commentator Dinesh D’Souza is
borrowing the strategy of a political opposite,  Michael Moore ,
to promote the critical documentary film.  Touted by radio host  Rush Limbaugh  and the  Hoover
Institution ’s Thomas Sowell, “Obama’s America” has been
building momentum since opening in a single Houston theater in
July. This weekend it expands to 1,090 locations and is expected
to take in $5.8 million, probably enough to reach the top 10,
according to Boxoffice.com, an industry researcher.  D’Souza, who based the documentary on his best-selling 2010
book “The Roots of Obama’s Rage,” was thinking about Moore’s
successful marketing of “Fahrenheit 9/11,” the documentary
about the administration of former President  George W. Bush ,
released during the 2004 election year, as he developed
“Obama’s America.”  “You had a controversial president, Bush, you had one half
the country on the fence and Michael Moore dropped the film
right in the middle of the national debate,” D’Souza said in an
interview. “I thought, now the conditions look eerily similar,
so I’ll take a page out of Michael Moore’s book.”  The  film , made for $2.5 million, is resonating with a
conservative audience energized by President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election battle against Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , said
Phil Contrino, editor of Boxoffice.com. “Obama’s America” led
all films in advance ticket sales yesterday on Fandango.com, the
online ticket vendor, the company said.  “Obama’s America” is benefiting from the timing of its
expansion, three days before the opening of the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida .  ‘Energized’ Audience  “Voters around the country understand that President
Obama’s policies have not made things better, and they are
energized at the thought of replacing him with someone who can
turn this economy around,” said Andrea Saul, a Romney
spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Obama’s campaign didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Sales of $5.8 million would lift the film to No. 10 for
U.S. weekend ticket sales, according to Boxoffice.com. It also
would make “Obama’s America” the sixth best-performing
political documentary of all time, ahead of actor-writer  Ben Stein ’s “Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed,” according to Box
Office Mojo, another industry researcher.  “Obama’s America” examines the influences that shaped the
president’s view of America’s place in the world, including his
years as a youth living in Indonesia and his father’s
imprisonment by British colonial authorities in Kenya. D’Souza
concludes those events led Obama to seek a diminished world role
for the U.S.  ‘Fahrenheit 9/11’  “I’m not suggesting he hates America,” D’Souza said.
“I’m just saying that he subscribes to an ideology, that he
wants to see a smaller American footprint in the world.”  “Fahrenheit 9/11,” opening a few months before the 2004
election, criticized the Bush administration’s handling of the
war on terror, including the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq.  “Obama’s America” was produced by Gerald Molen, also a
producer on  Steven Spielberg ’s “Schindler’s List” and
“Jurassic Park.” It is being distributed by Salt Lake City-
based Rocky Mountain Pictures, which distributed 2011’s “ Atlas
Shrugged ,” based on the novel by  Ayn Rand .  D’Souza and Molen raised the movie’s production budget from
about 25 investors. They raised $7.5 million more for marketing,
for a total investment of about $10 million.  Scratching ‘Itch’  Although D’Souza would welcome a profit, it wasn’t his
goal, he said. Typically the producers of independent films
receive about half of box-office revenue after distribution
fees.  “We made the film because of ideas,” he said. “At the
same time, we wanted to have a sensible business plan.”  “Obama’s America won’t come close to matching the sales of
‘‘Fahrenheit 9/11,” the top documentary of all time with $119.2
million in domestic revenue, according to Contrino.  “But there is a strong anti-Obama feeling in conservative
circles, and this is going to scratch that itch,” he said.  There is also little competition. Late August is typically
a slow time for cinema attendance because studios already have
released their big summer movies, according to  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office.  “The Expendables 2,” from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
is expected to repeat as the top film this weekend with $14
million in revenue, the estimate of reesarcher Boxoffice.com.  “A movie that, earlier in the summer, would have been
completely lost in the shuffle now is getting talked about,” he
said. “It’s all about timing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  