-- ‘Premium Rush’ Spins Wheels; LaBeouf; ‘White Lies’: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/-premium-rush-spins-wheels-labeouf-white-lies-film.html
Joseph Gordon-Levitt goes nowhere
fast in  “Premium Rush,”  a chase movie coasting on bikes and
borrowed ideas.  “I like to ride,” says Gordon-Levitt’s daredevil bike
messenger Wilee. “Fixed gear. No brakes. Can’t stop. Don’t want
to.”  Dodging cabs, pedestrians and the “gray business suit”
future he ditched for the road, Wilee (as in Wile E. Coyote,
apparently for his ability to walk from disaster unscathed) is
the film’s two-wheeled answer to  Tom Cruise ’s  “Top Gun” 
Maverick.  He even has his very own Iceman, a rival messenger named
Manny (Wole Parks) who desires Wilee’s girlfriend (Dania
Ramirez) and envies his hot dog status among  New York ’s peddling
class.  Directed (and co-written with John Kamps) by David Koepp
(“ Ghost Town ”), “Premium Rush” pads its Manhattan chase
scenes and bike-on-car smash-ups with a standard-issue plot.  An unwitting Wilee must deliver a mysterious package for a
friend, destination Chinatown, with a corrupt cop in pursuit (a
comically ranting  Michael Shannon , eyes popping and neck veins
bulging).  With a traffic jam of coincidences and screenwriting
contrivances, “Premium Rush” pulls out one chase-movie cliche
after another. Horrified extras dive out of the way, ambling
deliverymen block roads with their cargo (no large panes of
glass, but close enough), a stroller-pushing mom risks a
crosswalk.  Fast Bikers  It’s all impressively filmed, with much of the breakneck
biking footage shot from the rider’s perspective (including the
gruesome, imagined crash scenarios that race through Wilee’s
head as he makes split-second, high-speed decisions in heavy
traffic).  But the thrill of riding shotgun with the zig-zagging
bikers exhausts itself halfway to Chinatown.  “Premium Rush,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  ‘Lawless’  If “ Lawless ” was the TV miniseries it should have been
(and looks like), a few episodes just might have been terrific.  But this saga of Prohibition era moonshiners, the women
they love and the revenuers they don’t is aimless and overlong,
an uneasy mix of dusty authenticity and hipster cool.  Based very loosely on real events (as recounted and
imagined in Matt Bondurant’s fictionalized family history “The
Wettest County in the World”), “Lawless” stars  Shia LaBeouf ,
 Tom Hardy  and Jason Clarke as the Virginia mountain’s
bootlegging Bondurant brothers.  Already near legendary for their quality moonshine and
seeming invincibility, the Bondurants refuse to bow down to
gangsters ( Gary Oldman , Dillinger-like) or share profits with
the corrupt agent Charlie Rakes (Guy Pearce, a dandified city
slicker with shaved eyebrows and a sadistic streak.  “Lawless,” directed by John Hillcoat (“ The Road ”) from
a script by musician Nick Cave, focuses mostly on Jack
(LaBeouf), the sensitive brother with a knack for business.  Jack’s intermittent narration does little to hold the
ambling, picaresque “Lawless” together, though his wooing of a
local preacher’s daughter (Mia Wasikowska) gives the film heart.  With a Kevin Costner scowl, Hardy plays the gruff,
domineering middle brother, and his reluctance with an admiring
waitress (Jessica Chastain) seems contrived mostly as an homage
to Warren Beatty’s impotent  Clyde Barrow  from “Bonnie and
Clyde.”  Like that 1967 classic, “Lawless” is enamored of
Depression style, though to much lesser effect. There’s a too-
cool artsiness here, from the studied threadbare costumes and
“ Boardwalk Empire ” haircuts, to a soundtrack that features
bluegrass legend Ralph Stanley singing the Velvet Underground’s
“White Light, White Heat.”  “Lawless,” from the Weinstein Company, opens August 29
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Little White Lies’  The French “ Little White Lies ” takes the formula “ The
Big Chill ” introduced three decades ago -- old friends
reuniting to rock and roll -- and applies it to a group of good-
looking Parisians who vacation together every summer.  The writer-director, Guillaume Canet, gives them all
crises. One married couple is no longer clicking. Two of the
guys are having girlfriend problems. One of the women has
intimacy issues. One of the men has panicked another with a
declaration of love.  Golden Oldies  Canet doesn’t know what to do with these situations: When
he tries to resolve them the movie feels pat, and when he
doesn’t it feels incomplete.  The script doesn’t explain what connects the group or why
they’ve assembled around Max, an uptight hotelier who’s a
generation older than his guests and lords over them by
reminding them how much they’re costing him.  But the actors -- who include Francois Cluzet as Max,
 Marion Cotillard  and (in a small but pivotal role) Jean Dujardin  To contact the writers on the story:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 