-- Abbott’s Humira May Not Be Effective in Colitis, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-24T20:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/abbott-s-humira-may-not-be-effective-in-colitis-fda-says.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ rheumatoid
arthritis drug Humira, the company’s top-selling product, may
not be effective in treating ulcerative colitis in patients who
don’t respond to conventional therapies, U.S. regulators said.  While two trials on Humira’s use for moderate to severe
ulcerative colitis met the studies’ goals, Food and Drug
Administration staff in a  report  today questioned the “clinical
meaningfulness” of a difference between patients’ reaction to
the drug and a placebo. The staff also said limitations to the
studies “introduced uncertainty” to the results.  “We question if there is sufficient evidence to suggest
that Humira would offer any clinical advantage in any particular
sub-population” for the inflammatory bowel disease, the staff
said.  Agency advisers may take the staff report into account when
they meet Aug. 28 to consider expanding approval of Humira,
cleared in 2002 as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. The
medicine generated $8 billion in sales last year for Abbott and
competes with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Remicade, which is cleared to
treat rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative colitis.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
is studying its experimental rheumatoid arthritis pill
tofacitinib in the bowel disease as well.  Unlike Remicade, which requires a doctor to administer the
medicine intravenously, Humira can be self-injected, John
Medich, head of clinical development for immunology at  Abbott
Park , Illinois-based Abbott, said in a telephone interview.  Abbott  rose  less than 1 percent to $65.84 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 17 percent this year.  Safety Risks  The risks with Humira are similar to those of Remicade,
which are both TNF-antagonists and carry a boxed warning for
serious infections such as tuberculosis and for malignancies.  Ulcerative colitis causes inflammation and ulceration in
the lining of the colon or large intestine and affects 700,000
people in the U.S., according to Abbott. Conventional
medications include corticosteroids and immunosuppressants.  Of the 248 ulcerative colitis patients treated with Humira
in an Abbott study, 17 percent achieved clinical remission
compared with 8.5 percent who took a placebo after a year, the
company said in a May 2011 statement. Clinical remission is
measured on a scale that evaluates stool frequency, rectal
bleeding and ulcers sighted during endoscopy.  FDA staff acknowledged the benefit of convenience with
Humira over Remicade, while questioning whether “moving
patients from an effective treatment to potentially less
effective treatment, while still exposing them to the comparable
serious safety risks, is a concern.”  Abbott expects the FDA to make a decision on wider use of
Humira by the end of the year, Medich said.  FDA listed additional data that may increase confidence in
Humira to treat ulcerative colitis, including exploration of a
higher dose and demonstration of benefit to a subgroup of
patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  