-- LabCorp Seen Luring Buyout Before Health-Care Revamp
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-24T20:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/labcorp-seen-luring-buyout-before-health-care-revamp.html
Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings 
is offering one of the biggest bargains to private-equity firms
searching for health-care deals before a government-mandated
overhaul adds millions of new customers.  The provider of medical tests trades for 11.8 times
analysts’ 2013 earnings projections, the second-lowest level
among U.S. health-care-services companies valued at more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On Aug. 1, its
shares rallied the most since 2008 amid optimism a private-
equity firm was considering a deal, and they have held most of
that  gain  even after  LabCorp (LH)  said it wasn’t in discussions.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will extend
health-care coverage to 32 million Americans, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office . Piper Jaffray Cos. says that will
boost demand for tests because 70 percent of doctor visits
result in one, making LabCorp an alluring target for a leveraged
buyout. An acquirer probably needs to pay at least $106 a share,
or 21 percent more than yesterday’s close, Maxim Group LLC said.  “I see the Affordable Care Act as a positive for this
company, and I’m sure private equity does as well,”  Anthony Vendetti , a New York-based analyst for Maxim Group, said in a
telephone interview. “Would it make sense for private equity to
look at LabCorp? My answer is a resounding ‘Yes.’”  Stephen Anderson , a spokesman for Burlington, North
Carolina-based LabCorp, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call or e-mail seeking comment.  Takeover Speculation  LabCorp’s stock rose 4.5 percent to $87.90 on Aug. 1 after
Debtwire, without identifying the source of the information,
said the company may be acquired by a private-equity group and
that Bank of America Corp. was leading efforts to raise capital
to fund the buyout.  Following the report, LabCorp issued a statement saying it
“has no knowledge of any such plans and is not in current
discussions with any firms to effect such a transaction.”  Diagnostic testing businesses such as LabCorp may benefit
when the health-care law goes into effect, said Kevin Ellich, a
Minneapolis-based analyst for Piper Jaffray. The law, backed by
President  Barack Obama  and upheld by the  Supreme Court  in June,
expands access to health care. That will lead to more doctor
visits and lab work, Ellich said.  The baby-boomer generation -- people born between 1946 and
1964 -- started turning 65 last year, which has led to an influx
of Medicare enrollment. That may also spur growth for testing
companies, Ellich said.  “What’s attractive about the lab industry is you’ve got an
aging population and you’ve got health-care reform coming,” he
said. “LabCorp would stand to pick up some of that volume.”  Lower Valuation  Even with the shares yesterday closing 64 percent above the
three-year low reached in March 2009, LabCorp’s  valuation  versus
2013 earnings estimates is less than eight of the nine other
health-care-services stocks trading above $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Only  Chemed Corp. (CHE)  is cheaper, and
its  operations  aren’t confined to health care given its
ownership of the Roto-Rooter plumbing company.  Today, LabCorp rose 1.5 percent, the most since the Aug. 1
rally, to $88.84.  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX)  has the group’s third-lowest
multiple at 12 times next year’s earnings, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. Both Quest and LabCorp make tests
that screen everything from allergies to cholesterol levels and
various diseases.  Maxim’s Vendetti said that while Quest controls a larger
share of the market, LabCorp’s growth potential makes it a more
attractive acquisition target. LabCorp is  projected  to grow
revenue by 9.4 percent through 2014, while Quest’s sales will
increase 5.2 percent, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Slight Advantage’  “If I were to choose between the two companies, I would
choose LabCorp if I were a private-equity guy,” he said.
“LabCorp has the slight advantage in terms of being more
attractively valued.”  A phone call and e-mail to Madison, New Jersey-based
Quest’s media relations office wasn’t immediately returned.  Private-equity firms may be attracted to LabCorp’s free
 cash flow , said  Jason Gurda , a New York-based analyst for
Leerink Swann LLC.  In the last 12 months, the company’s operations generated
 $700 million  of cash after deducting capital expenses, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It also earned 19 cents of operating
profit for every dollar of sales, giving it the industry’s
second-highest margin over that span, the data show.  “It could be an attractive LBO candidate,” Gurda said in
a phone interview. “It’s a stable, high-margin business with
great cash flows.”  Potential Prices  A buyer would probably need to pay at least $106 a share
for LabCorp, which closed yesterday at $87.51, according to
Maxim’s Vendetti. Piper Jaffray’s Ellich sees the potential for
a price exceeding $100. At $102, private-equity firms could
achieve an internal rate of return of about 20 percent, he said.
Citigroup Inc.’s Gary Taylor wrote in a July 31 report that
buyout firms could spend up to $100.  “We value LabCorp at around $115 a share and we wouldn’t
be excited about parting with it at a price lower than that,”
David Perkins, a  fund manager  for Omaha, Nebraska-based Wallace
R. Weitz & Co., which oversees $4.5 billion including LabCorp
shares, said in a telephone interview.  With $8.4 billion in market capitalization, LabCorp may be
too large for private-equity buyers, said Brian Tanquilut, a
Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst with Jefferies Group Inc.  ‘Too Big’  Including the company’s $1.99 billion in net debt, LabCorp
would be the biggest leveraged buyout since 2007, even without
the buyer paying a premium, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
would also surpass Richard Schulze’s $7.59 billion offer this
month to take Best Buy Co. private, which is poised to be the
retail industry’s largest leveraged buyout, the data show.  “It’s too big,” Tanquilut said in a phone interview.
“You need at least $100 a share to take it out. The leverage
you have to put on the balance sheet to get there would be on
the high side of what debt people are willing to do right now.”  The government-mandated reorganization of the health-care
industry may actually hurt LabCorp, according to  Les Funtleyder ,
a fund manager focused on the health-care industry at  New York- 
based Poliwogg. Laboratory testing rates are likely to fall as
insurance companies and hospitals seek to reduce costs, he said.  “There is an argument to be made that we are over-
tested,” he said. “Under most cost-control scenarios, that
would be one of the first things to go.”  Lower Leverage  LabCorp’s cash generation may convince a private-equity
buyer to consider the company, as might its relatively unlevered
balance sheet, Perkins said. The company’s debt amounts to 1.6
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization,  less  than the 2.4 level at Quest.  “Private-equity businesses tend to look for really stable
cash flows without a lot of cyclicality, and LabCorp would
certainly fit that bill,” he said. Also, the U.S. health-care
overhaul, by increasing the number of people seeing doctors,
makes the company more attractive, Perkins added. “This is a
fairly fixed-cost-driven business, so those additional volumes
are valuable in terms of earnings and cash flow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  