-- ABN Expects Bad-Loan Provisions to Rise as Profit Falls 13%
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-08-24T09:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/abn-expects-bad-loan-provisions-to-rise-as-profit-falls-13-1-.html
ABN Amro  Group NV, the Dutch lender
nationalized following Fortis’s collapse in 2008, said rising
bad-loan provisions will hurt earnings over the remainder of the
year after reporting a 13 percent drop in first-half profit.  Net income fell to 745 million euros ($934 million) from
856 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based bank said
in a statement today. ABN Amro said it won’t pay an interim
dividend, given the uncertain economic environment and as it
prepares for stricter  capital requirements .  ABN Amro said impairments on loans, mainly to companies in
the construction, real estate and retail industries, rose 79
percent to 554 million euros in the first half. The company
derives 83 percent of its operating income from the Netherlands,
where the economy may shrink 0.5 percent this year, according to
a forecast this week from the country’s planning agency CPB.  “The recession, which started in the second half of 2011,
continues to impact the Dutch economy,” ABN Amro Chairman
Gerrit Zalm said in the statement. “For the remainder of 2012
we expect markets to remain subdued, loan impairments to
increase further and banking tax to have a significant impact.”  The bank levy, which the Dutch Parliament’s upper house
adopted last month, will cut profit by about 100 million euros,
ABN said. The government expects the tax to raise a total of 600
million euros.  Loan Impairments  Net interest income at ABN Amro, which includes Fortis’s
former Dutch banking assets, fell 2 percent to 2.5 billion
euros, while fee and commission dropped 19 percent to 788
million euros as market turmoil reduced transaction volumes.  Loan impairments in the second quarter almost doubled to
367 million euros from the preceding three months and were
mostly in the commercial and merchant banking units, ABN Amro
said. Impairment charges on mortgages rose “slightly” quarter
on quarter, it said.  The firm’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of a bank’s
financial strength, rose to 11.9 percent at the end of June from
10.7 percent at the end of 2011 after a settlement with Belgian
insurer Ageas of legal disputes related to the break-up of their
predecessor Fortis.  ABN Amro’s dividend target of 40 percent of net income
still stands, Chief Financial Officer Jan van Rutte told
reporters today. A decision on the full-year dividend will be
taken after the 2012 results are known, he said. The bank paid
out 250 million euros last year.  State Ownership  The Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance
units and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV in 2008 after the
company ran out of short-term funding. Following a 30 billion-
euro bailout, Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager has
indicated he plans to sell ABN Amro shares in 2014 at the
earliest, preferably through a stock exchange listing.  Permanent state ownership is undesirable, Zalm said today,
adding that the government will probably sell the lender in
tranches.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  Spain ’s  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  and Fortis bought ABN Amro in 2007 for about 72 billion euros
in the world’s biggest banking takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  