-- Thai Baht Rises This Week, Bonds Fall as Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-24T08:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/thai-baht-rises-this-week-bonds-fall-as-growth-beats-estimates.html
Thailand’s baht completed its
biggest weekly advance since February and  government bonds  fell
after a report showed the economy expanded more than economists
estimated in the second quarter.  Gross domestic product increased 4.2 percent from a year
earlier, more than the 3.1 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey,
an Aug. 20 report showed. Global funds bought $86 million more
government debt than they sold this week through yesterday,
according to data from the Thai Bond Market Association. Chinese
central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said this week adjustments
to  interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements “can’t be
ruled out,” while minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last
meeting showed support for further monetary easing.  “The stronger GDP data was additional support for the baht
this week amid not-so-bad risk sentiment due to some monetary
stimulus speculation,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at
Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Some funds are
flowing into the  bond market , which is supportive for the
baht.”  The baht climbed 0.9 percent this week to 31.23 per dollar
as of 3:11 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It declined 0.1 percent today. The currency touched
31.15 earlier, the strongest level since May 11. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, held steady today and this week at 4.51 percent.  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2017 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.21
percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate was little changed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  