-- Lance Armstrong Says He Won’t Fight Doping Case
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-08-24T02:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/lance-armstrong-says-he-won-t-fight-doping-case.html
Seven-time Tour de France winner
 Lance Armstrong  said he won’t fight drug allegations by the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency, which the cyclist called part of an
“unconstitutional witch hunt.”  Armstrong’s attorneys sent a letter to USADA today saying
they wouldn’t seek arbitration in the case. His decision comes
three days after a federal judge in Armstrong’s hometown of
Austin,  Texas , rejected the cyclist’s request to block USADA
from proceeding with its case.  “If I thought for one moment that by participating in
USADA’s process I could confront these allegations in a fair
setting and -- once and for all -- put these charges to rest, I
would jump at the chance,” Armstrong said in a letter. “But I
refuse to participate in a process that is so one-sided and
unfair.”  Armstrong, 40, won the Tour de  France  every year from 1999
to 2005, a record for the sport’s most prestigious race. He
survived testicular cancer early in his career, and created
Livestrong, a charity that has raised more than $470 million for
the fight against cancer, according to its website.  Three Doctors  USADA, the anti-doping organization for U.S. Olympic
sports, notified Armstrong in June that he, three doctors and
two officials from the cyclist’s former U.S. Postal Service
racing team were accused of using and trafficking prohibited
drugs, according to court filings. The  Colorado Springs ,
Colorado-based agency said Armstrong could have an independent
panel of arbitrators to decide the matter.  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks threw out Armstrong’s
lawsuit Aug. 20, saying he had to arbitrate the group’s
allegations under the terms of his cycling contracts. Armstrong
claimed USADA had no authority over him and that its proceedings
were rigged. The cyclist faced a deadline of midnight today to
respond to the allegations in court.  Sparks, while rejecting Armstrong’s claims, said there were
“troubling aspects” in the lawsuit against the agency,
including the appearance of conflicts of interest on the part of
USADA and an international cycling federation that has backed
Armstrong’s position, as well as cyclist’s claims that the
USADA’s procedures violate his right to see and question the
evidence against him before an arbitration hearing.  The federal case is Armstrong v. U.S. Anti-Doping Agency,
1:12-cv-00606, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  