-- Apple, Microsoft, Humana, Diageo: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/apple-microsoft-humana-diageo-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAMRQ)  is appealing a bankruptcy
judge’s ruling in favor of Eastman Kodak Co. that blocked the
iPhone maker’s claims to two patents.  Apple said in a court filing Aug. 22 that it is challenging
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper’s decision that gave Kodak a
partial victory in a lawsuit over ownership of 10 patents.  The assets are in a portfolio of patents that Kodak put up
for sale as part of its bankruptcy restructuring. The Rochester,
New York-based company sued Apple after the Cupertino,
California-based company asserted claims to the patents.  Gropper ruled in favor of Kodak on two of the patents. The
judge denied the company’s request for a pretrial ruling known
as summary judgment on the eight others and said Kodak could
renew its request.  The case is  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-01720,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Microsoft Debuts New Logo Ahead of Windows 8, Surface Tablet  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  unveiled its first new logo in 25 years as
it prepares to introduce Windows 8, an updated version of its
flagship software that will power the company’s own Surface
tablet and other touch-screen devices.  The logo uses the so-called Segoe font, which is used in
Microsoft products and marketing materials, and four colored
squares that are “intended to express the company’s diverse
portfolio of products,” the Redmond, Washington-based company
said on its blog.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has revamped
products including Windows, phone software and the Xbox game
machine to adopt a sleeker, more modern-looking design to
compete with Apple Inc. for style-conscious consumers. The
colored squares in the new logo resemble the tiles found on
touch-screen phones and tablets.  The new logo is meant “to show that this isn’t your
father’s Microsoft, and there is something fresh, but also
familiar,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at market
research firm Gartner Inc. It also helps to show Windows and
Microsoft’s overall new design language, formerly known as
Metro, are “relevant and aspirational to the market.”  The redesign comes as consumers are increasingly choosing
the tablets over laptops, weakening personal-computer sales and
curbing Windows revenue. The company has said it plans to
release Windows 8 on Oct. 26 and the Surface with an ARM
Holdings Plc-based chip at the same time.  “This wave of new releases is not only a reimagining of
our most popular products, but also represents a new era for
Microsoft, so our logo should evolve to visually accentuate this
new beginning,” Microsoft said on the blog.  For the past several years, Microsoft has been trying to
forge a more unified look and feel for the company’s products
using a colorful, tile-based design first unveiled as part of
Windows Phone under the name Metro. Earlier this month,
Microsoft retired Metro, stating that it was used merely as a
code name.  Humana Sues Human-Resources Management Company for Infringement  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the Louisville, Kentucky-based health insurer,
sued an Illinois-based company that manages human resources.  Humanalogic Inc.  infringes trademarks held by the health
insurer, according to the complaint filed Aug. 22 in federal
court in  Chicago . Humana said that as soon as it became aware of
Humanalogic in early 2012, it began sending a series of cease-
and-desist notices.  Humanalogic, of Rolling Meadows,  Illinois , has failed to
respond to Humana’s requests, the company said in its court
papers. Humana said that its attempts to resolve the issue
“amicably and quickly” have been unsuccessful.  In addition to the Humanalogic name, Humana said it objects
to the company’s humanalogic.com Internet domain name.  Humana asked the court to bar further infringement and give
it the offending domain name. It also seeks the destruction of
all allegedly infringing material and awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees, plus extra damages intended
to punish Humanalogic for its actions.  Humanalogic didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Humana Inc. v. Humanalogic Inc., 12-cv-06842,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Diageo’s ‘Stark Raving’ Wines Infringe Mark, Winemaker Claims  A unit of  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest distiller, was
sued for trademark infringement by a winemaker from  California ’s
Sonoma County.  Christian Stark, who established his  Stark Wine LLC  in
Healdsburg, California, in 2009, objects to Diageo Chateau &
Estate Wines’ use of “Stark Raving” as a label for two of its
wines.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 20 in federal court
in San Francisco, Stark, a graduate of the California Culinary
Academy, makes small batches of premium varietal wines that sell
for $28 to $44 a bottle. He also produces wine under a second
label -- “Stark Thirst” -- that sells in the $16 range and is
aimed at a younger market, he said in court papers.  The “Stark Raving” wines, which are on the verge of
hitting the market, “appear to be high volume, mass produced
wines that will sell for less than $10 per bottle,” according
to the complaint.  Stark said he was met with a refusal when he sent Diageo a
cease-and-desist notice. He claims that the public will be
confused by the “Stark Raving” label and assume some
connection to his winery, and that he will be harmed as a
result.  He asked the court to bar Diageo’s use of “Stark Raving”
and for the seizure and destruction of all infringing products
and promotional materials. He also seeks a court order barring
the Commissioner of Trademarks at the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office from registering “Stark Raving” and “Stark Raving
Mad” marks for Diageo, and asked for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Stark requested that the court order Diageo to take down
the Starkravingwines.com website and transfer the domain name to
him.  Diageo didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Stark v. Diageo Chateau & Estate Wine Co., 12-
cv-04385, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Wal-Mart Accused of Infringing Gift-Wrap Design Copyrights  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, was
sued for copyright infringement by a manufacturer of gift wrap.  The suit, filed in federal court in Atlanta Aug. 21,
targets Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and its supplier.  Wal-Mart is selling gift wrap and gift items wrapped in
paper that infringed designs belonging to the U.K’s
 International Greetings Plc (IGR) ’s International Greetings USA unit,
according to the complaint.  The designs are used without license or permission, the
company claims. International Greetings alleged that Wal-Mart
realized gross revenue of at least $1.5 million from the sale of
the allegedly infringing products.  The company asked the court for awards of money damages and
litigation costs.  Wal-Mart has “strict standards that all of our suppliers
must follow and we hold our suppliers accountable if there are
instances of copyright or other infringement,” Randy Hargrove,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The company
is “looking into” the allegations, he said.  The case is International Greetings USA Inc., v. Seminole
Consulting and Marketing Inc., 12-cv-02897, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  McCarter & English Expands IP Practice, Hires Thomas Hoover  McCarter & English LLP hired Thomas O. Hoover for its
 intellectual-property  practice, the  Newark , New Jersey-based
firm said in a statement.  Hoover, who does patent-acquisition work and litigation,
joins from Boston’s Weingarten, Schurgin, Gagnebin & Liebovici
LLP. He represented clients whose technologies have included
medical devices, semiconductors, control systems and software in
federal district and appellate courts, as well as before the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  He has an undergraduate degree from College of the  Holy
Cross  and a law degree from  South Texas College  of Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  