-- Apple, Samsung Must Stop Some Korea Sales in Patent Fight
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-08-24T10:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/apple-samsung-infringed-each-other-s-patents-seoul-court-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  must stop selling some smartphones and tablet computers in
South Korea and pay damages after a Seoul court ruled they
infringed on each other’s patents.  Apple, maker of the iPhone, violated two Samsung patents
related to mobile-data transfer technologies, the Seoul Central
District Court said today. Samsung, the world’s largest mobile-
phone maker, infringed one Apple patent related to a “bounce-
back” touchscreen feature, though the Suwon, South Korea-based
company didn’t copy the design of the iPhone, the court said.  The sales bans don’t cover Apple’s iPhone 4S, its newest
iPad, or Samsung’s latest products including the Galaxy S III
phone, all of which were released after the lawsuits were filed.
The companies have sued each other on four continents since
April, accusing each other of copying products, design and
technology as they battle for dominance of a smartphone market
estimated by Bloomberg Industries to be worth $219 billion.  “The ruling is in line with what we had expected,” Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion, said by
phone today. “What’s important is how the verdict that’s coming
out soon in the U.S. will affect other pending cases in places
like  Europe  and  Australia .”  Damage Awards  Shares of Samsung fell 0.9 percent to 1.275 million won at
the close of Seoul trading. Apple slipped 0.5 percent to the
equivalent of $662.04 at 12:34 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,
which lost its position as the largest maker of mobile phones to
Samsung this year, climbed 2.3 percent to 2.45 euros on the
Helsinki exchange.  “We welcome today’s ruling, which affirms our position
that Apple has been using our mobile telecommunications
standards patents without having obtained the necessary
licenses,” Samsung said in a statement. “Today’s ruling also
affirmed our position that one single company cannot monopolize
generic design features.”  Three phone calls to  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman
for Apple, went unanswered.  Under the ruling, Apple must stop selling the iPhone 3GS,
iPhone 4, iPad 1 and iPad 2 in South Korea, while Samsung must
stop selling 12 products including the Galaxy S, Galaxy S II and
Galaxy Tab. Cupertino, California-based Apple must pay Samsung
40 million won ($35,000), and the Korean company must pay its
U.S. rival 25 million won.  The sales bans take effect immediately, though the
companies can ask the court to rescind them.  Smartphone Market  “These products all came out a while ago, so the actual
impact won’t be big,” Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at
Taurus Investment Securities Co., said by phone. “The U.S. case
is the important one. Even a neutral verdict there would be a
victory for Samsung.”  Samsung generated 39 percent of revenue in  South Korea  in
the quarter ended June 30, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Apple, the world’s most valuable company, got 23
percent of its  sales  in the Asia-Pacific region in the same
period.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two largest smartphone
makers, are battling each other in courts even as they are bound
by commercial deals involving components supply. In the last
quarter, the South Korean company controlled about 35 percent of
the global smartphone market, followed by Apple with about 18
percent, according to market researcher  Strategy Analytics .  U.S. Trial  The two companies began a  jury trial  in  U.S. federal court 
in  San Jose ,  California , on July 30 to try Apple’s claims that
Samsung copied its iPad and iPhone designs and Samsung’s
counterclaims that it’s the victim of patent infringement by the
U.S. competitor. The case is the first U.S. jury trial in the
dispute.  Today’s ruling in Seoul “will have little impact on other
cases, especially the U.S. case,” said  Mark Newman , a senior
research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  Hong Kong .  In the U.S. trial, Apple is seeking $2.5 billion to $2.75
billion in damages for its claims that Samsung infringed four
design patents and three software patents in copying the iPhone
and iPad. Apple also wants to make permanent a preliminary ban
it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet computer and extend the
ban to the South Korean company’s smartphones.  Samsung is seeking as much as $421.8 million in royalties
that the company claims it’s owed for Apple’s infringement of
two patents covering mobile-technology standards and three
utility patents.  Commercial Ties  “You need to see the result of the U.S. case before you
decide who’s the winner or the loser,” Byun Han Joon, a Seoul-
based analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co., said by phone.  Both sides have had legal victories. Apple won a U.S. court
order on June 29 blocking sales of Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus
smartphone, the first smartphone to use Google Inc.’s Android
4.0 operating system. The product has remained on the market as
Samsung appeals the order to the Federal Circuit.  In November, Samsung won a battle in an Australian court
that allowed customers to buy Samsung’s rival to the iPad.  The allegations over intellectual property contrast with
the commercial ties that bind the two companies. Apple’s
reliance on Samsung chips for its best-selling phones and
tablets will be worth as much as $7.5 billion to Samsung this
year, a 60 percent jump from 2011, according to estimates from
Gartner Inc., an industry researcher based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Apple accounts for about 9 percent of Samsung’s revenue,
making it the company’s largest customer, according to a
Bloomberg  supply-chain  analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  