-- Aquino Names First Female Top Judge in Anti-Corruption Drive
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-08-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/aquino-names-first-female-top-judge-in-anti-corruption-drive.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
appointed Maria Lourdes Sereno as the nation’s first female
chief justice, saying she was best suited to carry out his anti-
corruption campaign and overhaul the judiciary.  Sereno, a Supreme Court justice since 2010, “has a
historic opportunity to restore our people’s confidence in the
judicial system,” presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Aquino will swear Sereno
into office at the presidential palace in  Manila  today,
according to a schedule released by his office.  Aquino, who campaigned on an anti-corruption ticket, has an
approval rating that remains at about 70 percent after two years
in office. He was rewarded when Moody’s Investors Service
boosted its Philippine outlook to positive in May, the same
month the country’s top judge at the time, Renato Corona, was
ousted for illegally concealing his wealth.  “Sereno has shown that she’s both competent and fair in
her decisions,” said Benito Lim, a political science professor
at the Ateneo de Manila University. Sereno disagreed with the
majority in allowing ex-President  Gloria Arroyo  to travel
overseas. She was later part of a unanimous ruling that awarded
farmers land owned by the president’s clan. “That shows she’s
not completely there to protect Aquino’s interest,” Lim said by
phone.  The Philippine Senate ousted Corona, Arroyo’s appointee and
former chief of staff, on May 29. The state is also prosecuting
Arroyo, who went free from hospital arrest in July after posting
bail in an election-fraud case.  ‘Grave Insult’  “The appointment of Sereno is a grave insult to all right-
thinking lawyers in the country,” Arroyo spokesman Ferdinand
Topacio said in an e-mailed statement. “President Aquino has
shown his determination to destroy judicial independence by
planting the seed of its destruction deep within it.”  Sereno, 52, was a counselor at the  World Trade
Organization ’s Appellate Body Secretariat in Geneva from 1998 to
1999, and taught law at the University of the  Philippines  for
two decades until 2006, according to the top court.  Sereno vowed yesterday that under her leadership the
nation’s top court would be independent. “I will keep my oath
until the end of my term,” she told reporters. Sereno can serve
as the top judge until she retires at age 70 in 2030, according
to the Supreme Court  website .  Corruption Rating  As a legislator, Aquino backed the impeachment of former
President  Joseph Estrada  in 2000, as well as failed efforts to
impeach Arroyo. As president, he supported the impeachment of
Ombudsman Merceditas Guitierrez, the nation’s chief anti-graft
official, in March last year.  Foreign ownership in some industries, the enforcement of
contracts and the government’s push to sell stakes in mining
holdings are among the issues that are likely to come before the
court,  Ramon Casiple , executive director of the Institute for
Political and Electoral Reform, said in an interview before the
announcement of Sereno’s appointment.  “The government can’t afford to operate under a legal
system that often changes the rules in the middle of the game,”
he said.  The $225 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest in  Southeast Asia  and the most since 2010.
The Philippines climbed to 129th place on the Transparency
International Corruption Perceptions Index in 2011 from 141st in
2008, below  Thailand  at 80 and  Indonesia  at 100, according to
the Berlin-based watchdog’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  