-- Marfrig Shares Advance on Stake Sale Optimism: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-08-24T20:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/marfrig-shares-advance-on-stake-sale-optimism-sao-paulo-mover.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Brazil’s
second-biggest food company, rallied on optimism that it is
making progress on plans to sell assets and reduce debt.  Shares gained 4 percent to 10.46 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo  for the biggest gain since Aug. 13 and the
second-best performance on the benchmark Bovespa index, which
slid 0.1 percent.  The Sao Paulo-based food company’s plan to sell a stake has
attracted the interest of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Tyson Foods
Inc. (TSN) , three people with direct knowledge of the talks said.
Private equity units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4)  are also interested in buying part of Marfrig or one of its
units, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  “Marfrig is a well managed company with good products, the
only thing that is stopping the stock from rising is debt,”
Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at brokerage SLW Corretora, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “That’s why a plan to reduce its leverage
is welcome.”  Marfrig, whose products include frozen dinners, chicken
nuggets and hot dogs, is seeking to reduce debt after making 20
acquisitions in five years to compete with  BRF - Brasil Foods
SA. (BRFS3)  In April, it concluded the sale of European and U.S. assets
to Illinois-based Martin-Brower Co. for $400 million.  Marfrig declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Peter Rose , a New York-based spokesman for private-
equity firm Blackstone, declined to comment. Officials at Itau,
Bradesco and JPMorgan’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda., who all asked
not to be identified because of company policies, also declined
to comment. Gary Mickelson, a spokesman at Tyson Foods, the
biggest U.S. meat processor, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  