-- Marfrig Sale Said to Lure Blackstone, Tyson Foods, JPMorgan
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-08-24T15:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/marfrig-sale-plan-said-to-lure-blackstone-tyson-foods-jpmorgan.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Brazil’s
second-biggest food company, is attracting the interest of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  for a plan to sell a
stake, three people with direct knowledge of the talks said.
Shares surged.  Private equity units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  are also interested in buying a shareholding in
Marfrig or one of its units, the people said, asking not to be
named because discussions are private. Marfrig hired Banco Itau
BBA SA to raise 2 billion reais ($990 million) through the
sales, they said, adding that talks are in a preliminary stage.  Marfrig, which makes TV dinners, chicken nuggets and hot
dogs, is seeking to reduce debt after making 20 acquisitions in
five years to compete with  BRF - Brasil Foods SA. (BRFS3)  In April, it
concluded the sale of European and U.S. assets to Illinois-based
Martin-Brower Co. for $400 million.  Sao Paulo-based Marfrig declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions. Joao Sampaio, Marfrig’s vice president of
institutional affairs, said June 13 that the company was seeking
to sell assets, including a stake in its Seara unit, to reduce
debt to as low as 2.5 times earnings from 4.5 times.  Peter Rose , a New York-based spokesman for private-equity
firm Blackstone, declined to comment. Officials at Itau,
Bradesco and JPMorgan’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda., who all asked
not to be named because of company policies, also declined to
comment. Gary Mickelson, a spokesman at Tyson Foods, the biggest
U.S. meat processor, declined to comment.  Shares Rise  Marfrig rose 3.2 percent to 10.38 reais at 11:55 a.m. in
Sao Paulo, the biggest gain on Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index,
which was little changed. The stock climbed 18 percent this
year, raising its market value to 3.48 billion reais as of
yesterday.  “Marfrig is a well-managed company with good products; the
only thing that is stopping the stock from rising is debt,”
Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at brokerage SLW Corretora, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “That’s why a plan to reduce its leverage
is welcome.”  Moody’s Investors Service last week lowered Marfrig’s debt
ratings from B1 to B2, two levels below investment grade, citing
the “recent deterioration in its liquidity, mainly due to the
concentration of short-term debt payments in the second and
third quarters of 2012.”  Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings Ltd. revised its outlook for Marfrig and Sao
Paulo-based rivals  JBS SA (JBSS3)  and Brasil Foods to negative from
stable. JBS is the world’s largest beef producer and Brasil
Foods is the biggest poultry exporter.  “Marfrig will be challenged to raise prices to fully
accommodate its rising costs in the context of a slow economy in
Brazil and slower-than-expected recovery in its export
markets,” Fitch said in an Aug. 17 statement.  Marfrig spent $2 billion in 2010 to buy Seara from Cargill
Inc. and McDonald’s Corp. supplier Keystone Foods, causing debt
to quadruple in two years.  Itau BBA is the wholesale arm of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
the biggest Latin American bank by market value. Bradesco is
Latin America’s second-largest lender by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  