-- Armstrong Poised to Lose Seven Tour Titles, Get Life Ban
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r ,   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/armstrong-poised-to-lose-seven-tour-titles-get-life-ban.html
Cyclist  Lance Armstrong ’s refusal to
fight drug allegations by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency was the
best decision he could make for his Livestrong charity, a
Columbia University professor said.  Armstrong, 40, has been stripped of his record seven Tour
de  France  titles and banned from the sport for life after
announcing two days ago that he would not seek arbitration of
the agency’s accusations. He did not admit guilt.  Columbia professor Doug White said in a telephone interview
yesterday that Armstrong’s move was best for Livestrong, which
changed its name from the Lance Armstrong Foundation in 2009,  “Charities have to be above and beyond reproach and since
he’s the impediment to the charity, he did the best thing he
could do,” said White, 59, who will teach courses in
fundraising and ethics this fall. “I think there will be a real
fragile period of probably a year where people will have to
separate that issue from the good work he is trying to do and if
they can’t do that then the charity is not going to go very
far.”  The ban and loss of results since Aug. 1, 1998, come from
anti-doping rules violations including possession, trafficking,
administration and use of prohibited substances, according to an
e-mailed release yesterday from USADA.  “Nobody wins when an athlete decides to cheat with
dangerous performance-enhancing drugs,” USADA chief executive
Travis Tygart said in the statement. “Any time we have
overwhelming proof of doping, our mandate is to initiate the
case through the process and see it to conclusion as was done in
this case.”  Judge’s Rejection  Armstrong’s decision to not fight the accusations came
three days after a federal judge in the cyclist’s hometown of
Austin,  Texas , rejected his request to block USADA from
proceeding with its case.  “If I thought for one moment that by participating in
USADA’s process I could confront these allegations in a fair
setting and -- once and for all -- put these charges to rest, I
would jump at the chance,” Armstrong said in a statement. “But
I refuse to participate in a process that is so one-sided and
unfair.”  Armstrong won the Tour de France every year from 1999 to
2005, a record for the sport’s most prestigious race. He
survived testicular cancer early in his career, and created
Livestrong, a charity that has raised more than $470 million for
the fight against cancer, according to its website.  Livestrong Vice Chairman Jeffery Garvey said in a statement
yesterday that the charity supports Armstrong’s decision to
avoid “a biased process.”  “Lance chose to put his family and his foundation first
and we support his decision,” Garvey said. “Lance’s
contributions to the fight against cancer are invaluable and we
look forward to continuing the important work at hand.”  Foundation’s Ranking  The foundation raised $51 million in private donations in
2011, after generating $50.8 million in 2010, according to the
Chronicle of Philanthropy. It was ranked 343, the only athlete’s
charity to be in the top 400.  John Seffrin, chief executive of the  American Cancer
Society , said he hoped the foundation would not be affected by
the aftermath of Armstrong’s decision not to fight USADA’s
charges.  “Reducing suffering and death from cancer is a moral
imperative, and the Lance Armstrong Foundation’s contribution is
sorely needed,” Seffrin said in a  statement  on the Livestrong
website.  A “great deal of damage” has been done to Armstrong
personally, Jason Maloni, senior vice president of  Washington ,
D.C.-based Levick and chairman of the communications firm’s
Sports & Litigation Practices. He called the recent events a
“death by a thousand cuts” to Armstrong’s brand as an athlete.  Sponsor List  Armstrong’s website lists  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s
Michelob brand,  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Trek Bicycle Corp. and  RadioShack
Corp. (RSH)  among his current sponsors, most of which have stood by
him through doping allegations in the past.  Anheuser-Busch, Nike and energy nutrition company  Honey
Stinger , another sponsor, said in separate statements yesterday
that they plan to continue supporting Armstrong and Livestrong.  “Our partnership with Lance remains unchanged,” Paul
Chibe, vice president of U.S. marketing for Anheuser-Busch, said
in an e-mailed statement. “He has inspired millions with his
athletic achievement and his commitment to help cancer survivors
and their families.”  Trek Watching  Trek spokesman Bill Mashek said yesterday in a telephone
interview that the company was monitoring recent developments
and had made no decisions regarding the future of its business
partnership with Armstrong.  “This is extremely damaging for cycling and very damaging
for the  Tour de France ,” Nigel Currie, director of London-based
sports marketing agency  brandRapport , said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Armstrong has been such a big part of the
Tour de France for the past 20 years, and took it to new levels
for the American market.”  The  Amaury Sport Organisation , a French family business
that has controlled the Tour de France since World War II,
declined to comment on the outcome of the Armstrong case.  Armstrong has said for years that he has never failed a
drug test and has repeatedly denied using banned substances.  After retiring from cycling in February 2011, Armstrong had
been participating in triathlons until he was banned in June
from events organized by the World Triathlon Corp., which owns
the Ironman series, because of the USADA allegations. Armstrong
started his career as a triathlete before switching to cycling
in the 1990s.  “He has done a lot of work in bicycling and given it all
away now,” White, the Columbia professor, said. “That’s a hell
of a lot to walk away from, so something in his head is saying
there is something more important, more important in my life and
maybe it is the foundation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  