-- Harrington Leads Barclays After 7-Under-Par 64, Woods Four Back
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/harrington-leads-barclays-after-7-under-par-64-woods-four-back.html
Padraig Harrington shot a 7-under 64
to take a one-stroke lead yesterday at the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Barclays tournament at the Bethpage Black course in Farmingdale,
New York, while  Tiger Woods  sits four shots back.  Woods, playing in a group with PGA Championship winner Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland, had four birdies and one bogey to
finish at 3 under par. McIlroy shot a 2-under 69.  “I didn’t quite hit the ball as well as I’d like, I’m
going to do some work this afternoon to work on a couple
things,” Woods said yesterday after the round. “I’m very
pleased with how I putted.”  Harrington, 40, of Ireland, was 6 under on the final nine
holes, including four consecutive birdies. Winner of the British
Open in 2007-08 and the PGA in 2008, he and McIlroy are the only
multiple winners in the last 22 major golf tournaments.  Americans  Nick Watney  and Brian Harman trail Harrington by
one stroke. Gary Christian of England bogeyed the 18th hole to
fall to 5 under and into a tie with  Sergio Garcia  of Spain and
Americans Pat Perez and Jimmy Walker two strokes behind the
leader.  The Barclays tournament is the first in the four-event
FedExCup playoff, which features a $10 million bonus for the
champion. The field will be trimmed to the top 100 golfers in
the point standings heading into next week’s event.  Scores rose in the afternoon, with Walker the only player
in the second group of tee times to finish within two strokes of
Harrington.  Rickie Fowler , who teed off at 12:44 p.m. local
time, said the course played harder as the day progressed.  Soft Greens  “I think the greens were soft this morning and maybe guys
could get at those pins, but this afternoon I thought it proved
really tough to get it going low,” Fowler said on the PGA
website.  Woods and McIlroy were the tournament’s co-favorites
heading into play yesterday, with 8-1 odds to win. Woods won the
first PGA tour event held at the Bethpage State Park course, the
2002 U.S. Open.  Lucas Glover , who isn’t in the field this week,
won when the Open returned in 2009.  Phil Mickelson  is tied with Woods at 3 under. They are
joined by a group of 10 other golfers, including former major
champions  Zach Johnson ,  Vijay Singh  and Ernie Els, who won the
British Open last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  