-- U.S. Stocks Gain on Stimulus Speculation; Euro Falls
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-24T23:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/asian-stocks-drop-with-copper-on-u-s-data-slow-europe-progress.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, paring the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s first weekly decline in almost two
months, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank has the ability to take additional steps to boost
the economy. The euro weakened and commodities slumped.  The S&P 500 added 0.7 percent to 1,411.13 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.1 percent and the
euro slipped 0.4 percent to $1.2511. Ten-year Treasury yields
were little changed at 1.68 percent after a five-day slump. The
S&P GSCI Index of commodities lost 0.5 percent as natural gas
fell on speculation that a tropical storm won’t result in
widespread production cuts in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The S&P 500 has climbed 10 percent since June 1 amid
optimism that global central banks will take actions to
stimulate growth. Bernanke, speaking in a letter dated Aug. 22
to California Republican  Darrell Issa , repeated the statement
from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Aug. 1 meeting that the
Fed will provide “additional accommodation as needed.”  “The Fed is going to keep on giving verbal assurance that
they will do something if they need to,”  James Paulsen , the
chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, said in a phone interview. His firm oversees about
$320 billion. “The turnaround was tied mainly to Bernanke’s
comments.”  U.S. and European stocks fell earlier in the day after two
central bank officials said the ECB may wait until Germany rules
on the legality of Europe’s permanent bailout fund before
unveiling details of a plan to buy  government bonds .  Purchase Program  Germany’s  Constitutional Court  is set to rule on Sept. 12
and investors looking for Draghi to announce a definitive
purchase program at his Sept. 6 press conference might be
disappointed, according to the officials, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the deliberations are not public.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  fell 1.8 percent for the week, its first
since the beginning of June. The  S&P 500  posted a weekly drop of
0.6 percent. U.S. trading volume and volatility has dropped this
month as vacationing traders await policy clues from the Fed’s
annual summit in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, and a European Central
Bank meeting in September.  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  plunged 16 percent. The software maker
lowered its annual sales forecast and said it plans to cut jobs.
Eli Lilly & Co. added 3.4 percent as the company said its
experimental Alzheimer’s treatment slowed the decline of
cognition in some patients even though it failed to meet the
primary goals of two large studies.  Dollar Strengthens  The dollar gained against 15 of its 16 major counterparts.
Minutes of the U.S. central bank’s latest policy meeting
released Aug. 22 showed officials remain supportive of a third
round of asset purchases under quantitative easing as
unemployment has been mired at more than 8 percent since 2009.  Germany’s 10-year yields fell two basis points to 1.36
percent, after reaching 1.32 percent, the lowest since Aug. 3.
The U.S. 10-year note yield slid 13 basis points this week, the
most since the five days ended June 1.  Natural gas fell 3.8 percent as the National Hurricane
Center said Tropical Storm Isaac may become a hurricane off the
west coast of Florida in about four days. The Gulf accounts for
about 6.3 percent of U.S. marketed gas production. Offshore
platforms are concentrated closer to the Louisiana, Mississippi
and Texas coasts. Oil retreated 0.4 percent to $95.90 a barrel
in  New York .  “We’re not talking about a Category 4 or 5 storm,” said
Brad Florer, a trader at Kottke Associates LLC in Louisville,
 Kentucky . “Most people are looking at the worst-case scenario
of some evacuations and temporary shut of production. It doesn’t
have the same impact it used to have because most production is
not in the Gulf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  