-- Asian Currencies Advance in Week on Global Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-08-24T22:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/asian-currencies-advance-in-week-on-global-stimulus-speculation.html
Asian currencies gained this week on
signs policy makers in Europe and the U.S. will increase efforts
to revive growth, boosting fund flows into emerging-market
assets.  Many U.S. policy makers favored a new large-scale asset-
purchase program to “provide additional support for the
economic recovery,” according to minutes from the  Federal
Reserve ’s latest meeting released this week. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said Aug. 23 that her country and  France  will
coordinate on their approach to keep pressure on Greece to
overhaul its economy. Stock markets in South Korea and Taiwan
attracted a total $916 million of foreign capital this week
through Aug. 24, exchange data show.  “There are some positive signs coming from Greece, and the
Fed said further easing may be warranted soon,” said Choong Yin Pheng, senior manager for fixed income and economic research at
 Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  in  Kuala Lumpur . “This is keeping risk
currencies supported.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose 0.2 percent
this week to 115.39 in Hong Kong, the biggest advance since the
five-day period ended Aug. 3. The ringgit climbed 1 percent
since Aug. 17 to 3.1018 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Thailand ’s baht gained 0.9 percent to 31.24, while
the Philippine peso appreciated 0.6 percent to 42.167. India’s
rupee advanced 0.5 percent to 55.4950 in Mumbai.  Thai GDP  The baht completed its biggest weekly gain since February
after a report showed the economy expanded more than economists
estimated in the second quarter. Gross domestic product
increased 4.2 percent from a year earlier, beating the 3.1
percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey, according to
official figures released on Aug. 20.  “The stronger GDP data was additional support for the baht
this week amid not-so-bad risk sentiment due to some monetary
stimulus speculation,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at
Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .  The peso had its best week in more than a month after the
government said it plans to increase spending to spur growth.
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said Aug. 23 that last month’s
budget deficit was within expectations and the government has
fiscal space to pump prime the economy.  South Korea’s won and the ringgit weakened yesterday after
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
Aug. 23 that recent signs of improvement in the economy would
prompt him to oppose any new Fed program to buy bonds.  China Manufacturing  China’s yuan rose 0.06 percent this week to 6.3545, headed
for a fourth week of strengthening, the longest run of gains
since April 2011. The currency weakened yesterday as central
bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the country still faces
relatively big pressure on economic growth, according to a
statement posted on the central bank’s website. A preliminary
reading on China’s manufacturing fell to 47.8 in August,
compared with July’s final 49.3 figure, data showed Aug. 23.  “The manufacturing data demonstrate the growth outlook
isn’t bright,” said Stella Lee, president of Success Futures &
Foreign Exchange Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “That’ll continue to weigh
on the yuan unless China has more decisive actions.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah was unchanged from Aug. 17 at
9,528 and Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent this week to
NT$30.002, respectively. The  Singapore dollar  gained 0.2 percent
to S$1.2497 and the Korean won was little changed at 1,134.15.
Vietnam’s dong fell 0.1 percent to 20,875.  -- With assistance from Yumi Teso in Bangkok, Fion Li in Hong
Kong, Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur, Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai.
Editors: Anil Varma, Amit Prakash  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 