-- UN Inspectors End Iran Talks With ‘Important Differences’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-08-24T16:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/atomic-investigators-meet-with-iran-over-access-to-sites.html
United Nations nuclear inspectors
ended eight hours of negotiations with  Iran  without reaching an
agreement to access information and sites allegedly linked to
the Persian Gulf nation’s atomic work.  “Important differences remain,” International Atomic
Energy Agency inspector Herman Nackaerts told journalists after
today’s meeting at the Iranian Embassy in Vienna. While the
sides will continue the process, there are no immediate plans to
meet again, he said.  The meeting was the first face-to-face discussion since
talks over a so-called structured approach to the atomic probe
broke down on June 8. Inspectors want access to sites beyond
what is mandated by the IAEA’s agreements with Iran. While the
country’s declared nuclear facilities have been subject to 4,000
man-days of inspections since 2003, the IAEA has said it can’t
ensure inspectors have seen the full scope of its atomic work.  Iran’s IAEA envoy, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, described today’s
discussions as “intensive” and told the press briefing that
talks over a framework will continue.  The IAEA is preparing to issue its quarterly report on
Iran’s nuclear work, possibly as early as next week. The Islamic
Republic has steadily increased its supply of enriched uranium,
the key ingredient for atomic power and weapons, since beginning
the industrial process in 2006.  New Centrifuges  Iran has installed hundreds of new centrifuges at its
mountainside Fordo facility in recent months and may be
accelerating production of nuclear fuel, the  New York  Times
reported, citing unidentified diplomats. The IAEA said in June
that Iran had already installed pipes and casings for hundreds
of additional machines beyond the 500 in operation. The Fordo
complex is built to house 3,000 centrifuges, the  IAEA said .  While Iran says its nuclear work is for peaceful purposes,
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today that the
latest reports on the country’s activities are further proof
it’s intending to create atomic weapons.  “Just yesterday we received additional evidence that Iran
is making accelerated progress toward achieving nuclear
weaponization in total disregard of the demands of the
international community,” Netanyahu said, according to a text
message from his office.  Commercial satellite images show Iran has completed cleanup
activity at a suspected nuclear weapons-related site, the
Washington-based Institute for Science and International
Security wrote in a July 31 report. The IAEA received
intelligence information from  member states  that allegedly show
Iran built a blast chamber at the Parchin military complex that
could be used to test nuclear-bomb components.  Today’s talks were the sixth since the IAEA and Iran began
negotiations over widening access to suspect facilities. IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano announced an agreement on May 22,
only to have the breakthrough fall apart two weeks later amid
Iranian accusations of spying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  