-- Colorado Massacre Suspect Said He Wanted to Kill: State
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-08-25T04:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/aurora-shootings-suspect-told-classmate-he-wanted-to-kill.html
James Holmes, the man accused of
murdering 12 people last month at a movie theater in Aurora,
 Colorado , talked with a classmate in March about wanting to kill
people, according to a court filing by prosecutors.  “The defendant had conversations with a classmate about
wanting to kill people in March 2012, and that he would do so
when his life was over,” Arapahoe District Attorney Carol Chambers said in the filing dated Aug. 14 and made public
yesterday.  Holmes is accused of opening fire on the audience at a
midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in Aurora on
July 20, killing 12 and injuring at least 58. He is charged with
24 counts of first-degree murder and 116 counts of attempted
murder. First-degree murder is punishable by death or life in
prison under Colorado law.  Chambers also said in the filing that Holmes was denied
access to the  University of Colorado  following June 12 after he
made threats to a professor at the school. Holmes was a graduate
student in neuroscience at the university in Denver.  The Colorado attack has been followed by at least two other
high-profile shootings. On Aug. 5 in Oak Creek,  Wisconsin ,
a gunman killed six people at a Sikh temple before being wounded
by police and taking his own life.  Empire State  Yesterday, a man fired from his job near the Empire State
Building returned to his former workplace and shot a co-worker,
triggering a firefight with police near one of  Manhattan ’s most
recognizable landmarks,  New York  police said.  The shooter and a 41-year-old man died, and as many as nine
people were injured, according to police. The assailant,  Jeffrey
Johnson , was fired last year from his job as a women’s accessory
designer at Hazan Imports Corp., Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said at a news briefing.  Holmes appeared in court Aug. 16 in Colorado as lawyers
discussed how to contact victims and alert them to $4 million in
donations. With dyed orange hair and wearing handcuffs and a red
prison uniform, Holmes sat with his lawyers, Daniel King and
Tamara Brady. He didn’t address the court during the hearing in
Centennial, Colorado.  Douglas Wilson, the head of the state public defender’s
office, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
court filing made public in Holmes’s case. Judge William
Sylvester has restricted what prosecutors and lawyers for Holmes
can discuss publicly.  Jacque Montgomery, a University of Colorado spokeswoman,
didn’t return a call seeking comment on the case.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  