-- Australia Surgeon Wins New Trial on Manslaughter Charges
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-24T02:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/australia-surgeon-wins-new-trial-on-manslaughter-charges.html
Jayant Patel, a surgeon convicted of
manslaughter of three of his patients in  Australia , won a bid at
the country’s top court to quash the 2010 jury decision.  The High Court of Australia today ordered a new trial for
Patel, who argued his convictions on three manslaughter charges
and one charge of unlawfully doing grievous harm amounted to a
miscarriage of justice.  “A miscarriage of justice had occurred because, on the
43rd day of a 58-day trial, the prosecution radically changed
its case in a way that rendered irrelevant much of the evidence
that had been admitted,” according to a summary of the High
Court ruling posted on its  Web site.   India-born Patel, 62, operated on two patients in 2003 and
one in 2004, all of whom died with the jury concluding the
doctor caused their death and the killing was unlawful. Patel
also removed a patient’s bowel even though a biopsy showed a
polyp was benign, with the jury finding the removal amounted to
causing grievous harm to the patient. Patel was sentenced to
seven years in prison.  The trial judge and the appeal court applied the wrong law
and in each case Patel was convicted of a criminally negligent
decision to operate, Liam Kelly, Patel’s lawyer  wrote  in his
submission. He wasn’t convicted of performing incompetent
surgery, Kelly said. The  high court  rejected that submission.  The prosecution changed tactics in the trial, moving from
an allegation that the doctor provided a standard of care so low
that it was criminal to whether the surgical procedures should
have been undertaken, according to the court summary.  “Much of the evidence about the surgery and post-operative
care was prejudicial to the appellant but no longer relevant to
the prosecution’s revised case,” according to the summary. “A
substantial miscarriage of justice occurred.”  The case is Between Jayant Mukundray Patel and The Queen.
B11/2012. High Court of Australia (Brisbane).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  