-- Barcelona May Offer $48 Million for Chelsea’s Luiz: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-24T10:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/barcelona-may-offer-48-million-for-chelsea-s-luiz-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Barca Bid  Barcelona may bid as much as 30 million pounds ($48
million) for Chelsea defender  David Luiz , the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Brazil’s Luiz joined the west London club for 24 million
pounds from Benfica in January 2011. With competition from the
likes of  John Terry ,  Gary Cahill  and Branislav Ivanovic, Luiz
isn’t guaranteed a starting spot on the Chelsea team, the paper
said.  QPR Chasing Cesar  Queens Park Rangers is in talks with  Inter Milan  regarding
goalkeeper Julio Cesar, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Cesar, 32, has played for Brazil 64 times since making his
international debut in 2003. QPR opened the Premier League
season last weekend with a 5-0 home loss to Swansea with  Robert Green  in goal.  Oviedo Fight  West Bromwich Albion and Everton are both in the race to
sign Copenhagen left-back Bryan Oviedo, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Costa Rica’s Oviedo, 22, will be able to leave for around 3
million pounds, the paper said.  Pay Cut  Portuguese winger Nani has dropped his pay demands in an
attempt to stay at  Manchester United , the  Sun  reported.  Nani, who has two years left on a deal paying 90,000 pounds
a week, had initially been looking to boost that to 130,000
pounds a week.  His representatives are now offering to keep his basic
salary, plus around 30,000 pounds for each appearance after the
club turned down their demands, the paper said.  Phone Ban  Aston Villa coach  Paul Lambert  has banned the use of mobile
phones and laptops at the club’s training base, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  “If you train the way you play, then I don’t have a
problem with it,” the paper quoted Lambert as saying. “But
iPhones and iPads are a distraction. I’m here to win football
matches not to play on a phone or a computer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  