-- Berkeley Man Cardenas Takes Over Colombia’s Slowing Economy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w ,   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/berkeley-man-cardenas-takes-over-colombia-s-slowing-economy.html
Berkeley-educated economist  Mauricio Cardenas  pledged to use “all necessary tools” to protect
Colombia’s economy from a rally in the peso after he was
appointed Finance Minister yesterday.  Outgoing Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, a former teaching
assistant of U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke , said
Cardenas’ main challenges are to keep the Colombian economy
growing above 4 percent amid the  European debt crisis , and to
persuade the central bank to step up dollar purchases.  “We are very aware of the theme of the peso revaluation,”
Cardenas told reporters in Bogota after his appointment. “For
the productive sector it is a central theme, and we will use all
the necessary tools to combat it.”  The peso has rallied 7.1 percent in 2012, the biggest gain
of the world’s 31 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Hungarian forint and the Chilean peso, on the strength
of sustained foreign investment into the Andean nation’s oil and
mining projects. The Treasury began its own program of foreign
currency intervention this month after the central bank ignored
repeated calls from Echeverry and President  Juan Manuel Santos 
to intervene more “aggressively” in  currency markets  to help
Colombian exporters.  Cardenas takes over a $330 billion economy that will grow 3
percent to 5 percent this year, down from 5.9 percent last year,
according to central bank forecasts. Growth is cooling as the
slowing world economy damps demand for Colombia’s commodities
exports, and industrial output stagnates.  Policy Makers  Colombian economists are forecasting a second straight
 interest rate  cut at the central bank’s August board meeting
today, as slower inflation allows policy makers to target faster
growth.  Last month’s interest rate cut, the first since 2010, was a
“change in monetary stance,” as slower inflation allows policy
makers to maximize “employment and product growth,” the
central bank said in the  minutes  to their July policy meeting.  Inflation slowed to 3.03 percent in July, down from 3.73
percent at the start of the year.  Colombia  targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  The risks of Colombia deviating from its inflation target
are low and are restricted to a jump in  food prices , policy
makers said in the minutes.  The central bank will cut its benchmark policy rate to 4.75
percent, from 5 percent, according to 28 of 32 analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  ‘Narrow Path’  Echeverry, who sits on the central bank’s policy committee,
said he will lobby for an increase in dollar purchases one final
time at today’s meeting.  The Treasury will continue to buy dollars next week after
buying $500 million over the last two weeks, Echeverry said in
an interview after his resignation. The intervention is separate
from the central bank’s daily $20 million purchases. The dollars
are not intended for a debt repurchase, he said.  Colombia’s so-called fiscal rule, which determines a path
for spending and the deficit, means the country will pursue
similar policies whoever is finance minister, Echeverry said.  “We created the fiscal rule which determines a very narrow
path for the minister to make it foreseeable for the markets
what the fiscal behavior of Colombia will be,” Echeverry said.  ‘Conservative’  Cardenas, 50, holds a doctorate in economics from the
 University of California, Berkeley .  He has headed the Mines and Energy Ministry since September
after leaving a post as director at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . The minister has previously held government
positions including transport minister and national planning
director.  “Economically, he is a conservative,” Echeverry said.
“But nobody is perfect: he’s from Berkeley and I studied at  New
York  University. His flaws come from his West Coast education.”  Echeverry said he resigned for personal reasons, and is
looking for a university to employ him in the  United States .  He will also work at his consultancy firm and spend more
time with his three children, aged 2, 4 and 6, he said.  More Cabinet changes could come during the next few days.
Colombia’s entire Cabinet presented resignation letters this
week in response to a request from Santos, to allow him to make
“changes inside the government team,” the presidency said in a
statement.  Santos said Echeverry will be a candidate for a job at the
 International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 