-- BlackRock Scraps ‘Obvious’ Vale Overweight, Landers Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-08-24T22:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/blackrock-scraps-obvious-vale-overweight-landers-says-1-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  has cut its holdings
of  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest  iron-ore  producer, as China’s
slowing growth drives down metals prices, fund manager Will Landers said three months after calling the stock the “most
obvious” purchase in Brazil.  “Prices fell in China faster than we expected,” Landers,
who manages about $6 billion in Latin American equities at New
York-based BlackRock, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. He said he’s sold Vale shares “in the last
couple of months” and went to a neutral allocation on the stock
in his portfolio from overweight.  The move marks a reversal for Landers, who in a May 22
interview said that Vale was the “most obvious” stock to buy
in Brazil because declines in the currency were boosting the
company’s export revenue. The real has slumped 20 percent in the
past 12 months, the biggest selloff among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Voting shares of Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, have
 dropped  12 percent this year, underperforming Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index, which has gained 3 percent. The stock fell 0.5
percent today to 34.53 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading.  Revenue gains from the weaker currency are being offset by
a plunge in iron-ore prices overseas. Iron ore fell below $100
for the first time since 2009 on concern that rising stockpiles
and the slowdown in China will cut demand for the steel
ingredient.  Ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin slumped 4.9 percent to $99.60 a dry ton
yesterday, according to a gauge compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.
Prices fell to $99.40 a dry ton today and are heading for a
fifth monthly drop, taking this year’s loss to 28 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  