-- Blood Therapy Used by Tiger Woods Lures Everyday Athletes
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/blood-therapy-used-by-tiger-woods-lures-everyday-athletes.html
When Ira Schneider’s right hip
started to hurt, the Los Angeles-based chiropractor wanted to
avoid a repeat of the surgery he’d undergone on his left side,
and the months of painful recovery that followed.  Instead, he turned to platelet-rich plasma therapy, better
known as PRP, a treatment gaining ground after headlines touting
its use by elite athletes including golfer  Tiger Woods , tennis’s
 Rafael Nadal  and basketball’s  Kobe Bryant . Last week,  Andrew Bynum , of the Philadelphia 76ers’ NBA team, said he’ll travel to
 Germany  next month for the procedure, in which a concentrated
dose of tissue-repairing platelets taken from the patient’s
blood is injected into an injury site.  Costs running as high as $250 an injection that aren’t
covered by insurance and uncertain scientific evidence about the
therapy haven’t stopped people from peppering doctors with
requests to try it. While probably hundreds of athletes have
undergone PRP since 2009, when Woods first used it for a painful
knee, it hasn’t been subject to large-scale testing in wide
groups that include less-athletically gifted people.  “Athletes are always seeking an edge and, at an elite
level, it makes sense for them to look for any possible shortcut
to healing,” said  Dennis Cardone , at  New York  University’s
Langone Center for Musculoskeletal Care in  Manhattan . “But too
often the newer procedures are done in people who don’t need
that physical edge, without good evidence they actually work.”  Testing Requirements  While drugs generally undergo 10 or more years of regulated
clinical trials before being sold, treatments such as PRP don’t
face the same requirements. The  Food and Drug Administration 
doesn’t overview therapeutic procedures, as long as the blood
product isn’t shipped across state lines, is for individual use
only and no claims are made that it will correct a specific
medical problem, Heidi Rebello, an FDA spokeswoman, wrote in an
e-mailed response to questions.  As a result, most people learn of treatments such as PRP
through the Internet, word-of-mouth or news reports after
they’re used by celebrities seeking quick results.  In PRP’s case, the use of the therapy by Pittsburgh Steeler
professional football player  Hines Ward , just prior to his
winning Super Bowl appearance,  Alex Rodriguez  of the  New York
Yankees , and Bryant, of the  National Basketball Association ’s
 Los Angeles Lakers , created a drumbeat of headlines about the
procedure, following Woods’s announcement he had used it.  PRP is one of a wide range of new treatments, including
whole-body vibration and hyperbaric therapy, being used by elite
athletes to recover from career-slowing injuries. Whether shot-gunning platelets using PRP helps in all cases remains an open
question, researchers have found.  Growth Factors  The therapy can take from about 20 minutes to two hours,
starting when a doctor draws a small amount of blood from a
patient. The blood is placed in a centrifuge to separate out
platelets that carry so-called growth factors, which are thought
to help naturally in healing. The platelets are then re-injected
into the patient at the point of injury, the idea being that the
regenerative properties of the growth factors will work even
more efficiently at a higher concentration.  Because the plasma is an extract of the patient’s own
blood, there’s little danger of an adverse reaction or disease,
and it can be given multiple times, said  Allan Mishra , a
physician at Stanford University Medical Center’s clinic in
 Menlo Park , who offers the procedure in his practice.  Schneider, 56, said he learned about PRP while working in
his job as a chiropractor with athletes at  California State
University , Northridge. While he said he isn’t the type to jump
on the latest hot therapy, he was desperate to avoid another hip
surgery.  Pain Free  The result for him “has been pretty much amazing,” he
said in a telephone interview. “It’s been six or seven months
since my last injection, and I’m still 75 percent pain free.
It’s a wonderful alternative to having a replacement done.”  Since Woods first said he had used the therapy in 2009,
though, scientists have reported mixed results in limited trials
done with relatively few participants.  In January 2010, for instance, a report published in the
Journal of the  American Medical Association , or JAMA, found PRP
to be no more effective than salt water at inducing healing in
54 patients with injured Achilles’ tendons. In separate trials
done last year, PRP lowered blood loss in 81 patients with knee
replacements, and lessened pain for 21 with tennis elbow.  Those trials, though, didn’t directly measure whether the
therapy increased the speed of the healing process. Other
studies are in progress in ankle sprains, cartilage
degeneration, muscle injuries, rotator cuff injuries and more,
according to the U.S. website ClinicalTrials.gov.  Little Known  Leon Creaney, a London-based physician, wrote in a
commentary last year in the  British Journal of Sports Medicine ,
that too little is known to offer use of PRP to patients, except
on an experimental basis. The lack of a standard procedure in
administering the therapy may send “a completely confusing
message” to cells that affect healing, he wrote.  The anecdotal result reported by athletes could be nothing
more than a placebo effect, in which a patient’s condition will
sometimes improve simply because the person has the expectation
it will be helpful, Creaney wrote. The only way to know for sure
is to test large numbers of people in a blinded trial.  “It would seem hopelessly optimistic and naive to presume
that we are accurately reproducing biological complexity” that
occurs naturally within the healing process, Creaney concluded
in the  article .  Despite this, the therapy is entering the mainstream as a
less-painful and time-consuming alternative to surgery,
according to Mishra, the Menlo Park clinician.  Thousands Done  While there’s no way to determine how many PRP procedures
have been done in the U.S, Mishra said the number may be in the
thousands.  “We’re not quite the blind caveman feeling around in the
dark on this,” said Mishra, who has been credited with creating
the PRP system in the U.S. “There are a few cracks of light.
It’s just going to take some time to understand it. You can’t do
randomized control trials on NBA players.”  Mishra offers the therapy in his practice and is studying
its usefulness for a variety of ailments, including tennis
elbow, which he says is currently the best-supported use for the
therapy.  Whether unproven therapies should be undertaken for
patients that request them is a “complex” issue, Mishra said.
“It’s messy, and it’s fascinating. The enthusiasm for the
therapy is partly driven by the patients themselves in this
case, and we should embrace that.”  Two New York physicians who are top specialists in caring
for the body’s complex system of joints show the range of
opinions on the questions.  No Confidence  Giles Scuderi , a surgeon who specializes in knees at Insall
Scott Kelly Institutes for Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine in
New York, says studies done on PRP haven’t given him enough
confidence in the therapy to offer it.  NYU’s Cardone said that while he doesn’t push PRP he will
perform the procedure for patients who ask for it. First,
though, he said he makes a special effort to ensure they
understand that the therapy, while safe, hasn’t been proven to
work during wide testing in multiple groups of people.  The Internet traffic and news reports put doctors in a
bind, Cardone said, balancing their wish to work with their
patients on new treatments with concerns about using a procedure
that hasn’t been proven.  While his patients increasingly ask for PRP, Scuderi said
he refuses to do the procedure.  ‘Questionable’ Science  “The science is still questionable” Scuderi said, and the
injections aren’t covered by insurance.  Recreational athletes “don’t realize that the elite
athlete, because it’s their livelihood, can get rehab every
day,” Scuderi said in a telephone interview. They have
resources “not available to the amateur, and a greater time
commitment because it’s financial for them.”  Schneider, the Los Angeles chiropractor who had the therapy
in his hip, said he was about a month away from having surgery
again when he decided to try PRP.  In 1980, Schneider was a good enough athlete to try out for
the U.S. Olympic team in volleyball. Because it was a boycott
year, he went instead to  Europe  and played there professionally,
he said. Soon after that, he had his first hip operation.  “I recovered from the surgery,” he said. “But that was
the end of volleyball.”  Now he’s glad he found PRP as a way to avoid a third
operation and has returned to cycling, he said.  Quick Recovery  For others using PRP, the advantage is less about the pain
of an operation and more about getting back to their sport more
quickly.  That was the case for  Mark Fretta , 35, once the world’s
top-rated triathlete, who said he used the experimental
procedure before competing in the U.S. Olympic trials in May.  Fretta said had suffered a hamstring tear prior to the
trials and, figuring it may be his last chance to compete in an
Olympics. He was devastated, he recalled. Undergoing PRP seemed
a reasonable bet to make, he said, since getting back to
training even a day earlier would help him better prepare.  After the injection, Fretta -- who was ranked No 1 in the
world in his sport in 2006 -- competed pain-free in the trials
after just under four weeks of recovery time, compared with the
6 to 8 weeks normal for the injury.  Though he didn’t qualify, he says he was happy he got the
chance to try.  “I think the PRP injection I received was a huge
accelerant in my healing process,” he said. And although he was
advised before using it that the scientific verdict was still
out, “I’d recommend it to my friends.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 