-- Bloomberg Called for Gun Limits Minutes Before NYC Shots
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-24T20:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/bloomberg-called-for-gun-restrictions-minutes-before-nyc-shots.html
About 30 minutes before two people
were shot dead and nine were injured near New York’s Empire
State Building, the mayor of America’s largest city was on the
radio talking again about guns.  “It is just too many guns on the streets,” New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said during his weekly radio appearance today
on WOR radio. “The argument, ‘Guns don’t kill people, people
kill people,’ is one of the most disingenuous things you can
say. It does take a person to pull the trigger.”  Moments after the mayor finished speaking,  Jeffrey Johnson 
of  Manhattan  returned to a business that fired him last year and
shot Steve Ercolino, 41, a former co-worker, on the street, New
York police said. Johnson, wielding a .45-caliber semiautomatic
pistol, fled the scene, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly told
reporters. Johnson was killed by police.  Bloomberg, 70, has made restricting gun sales a signature
issue. He serves as co-chairman of Mayors Against Illegal Guns,
a coalition of more than 700 mayors who advocate new laws and
stiffer enforcement of existing ones. The group argues for
measures to keep guns away from criminals.  Today’s episode follows a July 20 shooting near Denver
where a masked gunman opened fire, killing 12 and injuring 58 in
a suburban Aurora theater. In Oak Creek, Wisconsin, a gunman
killed six people at a Sikh temple on Aug. 5 before turning the
weapon on himself.  ‘No Tolerance’  “Our state has no tolerance for senseless acts of violence
that harm our people,” New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a
Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We will do
everything possible to ensure that law enforcement officials
have the tools they need so residents of the city and tourists
can enjoy everything  New York City  has to offer without fearing
for their own safety and security.”  On Aug. 7,Cuomo said he’d make strengthening the state’s
gun laws a priority when lawmakers return to Albany in January.  New York City law requires a license to purchase a handgun.
A special license is needed to carry the handguns loaded with
ammunition. Applicants undergo a criminal background check.  The suspect bought his gun legally in  Florida  and had no
permit to own or carry it in New York City, said  Marc LaVorgna ,
Bloomberg’s spokesman.  Getting a handgun license can take as long as a year and
requires at least four trips to police headquarters, including
one where applicants are interviewed by an investigator, said
John S. Chambers, a New York attorney who helps applicants
navigate the process.  Gun Laws  The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence ranks New York
as having the fourth-strictest gun laws among U.S. states,
behind  California ,  New Jersey  and  Massachusetts .  Johnson doesn’t appear to have a criminal record, said
Bloomberg, a political independent, who is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg
News .  Today’s shooting was the third this month at a major New
York City tourist attraction. Yesterday, a street vendor near
Yankee Stadium in the Bronx shot two competitors, according to
the New York Daily News, and on Aug. 11, police gunned down a
knife-wielding man near Times Square.  Bloomberg repeated criticism of both President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, and  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential
candidate. Bloomberg said they have failed to develop a policy
or legislative agenda to control illicit firearms sales.  NRA Opposition  “We kill 34 people a day in this country with illegal
guns,” Bloomberg said on WOR. “The costs to society, all of us
are paying for this. People don’t understand, because of the
police needed and the hospitals and all of this stuff, and
people are afraid to go out and shop and everything.”  Andrew Arulanandam, director of public affairs for the
Fairfax, Virginia-based  National Rifle Association , didn’t
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  The NRA has opposed a Bloomberg-backed proposal, which has
repeatedly failed to pass the state Legislature, to require
semiautomatic pistols be “microstamped” with an alpha-numeric
code. The mark would help investigators identify the origin of
guns used in a crime. Bloomberg and the Mayors Against Illegal
Guns have urged U.S. lawmakers to resist an NRA-backed law
allowing people to carry concealed guns anywhere in the U.S if
that person’s home state allows it.  The satirical newspaper The Onion, posted a story on its
website with the headline “Nation Celebrates Full Week Without
Deadly Mass Shooting.” In smaller print, it added an “update”
saying: “Never mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ; Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
9157 or  hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  