-- Blue AstroTurf Bill Comes Due After Michigan Town Spurns Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/blue-astroturf-bill-comes-due-after-michigan-town-spurns-bonds.html
Faced with deciding whether to issue
bonds to install artificial turf at Oxford,  Michigan ’s high-
school football stadium, voters took a pass. Then, a handful of
parents promised to pay $425,000 for navy-blue fake grass so
that their Wildcats could play in splendor.  The bill is coming due. The parents -- who include the
spokesman for the  National Football League ’s  Detroit  Lions --
must pay $295,000 to closely held AstroTurf LLC based in Dalton,
 Georgia . They are racing a Sept. 1 deadline, amassing money from
sympathetic residents, fundraising events at fast-food
restaurants and the  24th Street Sports Tavern  and even taking a
$500 check from a Texas auto dealer.  “We gave our word we would pay them back,” said campaign
leader Jim Reis, 57, a construction contractor in the Detroit
suburb. “That means more to me than anything. AstroTurf has
been great to work with. We’re hoping they will work with us
when that deadline hits.”  The chase for stadiums has landed much larger cities in
financial straits, such as Harrison,  New Jersey ’s unsupported
$39 million debt to prepare land for Red Bull Arena, and
 Cleveland  having to borrow $130 million to refinance debt to
build a stadium for the NFL’s Browns.  No Thanks  In the 98-square-mile Oxford school district, 25 miles (40
kilometers) north of Detroit, voters looked at a much smaller
debt proposal and decided not to play the stadium game. The
boosters are banking on excitement over growing sports and
academic programs -- and Michigan’s only blue football field --
to drum up donations to pay their private debt.  In November 2009, voters rejected a $635,000 bond issue for
a new stadium field and athletic storage building for the 5,200-
student district. They approved a separate $32.7 million  bond
issue  to improve school facilities.  Still, fans of the Oxford Wildcats wanted to dress up the
field for their team, which  won  five games and lost four in
league conference play that year.  Reis and four boosters teamed up to figure out how to put
in the fake grass without tax money. They struck a deal with
ProGrass LLC of Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania , promising to pay the
company after the turf was laid.  That deal collapsed, however, and the group turned to
AstroTurf LLC, which agreed to install the navy-blue synthetic
field and give the parents 12 months to pay the $425,000 cost,
Reis said. A plan by AstroTurf to line up corporate sponsors
didn’t pan out, Reis said, leaving the boosters to seek other
donors.  Paying Up  The Oxford school district isn’t responsible for the cost
of the new field, according to a letter from AstroTurf.  Thanks to a $10,000 donation yesterday, the group has paid
AstroTurf $130,000 and has pledges for an additional $50,0000,
Reis said in an e-mail. A goal was to get 300 individuals to
donate $1,000 each.  Among the five who started the campaign is Bill Keenist,
vice president of communications for the  Detroit Lions .  Todd Britton, marketing director for AstroTurf, wouldn’t
comment on the agreement with the boosters or whether the
company would extend the payment deadline.  The new field drew national attention for its navy blue
color with gold trim -- Oxford High’s colors. It’s slightly
darker than  Boise State University ’s iconoclastic Blue Turf, a
registered trademark the  Idaho  school owns.  Boise Knows  When Boise State learned of Oxford’s plans for a blue
athletic field, it sent a letter cautioning the district not to
refer to its new field as blue turf, said Oxford Athletic
Director Mike Watson.  “I was flattered that word had gotten as far as Boise,
Idaho,” Watson said. “We call ours true blue and gold.”  Reis and Watson said new turf has lured more Oxford
students into sports.  “We have a history of being a pretty conservative area,”
Watson said. “We had worries how it would turn out. It looks
absolutely beautiful.”  Watson said he fears the novelty has worn off, which would
curb fundraising. He said AstroTurf rescued the synthetic turf
project and hopes the company can give the fundraisers a break.  “They can be a hero twice,” Watson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  