-- Bond-Quota Sales Fail as Pimco Frets on Inflation: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-24T05:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/bond-quota-sales-fail-as-pimco-frets-on-inflation-india-credit.html
India  fell short of its target at a
seventh straight sale of permits to buy rupee bonds and existing
quotas are underutilized by global funds on concern the fastest
inflation among the biggest  emerging markets  will accelerate.  Overseas  investors  bought 137 billion rupees ($2.5 billion)
worth of licenses on Aug. 20, 55 percent of the amount offered.
They owned 161.7 billion rupees of government bonds at the end
of July, 29 percent less than the permitted amount, according to
the  Securities and Exchange Board of India . The margin is the
widest since December, and compares with as little as 4.3
percent in February.  India’s  budget  and current-account deficits are set to
overshoot Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s target amid the
weakest economic growth in almost a decade. Central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has refrained from cutting interest
 rates  as the worst monsoon since 2009 threatens to stoke
inflation. That’s reduced the appeal of India’s 10-year bond
that yields 8.23 percent, almost triple the 3.34 percent in
 China .  “We are concerned about twin-deficit dynamics and elevated
inflation, due partly to the weak rainfall season and oil
prices,” Roland Mieth, a Singapore-based senior vice president
at the Asian unit of Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
an Aug. 22 e-mail. Pimco manages $1.82 trillion, including the
world’s biggest bond fund. “The rupee has stabilized but the
question remains whether this is sustainable.”  ‘Dominant Threat’  Subbarao on July 31 kept  borrowing costs  at the highest
level among the largest emerging markets as he raised the
 Reserve Bank  of India’s inflation forecast to 7 percent from 6.5
percent for the fiscal year to March 31, and scaled back its
 economic growth  estimate to 6.5 percent from 7.3 percent. One of
his deputies,  Subir Gokarn , said Aug. 19 inflation is the
“dominant threat.”  India’s June-September monsoon, which brings more than 70
percent of annual rainfall, was 14 percent below a 50-year
average as of Aug. 22, the nation’s weather bureau said.  The 9.3 percent jump in Brent crude-oil futures this month
to $114.66 per barrel, following the 7.3 percent gain in July,
may spur inflation and widen the current-account  deficit , the
broadest measure of trade. Asia’s third-largest economy imports
about 80 percent of its oil.  The current-account shortfall widened to a record 4.2
percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March 31,
from 2.7 percent in the previous fiscal year, RBI data show.  India’s benchmark  inflation  rate was at 6.87 percent in
July, faster than 1.8 percent in China, 5.2 percent in  Brazil 
and 5.6 percent in  Russia .  Budget Deficit  Singh’s efforts to keep fuel and food affordable for two-
thirds of India’s 1.2 billion people who, according to World
Bank estimates, live on less than $2 a day, may prevent the
government from meeting its goal of containing the budget
deficit at 5.1 percent of GDP in the year to March 2013. The
government plans to increase debt sales by 12 percent to a
record 5.69 trillion rupees this year to bridge the shortfall.  The gap may touch 5.8 percent, boosting  government
borrowing  by 450 billion rupees, Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based
fixed-income strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
research note yesterday.  “India’s current-account deficit and persistent inflation
have resulted in negative sentiment toward the economy,” Alia Yousuf, head of emerging-markets in  London  at ACPI Investments
Ltd., said in an Aug. 22 e-mail. “This, against an uncertain
global macro outlook, has damped demand from foreign investors
for Indian bonds.” ACPI manages $3 billion of assets.  Bond Yields  The 10-year bond  yield  has climbed 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, since touching this year’s low of 8.04 percent
on June 13. The benchmark note yield was little changed at 8.23
percent today, according to the RBI’s trading system.  Rupee-denominated  government bonds  returned 8.2 percent in
the past 12 months, trailing the 14.5 percent gain in Indonesian
securities and 12.3 percent earned by Philippine debt in Asia’s
best performances, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered India’s sovereign credit outlook
to negative from stable on April 25, saying the move reflects a
one-in-three likelihood of a ratings downgrade to junk status
because of slower investment and economic growth.  Fitch Ratings 
cut its outlook on June 18, citing limited progress in paring
the budget deficit. Both companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the
lowest investment grade.  “India appears to be largely in the same position” since
June, Art Woo, the Hong Kong-based director of Asia Pacific
sovereign ratings at Fitch, said in an Aug. 22 e-mail. “The
economy has continued to slow, inflation remains at elevated
levels and the budget is still under pressure.”  Default Risk  Bond risk has risen. The cost of insuring the debt of
government-controlled  State Bank of India (SBIN) , which some investors
consider a proxy for the sovereign, climbed 59 basis points in
the past 12 months to 320, according to data provider CMA. The
average price of credit-default swaps for Asia’s 10 biggest
economies dropped about 10 basis points to 130 in the period.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to debt agreements. An increase signals worsening
perceptions of creditworthiness. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rupee bonds may yet find buyers after the currency
rebounded in the past two months from a record low, according to
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN) , which manages $300 billion
globally.  Rupee Outlook  The rupee has appreciated 3.5 percent to 55.3850 versus the
dollar since hitting a record low of 57.3275 on June 22, the
best-performance in Asia in the period. The currency has pared
its decline in 2012 to 4.02 percent. It will end the year at
54.85 per dollar, according the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  “With the rupee stabilizing, you can see a more
constructive landscape for risk,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a
Singapore-based  fund manager  at Aberdeen, said by telephone on
Aug. 22. “Relative yields are definitely attractive.”  The failure to sell all the bond quotas offered at auctions
may stem from a rule change in January, when  SEBI  said permits
bought by foreigners will lapse upon redemption or sales. That
curbed investors’ ability to take advantage of market
opportunities, according to ACPI.  Rule Change  “The turnover restriction has prevented inflows seeking
arbitrage opportunities between Indian and foreign rates through
the bond and foreign-exchange markets,” ACPI’s Yousuf said.
“Until overall foreign sentiment towards Indian investments
improves, we expect to see some under-utilization in the quota
limits.”  At New York-based Invesco Advisers Inc., Senior Portfolio
Manager Claudia Calich is staying out of the Indian market
partly due to concerns about the economy and  capital controls .  “The nation’s outlook remains challenged by its twin
fiscal and current-account deficits, slow implementation of
structural reforms and high inflation,” Calich, who oversees
$1.7 billion of emerging-market assets, said in an Aug. 22 e-
mail. “Even at current valuations, we see better investment
opportunities elsewhere in Asia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  