-- Brasil Brokers Plans Acquisitions to Expand in Secondary Market
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-08-24T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/brasil-brokers-plans-acquisitions-to-expand-in-secondary-market.html
Brasil Brokers Participacoes SA (BBRK3) , the
country’s largest real estate broker by contracted sales, is
completing due diligence in two acquisition targets and plans to
buy as many as three more companies this year as part of a
strategy to expand in the secondary housing market.  The Rio de Janeiro-based broker plans to boost revenue from
sales of existing homes to 35 percent of total in five years,
from 15 percent currently, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Newlands Freire said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro  on Aug.
22.  “The secondary real estate brokerage market in  Brazil  is
made up of small companies, so acquisitions to consolidate this
market are part of our growth strategy,” Freire said.  Housing demand in the South American country will increase
as growing credit and near full employment lead more consumers
to buy homes, he said. Improvements in infrastructure and
security in the company’s largest markets of  Sao Paulo  and Rio
will also continue to boost sales, Freire said.  The two companies that are close to being acquired are
based in Sao Paulo, which is the main focus of Brasil Brokers’
growth strategy, Freire said. The company, which has about 250
million reais ($124 million) in cash, won’t need debt to finance
the acquisitions, the executive said, declining to provide the
amount the company plans to spend in the acquisitions.  After a first half with slowing housing credit amid
weakening economic growth, new projects and sales of existing
units will increase in the second half, Freire said. Brazil’s
gross domestic product will expand 1.75 percent this year, its
second-weakest performance in nine years, according to
economists in a survey by the central bank published Aug. 20.  Brasil Brokers had net income of 21 million reais in the
second quarter, a 34 percent drop from the 31.7 million reais
posted a year earlier, according to a regulatory filing on Aug.
14. Contracted sales fell 8 percent to 4.6 billion reais.  On March 1 the company said it agreed to buy 65 percent of
real-estate broker Miranda Imobiliaria for 6.6 million reais. On
Feb. 14, the company signed a contract to buy 55 percent of
Bamberg Planejamento & Empreendimento Imobiliarios for an
estimated 25.5 million reais. It has committed to acquire the
remaining 45 percent of Bamberg over a period of four years from
the initial acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  