-- Brazil Said to Seek 50 Billion Reais of Port Investments
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-08-24T14:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/brazil-said-to-seek-50-billion-reais-of-port-investments-1-.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
will announce a plan to auction concessions to operate 15 ports
and build others as part of an effort to attract 50 billion
reais ($24.7 billion) of investment, said a government official
familiar with the plan.  The government, which will make the announcement in the
second half of September, aims to increase investments and
competition between terminal operators to reduce bottlenecks and
freight costs, said the official, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions aren’t public. Auctions would take place
starting in 2013.  Rousseff’s press office didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  Greater integration between roads, railways and ports can
reduce logistics costs by more than 30 percent during the next
five years, the official said, citing government estimates.
Today’s comments come a week after  Brazil ’s government said it
will sell licenses to build and operate roads and railways that
will require as much as $66 billion in investments over 30 years
to help spur the world’s biggest emerging market after  China .  Inadequate road and rail infrastructure has limited
Brazil’s growth as the country prepares to host the 2014 World
Cup soccer tournament and the 2016  Olympic Games . Rousseff said
the infrastructure challenges stem from a decade of
underinvestment.  Brazil’s central bank expects gross domestic product to
expand 2.5 percent this year, down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010.  Policy makers will announce concessions to build new ports
in Manaus, Ilheus and Imbituba, the official said today. The
government is working with port users and operators to identify
ports that are uncompetitive, lack capacity or have underused
space, the official added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 