-- Brazilian Real Posts Weekly Decline on European Debt Concern
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-08-24T21:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/brazil-s-real-declines-to-two-week-low-on-european-debt-concern.html
Brazil’s real posted its first five-
day decline in three weeks on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis is undermining the global economic recovery and as a
report showed Brazil’s consumer confidence dropped.  The currency weakened 0.1 percent to 2.0266 per U.S. dollar
today, pushing the weekly decline to 0.6 percent. Swap rates on
contracts due in January 2014 closed unchanged at 7.96 percent
and rose 10 basis points since July 27.  The real fell today as two officials said European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi may await a German ruling on the
legality of Europe’s permanent bailout fund before announcing
details of his plan to buy government bonds. The officials spoke
on condition of anonymity because the deliberations aren’t
public.  “The market’s recent improvements have been due to
Draghi’s promises to act, but he hasn’t done anything yet,”
Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda., said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “That’s the market’s big doubt.”  Brazil’s Finance Ministry said the government has been
successful in weakening the real as other countries try to gain
market share by devaluing their currencies.  “The Brazilian government is facing the so-called currency
war with great success,” the ministry said today in a report
posted on its website.  The central bank auctioned reverse currency swaps on Aug.
21 for the first time since March as the real strengthened
toward 2 per dollar.  Brazil’s consumer confidence index fell to 120.4 in August,
down from 121.6 in July, the Getulio Vargas Foundation in Rio de
Janeiro reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  