-- Brazil Area's Sugar Cane Forecast Raised 2.4% by Kingsman
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-24T10:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/brazil-area-s-sugar-cane-forecast-raised-2-4-by-kingsman.html
The sugar-cane crop in  Brazil ’s
center south, the main growing region of the biggest producer,
will be 2.4 percent higher than previously estimated as dry
weather helped speed up harvesting, according to Kingsman SA.  Cane processing will be 512 million metric tons in the
2012-13 season under way there, the Lausanne, Switzerland-based
broker and researcher said in a report dated today. That
compares with a previous forecast for 500 million tons. Output
in the area fell for the first time in a decade in 2011-12 to
493.3 million tons, according to industry group Unica.  “The extraordinary wet months of May and June that delayed
the start are now behind us and both July and August have seen
significantly better harvesting conditions enabling millers to
push their crushing capacity to a maximum,” Kingsman said.  Sugar production in the area will be 31.7 million tons,
down from a previous forecast of 31.8 million tons, according to
the report. Rains earlier this year reduced the sugar content in
the cane to 134 kilograms (295 pounds) per ton, from a previous
forecast of 137.5 kilograms, Kingsman said in the report. Some
48.5 percent of all the cane processed will be directed to sugar
at the expense of ethanol, according to the researcher.  “The percentage of sucrose allocated to sugar production
remains significantly higher than the average in the previous
five years,” it said. “Despite the latest weakness on prices,
sugar still gives mills a much better return than ethanol.”  Sugar prices have fallen 16 percent in  New York  this year
as global supplies outpace demand. The global sweetener surplus
will be 4.5 million tons in the 2012-13 season that starts in
October in most countries, Armajaro Trading Group Ltd.
estimates.  Ethanol Output  Ethanol output in the center south will be 20.7 billion
liters (5.5 billion gallons), from a previous forecast of 20.8
billion liters, Kingsman estimates. Millers probably will leave
some of this year’s cane un-harvested in order not to jeopardize
the development of new plantings, according to the report.  The “El Nino weather phenomenon, even if it may be a weak
one, is threatening early spring rains and there is still a risk
of a difficult late harvest,” Kingsman said.  El Nino is a warming of the waters of the  Pacific Ocean 
which usually brings above-average rainfall to Brazil’s center
south. The weather pattern is usually associated with lower
output in the region. Climate indicators in the tropical Pacific
Ocean remain close to El Nino thresholds,  Australia ’s Bureau of
Meteorology said on its  website  on Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 