-- Brazil’s Coffee Discount Narrows as Exporters Purchase
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-24T09:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/brazil-s-coffee-discount-narrows-as-exporters-purchase.html
Buyers of fine coffee from  Brazil ,
the world’s largest producer, are getting a smaller discount for
the beans, with futures sliding in  New York  and local exporters
purchasing for September shipment, according to Flavour Coffee.  Fine-cup arabica beans were trading at a discount of 8
cents a pound to the price of the December contract on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, compared with 10 cents last week, data
from the Rio de Janeiro-based broker showed.  Arabica coffee fell 0.4 percent this week as exchange-
certified stockpiles rose to 1.895 million bags yesterday, the
highest since October 2010,  ICE data  on Bloomberg showed.
Inventories are gaining a boost from Latin American exports.
Shipments from nine countries in the region rose to 2.95 million
bags in July from 1.97 million bags a year earlier, Guatemala’s
National Coffee Association said in a report on Aug. 21.  Exporters in the local market were buying beans for
September, according to Flavour Coffee. “Volume of business
finally improved after a couple of weeks of stagnant
activities,” the broker said in the report.  Dry weather in the main arabica-producing regions has
helped farmers gather this year’s crop after rains in June
delayed harvesting. About 78 percent of all the beans have been
picked in the southern  Minas Gerais , 77 percent in Cerrado
Mineiro, 93 percent in Zona da Mata and 78 percent in the state
of  Sao Paulo , Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Cazarini Trading Co.
in Varginha, Brazil, said in a report e-mailed yesterday. Minas
Gerais is Brazil’s biggest arabica-growing state.  Conillons Premium  Good-cup quality arabica beans were at a discount of 16
cents a pound, compared with 15 cents last week, Flavour Coffee
said.  Buyers of conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known,
are paying a premium of 15 cents a pound ($331 a metric ton) to
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , unchanged from
last week, according to Flavour Coffee data.  “The flow of coffee from producing areas has been somewhat
jeopardized by the heavy rains in north of Espirito Santo and
south of Bahia,” the broker said. “Internal roads were
affected, making truck access almost impossible in some
places.”  Some growing areas in Espirito Santo, Bahia and
northeastern Minas Gerais will get rainfall in the next days,
weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said in a report e-mailed
yesterday. Espirito Santo is Brazil’s main robusta-producing
state. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  Robusta coffee for November delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$2,047 a ton by 9:58 a.m. in London. Arabica coffee for December
delivery rose 0.4 percent to $1.6255 a pound in New York.  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and favored
for specialty drinks such as those made by Starbucks Corp.
Robusta is harvested mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa  and used
in instant drinks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 