-- Brink’s to Open One of Largest Bullion Vaults as ETPs Climb
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-08-24T08:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/brink-s-to-open-one-of-largest-bullion-vaults-as-etps-climb-1-.html
The Brink’s Co. (BCO) , which stores and
transports bullion, is set to open one of the world’s largest
precious metals vaults in the London area within the next month,
at a time when investors’ gold holdings are at a record.  The firm plans to open the facility with a major London
clearing company and is considering opening another vault next
year, Orit Eyal-Fibeesh, managing director for Brink’s in the
U.K., said in an e-mail yesterday. The vault will be able to
hold a “very substantial” amount of metal, she said, without
being more specific.  Investors are buying more gold as a protection of wealth on
speculation central banks will do more to bolster growth and
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. Holdings in bullion-backed  exchange-
traded products  reached a record 2,447.1 metric tons valued at
$131 billion yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Malca-
Amit Global Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc are among
firms planning to open or increase bullion storage facilities.  “There’s demand for vaults,”  Thorsten Proettel , an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany ,
said today by phone. “People are looking for an alternative
investment. We will have steady inflows in to precious metals.”  Brink’s, the third-biggest vaulting firm in the U.K. behind
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and HSBC Holdings Plc, opened a precious
metals vault in London last year and operates a number of
facilities in the U.K., Eyal-Fibeesh said. Customers would be
banks, trading houses, institutions, retails investors,
governments and ETP providers, she said.  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,665.78 an ounce at
9:17 a.m. in London. It’s up 6.5 percent this year after 11
consecutive annual gains. Gold ETP holdings climbed 3.8 percent
this year, compared with a 5 percent increase for silver, 9.2
percent for platinum and 16 percent for palladium products,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  