-- California Widens Audit of Pension Abuse, Controller Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-24T21:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/california-widens-audit-of-pension-abuse-controller-says.html
California Controller John Chiang
has expanded his audit of the California State Teachers’
Retirement System’s efforts to curb so-called pension spiking, a
spokesman said.  The  review  to determine whether educators improperly
received late-career raises to boost their pensions has widened
from the second-largest pension itself, known as Calstrs, to
also include five school districts, said Jacob Roper, a
spokesman for the controller.  “It’s not actually a delay, it’s an extension of the audit
period,” Roper said by telephone. “The additional time was
needed because we drastically expanded the scope of the audit.”
He didn’t identify the school districts.  Public-worker pensions are driving up employee costs
nationwide in states and cities that lost  tax revenue  in the
longest recession since the 1930s. Calstrs had assets to cover
just 69 percent of liabilities in fiscal 2011, compared with an
average of 75 percent for all states in 2010, according to
Bloomberg Rankings.  Chiang, a Democrat who sits on the Calstrs board, announced
the inquiry in November and said he expected it to take about
two months.  Pension spiking refers to the practice of public employees
artificially inflating future retirement payments through
unjustified late-career raises and overtime, unused vacation and
special compensation. Spiking and so-called double dipping, the
practice of retirees collecting pensions while working a second
job, have fueled criticism of the costs of government pensions.  Brown Proposals  In October, Governor  Jerry Brown  proposed several measures
to contain retirement costs for the most-populous state,
including two specifically aimed at pension spiking. One of
Brown’s proposed steps would require that pensions be based on
the final three years of pay rather than the last one, and
another would require that pensions be based only on regular
pay, not special compensation.  Lawmakers haven’t acted on the 74-year-old Democrat’s
proposals. Leaders of the state Assembly and Senate, both
Democrats, have said they plan to bring pension-related
legislation to a vote by the end of the current session Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  