-- California’s Lockyer Seeks Probe of Muni-Bond Conduit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/california-s-lockyer-seeks-probe-of-muni-bond-conduit.html
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer
called on Attorney General  Kamala Harris  to investigate whether
conflict-of-interest laws were broken at one of the state’s
biggest issuers of municipal debt, a conduit for bond sales on
behalf of local governments.  Lockyer’s request follows a report by the state auditor
that questioned the California Statewide Communities Development
Authority’s use of consultants that do the work of public
officials in return for a percentage of the debt issued.
California law prohibits public officials from making,
participating in, or influencing decisions that affect them
financially.  “Although we found that the compensation model of the
joint powers authorities raises concerns, we cannot conclude
that it violates California’s conflict-of-interest laws,”
according to the report.  The authority, which employs HB Capital Resources Ltd. of
Walnut Creek for management services under a no-bid contract,
has paid its consultants about $50 million from July 2006
through June 2011, the auditor said. The authority has sold more
than $48 billion of securities since it was set up.  “The problems identified in the auditor’s report are
sufficiently serious and substantial to warrant an investigation
by the attorney general to determine if conflict of interest
laws have been violated,” Lockyer said yesterday in a
statement.  The management arrangement gives HB Capital a financial
interest in persuading local officials to approve bond sales by
the authority, Lockyer said. The Joint Legislative Audit
Committee ordered the study a year ago at Lockyer’s urging.  Hijacked Agency  The treasurer voiced concern at the time that the joint-powers law that provides the bonding agency’s legal foundation
had been hijacked to produce gains for nongovernment firms.  “We’re pleased, but not surprised, that the auditor found
 California  Communities’ business practices to be in full
compliance with the law,” Larry Combs, the authority’s
chairman, said in a statement that also represented HB Capital’s
response. “We’re very proud of California Communities’ positive
24-year track record.”  The audit report called for better transparency regarding
how the authority’s management company compensates its own
employees and for periodically seeking bids for the contract
held by HB Capital. It also called on the Legislature to enact
an exemption to the conflict-of-interest law for the firm and
others that do similar work for conduit agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  