-- Cameron Urged by Airlines to Back More Heathrow Runways
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-24T08:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/cameron-urged-to-support-heathrow-as-cabinet-change-looms.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
was urged to change the government’s position and back a third
runway at London’s Heathrow airport, a shift that would require
him to move Transport Secretary Justine Greening to a new job.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, whose  British
Airways (IAG)  division has its hub at Heathrow, said U.K. economic
growth depends on an expansion of the airport,  Europe ’s busiest.
The prime minister will make changes to his Cabinet next month,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  “We don’t believe that there is a clear government
aviation policy,” spokeswoman Laura Goodes said by telephone
today. “The U.K. needs more airport capacity in order to be
able to compete effectively with countries where governments
have supported the development of aviation, such as  China  and
the Middle East states.”  Cameron’s Conservatives opposed a third runway ahead of the
2010 election, when they were fighting to win districts in West
London, under the airport’s flight path. His appointment in
October of Greening, who represents one of these districts and
had personally campaigned on the issue, was a sign that this
position hadn’t changed.  The premier’s been under pressure from within his own party
to rethink his policy on Heathrow. In July, a group of 39
Conservative lawmakers called for two new runways to be built
there to increase passenger capacity.  Conference Motion  Greening, 43, isn’t the only obstacle within government to
an expansion. The Liberal Democrats, the junior party in the
coalition government, will vote at their annual conference on
Sept. 23 on a motion that would reject the building of any new
runways at Heathrow or the capital’s other main airports,
Gatwick and Stansted, and demand an independent study to find a
location for a hub. The motion also opposes Conservative London
Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s proposal to construct a new airport in the
Thames estuary.  Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. founder  Richard Branson  has
said he’s “deeply frustrated” by opposition to expanding
Heathrow. “What should be happening is more runways,” he said
in an interview July 12. “It’s holding  Great Britain  back and
holding us back.”  On March 3,  the Daily Telegraph newspaper  published a
letter from nearly 70 business leaders calling on the government
to speed up its decision-making process, warning that Britain
would fall behind France and  Germany  in the next 10 years if no
action is taken.  The publication of a planned consultation document on the
future of London’s airports has been delayed, demonstrating the
tensions within the coalition on the issue.  “There are lots of different options” for increasing
airport capacity,” Cameron told a conference of investors in
 London  on July 26. The coalition has a “pledge not to have a
third runway” at Heathrow, he said, adding that the government
will start its review of airport capacity by the end of the
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  