-- Canadian Dollar Snaps Six Week Streak as Growth Concern Rises
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-08-24T21:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-as-european-talks-spur-risk-aversion.html
Canada ’s dollar posted its first
weekly decline versus its U.S. counterpart since the start of
July as concern increases that the nation’s economic expansion
is losing momentum.  The Canadian currency trimmed the loss today as comments
from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  renewed optimism
the U.S. central bank will provided more monetary stimulus to
Canada’s biggest trading partner. The currency fell 0.3 percent
over five days versus the greenback after a retail sales report
earlier this week trailed economists’ expectations, capping a
series of weaker economic reports.  “The Canadian dollar has lagged,” said  Mark Chandler ,
head of fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “It’s mostly a hangover from
last week’s inflation data and this week’s retail sales.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie after the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to 99.23 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0077. The currency had strengthened for six consecutive
weeks, last dropping against the greenback in the five days
ended July 6.  Canada’s currency touched 98.43 cents per  U.S. dollar  on
Aug. 21, the strongest level since May 3 amid speculation
European policy makers are close to putting a recovery plan in
place. Global stocks fell earlier today after two central bank
officials said the  European Central Bank  may wait until a German
court ruling before unveiling full details of a plan to buy
 government bonds .  Equity Correlation  The MSCI  All Country World Index (MXWD)  was little changed after
dropping as much as 0.8 percent today.  The loonie has a 30-day correlation coefficient of 0.79
with the MSCI index. A reading of 1 would indicate they move in
lockstep. The correlation with crude oil is 0.62.  “The Canadian dollar is trading along with other risk
currencies that started off stronger, but couldn’t maintain
their bid given the data,” said Firas Askari, head currency
trader in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)   Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
versus the Canadian currency remained close to the lowest level
since May 2007 at 6.5 percent. The five-year average is 12
percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Government bonds were little changed, with the yield on  10-
year bonds  rising less than one basis point to 1.83 percent. The
price of the 2.75 percent securities maturing in June 2022 fell
6 cents to C$108.21.  Statistics Canada  said earlier this week that wholesale
sales fell 0.1 percent and retail sales dropped 0.4 percent in
June, versus median estimates in separate Bloomberg News surveys
calling for gains of 0.3 percent and 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  