-- Canada Gas Slips on Outlook for Minimal Storm Threat to Supply
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-08-24T19:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/canada-gas-slips-on-outlook-for-minimal-storm-threat-to-supply.html
Canadian natural gas slid on
speculation that supply disruptions in the  Gulf of Mexico  from
Tropical Storm Isaac will be minimal.  September gas in Alberta  dropped 4.7 percent as the
 National Weather Service  predicted Isaac may become a hurricane
off the west coast of  Florida  in about four days. The Gulf
accounted for about 7 percent of U.S. gas production in 2011,
compared with 11 percent in 2008, Energy Department data show.  The storm impact “may be limited,” Pax Saunders, an
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston, said in a note to
clients today. “Consumers shouldn’t lose sleep over the impact
of the storm on platforms.”  Alberta  gas for September delivery declined 9.75 cents to
C$1.99 per gigajoule ($1.91 per million British thermal units)
as of 3:20 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for September delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  fell 10 cents, or 3.6 percent, to settle at
$2.702 per million Btu. Futures are down 9.6 percent this year.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.6 billion cubic
feet at 2 p.m. New York time.  Gas Flows  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2 billion cubic feet at
Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to TransCanada’s
main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.16 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 172 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.85 billion cubic feet today, below the estimated
capacity of 2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.75
billion cubic feet at 2:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  