-- Carney Warns Suncor, Tech on Dead Money: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-08-24T13:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/carney-dead-money-warning-targets-suncor-teck-corporate-canada.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  lead Canadian companies sitting on record cash
reserves, and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  wants
corporations to invest this “dead money” or pay it in
dividends.  Suncor, the country’s largest energy company, had C$5.17
billion ($5.2 billion) in cash and marketable securities in the
latest quarter, top among non-financial companies that have a
market value of more than C$1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Calgary-based company has a dividend
yield of 1.64 percent, below the average of 2.58 percent.  Excluding financial firms, corporations hold cash and
short-term securities of about C$526 billion, or about 30
percent of gross domestic product, said  Craig Wright , chief
economist at Royal Bank of Canada. That compares with about 10
percent historically, he said.  “The level of caution could be viewed as excessive,”
Carney told reporters in Toronto on Aug. 22. “Their job is to
put money to work, and if they can’t think of what to do with it
they should give it back to their shareholders.”  Companies such as Suncor are being urged to support the
economy amid a pullback by consumers, who pushed the ratio of
 household debt  to disposable income to a record 154 percent in
the first quarter. Retail sales unexpectedly fell in June,
adding to evidence the economy may have slowed in the second
quarter more than the central bank forecast.  “Carney would like to see a bit more business investment
than the accumulations of household debt but you only have one
instrument and you can’t control how people use it,” said  David
Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at TD Securities in Toronto.
The stockpiling of cash “is something that contributes to a
sluggish recovery.”  Spending Gap  Eliminating the net financial deficit of households will
“eventually leave a noticeable C$50 billion gap in our economy
over two years,” Carney said, according to the text of his
speech to the Canadian Auto Workers Union. “This gap can only
be sustainably filled by additional exports and business
investment.” Carney didn’t name specific companies.  Cash on Canadian company balance sheets has surged to three
times the historical average while productivity growth, driven
largely by corporate investment in machinery and equipment,
trails the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner.  Canada ’s
productivity growth averaged 0.2 percent over the past five
years, compared with 1.8 percent for the U.S.  “Canada has lagged the rest of the world in productivity
for a number of years now and this should be an ideal time if
you are a Canadian company to be buying equipment for the
future,” said Craig Porter, a portfolio manager at Front Street
Capital Inc., which runs C$2.4 billion.  Prudent Reserves  Suncor said the current economic environment and recent
commodity price swings make it “prudent” to have cash on its
balance sheet, spokeswoman Sneh Seetal said. Half of Suncor’s
C$7.5 billion budget for 2012 is geared toward growth projects.
The company increased its dividend in May and is almost done
buying back C$1.4 billion in shares this year, she said in an e-
mail.  “Our intention is to invest significant capital over the
next decade in order to grow the company, while also steadily
increasing the cash we return to shareholders through dividends
and share buybacks,” Seetal said.  Teck Resources has C$3.64 billion in cash and marketable
securities, with a dividend yield of 2.69 percent.  The world’s
second-largest exporter of coal used in steelmaking refinanced
at high  interest rates  in 2009 to replace short-term debt it
used for its C$13.8 billion takeover of Fording Canadian Coal
Trust in 2008.  Capital Needs  Vancouver-based Teck, whose debt rating was cut to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service after the Fording transaction,
regained its investment-grade rating in 2010. Chris Stannell,
spokesman at Teck, declined to comment.  “There are two extremely good reasons why they are holding
a lot of cash at this moment,” said Bill Hochmuth, a senior
investment-grade debt analyst at Thrivent Financial for
Lutherans, which had $75.8 billion under management last year,
including Teck bonds. “They have capital needs for expansion
plans and given the volatility in the metals industry on a
global scale, being conservative is a better way to be.”  George Weston Ltd. (WN) , the owner of the Loblaw’s grocery
chain, has C$3.6 billion in cash and a 2.3 percent dividend
yield, according to Bloomberg data.  George Weston began holding a “significant” amount of
cash to ride out challenging economic times in late 2008 and
2009, Geoffrey Wilson, senior vice president, financial control
and  investor relations , said in a phone interview.  Loblaw Parent  The parent of Loblaw Companies Ltd. gave C$1 billion back
to shareholders through a special dividend two years ago and is
“actively” looking to invest the remainder in other companies
to grow, Wilson said.  Loblaw will spend C$1.1 billion on such things as new
stores and capital refits this year, and Weston is building new
bakeries, “so we are investing heavily in Canada,” Wilson
said.  Suncor shares have increased 6.2 percent this year in
Toronto, while Teck has dropped 20 percent and George Weston
has fallen 7.4 percent.  Carney is “barking up the wrong tree,” on companies’ use
of cash, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage C$2.7 billion at
First Asset Investment Management Inc.  “Companies are seeing that really every region in the
world is slowing or at least not growing very fast, and we are
disproportionately weighted to the energy and resource sector,”
Stephenson said yesterday in a telephone interview. “When you
have got the growth rate slowing in  Asia  so dramatically, I
think its worrisome, and I think if I were making the decisions
I would be hoarding cash too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  