-- Caterpillar Cuts China Production as Digger Slump Reaches Mining
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-08-24T10:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/caterpillar-cuts-china-production-as-digger-slump-reaches-mining.html
Xu Biao could sit in his office
waiting for orders to roll in during a Chinese building boom two
years ago. Now, he’s hitting the road trying to drum up business.  “Life is difficult,” said Xu, a sales manager at  Maanshan
Fangyuan Slewing Ring Co. (002147) , which supplies parts to  Sany Heavy
Industry Co. (600031) , XCMG Construction Machinery Co. and other
equipment-makers. “Every client is cutting production.”  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , which gets 25 percent of sales in  Asia ,
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and Sany have all slashed output in the world’s
biggest construction-equipment market this year as a demand
slump caused by slower economic growth spreads from building to
mining. Sales of large excavators, mainly used by miners, last
month plunged the most since at least January 2009, contributing
to the 15th straight decline in the overall market.  “The market is just getting worse,” said Wang Shuangming,
an analyst with consultant  China Construction Machinery Business
Online.  “It doesn’t matter if you’re a foreign or domestic
producer -- everybody is sitting in the same boat.”  Total excavator sales fell 24 percent from a year earlier
in July to 5,827, according to  China  Construction Machinery
Association data cited by Nomura Holdings Inc. Sales have
dropped year-on-year every month since May 2011 after a
government clampdown on real estate triggered a building
slowdown. Construction of new railways was also cut following a
July 2011 train crash.  40-Ton Excavators  Demand for the biggest and most expensive excavators, which
weigh more than 40 tons, had largely withstood the slump because
of demand from miners. A slump in coal prices has dented this
sector, causing sales to tumble 53 percent in July. Total fixed-
asset investment in Chinese coal mining slowed to a 3 percent
growth rate from 19 percent in June.  “A slowdown in mining investment in China has just
begun,” Nomura analyst Wenjie Ge said in an Aug. 21 note. The
downturn “may last longer than the market expects.” He has
forecast a 27 percent decline in total excavator sales this year.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, has slowed production at its main Chinese
excavator factory, including a two-week shutdown last month,  Jim Dugan , a spokesman, said by e-mail. The plant, in Xuzhou city,
Jiangsu province, makes mid-size  Cat 300 series excavators  and
track-type tractors, according to the Peoria, Illinois-based
company’s website.  Depressed Sales  The equipment-maker has cut working hours in China and it’s
exporting most production to help ease inventory that built up
after an anticipated sales pickup failed to happen,  Mike DeWalt ,
director of  investor relations , said this month during a
Jefferies Group Inc. event.  “The current sales level in China is quite depressed,” he
said according to a transcript. “We ended up with more
inventory in China than we needed and it’s probably going to
take us the rest of the year to work it down.”  Caterpillar has dropped 3.3 percent in  New York  trading
this year. Sany, China’s biggest construction-equipment maker by
market value, fell 2.6 percent in  Shanghai  today, extending
losses for the year to 10 percent. Second-ranked Zoomlion Heavy
Industry Science & Technology Co. tumbled 6.4 percent, the most
in a month. XCMG Construction declined 4.5 percent in Shenzhen.  Komatsu, Hitachi  Komatsu and  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,  Japan ’s two
biggest construction-equipment makers, have both cut their
operating profit forecasts because of the China slowdown. They
both fell  Komatsu expects nationwide excavator sales to fall as much
as 30 percent in the year ending March, compared with an earlier
forecast for an increase of as much as 5 percent, Yasushi Sakano,
president of its global retail finance division, said July 31.
Existing Komatsu machines in China were used 10 percent less
than a year earlier because of the slowdown, he said, citing
tracking data.  The  company  is paring Chinese excavator production in line
with sales to maintain “appropriate” levels of inventories,
said Hiroshi Ishihara, a spokesman. Sales fell 50 percent last
month following a 57 percent drop in the quarter ended June, he
said. The Tokyo-based company was surpassed by Sany as the
biggest excavator maker in China by units last year, based on
 China Construction Machinery Association  data.  Hitachi reduced its excavator production in China by almost
60 percent from a year earlier in July following a 50 percent
cut in the quarter ended June, said Keiichi Suzuki, a Tokyo-
based spokesman. The company is maintaining a five-day week at
its plant in Anhui province, while allocating more time to
training to improve efficiencies and cut costs, he said.  Work Harder  At Maanshan Fangyuan, whose slewing rings let cranes and
other heavy loads rotate, production is also being cut after
profit slumped 78 percent in the first half. Salesman Xu, who
didn’t use to travel often, is now out at least two weeks a
month seeking deals, he said.  “I have to work much harder,” he said. “Otherwise,
competitors will steal my clients.” Maanshan Fangyuan has
slumped 27 percent in Shenzhen trading this year.  Many equipment-makers in China are giving staff two days
training a week or a day’s unpaid leave to curb output, said
Wang Jinxing, vice secretary-general of the  China Construction
Machinery Association . Demand may pick up if the government
rolls out supportive measures, he said.  The  Central Bank  has cut  interest rates  twice since June
and allowed lenders to offer bigger discounts on loans to spur
investments. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said earlier this month that
slowing inflation allowed more room to adjust monetary policy.  The excavator sector “is an oversupplied market,” said
China Construction Machinery Business Online’s Wang. “Only a
government stimulus can save it.”  Sany Training  Sany, based in Changsha,  Hunan province , has stepped up its
training during the slowdown after more than doubling its
workforce in two years to 51,827 at the end of December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are problems after our explosive growth,” said
Vice Chairman Xiang Wenbo, without elaboration. “We took on
employees as if we were in a war.”  The company, which also makes concrete pumps, mixers and
cranes, hasn’t made any job cuts because of the demand slump,
said Board Secretary Xiao Youliang. Its excavator sales fell 15
percent in the first seven months, according to Nomura.  Sany also postponed a $2 billion  Hong Kong  share sale last
month, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  XCMG
Construction (000425)  canceled a $1.1 billion offering in September 2011.
The company, which makes wheel loaders, cranes and bulldozers,
reported a 29 percent drop in first-half profit this year.  “Every equipment-maker is working hard to cope with the
weak market,” said the trade group’s Wang. “They will have no
reason to ramp up production while sales continue to be down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  