-- Chavez Trails Rival for First Time in Consultores 21 Poll
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-24T19:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/chavez-trails-rival-for-first-time-in-consultores-21-poll-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
trailed opponent Henrique Capriles Radonski for the first time
in a Consultores 21 poll ahead of elections in October.  Capriles had 47.7 percent of support against 45.9 percent
for Chavez in a poll taken last week, Consultores 21 Vice
President  Saul Cabrera  said today in a phone interview. The
survey of 1,000 people had a margin or error of 3.2 percentage
points, he said.  Chavez, who is seeking to extend his 13 years in power with
another six-year term, has a lead in most other polls. The self-
declared socialist’s advantage narrowed to 12.5 points in a
Datanalisis poll in August from 15.3 percentage points in June.  “Chavez has hit his ceiling because after 14 years when
he’s become well-known it wouldn’t appear he can grow much more
than that,” Cabrera said. “On the other hand I can’t see
Capriles growing much more because all the indicators are that
this is going to be a close race.”  Capriles, a 40-year-old former governor of Miranda state,
has visited more than 150 towns across the country, emulating a
strategy employed by Chavez when he first gained power in a
December 1998 election.  Energetic Walks  Capriles has sought to mark a contrast with Chavez, who is
recovering from an undisclosed form of cancer, by his energetic
walks through rural villages of  Venezuela . He’s also attempted
to win over state employees and the military by releasing video
messages in which he said they shouldn’t be persecuted for their
political beliefs and should be paid more.  Chavez has preferred to stage large rallies and caravans
through selected towns of the country to rally support.  Chavez said yesterday during a campaign rally in the
eastern city of Cumana that he expects to beat Capriles with 70
percent of the vote in a “knockout.” Chavez said that
Capriles, whom he calls the “loser” and “little
bourgeoisie,” is traveling the country for the first time
visiting towns as a tourist in contrast to the “million”
Venezuelan towns that the self-declared revolutionary has
visited during his life.  Chavez, 58, increased  government spending  34 percent in the
first half of 2012 from a year ago and is promoting social
programs for the elderly and children in extreme poverty. The
surge in spending and a 17.6 percent expansion in the
 construction industry  in the second quarter helped the economy
 grow 5.4 percent  from a year earlier.  Chavez said July 9 that opinion polls showing a technical
tie with Capriles are “a joke,” without specifically referring
to Consultores 21.  A poll taken between June 15 and June 26 showed the
president with 45.9 percent support against 45.8 percent for
Capriles. The Caracas-based pollster correctly predicted that
Chavez’s opponents would win a slender majority in the popular
vote in legislative elections in September 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  