-- Chilean Peso Posts Weekly Advance as Stimulus View Boosts Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-24T18:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/chilean-peso-depreciates-as-copper-weakens-on-european-crisis.html
Chile’s peso posted a weekly gain as
speculation authorities in the U.S. and  China  will do more to
promote growth boosted the price of copper, the Latin American
nation’s biggest export.  The currency has appreciated 0.5 percent since Aug. 17
after declining 0.1 percent to 481.04 per dollar at the close in
Santiago. The peso has gained 8 percent this year, the best
performance among all of the world’s currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Hungarian forint.  “There is speculation there will be more money and that
 emerging markets  will benefit, but it’s just speculation,”
Eugenio Cortes, the head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago, said in a phone interview.
“The real figures don’t allow for so much optimism.”  Chilean policy makers highlighted the peso’s appreciation
last week, fueling speculation the central bank will revive a
dollar-buying program while keeping the benchmark  interest rate 
at 5 percent for a seventh month.  The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index has
dropped 0.2 percent this week. Futures on copper, which makes up
more than half of Chile’s exports, slid 0.2 percent in New York
today, paring the weekly gain to 1.8 percent.  The peso fell today as two officials said European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  may await a German ruling on the
legality of Europe’s permanent bailout fund before announcing
details of his plan to buy  government bonds . The officials spoke
on condition of anonymity because the deliberations aren’t
public.  Bernanke View  U.S. stocks rallied after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said in an Aug. 22 letter to the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee that “there is scope
for further action” to spur the economy. The People’s Bank of
China pumped a net 278 billion  yuan  ($43.7 billion) into the
financial system this week using money-market operations, the
biggest cash injection since January.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had an $8.6 billion bet against the peso on Aug. 22. Local
investors, which excludes banks and brokers, had a $17 billion
long peso position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  