-- China’s Stocks Fall to Lowest Since March 2009 on Profit Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-24T07:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-on-property-earnings-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging down
the benchmark index to the lowest level since March 2009, after
companies from  Maanshan Iron & Steel (323)  Co. to Shanxi Coal
International Energy Group Co. reported weaker earnings.  Maanshan Iron dropped to a 16-year low, while Shanxi Coal
sank 6 percent as Shenyin & Wanguo Securities cut the company’s
earnings estimates. Gemdale Corp. tumbled to a seven-month low
after the official Xinhua News Agency reported the government is
studying further measures to control the  property market .  The Shanghai Composite declined 1 percent to 2,092.10 at
the close, the lowest since March 3, 2009. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
lost 1.2 percent to 2,275.68. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  fell 1.8 percent.
The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, slid 0.2 percent in  New York .  “The market’s volatile with weak first-half earnings and
property concerns dragging the market,” said Larry Wan,
Beijing-based head of investment at Union Life Asset Management
Co., which manages the equivalent of $2.2 billion.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  has retreated 1.1 percent this week
after a report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed manufacturing may be contracting at a faster pace this
month. The index has fallen 4.9 percent this year, dragging down
 estimated earnings  to 9.4 times, compared with the average of
17.5 since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006.  Earnings Concerns  The manufacturing data signal more monetary and fiscal
stimulus may be needed to secure a second-half rebound in
economic and earnings growth. Policy makers lowered  interest
rates  in June and July after two reductions in reserve-
requirement ratios for lenders this year as the economy expanded
at the slowest pace since 2009.  China’s non-financial publicly traded companies that have
already released first-half earnings posted a 7.8 percent drop
in profits, compared with a 4.5 percent decline in the first
quarter,  Li Peng , analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo, said yesterday.  Maanshan Iron retreated 1 percent to 1.96  yuan , the lowest
close since Feb. 14, 1996. The company’s first-half net loss was
1.9 billion yuan, compared with net income of 310 million yuan a
year ago.  Shanxi Coal tumbled 5.5 percent to 20.12 yuan, the lowest
close since Aug. 12, 2010. The company’s first-half net income
fell 4.2 percent from a year earlier. Its 2012 earnings-per-
share estimate was also cut by 13 percent to 1.45 yuan at
Shenyin & Wanguo. China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s biggest
coal producer, slid 1.7 percent to 21.93 yuan.  Data Questioned  China may have overstated 2012 industrial production data
to mask the economy’s weakness, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
economists Janet Koech and Jian Wang wrote in a paper. The
country’s industrial electricity consumption suggests industrial
production growth may be less than official government data
stated.  HSBC Holdings reduced its 2012 growth forecast for China to
8 percent from 8.4 percent. Recent data suggest China is facing
“global headwinds” that are much stronger than expected,
economists led by  Qu Hongbin  wrote in a report today.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the
country still faces relatively big pressure on economic growth,
the Financial News reported, citing Zhou speaking at a meeting
on Aug. 22. The international situation is still “grim,”
Financial News cited him as saying.  Property Curbs  Gemdale Corp. slid 1 percent to 4.98 yuan, the lowest close
since Jan. 6. A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai
Composite has fallen 4.2 percent this week, the  most  among five
industry groups.  The government is “closely monitoring” changes in the
real estate market and has ordered local governments not to
relax property controls, the unidentified official with  China ’s
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development was quoted as
saying in the Xinhua report.  The nation’s two-year effort to curb a real-estate bubble
included imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai
and Chongqing, raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
increasing building of low-cost social housing and placing home
purchase restrictions in about 40 cities. China’s prices of new
homes rose in the largest number of cities in 14 months in July.  Thirty-day volatility on the Shanghai gauge was at 11.1
yesterday, compared with this year’s average of 17.3. About 5.9
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 21 percent lower than
the average volume this year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.3 percent amid concern
that European leaders aren’t making progress in solving the
region’s debt crisis, curbing the earnings outlook for
exporters.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said  Europe  is in one of
its deepest crises, and while the path to a solution is
“arduous,” the euro region will emerge stronger.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dipped 0.2 percent to a three-
week low of $34.20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  