-- Colleges Ship Freshmen to Paris to Boost Tuition Coffers
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/colleges-ship-freshmen-to-paris-to-boost-tuition-coffers.html
U.S. colleges including  New York
University  and  Northeastern University  are pushing freshmen into
study-abroad programs -- before the students even set foot on
campus -- to enroll larger classes and get more tuition dollars.  NYU and Boston-based Northeastern, which both charge more
than $50,000 a year to attend, make some freshmen spend the
first semester or two abroad. They then use the students and
their tuitions to fill the beds of midyear dropouts and upper
classmen heading overseas. While some students find the
opportunity rewarding, others are disoriented at not starting
off with their class or having a choice.  “Most students are not going to accept this right off the
bat,” said  Bev Taylor , a New York-based college admission
consultant. “What they envisioned was graduating, going to
college and being enmeshed in college life.”  While foreign study has been a hallmark of junior year,
many freshmen respond to strings-attached acceptances with
disappointment and concern, Taylor said. Students often find
themselves paying travel costs atop already hefty tuitions.  Katalina Park was delighted to be accepted by NYU, until
she discovered she has to spend the first year in Paris.  Parlez-Vous?  “I have no idea why they picked me,” said Park, who
doesn’t speak French. “I have been trying to figure out what I
have in common with the other people in the program.” Although
she accepted the offer to study in NYU’s  Liberal Studies
Program , Park said she’s nervous about the trip.  “There’s so few of us, and I feel like it will be hard to
transition back,” the Washington-state native said.  NYU’s Liberal Studies Program makes some freshmen
admissions contingent on spending the first year abroad to
maximize campus use, said  Fred Schwarzbach , the program’s dean.
He said students are selected for foreign study based on their
preference and interests, and the school tries to pair
applicants with a site they want. NYU has freshmen programs in
Florence,  Italy ;  London ; Paris; and  Shanghai  that admit 350
students a year.  “We try to make full use of the place we’re in,”
Schwarzbach said. “For a long time, that was New York, but now
we’ve got these wonderful cities.”  Farming out freshmen at the beginning of the year enables
 Colby College  in Waterville,  Maine , to accept 40 extra, tuition-
paying students, said Nancy Downey, director of off-campus
study.  Open Beds  “Because we have many juniors who leave in spring semester
for study abroad, there were beds that opened up,” she said.  Skidmore College sends about 40 freshmen to London for the
fall semester. The school, based in Saratoga Springs,  New York ,
started the program a decade ago to allow students granted mid-
year admission to start college in the fall, said  Mary Lou
Bates , dean of admissions and financial aid.  “Students want to start in September,” she said. “Any
college wants to fill the beds.”  Northeastern  requires students who are accepted for spring
admission to study abroad during the fall semester. The programs
are run by Northeastern partner universities in five cities.  The students who accept pay Northeastern about $3,000 to
$4,000 more than the  university charges  its Boston students. The
price in London, Dublin and  Melbourne  doesn’t include meals, as
there are no dining facilities. Besides paying more, students
who accept lose their eligibility for federal financial aid,
because the programs aren’t run by Northeastern or taught by its
faculty.  Price Increase  Northeastern also charges more for the programs than some
of their foreign-university partners do.  Swinburne University  of
Technology in Australia charges exchange students about $9,000
for tuition per semester. Northeastern freshmen pay the Boston-
based school  $30,680  to go there.  Housing, airfare, overnight trips and the presence of
Northeastern advisers accounts for the extra expense, and the
courses are tailored for Northeastern students, said Jane Brown,
vice president for enrollment management. She said students are
eligible for Northeastern need-based aid.  “Affordability is a concern whether they’re enrolling
overseas or here in  Boston ,” she said.  Most freshman-abroad programs charge full U.S. tuition,
even if the foreign campus is cheaper, and parents often pay
additional living expenses in pricey cities like Paris, as well
as the cost of airfare and travel. While students usually
qualify for federal  aid  if the foreign program is a branch of a
U.S. university, those eligible for work-study generally lose
out overseas.  At  Syracuse University , which sends about 30 students to
Florence for fall semester, those costs total about $4,000
extra, said  Don Saleh , vice president for enrollment management.
Syracuse’s cost of attendance is more than $50,000 a year.  Parents Lose  “The losers are the parents who pay for it and the
financial-aid system,” said Barmak Nassirian, a former
associate executive director of the  American Association  of
Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.  Aurash Abrishamchi, a sophomore at Northeastern, was
looking forward to strolling down tree-lined, brick sidewalks in
Boston last fall. Instead, he packed his bags for  Greece , having
failed to get his assignment to a foreign campus waived. While
he said he found the trip a good experience, he was initially
disappointed not to start off in Boston with his class.  “I was kind of bummed, you could say, to have to go
abroad,” Abrishamchi said. “Some people were, like: ‘Oh, we’re
the rejects of Northeastern.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek via Chris Staiti in Boston at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 