-- Colombia Peso Declines Most in Week on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-24T20:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/colombia-peso-declines-most-in-week-on-intervention-speculation.html
Colombia ’s peso weakened the most in
more than a week amid speculation the central bank would
increase dollar purchases to stem the local currency’s rally.  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 1,814.55 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close of trading in Bogota, the biggest drop since Aug. 15.
The peso advanced 0.3 percent for the week.  “Some traders could be betting on more central bank dollar
purchases,” said Diana Guiza, an analyst at Bogota-based
brokerage Corredores Asociados SA.  Colombia’s currency has fallen 1.2 percent this month after
outgoing Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry unveiled a
dollar-buying program by the Treasury separate from the central
bank’s. The peso is up 6.8 percent this year, still the best
performance among the world’s currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Hungarian forint and the Chilean peso.  The Treasury will continue to buy dollars next week to try
to weaken the peso, Echeverry said in an interview after his
resignation yesterday. The central bank “still has a very
precise way of looking at intervention,” Echeverry said, “But
we can change their minds, so we will keep trying.”  The Treasury will buy $200 million this week, on top of
the $300 million it bought last week.  Policy makers lowered the overnight lending rate at today’s
meeting by a quarter-percentage point to 4.75 percent. The
decision came after the close of trading. Colombia’s central
bank will buy $700 million between now and the end of September,
in amounts of at least $20 million per day, bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said after the meeting.  Mauricio Cardenas , who was appointed finance minister
yesterday, pledged to use “all necessary tools” to protect
Colombia’s economy from a rally in the peso.  Policy makers lowered the overnight lending rate at today’s
meeting by a quarter-percentage point to 4.75 percent.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.62 percent. The price increased 0.223 centavo to
127.205 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in  New York  at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  