-- Colombia Cuts Rate to 4.75% and Steps Up Dollar Purchases
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-24T21:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/colombia-cuts-rate-to-4-75-and-steps-up-dollar-purchases-1-.html
Colombia reduced borrowing costs for
a second straight month after inflation slowed to the target
rate, while also announcing that the central bank will buy $700
million by the end of September to help stem a rally by the
country’s currency.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
voted to cut the  overnight lending rate  by a quarter point to
4.75 percent, as forecast by 29 of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The others had expected rates to be left unchanged.
Uribe said that the decision was unanimous.  “According to the evaluation of risks, the Board
considered it appropriate to reduce the interest rate
intervention,” policy makers said in their  statement  posted on
the central bank’s website.  The central bank last month cut its key rate for the first
time since 2010, and signaled a “change in monetary stance,”
arguing in the  minutes  that slower inflation allows them to
maximize “employment and product growth.” Inflation slowed to
3.03 percent in July, down from 3.73 percent at the start of the
year. The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Peso  “Additionally, in order to provide more permanent
liquidity to the economy, the Board decided that, in the
remainder of August and September, will buy $700 million through
the mechanism of daily auctions of at least $20 million,”
policy makers said in their statement.  The peso has rallied 6.8 percent in 2012, the biggest gain
of the world’s 31 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Hungarian forint and the Chilean peso, on the strength
of sustained foreign investment into the Andean nation’s oil and
mining projects.  The increased dollar purchases, combined with purchases of
dollars by the Treasury, “has the potential to tame the peso’s
rally in the next months,” said Daniel Velandia, the head
analyst at Correval SA brokerage in Bogota.  “It will be on average $8 million more daily than what
they were buying,” Velandia said. “It’s a clear step toward
more intervention in the market.”  The measure could prevent the peso from appreciating above
1,800 per dollar for the rest of the year, Velandia said. The
currency weakened 0.3 percent to 1814.55 per dollar today from
1809.35 yesterday.  The Treasury began its own program of foreign currency
intervention this month to help Colombian exporters.  ‘Fundamental Reason’  The central bank last month cut its forecast for 2012
economic growth to a range of 3 percent to 5 percent, from 4
percent to 6 percent, and predicted expansion of 2 percent to 5
percent next year.  In an interview last week, central bank board member Cesar Vallejo said the “key” determinant of interest rate moves is
whether gross domestic product is growing faster or slower than
its long-term potential rate. Uribe said last month that the
economy’s long-term potential growth rate is 4 percent to 5
percent.  The “fundamental reason” for the rate cuts is the global
slowdown, said Andres Langebaek, senior economist at  Banco
Davivienda SA (PFDAVVND) , the analyst with the best record of forecasting
the central bank’s move in Bloomberg surveys.  “There are serious problems for a rapid recovery in the
world economy,” Langebaek said in a phone interview before the
rate decision. “In these circumstances our growth could be
quite weak in the second half of the year.”  September, Cardenas  Langebaek forecasts that the central bank will cut the
benchmark rate to 4.5 percent at its September meeting, then
hold it at that level for the remainder of the year.  Today’s meeting was the last for outgoing Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry, who resigned yesterday citing personal
reasons.  He will be replaced by Berkeley-trained economist Mauricio Cardenas, who currently serves as mines and energy minister.  In a radio interview this morning, Echeverry said he would
argue for increased dollar purchases at today’s meeting.
Echeverry said last week that he was “generally not on the
winning side” at the bank’s board meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 