-- Comcast Avoids FCC Order on Tennis Channel Pending Appeal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-24T20:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/comcast-avoids-fcc-order-on-tennis-channel-pending-appeal.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  won’t have to comply
with a Federal Communications Commission order mandating
distribution of the Tennis Channel on its cable systems while
its appeal is pending.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington today granted Comcast’s request that the order be put
on hold until the court decides whether to overturn the agency’s
ruling that the largest U.S. cable operator said may cost it
hundreds of millions of dollars.  “Petitioner has satisfied the requirements for a stay
pending court review,” according to the one-page order signed
by judges David Tatel,  Janice Rogers Brown  and  Thomas Griffith .  Comcast, in a lawsuit filed Aug. 1, asked the appeals court
to throw out the FCC ruling, which found the cable operator
improperly discriminated against the Tennis Channel by making it
available to subscribers who pay a higher subscription rate.  The FCC told Comcast to distribute the Tennis Channel to
the same number of subscribers who don’t pay the additional rate
and receive two of its own sports channels. Comcast called the
ruling arbitrary and unconstitutional and said it would be
forced to make payments to Tennis Channel for the programming.  $375,000 Penalty  The FCC also assessed $375,000 against Philadelphia-based
Comcast. The agency on July 24 gave Comcast 45 days to comply
with the distribution order.  “We are pleased the Court of Appeals has recognized the
serious issues raised by the FCC’s unprecedented Tennis Channel
decision and granted our request to stay the FCC’s action,
sparing millions of our customers needless disruption,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Comcast spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Investors in the closely held Tennis Channel include Apollo
Partners, Bain Capital Ventures,  Battery Ventures , CCMP Capital
Advisors, Columbia Capital, DND Capital Partners LLC and former
players Andre Agassi and  Pete Sampras , according to the
channel’s website.  “We look forward to defending our order on the merits,”
Mark Wigfield, an FCC spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Eric Abner, a Tennis Channel spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the company was disappointed by the court’s
ruling.  ‘Correct’ Decision  “We believe that the FCC’s decision was correct and that
the court will agree with the FCC when it considers the full
case,” he said.  The court hasn’t scheduled arguments.  The case is Comcast Cable Communications LLC v. Federal
Communications Commission, 12-01337,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  