-- Concert Tickets Too Expensive? Blame Box-Office History
-- B y   D e a n   B u d n i c k
-- 2012-08-24T15:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/concert-tickets-too-expensive-blame-box-office-history.html
While watching the “Today Show” one
morning in 1967 from his Southern California home, Roy Bellman
felt his knees buckle. The program was offering remote coverage
from the iconic Gimbels department store in  New York ’s Herald
Square. There, a reporter breathlessly introduced the “world’s
first computerized ticketing system.”  For Bellman, a manager at Computer Sciences Corp., it was
as though the floor had dropped out beneath him. He could barely
process the images on the flickering screen because, up until
that moment, he had thought that his company -- not the one
featured on the “Today Show” -- was developing the world’s first
computerized ticketing system.  The early era of computerized ticketing -- in which box
offices stopped relying solely on paper tickets and began moving
to inventory-management systems stored on mainframes -- is a
tale of two operations, functioning in relative secrecy on
opposite coasts, developing promising technology with flawed
business models.  In New York, Broadway producer George W. George had
commissioned a study to determine whether it would be cost-
effective and technically viable to sell tickets via computer.
He eventually pitched the idea to Edgar M. Bronfman, the head of
Seagram Co.’s U.S. operations.  System Debut  The resulting company, Ticket Reservation Systems, was
incorporated on May 4, 1965. It soon formed a partnership with
the upstart computer manufacturer Control Data Corp. TRS used
the company’s Control Data 1700 minicomputer (which was not all
that “mini” by today’s standards, occupying as much space as a
large office desk). A team of programmers created software that
allowed the 1700 to communicate with remote outlets that had a
ticket printer, a Teletype printer and a “latched keyboard” on
which the keys remained depressed after someone typed each entry
until manually released.  The system debuted on July 6, 1967, selling tickets to the
musical “I Do! I Do!,” as well as the off-Broadway performance
of “Drums in the Night” and the National Professional Soccer
League’s New York Generals.  Meanwhile, in the California offices of Computer Sciences
Corp., Bellman had begun a project pitched by a self-described
“automation consultant” named Walter T. McHale. Initially dubbed
the Teleticket Concept, the new endeavor had been renamed
Computicket by the time it began operations, almost a year after
the TRS launch. Bellman’s team put two IBM mainframes at the
heart of a system that provided retailers with a monitor and a
ticket printer built into a console that, the Computicket
brochure said, “is handsomely custom-finished with a counter top
of durable, wood-grain Formica. There is ample counter space for
check writing, change making, etc.”  Although Ticket Reservation Systems and Computicket
developed on opposite sides of the country, with varied
approaches to their programming and hardware, they used similar
revenue models. Consumers typically paid a service charge of
between 25 cents and 50 cents, while the companies also pocketed
matching fees known as an “inside charges” from the theaters,
producers and sports teams that used the system. Both companies
soon worried, however, that these sums would be insufficient to
keep them solvent.  Best Available  Computicket and TRS had failed to anticipate that their
clients were willing to commit only a fraction of available
ticket inventory to computerized sales.  As Bellman recalled in an interview, “They were reluctant
to change the way they had been selling tickets, so they would
give most of their inventory to their traditional distribution
points and maybe give us 10 to 30 percent of the venue. That’s
such a small amount of tickets to be selling, and we’re
advertising, ’Come to us and we’re going to give you the best
available seats.’ But it wasn’t true because we didn’t have best
available. So we had credibility problems from the get-go, and
we also started to worry almost immediately that the volume of
sales wouldn’t be enough to keep the doors open.”  It wasn’t. Within 18 months of selling its first ticket,
Computicket had lost $12.7 million and no one knew how to stanch
the flow. On April 3, 1970, Computer Sciences Corp. announced
that Computicket would cease operations.  As for TRS, in late December 1969 the  Chicago Tribune 
reported on “the red ink flowing over the new company’s books.”
Bronfman sold a 51 percent interest in TRS to Control Data,
which rebranded the company Ticketron.  By Sept. 1, 1970, Ticketron had borrowed $16.6 million
against a line of credit. Because the business was so costly to
run and staff, and because each ticket sold brought in so little
revenue, it was disastrously inefficient. When a new president
was installed, he told Control Data executive Bob Price, “The
only way I can have Ticketron lose less money is to walk down
the street and, every time I see somebody trying to use one of
our terminals, hit him over the head with a two-by-four.”  Still, Ticketron limped through the 1970s, bolstered by an
emerging market for rock concerts that had been an afterthought
when it launched. In 1982, however, someone finally solved the
great riddle of ticket revenues.  Fred Rosen, a lawyer who had been hired by an investor to
monitor the business practices of a struggling startup called
 Ticketmaster (LYV) , saw price elasticity where no one had thought to
look for it. His vision was to eliminate the inside charges and
then raise the service fees paid by the public, with a portion
of those funds rebated to the promoters and venues.  In the years to follow, with Rosen as its chief executive
officer, Ticketmaster would offer cash-starved venues advances
against royalties and signing bonuses. In exchange, the company
asked for full inventory of all tickets sold to the public,
required an exclusive agreement to provide ticketing services
and encouraged clients to close their box offices on the first
day of a sale. (Since tickets were available at the box office
without service charges, this meant increased revenues from
outlet sales for the facilities, which almost always complied.)  In 1991, Ticketmaster swallowed Ticketron, by which point
the live-entertainment industry had long since come to recognize
the revenue opportunities in ticketing. The various entities
involved in the process of booking, hosting and promoting live
events increasingly wanted larger slices of the pie. When those
slices were deemed too thin, they all agreed to bake a bigger
pie. The ticket-buying public was left to swallow it.
Indigestion persists to this day.  (Dean Budnick is the co-author of “Ticket Masters: The Rise
of the Concert Industry and How the Public Got Scalped” and the
executive editor of Relix Magazine. He teaches history at the
University of  Rhode Island  and Roger Williams University. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Dean Budnick at
 budnick@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 