-- Convention-Goers in Dark on Who Pays Bills: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-08-24T14:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/convention-goers-in-dark-on-who-pays-bills-bgov-barometer-1-.html
Party convention-goers won’t learn
much about who is paying for their hospitality in Charlotte and
Tampa Bay until weeks after the gatherings have ended.  The BGOV Barometer shows the Democratic and Republican
parties are seeking donations of at least $105 million through
host committees that don’t have to provide a full accounting of
donors and contribution amounts until mid-October. That makes
the committees different from the candidates, parties and
political action committees, which must provide regular reports
of donors and amounts throughout the campaign.  This year’s targets may well be exceeded. Host committees
raised $123 million from donors including corporations and labor
unions in 2008 and collected $142 million in 2004. So far this
year, the host committee in Charlotte,  North Carolina , has
identified a single contributor,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , a
sponsor of a media party Sept. 1. For Republicans, meeting next
week in Tampa,  Florida , the host committee has identified
companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as
sponsors, without specifying how much they’ve given.  The Democratic host committee, preparing for its convention
Sept. 4-6 in Charlotte, hasn’t announced donors to one of its
two fundraising committees, The Committee for Charlotte 2012,
which has a fundraising target of about $36.7 million.  Host Contract  That organization, which isn’t accepting money from
corporations and federal lobbyists or donations of more than
$100,000 from individuals, signed a contract with city and
convention officials in March 2011 that says contributors
“shall be disclosed publicly” by the host committee “within
an agreed-upon regular timeframe” on its website.  “The agreed-upon timeframe is the timing of the FEC
filing, and that will be posted online,” Suzi Emmerling, a
spokeswoman for the host committee, said in an interview,
referring to the  Federal Election Commission .  Democrats say they’re working to make the Charlotte
gathering “the most open and transparent convention in our
party’s history,” one that is “setting a new standard for how
conventions are funded,” according to the donation page on the
host committee’s website.  A second organization under the host committee, New
American City Inc., aims to raise about $13 million and is
accepting corporate donations to promote Charlotte and host
hospitality events including the media party. While New American
City has named only Time Warner as a contributor, other donors
include  Duke Energy Inc. (DUK) ,  Bank of America Corp . and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , according to a person familiar with the effort.  St. Paul Funds  By comparison, the two convention host committees in 2008
raised $61.2 million for the Republicans in  St. Paul , Minnesota,
and $61.6 million for the Democrats in Denver, according to the
 Campaign Finance Institute , a Washington-based nonprofit that
tracks political giving. In 2004, convention host committees
raised $85.7 million for the Republicans in New York and $56.9
million for the Democrats in  Boston , the institute’s data show.  Contributors “hope to get gratitude from the parties and
the presidential candidates,” Steve Weissman, the institute’s
former associate director for policy, said in an interview. Many
have business before the federal government or are among the
largest employers in the convention cities.  Previous Donors  Top donors to the Democratic host committee four years ago
included the largest maker of equipment for  computer networks ,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  ($1.7 million), the Laborers’ International
Union ($1.6 million),  Service Employees International Union 
($1.4 million), and the National Education Association ($1.2
million), Campaign Finance Institute data show.  Cisco, based in  San Jose , California, also was a major
giver to the 2008 Republican convention, ponying up more than
$1.8 million. Two of the top three donors were Minnesota-based
discount merchandiser  Target Corp. (TGT)  ($3 million) and consumer
electronics retailer  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  ($2.2 million). Denver-based
Qwest Communications International Inc. gave $2.9 million.  The conventions get funding help from the federal
government every four years; this year’s payment, adjusted for
inflation, is about $18.2 million for each. The government also
provides $100 million, divided equally between the convention
cities, for security and related costs including overtime.  After the 2008 conventions, local officials claimed
economic benefits of $266 million for metropolitan Denver and
$170 million for the St. Paul-Minneapolis region.  Traffic Jams  Yet while conventions bring new business to a host city,
increased security and traffic jams can discourage residents
from dining out or shopping, according to a 2008 paper by
economists at the College of the  Holy Cross  in Worcester,
Massachusetts. During the 2004 Republican convention in New
York, attendance at Broadway shows fell more than 20 percent,
the study found.  “No one in their right mind is going to be showing up” in
Charlotte or Tampa for vacations, visits or business travel
“unless they’re directly related to the event,” Victor
Matheson, a co-author of the paper, said in an interview.  “These events are gigantic security nightmares and you
have huge areas of the cities cordoned off,” Matheson said.
“You have significant difficulty moving around the cities. You
have the regulars in your town stay away in droves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  