-- Corn, Soy Yields Shrink in Hottest U.S. Summer Since 1936
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-08-24T06:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/corn-soy-yields-shrink-in-hottest-u-s-summer-since-1936.html
The hottest, driest summer since
1936 in the Midwest eroded yield prospects for corn and soybean
crops in the U.S. for a third year to the lowest since 2003.  Prospects of lower output were confirmed this week during a
four-day, seven-state sampling of about 2,400 fields in the
Midwest organized by the Professional Farmers of America
newsletter, which will report its findings later today. A
Bloomberg survey of 14 tour participants showed 13 expected the
government to cut its corn-harvest forecast and 12 predicted a
reduction for soybeans.  Corn has jumped 62 percent since June 15 and soybeans
gained 32 percent. Both reached records this month after July
was the third warmest in 117 years across the seven major
producing states and the past two months were the third driest
since 1895, according to government data. Corn, the biggest U.S.
crop, is the main ingredient in livestock feed and ethanol, a
gasoline additive.  “Corn was the story going into the crop tour and now
soybeans are the story after leaving the fields this week,”
 Peter Meyer , a senior director of agriculture commodities at
PIRA Energy Group in  New York , said in an interview in Owatonna,
 Minnesota , after completing his sixth Pro Farmer tour. “Mother
Nature shut down the soybean crop well before it reached its
potential. The U.S. may run out of soybeans before the start of
the South America harvests in February.”  Corn futures for delivery in December on the Chicago Board
of Trade rose 0.8 percent to $8.21 a bushel and soybeans for
November delivery gained 1.1 percent to $17.335 a bushel at 2:42
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Below Estimate  Meyer, who correctly forecast a smaller corn crop and
rising prices after the past two tours, said corn production may
fall 6.1 percent below the government’s estimate and soy may
drop 5.3 percent.  The more than 120 farmers, hedge fund and bank analysts,
grain buyers and agronomists who took field samples on this
year’s tour reported larger estimated declines in corn yields
than the government said earlier this month in  Nebraska ,
Minnesota,  Ohio  and  South Dakota . Soybean-pod counts were also
smaller in all those states and  Iowa , the biggest oilseed grower.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Aug. 10 that corn
 production  may total 10.779 billion bushels, 13 percent smaller
than last year after farmers planted the most acres since 1937.
The soybean harvest may fall 13 percent to 2.692 billion, the
agency said earlier this month.  Ethanol Refiners  Smaller supplies of feed may increase costs for ethanol
refiners such as Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Valero Energy
Corp. and meat producers Tyson Foods Inc. and Smithfield Foods
Inc., which buy the grain for feed. Cargill Inc. cited lower
beef-profit margins as contributing to an 82 percent drop in
quarterly earnings.  Reduced corn and soybean supplies are spurring farmers to
shrink cattle and hog herds and slow chicken production in both
the U.S. and  South America , Christopher Narayanan, head of
agricultural research for Societe Generale SA said in Owatonna,
Minnesota after touring farms this week.  “The smaller crops mean short supplies of meat by next
March or April,” Narayanan said. “The U.S. summer grilling
season will be expensive in 2013.”  Corn kernel and soybean size is going to be a major issue
for final yields, because the weather has reduced the ability of
plants to move sugars, protein and starch into the grain and
oilseeds, said Byron Jones, a 71-year-old farmer from Saybrook,
 Illinois , who participated in every tour since 1993.  ‘Worst Crops’  “These are the worst crops I’ve ever seen in Illinois
because the drought hurt the crops planted on the best soils,”
said Jones, who has been farming since 1961. “The yield decline
is not over yet because the crop is going to shrink more” from
losses tied to weak stalks and a smaller kernel size, said Jones.  U.S. corn production will probably slide to 10.25 billion
bushels, while soybean output may fall to 2.58 billion,
according the average of 15 estimates from hedge fund traders,
bank analysts, exporters and farmers on this year’s tour.  Crop prices have led gains this year on the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities after heat and drought
threatened to cut global inventories already eroded by last
season’s dry weather in South America.  Soybean production in Brazil and  Argentina , the two biggest
producers after the U.S., fell 14 percent earlier this year,
according to USDA data. Farmers will begin planting corn and
soybeans next month in South America.  China Record  China , the world’s largest buyer and consumer, purchased
165,000 metric tons of soybeans and 55,000 tons of  soybean oil 
from the U.S., the USDA reported yesterday. China may import a
record 59.5 million tons of soybeans in the year that begins Oct.
1, the agency said Aug. 10.  World  soybean  supplies may shrink by 33 million to 35
million tons in September to February, compared with a year
earlier, forcing China to reduce imports by 4 million tons,
researcher Oil World said Aug. 21.  Corn prices will probably need to rise to $9.50 and
soybeans to $20 to slow demand, said Eduardo Rodriguez, vice
president of sales at Fintec Group.  “We’ll see the peak of prices sometime between September
and October once the harvest kicks in and you see that the
yields confirm how severe the situation is,” in the U.S.
Midwest, Rodriguez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 