-- Cotton Drops on ‘Big’ Surplus; Orange Juice Falls; Coffee Gains
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-08-24T20:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/cotton-drops-on-big-surplus-orange-juice-falls-coffee-gains.html
Cotton futures fell the most in two
weeks on speculation that producers are making sales to lock in
prices before the U.S harvest boosts supplies. Orange juice and
sugar slid, while coffee and cocoa rose.  Yesterday, Cotlook Ltd., the publisher of a benchmark
cotton index, boosted its estimate for the global fiber surplus
in the year that started Aug. 1 by 55 percent, citing a slump in
demand by  China , the world’s biggest consumer. Earlier this
week, futures reached the highest in almost three months.  “Producers are trying to take advantage of the relative
high prices,”  John Flanagan , the president of Flanagan Trading
Corp. in Fuquay-Varina,  North Carolina , said in a telephone
interview. “The surplus is going to be a big one.”  Cotton for December delivery dropped 2.1 percent to settle
at 75.21 cents a pound at 2:32 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the biggest decline since Aug. 10. This week, the most-
active contract rose 2.6 percent.  Orange-juice futures for November delivery slid 0.9 percent
to $1.1795 a pound. This week, the price rose 9 percent, the
most in seven months, on concern that Tropical Storm Isaac may
harm crops in Florida, the world’s second-largest orange grower.  “The most-likely track will spare the  Florida  orange crop,
but I can’t say that with absolute certainty yet,” Kyle Tapley,
a meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc. in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland , said in an e-mail.  Brazil is the top orange grower.  Raw-sugar futures for October delivery fell less than 0.1
percent to 19.58 cents a pound. This week, the price declined 3
percent, the fifth straight slump.  Arabica-coffee futures for December delivery rose 0.6
percent to $1.629 a pound. This week, the price dropped 0.2
percent, the third straight decline.  Cocoa futures for December delivery advanced 0.5 percent to
$2,397 a metric ton. The price fell 1.8 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  