-- Credit Risk Rises as Insurers Become ‘Aggressive’11
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-24T17:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/credit-risk-rises-as-insurers-become-aggressive-11.html
U.S. property-casualty insurers are
accumulating lower-rated bonds as near record-low interest rates
limit investment income from higher-rated securities, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said.  The portion of corporate bonds in the insurers’ portfolios
that are rated A or higher fell to 54 percent as of Dec. 31 from
60 percent at the end of 2005, JPMorgan analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  said in a report today. The analysts reviewed holdings
of the 20 largest carriers.  “Over the past six years, P&C insurers have become
significantly more aggressive with their portfolios,” Beinstein
said. “Their allocations are now much closer to the market.”  Property-casualty companies build investment portfolios to
back costs from auto accidents, natural disasters, lawsuits and
other claims. The firms held about $1.5 trillion in assets at
the end of last year, with $927 billion in fixed income,
according to JPMorgan, which reviewed data from the  Federal
Reserve  and National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  Allstate Corp.,  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , and
Travelers Cos., the largest publicly traded U.S.-based property-and-casualty insurers, have been pressured by declining yields
on bonds. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged to keep
interest rates low through at least late 2014 to stimulate
economic growth.  AIG, the bailed-out insurer, posted $1.15 billion in
second-quarter  investment income  at its Chartis property-casualty insurer, up 1 percent from a year earlier. AIG altered
its portfolio as the yield on the  10-year (USGG10YR)  treasury fell to 1.65
percent on June 30 from 3.16 percent a year earlier.  The improvement in investment income reflects
“redeployment of excess cash and short-term investments away
from our concentration on non-taxable municipal bonds into
higher yielding corporate and structured securities,” Chartis
CEO  Peter Hancock  said in an Aug. 3 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  