-- CVC Said to Have Considered Offer for Marks & Spencer
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-08-24T16:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/cvc-said-to-have-considered-offer-for-marks-spencer.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. has
explored taking  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  private as the U.K.’s
largest clothing chain’s sales slump amid a lack of demand for
its fashions, people close to the matter said.  CVC approached executives both inside and outside the
company about a possible management role under private equity
control, said the people, who declined to be identified as the
talks were confidential. The buyout firm has not moved beyond a
preliminary examination of the U.K. retailer and is not
currently thought to be pursuing a bid, the people said.  Marks & Spencer shares jumped as much as 8.25 percent, the
most in more than three years, in London trading. The stock was
up 4.26 percent to 371.7 pence at the close, boosting this
year’s share gain to 20 percent.  Officials at CVC and Marks & Spencer declined to comment.  A buyout of Marks & Spencer may be hampered by the 5.7
billion-pound ($9 billion) market value of the retailer, its
debt and pension liabilities as well as the need to restructure
the company, whose general merchandise sales are underperforming
the market. The 128-year-old clothing and food retailer reported
its first profit drop in three years in May. That comes two
years into Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland ’s tenure, during
which he has vowed to rejuvenate sales with a multichannel,
international approach and to focus on its brand strength.  A “successful bid is highly unlikely for M&S,” said
Bethany Hocking, an analyst at Investec Securities, who has a
‘sell’ recommendation said. “It would require a very large
equity raising; the pension fund and trustees could represent a
significant barrier; and although Marks has property, it is
predominantly high-street stores.”  Same-store sales of general merchandise, which is mostly
apparel, fell 6.8 percent in the quarter ended in June, the
worst performance since 2008. At the time, the division’s
leader, Kate Bostock, also announced plans to step down.  The seller of apparel, specialty foods and housewares was
“vulnerable” to a takeover bid,  Paul Mumford , a  fund manager 
at Cavendish Asset Management Ltd. told  Bloomberg News  last
month, citing its cheap valuation, cash generation, strong brand
and food business.  Stock Rally  On July 31, the retailer was valued at 6.2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
biggest bargain in more than seven years. The stock has since
rallied and is now valued at 10.9 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  Today, the retailer would have an  enterprise value , or
market value including debt, of about 7.5 billion pounds,
according to Bloomberg data.  CVC attempted to buy  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  in 2007 but was forced
to scrap the 10 billion-pound offer after the private-equity
firm’s partners walked away and the Sainsbury family and pension
trustees opposed plans to sell property assets.  Marks & Spencer, which traces its roots to 1884, is the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer by sales. The company runs more
than 1,000 stores, most of which are located in the U.K. and
Ireland.  CVC, whose main office is in  London  and which manages a
10.8 billion-euro ($13.5 billion) European buyout fund, owns
companies including car-racing group Formula One.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  