-- Defense Cut’s Full Effect Years Away, Analyst Finds
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-24T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/defense-cut-s-full-effect-years-away-analyst-finds.html
Defense contractors wouldn’t feel
the full effect of automatic budget cuts for three or four years
as weapons programs are facing only a 3.5 percent reduction next
year, according to an independent research group.  While most defense programs would be reduced by 10.3
percent under the cuts, known as sequestration, they would take
time to implement, budget analyst  Todd Harrison  said in a report
released today by the Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments.  “It will be three or four years before defense companies
feel the full impact of sequestration,” Harrison said. “This
gives industry more time to adjust employment levels through
natural attrition and early retirements, rather than forcing
immediate layoffs.”  The delayed impact is the result of the “natural lag
time” from when money is authorized by Congress to when it’s
scheduled to be spent, Harrison said yesterday in an interview
with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom Line.”
Cuts in “budget authority,” or authorized spending levels, may
not show up on industry accounting books until years later.  Most money authorized for weapons procurement takes several
years to be spent because of the time required to award
contracts, obligate funding and pay vendors. Only 22 percent of
defense procurement money is spent in the same year it is
authorized by Congress, according to the report.  By contrast, almost all funding for military personnel --
about 94 percent next year -- is paid out the same year it is
appropriated.  Few Layoffs  Harrison’s analysis indicates that sequestration may be
less dire, at least in the short term, than some industry groups
are predicting as they lobby Congress to avert the cuts. The
Aerospace Industries Association, which represents major defense
contractors, issued a study estimating a loss of 1 million
defense-related jobs if the automatic cuts take place.  Robert Stevens, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense contractor, has said that federal law may compel
his company to send layoff notices soon to thousands of workers
because of uncertainty about how many of them would have to be
let go in January.  “Few immediate layoffs, if any, are likely to occur as a
result of sequestration going into effect on January 2nd because
on January 3rd virtually all contractors will be working on
projects and activities where funding has already been obligated
and thus is not subject to sequestration,” Harrison said in the
report.  Civilian Workers  The most immediate effect may be on civilian Defense
Department employees, Harrison said. According to the report, as
many as 108,000 of them “could lose their jobs in the weeks
immediately after sequestration goes into effect” if Congress
fails to come up with an alternative deficit-reduction plan.  The Obama administration has exempted military personnel
from the cuts. Sequestration wouldn’t eliminate any uniformed
military jobs, cut military pay, eliminate any programs
immediately or close any military bases, Harrison said.  Harrison’s conclusions are similar to those in a Bloomberg
Government report by defense analyst Kevin Brancato. In the BGOV
Insight published yesterday, Brancato said almost half of next
year’s sequestration cuts in defense spending will occur in 2014
and beyond.  The actual cut in spending, or  budget outlays , next year
would amount to 4.6 percent for defense programs on average,
according to Harrison’s report. Procurement programs would be
cut by 3.5 percent, research and development by 5.9 percent and
operations and maintenance by 6.9 percent.  The defense reductions are part of $1.2 trillion in
automatic, across-the-board cuts to domestic and national-
security programs over a decade that will start in January
unless Congress and President  Barack Obama  act to block them.  The cuts were imposed after talks failed last year on a
bipartisan plan to curb the nation’s increasing  debt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  