-- Defense Industry Faces New Scrutiny of Anti-Corruption Practices
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-08-24T13:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/defense-industry-faces-new-scrutiny-of-anti-corruption-practices.html
More than 100 defense companies from
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest arms maker, to Czech
military truck manufacturer Tatra AS, face a new test of their
anticorruption practices as an independent watchdog puts the
industry under examination.  The U.K. arm of Transparency International will issue its
first ranking of about 130 companies worldwide on Oct. 4,
grading their corporate guidelines for avoiding corruption. Each
company is being assessed against 34 criteria and will receive a
grade from A to F, an executive for the not-for-profit
organization said in an interview in London.  The defense industry has been hit by numerous scandals over
alleged corruption during the past decade, with  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  the subject of probes. A unit
of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  currently is under
investigation by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office over bribery
allegations in  Saudi Arabia .  “There is enormous scope to improve corruption standards
in arms deals globally,” Mark Pyman, defense and security
program director at Transparency International U.K. said in an
interview. “We don’t think corruption is a necessary evil” of
the arms trade, he added.  Defense contractors under the microscope are based in 32
countries and include public, private and state-owned
businesses, Pyman said. Around one-third are U.S.-based, another
third are European, with the final segment from across the rest
of the world.  “Companies are increasingly concerned with the
reputational damage of getting involved in corruption,” Trevor
Taylor, an executive at defense-policy adviser  Royal United
Services Institute , said in a phone interview. “It is still a
massive problem,” he said, in part because low government pay
in many countries makes civil servants susceptible to bribery.  Internal Practices  Although  Transparency International ’s grading will be based
entirely on standards companies have published, the organization
will take into account information businesses provide about
internal practices. Those will be reflected in a secondary
ranking, Pyman said.  The principal goal of the report is to prompt chief
executives to tighten standards. A secondary audience is
governments, Pyman said, who may choose to take the ranking into
account as they evaluate bids.  Another objective is to help generate backing for a defense
and aerospace industry-driven effort to develop common standards
under the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct. The
forum was created in 2010 between the European and U.S.
aerospace industry lobby groups to exchange best practices.
Membership now totals 18 entities, according to the forum’s
website.  Transparency International’s industry report will be
followed in January by a grading of countries, Pyman said. The
review will span 83 countries.  Work on the surveys is receiving financial support from the
U.K. government’s  Department for International Development ,
Pyman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  