-- Deutsche Bank Unit Sued by FHFA Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-24T21:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/deutsche-bank-unit-sued-by-fhfa-over-mortgage-securities.html
A  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  unit was sued by
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which seeks the repurchase
of loans backing mortgage securities.  DB Structured Products Inc. breached promises about loans
that were pooled and securitized and failed to repurchase them
as required, the FHFA said in a filing today in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The FHFA oversees mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac . Deutsche Bank was among 17 financial institutions
the agency sued over mortgage securities last year, saying loans
backing the bonds were riskier than promised. That complaint
against Deutsche Bank involves $14.2 billion in mortgage bonds,
according to court papers.  FHFA didn’t disclose in its court filing today the size of
the investment at issue in the state court case. The securities
were issued by ACE Securities Corp. Home Equity Loan Trust,
Series 2006-FM1, according to the filing.  “Deutsche Bank has acted appropriately in response to
legitimate repurchase demands,”  Renee Calabro , spokeswoman for
the Frankfurt-based lender, said in a statement. “These suits
are based on brazen factual assumptions and unsupported legal
theories. We are prepared to vigorously defend against each of
them.”  Freedom Trust  Separately, DB Structured Products was sued by Freedom
Trust 2011-2 over mortgage securities, according to a filing
today in New York State Supreme Court. As in the FHFA case, DB
Structured Products is accused of breaching promises about the
quality of loans.  Breaches of so-called representation and warranties “may
be pervasive and systemic across the loan pool,” Freedom Trust
said. It seeks about $567 million, according to the filing.  The cases are Federal Housing Finance Agency v. DB
Structured Products Inc., 652978-2012; Freedom Trust 2011-2 v.
DB Structured Products Inc., 652985-2012,  New York  State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  