-- Dollar to Drop on Concern About U.S. Fiscal Situation, HSBC Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-08-24T05:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/dollar-to-drop-on-concern-about-u-s-fiscal-situation-hsbc-says.html
Concern the U.S. fiscal situation
will deteriorate may push the dollar down versus the euro and
the yen, according to HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank.  “U.S. fiscal dynamics are actually much worse than what
they are for the  euro zone  as a whole,” said  Paul Mackel ,
HSBC’s head of Asia currency research in  Hong Kong . “We think
the clock is ticking and the market will eventually catch up to
this. When they do, then the dollar will start to go down.”  The U.S. budget shortfall will reach $1.1 trillion this
year, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office ,
the fourth consecutive year with a trillion-dollar deficit. The
office predicts  U.S. debt  will total 73 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product this year. The country, which heads to
the polls in November, will also confront a so-called fiscal
cliff at the end of this year when spending cuts and tax
increases will kick in automatically unless Congress acts.  “The dollar is facing very, very strong headwinds,”
Mackel said at a briefing today in Sydney. “The market will
start to push the dollar lower against a broad range of
currencies.”  The greenback will weaken to $1.35 per euro and 74 yen by
the end of 2012, HSBC predicted. The euro traded at $1.2558 as
of 6:31 a.m. in  London , while the U.S. currency fetched 78.60
yen.  ECB Action  Action by the  European Central Bank  will probably buoy the
euro against its U.S. counterpart, according to HSBC.
Speculation is mounting that the ECB will implement new policies
to counter the euro-area debt crisis when its governing council
meets on Sept. 6, and this could have an impact that is “quite
powerful and long lasting,” Mackel said.  The  European debt crisis  has cast a shadow over global
financial markets for more than two years, driven up borrowing
costs for the most indebted members of the euro zone and led to
bailouts involving five of the bloc’s 17 states.  A failure by the ECB to come up with a plan that satisfies
investors would lead to a flight from riskier assets, “which
would mean the likes of the  U.S. dollar  would get even stronger,
even if the Fed is seen trying to do more QE around the
corner,” he said, referring to the U.S. central bank’s asset
purchase program, known as quantitative easing. Such measures
tend to debase the greenback.  Fed Stimulus  The  Federal Reserve  probably will engage in further
stimulus measures, Mackel said, although “the exact timing of
that is still difficult to define.” Minutes released this week
of the Fed’s latest meeting indicated that many policy makers
saw the need for additional loosening if the economy doesn’t
show signs of a durable pickup. The next meeting of the rate-
setting committee is on Sept. 12-13.  With Europe’s debt crisis as yet unresolved, the Chinese
economy slowing and a  U.S. presidential election  later this
year, there is a “significant amount of event risk” to
foreign-exchange markets, according to Mackel, who said he was
puzzled by the relative lack of  volatility  in currencies.  The implied volatility of three-month options on Group of
Seven currencies is near the lowest level since November 2007,
based on a JPMorgan Chase & Co. measure. The gauge was at 8.35
today, having touched a 4 1/2 year low of 8.32 on July 20.  “The market seems very, very relaxed about things that
could be quite big,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  