-- Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Probably Rose on Aircraft Rebound
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/durable-goods-orders-in-u-s-probably-rose-on-aircraft-rebound.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably rose in July by the most this year, reflecting a jump
in aircraft demand that overshadowed slowdowns among other
manufacturers, economists said before a report today.  The projected 2.5 percent increase in bookings for goods
meant to last at least three years would be the biggest since
December and follows a 1.3 percent June increase, according to
the median forecast of 75 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Figures on sales of capital equipment such as machinery and
computers may have moderated, the survey showed.  Boeing Co. reported it received orders for 260 aircraft
last month, the most since December. At the same time, possible
U.S. tax increases and spending cuts coupled with a global
economic slowdown are hurting companies such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
and Deere & Co., indicating manufacturing will no longer be a
driver of the expansion.  “It’s pretty much Boeing,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in  New York , who
projected a 3.5 percent gain in durable goods orders. “You’ve
seen businesses really slow their rate of inventory
accumulation. They’ve also been slowing their investment
spending. I think it’s because there’s so much uncertainty
heading into the elections and what it means for the short-term
fiscal situation.”  The Commerce Department data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop
of 2.5 percent to an increase of 7 percent. Bookings excluding
the volatile transportation category may have climbed 0.5
percent after a 1.4 percent drop in June, economists projected.  Growth Outlook  Orders and shipments for non-military capital equipment
excluding aircraft, which are proxies for business investment
that feed into calculations for gross domestic product, probably
declined in July, the survey showed.  Regional reports indicate a slowdown for factories in
August. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank for the
fourth consecutive month, while New York-area factories
unexpectedly contracted for the first time in 10 months.  The lingering domestic fiscal policy debate could be
holding back orders for companies like Caterpillar as businesses
await the end-of-year “fiscal cliff” deadline.  “One of the drags that we see right now, and we hear this
actually from the field, is that uncertainty around the tax
increases at the end of the year,” Michael DeWalt, director of
 investor relations  at the Peoria, Illinois-based construction
equipment manufacturer, said at an Aug. 8 conference. The
government spending cuts at the end of the year are also
“making everybody nervous and are probably delaying
purchases,” he said.  Global Slowdown  The global slump is also a headwind. Deere cut its full-
year profit forecast Aug. 15 as sales slow in  Asia  and  Latin
America , undermining the growth strategy at the world’s largest
manufacturer of agricultural equipment.  Boeing, whose orders surged last month from the 24 it
received in June, has been influenced. The Chicago-based plane
maker this week lost an order for 35 Dreamliners with a list
price of $8.5 billion in the biggest 787 cancellation yet as
 Australia ’s Qantas Airways Ltd. scrapped a contract after
deliveries were delays and demand cooled. Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. and Singapore Airlines Ltd. are among foreign carriers that
have also pulled back as international travel has slowed.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery  Index (S15MACH) , which
includes companies like Deere, has climbed 6.7 percent this
year, while the broader S&P 500 gauge has gained about 11
percent.  The  Federal Reserve  signaled this week that it’s ready to
take more steps to spur the recovery. Many policy makers said
additional stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the
economy shows signs of a durable pickup, according to minutes of
the central bank’s most recent meeting issued this week.  “Many members judged that additional monetary
accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon unless
incoming information pointed to a substantial and sustainable
strengthening in the pace of the economic recovery,” according
to the record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-
Aug. 1 gathering released this week in Washington.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  