-- ECB Said to Await German ESM Ruling Before Settling Plan
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-24T14:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/ecb-said-to-await-german-esm-ruling-before-settling-plan.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  may wait until  Germany ’s  Constitutional Court  rules
on the legality of  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund before
unveiling full details of his plan to buy  government bonds , two
central bank officials said.  With the court set to rule on Sept. 12, investors looking
for Draghi to announce a definitive purchase program at his
Sept. 6 press conference might be disappointed, according to the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are not public. The program is still being worked
on and staff may not be able to finalize it by then, said the
officials, who are familiar with thinking on the ECB Governing
Council. An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  Draghi announced on Aug. 2 that the ECB may intervene in
the secondary market to reduce bond yields in countries such as
 Spain  and  Italy  if they apply to Europe’s bailout fund for aid
and accept the conditions attached. The European Stability
Mechanism, intended to replace the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility, hasn’t entered into force yet as legal
wrangling over its compatibility with the German constitution
continues.  Timing Issues  While Draghi is likely to give a progress report on the
bond plan after the Sept. 6 rate decision, the ultimate design
of the ECB’s program may depend on the uncertainty over the
permanent bailout fund being resolved, so the officials said it
makes sense to wait for the German ESM court ruling.  Full details of the ECB’s plan could be a month away, they
said. While the Bundesbank opposes ECB bond purchases, it
expects to be outvoted, one of the officials said.  German 10-year bund yields reached a three-week low and
Spanish and Italian two-year yields rose after the story was
published. The euro extended its decline, snapping four days of
gains to trade at $1.2510 at 4 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.4
percent today.  “It’s becoming clearer by the day that a number of legal
and political pieces need to fall into place before the ECB
decides to participate in any bond-buying program,” said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy
Ltd. in  London . “While Mr Draghi clearly raised expectations,
he has been at pains to point out the conditions that need to be
satisfied before any intervention occurs.”  ‘Coming Weeks’  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that ECB working groups would design
a bond purchase program “over the coming weeks,” fueling
speculation that he would unveil the plan after the bank’s next
policy meeting.  Bond markets rallied after Der Spiegel magazine reported on
Aug. 19 that the ECB would decide at its September policy
meeting whether to impose a cap on borrowing costs for countries
including Italy and Spain.  The ECB took the unusual step of responding to that
article, saying in a statement that the Governing Council hadn’t
discussed the plan and it was “absolutely misleading to report
on decisions which have not yet been taken.”  Germany’s Constitutional Court is deciding whether to
suspend the 500 billion-euro ($627 billion) ESM following
lawsuits by German lawmakers, academics and political groups who
say the fund contravenes domestic law. If the start of the ESM
is delayed further, crisis managers would have to get by with
the 240 billion euros left in the temporary EFSF.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned on July
10 that a delay in activating the ESM could lead to a
“significant worsening of the debt crisis.”  Draghi’s bond-buying plan hinges on the government-backed
bailout funds acting first, which would require countries to
make a formal request for aid and to sign up to conditions in a
Memorandum of Understanding. Neither Spain nor Italy has made
such a request.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  