-- Economic View Prevails in Presidential Races: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/economic-view-prevails-in-presidential-races-chart-of-the-day.html
Pessimism about the economy’s
prospects threatens to derail President  Barack Obama ’s bid for a
second term if history is any guide, according to Barry Knapp,
head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Plc’s securities unit.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, a Thomson Reuters/
University of Michigan index of consumer expectations dropped
below 50 last year. Similar readings occurred before the last
three times that a president lost a re-election campaign, as
Knapp wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The index “is perhaps the most effective at determining
the strength of the president’s support on the key issue of the
economy,” the New York-based strategist wrote. It’s designed to
assess the outlook for the next six months. Any gains in stocks
through year-end may depend on whether the election’s outcome
bodes well for economic growth, the report said.  Last August, the indicator dropped to 47.4. The figure was
the lowest since 1980, when  Jimmy Carter  sought another term and
lost to  Ronald Reagan . During Carter’s time in office, the index
slid below 50 three times.  Carter’s earlier victory against Gerald Ford followed an
index reading of 50 in 1975, when the U.S. was in a recession.
The chart depicts each period in which the economy contracted.  Another recession occurred during George H.W. Bush’s time
as president. The index fell as low as 50.9 while Bush was in
office, and the decline preceded his re-election loss to  Bill
Clinton  in 1992.  Additionally, the expectations gauge dropped to 49.2 in
2008, when Obama enabled the Democratic Party to re-take the
White House after Republican  George W. Bush ’s two terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  