-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall to 3-Week Low on Earnings
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-24T21:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/emerging-market-stocks-fall-to-3-week-low-on-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks declined the
most in three weeks on signs the global economic slowdown is
worsening as orders for capital goods in the U.S. slipped and
HSBC Holdings Plc cut its 2012 growth forecast for China.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  slid 0.9 percent, the
biggest slump since Aug. 2, to 965.47. Steelmakers  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
led decliners on Brazil’s Bovespa stock index. Gauges in China
and South Korea slumped more than 1 percent.  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  fell
to a one-month low in Taipei, the most on the MSCI index, after
saying it expects computer shipments to fall.  Demand for U.S. capital goods such as machinery and
communications gear dropped in July by the most since November,
indicating companies are pulling back on investment. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may clarify the central bank’s thinking
in an Aug. 31 speech. HSBC reduced its 2012 gross domestic
product growth forecast for China to 8 percent from 8.4 percent
in a report.  “The market mood is linked to growth concerns in a highly
volatile environment as sentiment has been hovering between hope
and disappointment,” Mohamed Saidi, a Brussels-based  fund
manager  at Dexia Asset Management, which oversees about $860
million of equity assets in developing nations, said by phone.
“It is clear that the U.S. data is going to hurt the optimism
of investors. The worsening global growth requires stronger
policy response and all we are seeing are useless meetings and
declarations and no real action.”  EM ETF Slumps  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet with Greece’s prime minister today and
tomorrow to discuss the pace of reform. The 21 nations in MSCI’s
developing-nations gauge send about 30 percent of their exports
to the European Union on average, data compiled by the World
Trade Organization show.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares was little
changed at 40.05. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, declined 0.7 percent.  The Bovespa Index dropped 0.1 percent, paring an early loss
of as much as 1.2 percent. Usiminas, as the Belo Horizonte,
Brazil-based company is known, lost 3.3 percent. Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional lost 5.5 percent.  Bookings for non-military capital equipment excluding
planes slumped 3.4 percent, a Commerce Department report showed
today in Washington. Such bookings are considered a proxy for
future business investment in items such as computers, engines
and communications gear.  China, South Korea  The 14-member  Czech PX Index (PX)  dropped 1 percent, a second
day of losses.  Unipetrol AS (UNIP) , the country’s largest refiner, slid
1.7 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  lost 1.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index sank 1 percent to its lowest close since March 2009. South
Korea’s Kospi Index retreated 1.2 percent.  Pegatron plunged 6.9 percent in Taipei. Shipments of
notebook and netbook computers in the third quarter may fall 15
percent to 20 percent versus the previous three months, the
company said in a statement on its website.  China National Building Material Co. lost 4.6 percent, the
most since June 28. The company said first-half net  income  fell
47 percent to 1.9 billion  yuan  ($299 million). SM Investments
declined 5.2 percent, the biggest slump since April 3, in Manila
on plans to sell $150 million of shares to institutional
investors.  Samsung Electronics  In Seoul,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost 0.9 percent after a
court in the city ruled the company and Apple Inc. had infringed
on each other’s patents and must stop selling some mobile
devices in South Korea. Korea Gas Corp. slumped 5.6 percent, the
most since May 18 after Samsung Securities Co. downgraded the
stock to hold from buy.  Vietnam’s VN Index gained 1.8 percent. The gauge plunged 10
percent the previous three days after the arrest of a banking
tycoon sparked concerns over the country’s financial system. The
slump dragged the gauge’s price-estimated earnings ratio to a
three-month low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has increased 5.4 percent
this year, compared with an 8.7 percent gain by the MSCI World
Index of developed nations. The gauge of developing nations
trades at 10.4 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 316, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ; 