-- Lenovo Vaults to Second Place in China Smartphone Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-24T07:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/lenovo-vaults-to-second-place-in-china-smartphone-market.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  overtook  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  during the second quarter for second place in smartphone
sales in China, the world’s largest handset market.  Lenovo vaulted from seventh place in the first quarter to
claim 11 percent of China’s smartphone sales in the three months
ended June 30, market researcher IDC said in an e-mailed
statement today. Apple’s share fell to 10 percent from 19
percent, IDC said. Both trailed leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s
19 percent share, which was unchanged from the first quarter.  Lenovo, the world’s second-largest maker of personal
computers behind  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , is stepping up development
of smartphones, tablets and Internet-ready televisions to widen
its offerings, following Apple and Samsung.  “Lenovo had a huge second-quarter due to increased volumes
through operators, and a continued push into retail, leveraging
on its PC retail stores and partnerships,” Teck-Zhung Wong, a
Beijing-based analyst with IDC, said in an e-mail.  Lenovo, whose headquarters are in Beijing and Morrisville,
North Carolina fell 1.2 percent to HK$6.40 as of 3:32 p.m. in
Hong Kong  trading . The shares have gained 23 percent so far this
year, compared with a 7.8 percent rise in the  Hang Seng Index .  Apple’s market share decline was due to “seasonality” and
a drop off after a big first quarter when  China Telecom Corp. (728) 
was added as a second carrier partner in the country, Wong said.
Apple also faces increased competition from high-end Android
handsets from Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498) , he said.  ZTE Corp. (000063) , based in Shenzhen, rose to third place from
fourth, Wong said. Cross-town rival Huawei Technologies Co.
dropped to fifth, from third, he said.  Smartphones out-shipped feature phones for the first time
in China in the second quarter with 44.4 million units, or 51
percent of total shipments of 87 million, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  