-- Merrill Brokers’ Pay Deal Goes to U.S. Judge for Approval
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-24T22:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/merrill-brokers-pay-deal-goes-to-u-s-judge-for-approval.html
Former brokers of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit asked a federal judge to
approve a $40 million settlement in a lawsuit over deferred
compensation.  Charles McCallum , a lawyer for the brokers, told U.S.
District Judge Alison Nathan today in  Manhattan  federal court
that the proposed settlement would cover more than 1,400 people.
The judge said she will rule later on preliminary approval.  The lawsuit, filed by Scott Chambers and John Burnette,
relates to Bank of America’s 2009 purchase of the investment
firm. The brokers alleged in their complaint that they were
entitled to cash distributions stemming from a change in control
of Merrill Lynch.  “We’re hopeful, given the nature of the settlement and the
amount involved, the settlement will be well-received,”
McCallum told the judge.  William Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, said in a phone interview today that the
company “agreed to a resolution to avoid the cost and
distraction of what would likely be continued, lengthy
litigation.”  Not all of the brokers who would be covered by the
settlement are happy with the deal. Michael Taaffe, a lawyer who
represents about 500 brokers who might be eligible to
participate, said many of those clients are either contemplating
or pursuing their own arbitration cases against Merrill.  ‘Many Objections’  “After many objections to certification of the class,
Merrill Lynch/Bank of America is settling with the class in
order to absolve itself of as much liability as possible, as
cheaply as it can, at the expense of its former employees,” he
said in a statement.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs said they may seek an award of
as much as a quarter of the total settlement, according to a
filing submitted by McCallum. Burnette and Chambers may be
eligible for incentive payments of as much as $20,000, according
to documents seeking approval of the settlement.  In his initial efforts to seek payment from Merrill,
Chambers incurred more than $8,000 in legal fees, McCallum said
in his filing.  Brokers alleged that under an agreement with Merrill they
were entitled to payments if there was a change in control at
the firm and they were either terminated without cause or left
for what was defined as a “good reason.”  Thousands of brokers left Merrill after the 2009
acquisition for what they considered to be a “good reason,”
according to the complaint. The settlement covers some of the
brokers, according to attorneys at today’s hearing.  The case is Chambers v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 10-cv-07109,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  