-- EU Nations Set September Talks on CO2 Law Change, Official Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-08-24T14:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/eu-nations-set-september-talks-on-co2-law-change-official-says.html
European Union governments are set
to meet twice next month for talks about a change to the carbon
law that would pave the way for a measure curbing oversupply of
emission permits, according to an EU presidency official.  Representatives of national governments are due to meet in
Brussels on Sept. 7 and Sept. 17 in a working group to prepare
ground for a decision by ministers on an amendment to the carbon
law that would clarify the right of the EU’s regulatory arm to
delay some auctions of permits as of 2013, said the official,
who declined to be identified, citing policy.  The amendment is the first element of the EU plan to
alleviate the oversupply of allowances in the world’s biggest
carbon market at the beginning of its next trading phase that
runs until 2020. In the second step the European Commission will
propose a separate measure to postpone sales of an as-yet
unspecified number of permits.  EU carbon prices have fallen 41 percent in the past 12
months as an economic crisis has cut demand from factories and
power stations. The bloc will be oversupplied with about 1.1
billion permits by the end of the current 2008-2012 trading
period, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The surplus
can be carried over to the next phase starting in 2013.  There is a chance that the change to the EU carbon
legislation could be adopted by the end of October, depending on
the willingness of governments and the European Parliament,
whose approval is also necessary for the amendment to pass, the
official told  Bloomberg News .  EU environment ministers are next due to meet on Oct. 25 in
Luxembourg. The gathering will be hosted by Cyprus, the current
holder of the bloc’s six-month rotating presidency.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last month
she was “quite confident” that the bloc’s member states will
approve changes to the supply of carbon permits, an idea known
as backloading, before the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  