-- EU to Register U.S. Bioethanol, Indicating Tariff Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-08-24T08:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/eu-to-register-u-s-bioethanol-indicating-tariff-threat.html
The European Union ordered its
customs officials to register imports of U.S. bioethanol,
underscoring the threat of EU tariffs on the shipments.  The step, part of an inquiry into whether U.S. bioethanol
producers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ,  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  and Poet LLC receive trade-distorting  government aid ,
would allow the EU to impose duties retroactively.  Ethanol is a form of alcohol distilled from grain or sugar
that boosts the oxygen content of fuel so it burns more
thoroughly, reducing tailpipe emissions.  “Imports of the product concerned shall be made subject to
registration so that, eventually, measures may retroactively be
applied against those imports from the date of such
registration,” the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal .  Nine months ago, the EU opened a probe into whether U.S.
bioethanol manufacturers receive government subsidies that harm
European competitors. The bloc also began a separate
investigation into whether American producers sell bioethanol in
the EU below cost, a practice known as dumping.  EU governments must decide by Dec. 25 whether to impose
anti-subsidy duties on U.S. bioethanol for five years and by
Feb. 25, 2013, whether to apply anti-dumping levies for the same
length of time. Tomorrow is the deadline for the commission to
impose provisional duties -- a step it said it would refrain
from taking.  Causing Injury  In its decision ordering the registration of American
bioethanol, the commission said it found evidence that U.S.
subsidies to domestic producers caused “material injury” to
the EU industry during an investigation period covering the 12
months through September 2011.  The commission said it opted not to introduce provisional
anti-subsidy -- or “countervailing” -- duties because the
primary subsidy program in force during this period had ceased.  “However, there is evidence that the U.S. might reinstate
the main subsidy scheme found to be countervailable in the
coming months with retroactive effects,” the commission said.
“In that event, the commission considers that it would have
been entitled to adopt (and eventually collect) provisional
countervailing duties in the present investigation.”  The EU already imposes anti-subsidy and anti-dumping duties
on imports from the U.S. of biodiesel, a type of biofuel made
from vegetable oils and animal fats for use in  diesel engines .
Those five-year levies were applied in 2009.  The inquiries into alleged subsidies to U.S. bioethanol
makers and dumping by them stem from complaints last October by
the European bioethanol industry represented by the European
Producers Union of Renewable Ethanol Association, or ePure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  