-- European Stocks Little Changed; Stoxx 600 Falls on Week
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-24T16:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/european-stock-index-futures-drop-hsbc-aviva-may-move.html
European stocks were little changed,
with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index posting its first weekly drop
since June, as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Greece must
stick to its commitments to stay in the euro area, and a news
report said the  European Central Bank  is considering setting
yield band targets.  A gauge of mining companies was among the main losers, with
 Rio Tinto  Group slumping 1.6 percent and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
sliding 1.4 percent.  NKT Holding (NKT)  A/S tumbled 9 percent after the
maker of cables and industrial vacuum cleaners reported second-
quarter sales that missed estimates.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rallied 4.2
percent.  The Stoxx 600 added 0.1 percent to 268.0 in London after
earlier falling as much as 0.6 percent. European stocks posted a
1.8 percent drop this week, snapping 11 weeks of gains. The
equity benchmark has still rallied 15 percent from this year’s
low on June 4 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
pledged to preserve the euro and said the bank may intervene in
the secondary market to reduce bond yields.  “The two issues which concern investors the most right now
-- a Greek exit from the euro zone and an ECB-backed bond-buying
program for Spain and Italy -- are a persistent source of
concern,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, wrote in e-mailed comments. “September is a
crunch month when sentiment is likely to be extremely volatile.
There are already signs that investors will be disappointed.”  German Help  The Stoxx 600 declined yesterday as German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  damped optimism that Greece will get more
time to cut its debt and as bond yields climbed in  Spain .  Merkel said that Germany is ready to help the Greek
government as it takes the necessary steps to resolve its
economic woes, rebuffing European critics who advocate Greece’s
exit from the euro.  “I am deeply convinced that the new government under the
leadership of Prime Minister Samaras will do what it takes to
solve the problem in Greece,” Merkel said at a joint press
conference withSamaras in Berlin today. “I want Greece to stay
in the euro zone and that’s what I’m working for.”  Stocks rebounded in the last half hour of trading after
Reuters reported the ECB is considering setting yield band
targets under a new bond-buying program. Reuters cited unnamed
central bank people.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
there’s “scope for further action” by the central back to spur
economic growth.  Durable Goods  Demand for U.S. capital goods such as machinery and
communications gear dropped in July by the most in eight months,
indicating companies are pulling back on investment.  Bookings for non-military capital equipment excluding
planes slumped 3.4 percent, a Commerce Department report showed
today in Washington. Total  orders  for goods meant to last at
least three years jumped 4.2 percent.  National benchmark indexes fell in nine of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC added less than 0.1 percent and
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 was unchanged. Germany’s DAX rose 0.3
percent.  A gauge of European mining shares was the  second-worst
performer  of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as Reserve
Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said today the
country’s commodity boom will peak within the next year or two.  Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton retreated 1.6 percent to 2,910
pence and 1.4 percent to 1,933 pence, respectively.  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  dropped 2.9 percent to 1,885 pence.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  decreased 3.6 percent to
338.9 pence after ING Groep NV said the producer of metals in
Kazakhstan may need to consider selling some assets or raise
capital via new equity, citing its rapidly escalating debt
burden as a key concern.  NKT Misses  NKT Holding tumbled 9 percent to 191.10 kroner after the
maker of cables and industrial vacuum cleaners reported second-
quarter sales of 3.9 billion kroner ($667 million), missing
analysts’ estimates of 4.15 billion kroner. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were 229 million
kroner, below the 300 million-kroner analyst projection.  Ashmore Group Plc retreated 4.3 percent to 331.5 pence
after Haley Tam, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. cut the U.K. fund
manager to sell from neutral.  Nokia jumped 4.2 percent to 2.49 euros, for an eighth
consecutive day of gains.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer, rose
1.9 percent to 65.40 euros, following a gauge of  European (SXXP)  food
and beverage shares higher. Chief Strategy Officer Jo Van Biesbroeck bought 200,000 shares for 13.1 million euros on Aug.
17, according to regulatory filings.  Danone (BN)  SA, the world’s largest yogurt maker, gained 1.4
percent to 51.01 euros, while  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s
biggest salmon farmer, climbed 3.9 percent to 4.51 kroner as
investors bought the stock in anticipation of increased fish
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  