-- Euro Declines Versus Dollar as ECB Said to Await German Ruling
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-24T21:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/euro-snaps-4-day-gain-before-leaders-meet-to-discuss-greece-aid.html
The euro snapped four days of gains
against the dollar after the  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy
 government bonds  was said to be held up until a German court
rules on Europe’s permanent bailout fund.  The greenback pared an advance after  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he sees “scope for further
action” in a letter defending monetary stimulus, which would
debase the currency.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she wants
Greece to stay in the monetary union and that Germany is ready
to help the Greek government as it takes the necessary steps to
resolve its economic woes. Australia’s dollar fell after Reserve
Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the currency would probably
depreciate if a mining boom ends.  “The ECB is looking to the sovereigns to make sure that
they take the onus, take the lead,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford 
Connecticut, said in a telephone interview. “The ECB is saying,
‘Once you guys have your stuff in order, we’ll be behind to
help.’”  The euro dropped 0.4 percent to $1.2512 at 5 p.m. in New
York. It climbed to $1.2590 yesterday, the strongest since July
4. The euro fell 0.2 percent to 98.44 yen. The dollar
strengthened 0.2 percent to 78.67 yen.  The single currency still gained 0.8 percent on the week,
the biggest increase along with the Swiss franc and Norwegian
krone among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  fell 0.8 percent
and the yen added 0.4 percent. Canada’s dollar dropped 1.2
percent to lead decliners.  Aussie, Pound  Australia’s dollar fell for a second day against the U.S.
currency as Stevens said in testimony to a parliamentary panel
that the nation’s resource investment boom will peak “within
the next year or two.”  The so-called Aussie dropped 0.4 percent to $1.0403 after
depreciating 0.6 percent yesterday. It fell 0.2 percent for its
second weekly decline.  The pound dropped for a second day against the dollar after
a government report showed the U.K. economy contracted in the
second quarter.  Sterling weakened 0.3 percent to $1.5810, trimming its
weekly gain to 0.7 percent.  The rand tumbled to the lowest in three weeks and bond
yields rose after  Fitch Ratings  said violence at South Africa’s
mines shows problems that may weigh on its credit ratings.  South Africa’s currency declined 1.1 percent to 8.4003 per
dollar after touching 8.4228, the weakest level since Aug. 2. It
dropped 1 percent for a second weekly decline.  Bernanke Letter  The Fed has the ability to take additional steps to boost
the economy, Bernanke said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to
California Republican  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke wrote.  Minutes of the U.S. central bank’s latest policy meeting
released Aug. 22 showed officials remain supportive of a third
round of asset purchases under quantitative easing as
unemployment has been mired at more than 8 percent since 2009.
The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 to cap borrowing costs.  “The direct explanation is that we’re following equity
markets,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in New York, said of the dollar’s paring. “U.S.
equities seem to have navigated those European headline and are
higher on the day, which is hurting the dollar and helping
foreign currencies.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  gained 0.7 percent after
falling as much as 0.3 percent.  ‘Follow Momentum’  “There’s just a whole lot of chatter and the chatter’s
moving the market,”  Brian Taylor , chief currency trader at
Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo, New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Traders are just searching for reasons to
either jump on board and follow momentum or to get out of
positions they’re holding.”  The 17-nation currency fell as much as 0.7 percent, the
most in two weeks, after two central bank officials said ECB
President  Mario Draghi  may wait until Germany’s Constitutional
Court rules on the legality of Europe’s fund on Sept. 12 before
unveiling details of his plan to buy government bonds. An ECB
spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  ‘Deeply Convinced’  The ECB president announced on Aug. 2 that the central bank
may intervene in the secondary market to reduce bond yields in
countries such as Spain and Italy if they apply to Europe’s
bailout fund for aid and accept the conditions attached.  Merkel said Germany is ready to help Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras’s government as it takes the necessary steps to resolve
his country’s economic woes.  “I want Greece to stay in the  euro zone  and that’s what
I’m working for,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin today at a
joint press conference with Samaras. “I am deeply convinced
that the new government under the leadership of Prime Minister
Samaras will do what it takes to solve the problem in Greece.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will hold a working
lunch with Merkel on Sept. 6 as the ECB governing council meets
to work on the details of a mechanism to lower borrowing costs
for peripheral euro members.  “There’s a broad framework that’s being negotiated that
has many hurdles,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve had a good retracement on the euro
dollar since the bottom in July and people have failed to see a
break of the 50-day moving average. Therefore, news that
reinforces the negative view on the euro is going to have more
impact.”  Net Shorts  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those on a
gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 123,932 on Aug. 21, compared
with net shorts of 137,810 a week earlier.  Investors should sell the lira and buy the Russian ruble
because Turkey’s central bank began supporting economic growth
and may cut  interest rates , according to BNP Paribas SA.  The recent rise in the price of oil may also pressure the
lira and support the ruble, BNP said in an e-mailed report today
on Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  “The central bank of Turkey is turning its focus toward
slowing growth and is therefore keeping lira liquidity
conditions ample, while considering narrowing the overnight
rates corridor,” BNP said.  The lira fell 0.2 percent against the dollar and the ruble
dropped 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  