-- European Stocks Decline for First Week Since June
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-08-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/european-stocks-decline-for-first-week-since-june.html
European stocks  fell for the first
week since June as  Greece ’s prime minister asked the leaders of
 Germany  and France for a two-year reprieve from cutting
 government spending  and  Japan ’s trade deficit widened.  Commodity companies and steelmakers declined, as Rio Tinto
Group and ArcelorMittal each lost more than 4 percent.  Kazakhmys
Plc (KAZ)  and  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  plunged after both companies reported
a slide in first-half profit. Spanish lenders retreated.
Heineken NV advanced 3.4 percent after analysts raised their
recommendations on the shares.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 1.8 percent to 268 this
past week, snapping its longest winning streak since 2006. The
benchmark measure has still  advanced 15 percent  from this year’s
low on June 4 after a summit of euro-area policy makers agreed
to ease repayment terms for Spanish banks and European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro.  “The recent equity market weakness is a product of profit
taking and the expectation that growth could be weak, but
inflation will be maintained by stimulus moving forward,” said
Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “Japan’s trade numbers highlighted slowing global
growth, and comments from  Europe  and the U.S. have leaned
towards further accommodative policy.”  Greece’s Bailout  Greece must implement reforms if it wants further
international loans under the terms of its second bailout from
the European Union, according to German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel . Speaking at a joint press conference with Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras in Berlin on Aug. 24, she said that the
leaders of the 17-nation single currency will wait for a report
from the troika due in September before making their decision.
Samaras goes to Paris to meet with French President  Francois
Hollande  on Aug. 25.  Merkel  said on Aug. 23  that she and Hollande will maintain
pressure on Greece to improve its economy. Samaras, who is
pushing for more time to reduce his country’s debt, made his
first official visit to Berlin since he assumed power two months
ago.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Aug. 23
that giving Greece more time to meet its debt obligations would
not help the country and would increase costs for creditors. He
spoke on SWR2 radio.  Draghi may wait until Germany’s Constitutional Court rules
on the legality of the euro area’s permanent bailout fund before
announcing the details of his planned government bond-purchase
program, two central bank officials said on Aug. 24.  Bond Buying  Stocks fell after Germany’s Bundesbank said on Aug. 20 that
the ECB’s proposal to buy bonds entailed “significant stability
risks.” The new program could be “unlimited” and decisions
that involve greater sharing of solvency risks should be taken
by governments or parliaments, not by central banks, it said.  Japan had a  trade deficit  of 517.4 billion yen ($6.6
billion) in July, a report from the country’s  Finance Ministry 
on Aug. 22 showed. That compared with a 60.3 billion yen surplus
in June and a 270 billion yen  forecast deficit  in a  Bloomberg
News  survey of 28 economists.  In the U.S., a report on Aug. 22 showed  sales of existing
properties  rose to a 4.47 million annual pace in July from a
4.37 million pace in June.  Economists surveyed  by Bloomberg News
had predicted an increase to 4.51 million. A release on Aug. 23
showed  new house sales  climbed to a 372,000 rate last month from
a 359,000 pace in June. The  median forecast  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a 365,000 rate.  China Manufacturing  In  China , a preliminary report by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics on Aug. 23 showed a reading of 47.8 for a
 purchasing managers’ index , compared with 49.3 in July,
signaling manufacturing may contract at a faster pace in August.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets except Greece this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
slipped 1.3 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index retreated 1
percent. France’s CAC 40 dropped 1.6 percent.  An index of mining stocks was among the worst-performing
industry groups on the Stoxx 600 this week.  Rio Tinto  lost 4.2
percent and ArcelorMittal declined 5.8 percent.  Kazakhmys plunged 11 percent after saying on Aug. 23 that
 first-half profit  slumped 67 percent to $121 million.  Petropavlovsk tumbled 19 percent after reporting on Aug. 23
a 90 percent decline in  first-half net income  to $11 million
because of interest payments and depreciation costs.  Spanish Banks  Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest lender, dropped 2.9
percent as yields on the country’s  benchmark 10-year bonds 
climbed 21 basis points over the last three days. Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA tumbled 5.2 percent and Bankia SA plunged
14 percent.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  slid 9.7 percent as analysts at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Berenberg Bank AG cut their rating on the
shares to sell from hold on Aug. 22. At least 10 brokerages have
 lowered  their price estimates or recommendations on the shares
since the Vienna-based phone company reduced its forecast for
full-year profit and revenue on Aug. 16.  Heineken (HEIA)  gained 3.4 percent as analysts at Bank of America
Corp. and Societe Generale SA advised investors to buy the
shares. The Dutch brewer said on Aug. 22 that full-year profit
before exceptional items and amortization, and excluding
acquisitions and currency changes, will be “broadly in line”
with the 1.58 billion euros ($2 billion) reported in 2011.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  advanced 1.6 percent after the world’s biggest
distiller said on Aug. 23 that  full-year earnings before
interest and taxes , excluding some items, rose to 3.2 billion
pounds ($5.1 billion) from 2.9 billion pounds a year earlier. On
a so-called organic basis, earnings increased 9 percent, beating
the median analyst estimate of 8.6 percent in a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  