-- Evernote to Hold Off on IPO Until 2015 at the Earliest
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-08-24T19:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/evernote-to-hold-off-on-ipo-until-2015-at-the-earliest.html
Evernote Corp., an online note-
taking and document storage service, plans to hold off on an
initial public offering until at least 2015 as it works to
convert users of its free product into paid subscribers.  Watching  Facebook Inc. (FB)  lose roughly half its value since an
IPO in May has made Evernote Chief Executive Officer Phil Libin
want to “stay private as long as we can.” While Evernote’s
membership has more than tripled to 38 million over the past
year, only about 1.5 million are subscribers paying $5 a month,
or $45 a year, Libin said in an interview.  Facebook “reinforces the approach of IPO slowly,” Libin
said. “The best time to IPO is when the market is kind of
boring.”  In the wake of Facebook’s troubled IPO and concerns over
its ability to make money from its 955 million users, Evernote
joins Internet startups including Airbnb Inc.,  LegalZoom.com
Inc. (LGZ)  and MobiTV Inc. in delaying planned public debuts. After a
$70 million  funding round  in May gave Redwood City, California-
based Evernote a $1 billion valuation, Libin said he doesn’t
need to rush to the public markets. Waiting longer before an IPO
“is the best thing for the company,” he said. “This is the
time where we get to have fun and take risks.”  Evernote, like Dropbox Inc. and Box Inc., lets users store
their notes, documents, images and other content in the cloud.
That means the information is kept in remote data centers,
accessible from any Web-connected device. The companies make
money by using a so-called freemium model, offering a free
version of their products that can be upgraded to a paid
membership with more perks.  Corporate Services  Technology companies focused on corporate services have
fared better in recent IPOs, encouraging Libin to expand beyond
his company’s consumer roots to offer more options for
businesses. Evernote is introducing a $10 monthly subscription
service for small businesses to collaborate on projects and
compare notes, Libin said today during a presentation at the
Evernote Trunk Conference in  San Francisco .  The company’s most popular products include its flagship
Evernote program for storing and organizing information, the
Evernote Food mobile app for snapping pictures of meals, the
Skitch app which takes screenshots an lets users add annotation,
and a handwriting app for Apple Inc.’s iPad called Penultimate.  Moleskine Partnership  Moleskine Srl , a maker of paper notebooks popular with
designers, will include stickers with some products that
Evernote users can afix to pages to help digitally organize
snapshots taken of images in the book, the companies said today.
Evernote’s current software enables users to take pictures and
store the images. The sticker will work with new software to let
users automatically sort the pictures, Moleskine CEO Arrigo
Berni said at the conference.  Libin also unveiled redesigns for the main Evernote
 applications , designed to make the layout more efficient, that
he said will be released in the next few months.  Evernote’s 230 employees moved to a 87,774-square-foot
office building off Highway 101 in  Redwood City  in June. Libin
named each conference room after video games, organized
alphabetically by floor. It has offices in cities including
Beijing,  Tokyo , Taipei and Austin,  Texas .  About 30 percent of Evernote’s users are from the U.S,
followed by the  Japan  at 20 percent, Libin said. After releasing
a version for China earlier this year, Evernote has been adding
60,000 to 70,000 users per day there, the second-highest grower
after the U.S., he said. Revenue from Chinese users is low, he
said.  “We went into China knowing it was going to be 10 years
before we figure things out,” Libin said. “We know that we
don’t know what we’re doing in  China . So we’re going on an
adventure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  