-- Mexico Reports Current Account Surplus on Export Strength
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-24T18:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/mexico-reports-current-account-surplus-on-export-strength-1-.html
Mexico  reported a second-quarter
current account surplus of $440 million, surprising economists
who had forecast a deficit, as a weaker currency helped boost
exports, the central bank said.  The central bank also revised the first quarter current
account to a $1.18 billion surplus from a $47 million deficit,
according to a report released today on its website. That’s the
biggest surplus since at least 1995, according to Banxico data.
The median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a second-quarter deficit of $297 million.  Exports rose 5.8 percent in the three months through June
from a year earlier to a record $94.5 billion. Remittances
climbed 6.5 percent to $6.5 billion, the highest level since the
second quarter of 2008, before the global financial crisis.
Income from tourists increased 6 percent to $2.53 billion. The
peso fell 4.1 percent in the quarter, touching the lowest level
since March 2009 on June 1.  The current account surplus is mostly “due to the
considerable trade balance surplus, mainly explained by stronger
manufacturing exports, as well as the important positive
remittance inflow,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist and head
of research at Grupo Financiero Banorte in Mexico City, said in
an e-mail. “The additional piece of information was a lower-
than-expected services balance deficit, particularly due to
foreign traveler inflows.”  Mexico’s auto industry is booming, with both vehicle
production and exports reaching their highest levels in the
first seven months of the year for any January to July period,
the nation’s Automobile Industry Association, or AMIA, said on
Aug. 6. Manufacturers are opening new plants in Mexico as wages
in China rise and higher oil prices increase costs for Asian
companies looking to tap consumers in the U.S., the world’s
largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 