-- Mexico Bond Yields Fall as European Concern Spurs Refuge Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-08-24T19:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/mexico-bond-yields-fall-as-european-concern-spurs-refuge-demand.html
Mexico’s bond yields headed for the
biggest five-day drop in five weeks, following Treasuries lower,
as mounting concern about Europe’s debt crisis stoked demand for
assets seen as a refuge in times of instability.  The country’s local-currency, fixed-rate bonds rose as
investors sought safer assets amid speculation that European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may hold off on unveiling
full details of a bond-buying plan to help resolve the region’s
debt crisis. The correlation of the Mexican debt, known as
Mbonos, with Treasuries has increased.  “This is just a maturation of the Mbono market,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps oversee about $9 billion of emerging-market
debt at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , said by phone from
London. Mexican debt is acting “like a fixed-income market is
supposed to be. In  risk aversion , bonds rally.”  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 5.51 percent at 1:53 p.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose
0.08 centavo to 140.07 centavos per peso. Today’s rally pushed
the weekly yield decrease to seven basis points, the most on a
closing basis since the period ending July 20. The peso declined
0.2 percent to 13.1872 per dollar, extending its drop this week
to 0.5 percent.  The 30-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year Mexican
 government bonds  and similar-maturity Treasuries today rose to
0.59, the highest level in a year. A reading of 1 means the two
securities move in lockstep while -1 indicates they move in
opposite directions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  