-- Facebook, Gehry Build Idea Factory for RipStik Geeks
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-08-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/facebook-gehry-build-idea-factory-for-ripstik-geeks.html
A RipStik might become an essential
means of transport at Facebook West, the social-networking
company’s headquarters expansion designed by  Frank Gehry .  The two-wheeled cross between skateboard and snowboard
could be the perfect means to get from one end to the other of
the quarter-mile-long building. It’s one large room, about 10
acres in size (420,000 square feet).  Gehry’s project will rise, beginning spring 2013, across a
busy highway from Facebook East, the company’s current home at
the edge of  San Francisco Bay  in  Menlo Park ,  California . The
company won’t disclose the project cost but says it’s consistent
with the local office-park norm.  Wearing his customary black T-shirt, the 83-year-old Gehry
confesses he has yet to master Facebook, but enjoys figuring out
what makes his clients tick. For an exclusive first look, he
walked me around massive study models of the campus in the high-
ceilinged warehouse that is his Los Angeles office.  Mark Zuckerberg , the 28-year-old co-founder of Facebook,
recognized a collaborative ethos much like his own. With his
team, Gehry tries out ideas and solves problems by endlessly
reworking architectural models. Zuckerberg peels away
impediments to face-to-face interaction in his quest to expand
social exchange on electronic devices.  In the building design, work benches line up in curving
arcs like swarms of fish. They are organized into work-group
“neighborhoods” dotted with meeting rooms that might be
painted with graffiti and ad hoc lounges furnished with arcade-
game consoles.  Gehry said skylights and clerestories in the 26-foot-high
ceilings would shower the vast space with daylight.  War Rooms  If you decided to traverse the huge floor via RipStik, you
might wave to co-workers talking outside pop-up pavilions called
war rooms and devoted to launching products.  You would pass no private office or cubicle, but you could
circle a glass-partitioned space at the very center of the floor
where you might find Zuckerberg.  Outdoor-terraced cafes will serve sushi and barbecue.  A twisting wooden stair within a tall cube of glass will
lead to a lush rooftop garden -- a place to escape.  “Mark said he wanted to be in the same room with all his
engineers,” Gehry said. “I told him we could put the building
up on stilts, park cars underneath and create a room as large as
he wanted.”  This is not a Gehry project of shiny fronds of fluttering
reflective metal. To support his vision of anti-hierarchy, free-
form collaborative work, Zuckerberg tapped the Gehry who has
built furniture out of cardboard and covered his own house in
chain-link fencing.  Bold Gambit  The big open floor is a bold gambit: With the stock price
reflecting some doubt about a rosy future, Zuckerberg risks a
lot taking his vision still further from the corporate cubicle
norm.  I had a look at Facebook East. There designers, engineers
and product managers form development teams that may work
together for days, weeks or months before dissolving.  The company only recently moved in, and it is still
renovating buildings by demolishing private offices, tearing out
acoustical ceilings to expose foil-wrapped ductwork, and
dangling data cables onto workbenches. People pick up their
laptops and go where their teams go.  I saw people working in groups at artisanal coffee bars and
in the cavernous cafeteria (where three high-quality meals are
served free every day). To work alone, people tuck themselves
into diner-style booths or plop on couches in ubiquitous open
lounges.  In periodic “hackathons,” the entire engineering staff
rapidly fabricates prototypes and tests new ideas.  Office Parks  The devotion to horizontal space in the pursuit of
collaboration leaves Facebook stuck in Menlo Park’s land of
interaction-repelling office parks. Half the company’s staff
lives in  San Francisco  where the city hosts human networking far
richer than the most brilliantly designed office environment
does.  You can’t find room for a 10-acre floor in the densely
built-up city, though. Facebook shuttles city dwellers 30 miles
to its campus with its own bus fleet.  The new building, expected to open in spring 2015, strives
to enable even greater idea-hatching mobility. Gehry first
proposed a long, rectangular box. Working with partner Craig
Webb, he’s pushed and pulled the exterior to break down the
building’s intimidating size. Paths loop around the densely
planted roof to encourage people to use it as a place to meet or
think. Skateboard-friendly ramps start at the roof and curl down
to the ground.  “We’ve got to give them a system that’s not precious, that
they can manipulate,” Gehry said. “We want it to work
effortlessly.” It’s architecture that won’t preen, he promises.
“My goal is a kind of ephemeral connectivity that you can’t
take a picture of.”  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 