-- Fannie Mae’s Still No Ginnie After Bailout Fix: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-24T11:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/fannie-mae-s-still-no-ginnie-after-bailout-fix-credit-markets.html
Almost four years after  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
was put into U.S. conservatorship, the Treasury Department has
yet to erase skepticism that the nation’s biggest mortgage
financier is as secure as government-owned Ginnie Mae.  While the difference between prices for  Fannie Mae ’s 3.5
percent home-loan bonds and similar Ginnie Mae debt with
unconditional U.S. backing has narrowed about 0.3 cent to 2.2
cents on the dollar since the Treasury eased some bailout terms
for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  last week, it’s still above the
average of the past two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The gap fell the most this year after the Aug. 17 announcement.  Fannie Mae’s lack of a full U.S. guarantee accounts for
about half of the price difference, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. analyst Brian Ye. Foreign investors typically stick with
Ginnie Mae bonds for the extra safety while regulators push
banks toward the debt by demanding they hold more capital for
Fannie Mae notes. Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc disagree on
whether the bailout changes will boost demand from those buyers,
even as other investors see little change in creditworthiness.  “They’re willing to give up some yield for the certainty
of the government guarantee,” said Walt Schmidt, a mortgage
strategist in Chicago at FTN Financial, the brokerage unit of
First Horizon National Corp.  Falling Short  While  Treasury Secretary   Timothy F. Geithner  had vowed
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  wouldn’t default, the previous terms
of their taxpayer support created long-term dangers. The
companies, which have taken almost $190 billion of U.S. capital
since 2008, owed 10 percent annually on the amounts drawn.  Fannie Mae’s annual profits have never exceeded what it
would have owed, while Freddie Mac’s did once, and both are
being forced to shrink their own holdings of securities and
loans that help to boost earnings, according to an Aug. 10
 report  by the  Congressional Research Service . The Treasury’s new
plan scraps the dividends and takes only the firms’ profits.  Elsewhere in credit markets, equipment manufacturer Deere &
Co. plans to sell $1 billion of asset-backed bonds in its second
sale of the debt this year. The Federal Bank of New York sold
the remaining securities in its portfolio created to hold toxic
debt assumed as part of the rescue of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  The market for corporate borrowing through commercial
paper rose for a second week.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.72 basis point to 18.5 basis points,
the lowest level since May 30, 2011. The measure narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose the
most in three weeks, climbing 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of
101.7 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings added 2.5 basis points to 148 at 11:59
a.m. in  London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the  Markit iTraxx
Asia  index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan 
climbed 2 to 149.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Deere Bonds  Deere’s offering will be tied to agricultural- and
construction-equipment loans, the Moline, Illinois-based company
said today in a regulatory filing. Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. are managing the deal.  Companies have issued $143 billion this year in asset-
backed bonds linked to consumer and business lending, with
automobile debt accounting for $67 billion, Bloomberg-compiled
data show. Investors are attracted to the securities by short
durations and stable relative yields, Deutsche Bank AG analysts
led by Harris Trifon said in a report last month.  After the  New York  Fed’s sales of the remaining assets in
its Maiden Lane III LLC, which once held $62.1 billion of
assets, the portfolio will post a net gain for the public of
about $6.6 billion, the district bank said in a statement
yesterday. The Fed’s loan to the facility was repaid in June.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding climbed $4.7 billion to $1.025 trillion in the week
ended Aug. 22, the Fed said on its website. The market has
expanded from this year’s low of $925.6 billion as of March 7.  Leveraged Loans  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
was little changed at 95.13 cents on the dollar, holding at the
highest level since June 1, 2011. The measure, which tracks the
100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has
climbed from 91.8 on June 5, the lowest since Jan. 6.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 2 basis
points to 316 basis points, or 3.16 percentage points, according
to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 369.5
basis points this year.  New Deal  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers, with 133 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Fannie Mae was formed in 1938 as part of President  Franklin
D. Roosevelt ’s New Deal. The Washington-based firm was split off
from the government in 1968, though it retained certain perks
and obligations that created an aura of taxpayer backing.
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac was started as a private
company with similar government links in 1970 to foster
competition.  Washington-based Ginnie Mae, once part of Fannie Mae, was
created as a wholly U.S. government-owned corporation in 1968.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are now each 80 percent owned by
the U.S. after being seized in September 2008 as their mounting
losses from the worst housing slump since the 1930s threatened
to roil debt investors and deepen a global financial crisis.  Explicit Support  Money managers such as Stable River Capital Management’s
Chad Stephens see little reason to doubt the companies’
creditworthiness, thanks to their more explicit government
support since the seizure and the systemic importance of
financiers that guarantee about two-thirds of new home loans.  “We’d rather take the extra yield than get the full faith-
and-credit guarantee” offered by Ginnie Mae debt, said
Stephens, who manages the $2.4 billion  RidgeWorth Institutional
U.S. Government Securities Ultra Short Bond Fund. (SIGVX)  His fund,
about 95 percent of which is invested in mortgage debt, has
beaten about 82 percent of peers this year, Bloomberg data show.  Geithner’s adjustments to the mortgage companies’ bailout
terms last week came less than five months before the government
begins capping the funds Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can tap to
cover any losses or shortfalls in dividend payments. The amount
will be limited to about $275 billion after Dec. 31.  The Treasury secretary, who told lawmakers last year that
“Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will not default on their
obligations,” had on Christmas Eve in 2009 lifted a limit on
their available aid through this year. Use of the remaining
money for later dividends would have risked speeding how fast
the amount was depleted by increasing the required payouts.  ‘Slightly Positive’  By turning their profits into government earnings, their
new agreements leave the firms even more closely tied to the
U.S., meaning the changes are “slightly positive” for the
companies’ creditworthiness, according to an Aug. 17 report by
JPMorgan. The bank’s mortgage-bond analysts were top-ranked last
year in Institutional Investor polls, with Ye rated best for
debt prepayments.  The changes also “may slightly increase” the odds that
bank regulators will lower the so-called risk weights of 20
percent on their securities to match the zero percent weighting
for Ginnie Mae debt, the analysts wrote.  “The real credit news will occur if the government took
the step to actually guarantee the debt and MBS” of the
companies, “which hasn‘t happened yet,’’ they said.  Risk Weights  Under their capital rules, banks need to hold $475 million
against $25 billion of Fannie Mae bonds to achieve a risk-based
ratio of 9.5 percent. For Ginnie Mae securities, the amount is
nothing. Proposed regulations demanding that banks hold specific
amounts of easy-to-trade assets have also favored Ginnie Mae.  Spreads on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s unsecured corporate
debentures, which they use to finance their own portfolios of
loans and securities, narrowed to the lowest relative to
government notes since April 3 after the Treasury announcement.  Relative yields on their benchmark notes declined to 13
basis points on Aug. 20, before rising to 14 basis points
through yesterday, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index tracking $349 billion of bonds.  The shrinking market for that debt of the mortgage
guarantors means that remaining spreads on the securities have
nothing to do with their creditworthiness, said  Jim Vogel , an
agency debt analyst at FTN Financial. The U.S. has been forcing
the firms to contract their portfolios at a 10 percent annual
pace, a rate increased this month to 15 percent.  ‘Enough Buyers’  ‘‘The market is small enough now that there are enough
buyers who don’t care,” Vogel said. Instead, yield premiums
stem from items such as how it’s easier to trade Treasuries and
how investors are slow to change their habits, he said.  In the mortgage-bond market, the pricing advantage with
Ginnie Mae’s $1 trillion of securities may be poised to shrink
as the adjusted bailout terms for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
draw new investors over time to their $4 trillion of notes,
Barclays analysts led by Nicholas Strand wrote in an Aug. 17
report.  “The government is signaling what most market participants
already know: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are essentially off-
balance-sheet government entities,” they said. On whether
skeptical investors, who are “typically overseas,” will change
their minds, the answer is “an unambiguous ‘yes,’” they said.  Morgan Stanley analysts Vipul Jain and Janaki Rao disagree.  While the reworked agreements should be enough to remove
“any lingering doubts regarding the financial” strength of the
companies, the behavior of banks and overseas investors are
“unlikely to change,” they wrote in an Aug. 17 report.  Change ‘Unlikely’  Any shift that draws other investors toward Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac mortgage securities from Ginnie Mae bonds could
raise the relative costs of loans insured by the  Federal Housing
Administration  and Department of  Veterans Affairs , which offer
greater underwriting flexibility for home buyers with low down
payments.  Ginnie Mae securities mainly package those mortgages, while
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bonds finance conventional loans.
Their relative prices also reflect differences in how fast and
predictably the notes get repaid as homeowners  refinance , sell
properties and default. Lenders respond to changes in the debt’s
values by varying loans rates, their profit margins or both.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  