-- Forint Bond Yields May Fall Further, New Equilor Fund Unit Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-08-24T08:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/forint-bond-yields-may-fall-further-new-equilor-fund-unit-says.html
Hungarian bond yields may fall
further as the government keeps the  budget deficit  in check and
negotiates an International Monetary Fund bailout, according to
the fund management unit started this month by broker Equilor.  The yield on  Hungary ’s benchmark five-year bonds fell to a
11-month low of 7.1 percent yesterday, compared with 10.8
percent in January. Foreigners’  holdings  of forint-denominated
bonds and bills rose to a record 4.73 trillion forint ($21
billion) yesterday, which may help the securities gain further,
Zsolt Pillar, chief executive officer of Equilor Alapkezelo,
said in an interview at his office in Budapest yesterday.  Hungarian assets have rallied as Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s government started talks on an IMF aid package last
month. The government cut spending and took over privately-
managed pension assets last year to bring the deficit below the
European Union’s 3 percent of gross domestic product limit for
the first time since Hungary joined the bloc in 2004.  “The  bond market  in Hungary is very exciting and offers
good returns,” Pillar said, adding that the government has
managed to keep the deficit from exceeding “critical” levels.
“I am not expecting too negative a scenario in Hungarian bonds.
There may be further room for yields to go downward.”  Equilor’s fund unit, which is 90 percent owned by the
brokerage and 10 percent by Pillar, is starting with 8.5 billion
forint under management, which he said he planned to increase to
about 15 billion forint by the end of 2013.  The five-year bond yields were little changed and the
forint weakened 0.5 percent to 278.59 per euro by 9:49 a.m. in
Budapest, bringing its decline this week to 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  