-- Former Anglo Irish Bank Loss Widens as Loans Worsens
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-08-24T09:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/former-anglo-irish-bank-loss-widens-as-loans-worsens-1-.html
Irish Bank Resolution Corp.’s first-
half loss widened as the bank that helped push Ireland into an
international bailout raised provisions for bad loans.  The loss at the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. increased to
724 million euros ($907 million) from 105 million euros in the
year-earlier period, the bank said in a statement today. It made
provisions of 1.09 billion euros during the period, up from 778
million euros a year earlier as the Dublin-based company said 87
percent of loans are classified as “at risk.”  “The prevailing uncertainty in  Europe , a lack of bank
funding and weak commercial and residential property markets in
Ireland and the U.K. all mean that the market environment in
which the bank operates will be very challenging,” Chairman
 Alan Dukes  said in the statement.  The Irish government pledged about 30 billion euros to the
former Anglo Irish after the country’s property bubble collapsed
in 2008, saddling the bank with bad loans. Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Aynsley  said in an interview today with Dublin-
based broadcaster RTE that he doesn’t expect a need for
additional capital.  Aynsley said the bank expects to meet its 2020 wind-down
target and may see a “far better result.” There is an
increased risk of one or more countries leaving the euro
currency union or even of a complete breakup as spreads on
Spanish and Italian bonds neared unsustainable levels, the
lender said today. The bank said that could put further pressure
on its loans even as asset quality is already worsening.  Executives Charged  Three former bank officials including ex-chairman  Sean Fitzpatrick  were charged last month with breeches of company law
following a fraud investigation into the failed lender, which
was nationalized in January 2009.  The Irish government is negotiating with European Union
officials to lower the cost of financing loans used to rescue
the bank. Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide Building Society
merged last year to form IBRC.  Total assets, excluding government funds used to bail out
the bank and Irish state bonds, stood at 21.9 billion euros at
the end of June, down from 25.3 billion euros at the end of last
year. Total funding from central banks and monetary authorities
was 42.3 billion euros, accounting for 89 percent of funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  