-- Fuel Costs Plus U.S. Drought Equals Higher Food Prices
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/fuel-costs-plus-u-s-drought-equals-higher-food-prices.html
U.S. consumers, already paying more
for food due to the worst drought in five decades, may soon see
prices at the supermarket rise further because of fuel costs.  “Gasoline is the wild card” of food inflation, said Chad Hart, an economist at  Iowa State University . “Anytime you have
oil and gas prices moving up, that will hit us on the food
dollar.”  Energy and transportation accounts for about 8.2 cents of
each dollar spent on food, compared with about 4 cents for farm
commodities, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
Processing, labor, packaging and other costs dominate the retail
and restaurant prices of food, making the cost of corn less
important to consumers than the price of the gas needed to
transport it, according  to USDA  data.  U.S. consumers may pay 3 percent to 4 percent more  for food 
next year, up from as much as 3.5 percent more this year, as the
effects of drought work their way onto supermarket shelves, the
Department of Agriculture said last month in its first forecast
for 2013. Beef may rise as much as 5 percent in response to
tight supplies of corn, which is used to feed cattle, the USDA
said in its monthly  report , which will be updated today.  Corn and soybean futures reached record highs this month on
the Chicago Board of Trade, and wheat touched the highest price
since 2008 as dry conditions worsened in the Midwest and Great
Plains.  Oil Prices  Oil, meanwhile, is up 13 percent over the past year on
international instability and tight supplies. The nationwide
average price of regular gasoline at the pump gained 0.2 cent to
$3.718 a gallon Aug. 22, AAA data showed. Gasoline has climbed
39.2 cents since July 1, according to the AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization.  Even with domestic production gains, gasoline prices in the
U.S. will probably rise 5 to 10 cents a gallon by the Sept. 3
Labor Day holiday before falling in the fourth quarter,  Adam Sieminski , head of the U.S. Energy Information Administration,
said in an interview Aug. 22.  Much of the damage to U.S. crops caused by dryness has
already taken place, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in
an interview Aug. 16. Vilsack said he thought food inflation
next year will probably be in the range of last month’s forecast
while saying that oil could change that.  “If  oil prices  keep going up as they have recently, that
could have a greater impact on food costs than what’s associated
with what’s going on with the drought,” he said.  Food Inflation  Food costs  have risen 1 percent so far this year, the
government said earlier this month. Retail-food costs rose 3.7
percent in 2011, according to the USDA. Higher energy prices can
also deter food inflation, said Bill Lapp, president of Advanced
Economic Solutions in Omaha,  Nebraska , by making it harder for
companies to pass on costs to financially strapped consumers.  Higher commodity prices affect everything from meat
purchased by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to the grain bought by  General
Mills Inc. (GIS)  to the sweeteners used by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  The U.S.
drought may have a bigger impact on people in poorer countries
that import food than on Americans themselves, said Johanna
Nesseth Tuttle, director for  food security  at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “Poor and middle-income countries rely on the stability
the U.S. harvests bring to global food prices, so they suffer
more when our production drops,” she said in an e-mail. World
nutrition costs rose  6.2 percent  last month, the biggest spike
since November 2009, the  United Nations  said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  