-- Future Fund Offers A$2 Billion for Infrastructure Assets
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-24T06:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/future-fund-to-buy-australian-infrastructure-for-a-2-billion.html
Australia ’s  sovereign wealth fund 
offered to buy the assets of the country’s largest listed
infrastructure fund for A$2 billion ($2.1 billion), seeking
steady earnings from airports across the nation.  The  Future Fund , with A$77 billion of assets, will pay the
equivalent of A$3.22 for each share of the Australian
Infrastructure Fund, which will distribute the proceeds to
security holders, according to a statement from the latter to
the stock exchange today. That’s 22 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing price.  The Australian Infrastructure Fund soared 17 percent in
Sydney as the Future Fund extended an investment program that’s
already more than doubled its infrastructure assets within three
years. Government of Singapore Investment Corp. and Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board are among funds plowing money into
the industry as  Europe ’s debt woes roil stock markets.  “Australian infrastructure assets are attractive because
of their strong correlation with Australian economic growth,
inflation protection and relative high levels of earnings
certainty,” David Neal, the Future Fund’s chief investment
officer, said in a statement. “We continue to seek
opportunities to increase our exposure to quality Australia and
international infrastructure asset.”  The  Australian Infrastructure Fund (AIX)  jumped to A$3.11 at the
4:10 p.m. close in Sydney.  The fund’s assets include stakes in Perth Airport,
Melbourne Airport and Queensland Airports. There’s no guarantee
a deal will be reached, the company said. Profit in the year
ended June 30 fell 8 percent to A$196 million, the company said
in a separate statement today.  Higher Allocation  The proportion of the Future Fund’s assets allocated to
infrastructure jumped to 5.6 percent as of March 31 this year
from 2.5 percent in 2009, according to  the fund’s  website.  Australia suffers from a “chronic lack of public
infrastructure,” the Business Council of Australia said in a
report in June. Funding for projects has dried up and
bottlenecks in the major cities of Sydney and  Melbourne , which
risk undermining the country’s exporting ability, must be
addressed, the council said.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, the country’s second-
biggest public pension manager, had 16.4 percent of its funds in
so-called real assets, which include real estate and
infrastructure, at the end of June, the fund said this month.  GIC, which manages more than $100 billion, also increased
investments in infrastructure in the year ended March, it said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  