-- Gap Rejects Junk Label as Swaps Beat Limited: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-08-24T16:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/gap-rejects-junk-label-as-swaps-beat-limited-corporate-finance.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  is poised to recapture an
investment grade from both major ratings firms for the first
time since 2006, credit derivatives show, as the biggest U.S.
specialty apparel retailer posts its best sales in five years.  Credit-default swaps linked to the second-most indebted
U.S. apparel company are trading at the lowest level in 15
months with an implied investment-grade  rating  of Baa3, one
level above  Standard & Poor’s  junk ranking, according to Moody’s
Corp.’s capital markets research group. Swaps on retailers have
risen eight basis points on average this year.  Gap, which operates more than 3,000 namesake, Banana
Republic and Old Navy stores worldwide, has seen a resurgence in
its North American business as it boosts digital marketing, adds
new executives and partners with top designers from Trina Turk
to Diane von Furstenberg for exclusive collections. The cost to
insure against default on Gap’s debt relative to bonds of
Victoria’s Secret owner  Limited Brands  Inc. plunged 147 basis
points since January, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “The CDS market has recognized the significant improvement
in Gap’s underlying risk profile,” Mark Pibl, head of credit
strategy at broker-dealer Cortview Capital Securities LLC, said
in a telephone interview. “A lot of it is merchandising; if you
walk into a Gap store today, you’re probably going to buy
something.”  Sales Rise  Revenue at the San Francisco-based company jumped 5.6
percent to $3.58 billion in the three months ended July 28 and
by 5.8 percent to $3.49 billion in the first quarter, aided by
merchandise from colored denim to jean shirts at the namesake
brand and “desk-to-dinner” wear at  Banana Republic . The sales
figures were a five-year high for each period.  Same-store sales, which tracks stores open more than a year
and online purchases, rose 4 percent in both quarters for the
best first half since 2003, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Gains in  North America  offset declines
internationally, helping Gap’s recovery from a 4 percent drop in
the year ended Jan. 28.  Investment-grade credit ratings are important to Gap as
they “give us more operating flexibility in terms of everything
we do with our  capital structure ,” Stacy Rollo, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in a telephone interview. “The
improvement in our operating performance has the greatest impact
on our credit profile, so that’s our goal in the business.”  BBB rated bonds yielded 3.7 percent yesterday, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. BB rated bonds had a yield of
5.65 percent.  Risk Profile  S&P’s BB+ rating on Gap is one grade lower than the Baa3
from Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- from  Fitch Ratings .
Questions from clients prompted S&P to publish a report last
week explaining its credit level.  The grade reflects the hazards of an intensely competitive
industry where it’s difficult to predict fashion trends, even
though the retailer’s financial risk profile is consistent with
an investment-grade rating using metrics such as  leverage ,
Helena Song, an analyst at S&P in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  S&P demoted Gap to junk in November 2006, after the
retailer reported its fifth-straight quarter of falling  profit 
amid declining sales at its  Old Navy  unit and a $513 million
debt load.  Gap’s Leverage  The company’s leverage, or ratio of total debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, was 2.4
times as of July 28, according to S&P’s Aug. 17 report. Gap had
$2.1 billion of  cash  and related items as of July 28, Bloomberg
data show.  S&P may upgrade Gap if the company maintains positive same-
store sales with improving margins, including in the fourth-
quarter holiday season, Song wrote in the report.  Credit-default swaps are showing that derivatives traders
aren’t waiting. Contracts on Gap, which traded 95 basis points
higher than those linked to Limited Brands on Jan. 20, have
plummeted 125 basis points since then to trade 53 basis points
below its Columbus, Ohio-based competitor, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. It costs an average 422 basis points to
insure the debt of retailers from  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  to  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)   The swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Bond Yields  Gap was among retailers squeezed by record cotton prices
last year that cut into profit. The company’s debt has rallied
as cotton costs declined, with its $1.25 billion of 5.95 percent
bonds due in April 2021 gaining 17.3 cents since Oct. 11 to 108
cents on the dollar yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Those bonds yielded 4.8 percent yesterday, Trace data show,
83 basis points less than the average 5.64 percent yield among
BB rated U.S. debentures maturing in seven to 10 years,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  While Gap’s stock is up 89 percent this year to $34.97
through yesterday, touching the highest since August 2000
earlier this month, derivatives traders waited for the second
quarter to see margins improve and to get a better read on
 consumer spending , said  James Lee , the senior high-yield analyst
at Bethesda, Maryland-based Calvert Investment Management Inc.
The firm manages about $13 billion. Shares rose for the first
day in five to $35.13 at 11:56 a.m. in New York.  Gross Margin  “Gap has done a very nice job of turning around their
operations,” Lee said in a telephone interview. “They’re
selling more at full-price, and the big fear that they couldn’t
contain their cotton input costs seems to be overcome.”  The company’s gross margin has improved to 39.7 percent in
the past two quarters from 38.2 percent a year earlier, as the
cost to make products declined and Gap was able to sell
merchandise at higher prices, according to an investor
 presentation  on Aug. 16. In the second-quarter, the rate rose
300 basis points, or 3 percentage points, to 39.9 percent, a
“dramatic improvement,” according to Lee.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy , who joined Gap in
2007, has spent most of his tenure growing international and
online sales and shrinking or closing stores at home. He began
reemphasizing North America last year, which most recently
generated 85 percent of the company’s $14.5 billion of annual
revenue.  Digital Marketing  Gap has boosted digital marketing efforts by partnering
with fashion blogs and has sponsored music  festivals  such as
Lollapalooza and Bonnaroo in the U.S. to appeal to Millennial
customers.  Last week, Gap said it hired U.S. designer Narciso Rodriguez as an adviser for Banana Republic. Earlier this year,
the company hired back J. Crew Group Inc. executive Tracy
Gardner for a similar creative advisory role at Gap and  Nike
Inc. (NKE) ’s Jill Stanton to work at Old Navy.  “A specialty apparel company like Gap is competing with
everybody, they’re competing with department stores, other
specialty apparels, discounters; it’s very competitive,”
according to S&P’s Song. “They really have to have on-trend
merchandise to attract and gain customer traffic.”  Gap  cut its total debt  to zero in 2009, returning to the
 bond market  last year for the first time since 2002 with its
$1.25 billion offering, Bloomberg data show. The debt has
returned 16.6 percent this year, almost twice the average gains
among high-yield retailers in 2012 through Aug. 22, according to
Barclays Plc index data. Investment-grade peers have returned
5.3 percent.  “A lot of times agencies take a while to catch up to the
realities of current credit metrics, and that seems to be what’s
going on in this case,”  James Goldstein , an analyst
CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“They have investment-grade credit metrics at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  