-- Gasoline Falls as Brent Weakens, Storm Concern Lessens
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-08-24T18:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/gasoline-falls-as-brent-weakens-storm-concern-lessens.html
Gasoline fell as  Brent crude 
weakened versus West Texas Intermediate oil and on skepticism
that Tropical Storm Isaac poses an immediate threat to Gulf
Coast refining.  Futures sank for the first time this week as Brent, which
influences the price of imported crude and gasoline, narrowed
its premium to WTI. Isaac was forecast to strengthen into a
hurricane and make landfall near the Florida-Alabama line early
Aug. 29, the National Hurricane Center said.  “People are not as worried about a hurricane going into
the weekend and Brent spreads have also narrowed a little,”
said Joe Posillico, senior vice president of energy derivatives
at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York .  September-delivery gasoline fell 4.45 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $3.0713 a gallon at 2:23 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Brent’s premium to WTI narrowed $1.17 to
$17.57 a barrel.  Futures also declined amid skepticism that European leaders
will make progress in talks to resolve the region’s debt crisis
that is curbing fuel demand. The euro fell 0.2 percent versus
the U.S. currency after the  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy
 government bonds  was said to be held up until Germany’s ruling
on Europe’s permanent bailout fund.  “The market is still concerned looking at Europe regarding
a resolution of the sovereign debt crisis,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. At the same
time, “the products are being supported by the storm track of
Isaac continuing to move to the west,” he said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  may wait until Germany’s
Constitutional Court rules on the legality of Europe’s permanent
bailout fund before unveiling full details of his plan to buy
government bonds, two central bank officials said.  Heating oil for September delivery fell 2.24 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.1106 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1.2
cents to $3.73 gallon yesterday, the biggest one-day increase
since Aug. 11, AAA data showed. Prices have climbed 40.4 cents,
or 12 percent, since July 1, according to data from the nation’s
largest motoring organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  