-- General Growth Shareholder Says It Won’t Pursue Takeover
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-08-24T20:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/general-growth-shareholder-says-it-won-t-pursue-takeover.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) ’s
largest shareholder said it won’t pursue a takeover of the
company and has no interest in unloading its stake after
investor  Bill Ackman  urged the mall owner to consider a sale.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM) , which owns about 40
percent of General Growth, “is not taking any steps to acquire
GGP,” the Toronto-based investor said in a statement late
yesterday. Ackman, founder of Pershing Square Capital Management
LP, the No. 2 shareholder, said he’s discussed an acquisition of
the Chicago-based company with  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , and
that Brookfield planned to pursue a purchase of its own.  Ackman’s discussions with Indianapolis-based Simon, the
only U.S. mall owner larger than General Growth, represent a
turnaround from two years ago, when Pershing Square said a
combination of the two retail landlords raised antitrust
concerns. General Growth left  bankruptcy protection  in November
2010 following a takeover battle between Simon and an investor
group that included Brookfield and  Pershing Square .  “We place a small possibility on a sale scenario,
especially in light of Brookfield’s response that it is not
exploring an acquisition of the whole company, nor is it
interested in selling its stake,” UBS AG analysts including
Ross Nussbaum wrote in a note today. “We see a much greater
likelihood that GGP remains as a standalone entity.”  The analysts lowered their  rating  on General Growth to
neutral from buy after a jump in the shares yesterday left the
stock near their target price of $21.  Share Drop  General Growth fell 2.8 percent to $19.76 at the close of
 New York  trading. The stock climbed 9.7 percent yesterday to
$20.32, a four-year high, after Ackman filed the letter with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission detailing his
discussions with Simon and Brookfield.  Pershing Square and  Simon Property  discussed a deal in
which Simon would acquire its competitor for 0.1765 of a Simon
share for each General Growth share, according to Ackman’s
letter. Were that ratio used with Simon’s Aug. 22 closing stock
price, General Growth would be valued at about $28 a share.  Simon has been “effectively handcuffed and gagged” from
pursuing a deal because of Brookfield’s influence over General
Growth, Ackman wrote in his letter to General Growth’s  board .
Brookfield increased its stake in the company after owning about
29 percent, including warrants, in its initial investment.  Level Field  “Our goals are to ensure that a level playing field exists
so that Simon, Brookfield and potentially other parties can
compete to acquire the company,” Ackman said in his letter.  Les Morris, a Simon Property spokesman, declined to comment
on Ackman’s letter. Ackman didn’t respond yesterday to a request
for comment.  General Growth’s board and management team “will carefully
review Pershing Square’s letter,” the company said in a
statement yesterday.  “Brookfield is not taking any steps to acquire GGP nor is
it having any discussions with third parties in that regard,”
the Toronto-based real estate investment company said in its
statement. “Brookfield has no interest in selling its stake in
GGP. We are 100 percent supportive of the current management
team of GGP.”  Not Continuing  Brookfield said in its statement that it considered “a
variety of possible transactions which would facilitate Pershing
Square’s desire to maximize the value of and create liquidity
for its interest in GGP,” Brookfield said. Those discussions
“are not continuing,” according to the statement.  Simon is unlikely to try to buy General Growth without
Brookfield’s cooperation, the UBS analysts wrote today. Simon
never officially made an offer to acquire its rival or
Pershing’s stake, they said, citing conversations with the
company.  Simon would be a logical buyer for General Growth partly
because of cost savings it could achieve by purchasing its
competitor, Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in
 London , said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Pershing met with  David Simon , chief executive officer of
Simon Property, last October to talk about the potential stock
deal, according to Ackman’s letter. Based on the share ratio
discussed, Simon would have paid a 65 percent premium over
General Growth’s closing share price the previous day.  Brookfield Meeting  In November, Pershing met with Brookfield officials
including CEO Bruce Flatt to discuss the proposed Simon deal,
according to Ackman’s letter. They indicated that Brookfield
didn’t support the transaction, and instead was interested in
buying General Growth itself, possibly in partnership with
Simon, Ackman wrote.  Brookfield in April proposed buying General Growth and
paying for the purchase with proceeds from the sale of 68 of the
company’s malls to Simon, according to the letter. Simon
rejected the proposal because it didn’t like the selection of
malls and believed “the price was too high,” Brookfield told
Pershing Square.  Brookfield then decided to try to acquire General Growth
without Simon, according to the Ackman’s letter. As part of the
proposed deal, Brookfield would consider selling 14 of General
Growth’s best malls to Simon or other buyers to raise money.  ‘Expressed Concern’  In July, Brookfield officials including Flatt met with
Pershing Square and said they needed more time to prepare a
purchase, including a series of securities sales and a purchase
of Pershing Square’s General Growth shares. Pershing Square
“expressed concern” about the proposed transactions, Ackman
said in yesterday’s letter.  “We also explained that Pershing Square was not interested
in selling GGP stock other than at a substantial premium,” he
wrote.  Ackman is “an activist investor,”  Guttenplan said.
“He’s looking for ways to maximize value.”  The hedge-fund manager may be using the letter “as a wedge
to get out of General Growth,” having made a large enough
profit in the investment and wanting to place the money
elsewhere, said  Rich Moore , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets 
in Solon,  Ohio .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  