-- German Yields Fall to 3-Week Low as ECB May Delay Bond Purchases
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-24T15:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/german-bunds-extend-weekly-advance-before-euro-crisis-meeting.html
German bunds gained, with 10-year
yields reaching a three-week low, as the  European Central Bank 
was said to wait until a court ruling before unveiling details
of a plan to buy bonds of the region’s most-indebted nations.  Italian and Spanish securities fell as two ECB officials
said the Frankfurt-based central bank may wait for a decision
from Germany’s Constitutional Court before purchasing the
nations’ debt.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , speaking after a
meeting with Greek president Antonis Samaras in Berlin, said no
single action will solve the crisis. German bunds pared gains
after Reuters reported the ECB is considering setting yield band
targets as part of its asset-purchase plan.  “We’re heading towards September with key issues in the
euro region coming to a head,” said  Padhraic Garvey , the head
of developed markets debt at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam,
referring to next month’s ECB meeting, the troika’s visit to
 Greece  and parliamentary elections in the Netherlands. “You
just need one of those issues to go bad and we’re back into
dangerous territory. My preference is to be long bunds.” A long
position is a bet an asset will rise.  Germany’s  10-year yields  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.36 percent at 4:46 p.m. London time,
after reaching 1.32 percent, the lowest since Aug. 3. The 1.75
percent bond due in July 2022 rose 0.17, or 1.70 euros per 1,000
euro ($1,254) face amount, to 103.575. The yield has dropped 14
basis points since Aug. 17, the biggest decline since the week
ended July 6.  Court Ruling  With the German court set to rule on Sept. 12, investors
looking for ECB President  Mario Draghi  to announce a definitive
purchase program at his Sept. 6 press conference might be
disappointed, according to the officials, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the deliberations are not public.  The program is still being worked on and staff may not be
able to finalize it by then, said the officials, who are
familiar with thinking on the ECB Governing Council. An ECB
spokesman in  Frankfurt  declined to comment.  Bunds also advanced as a German lawmaker said the country
can’t make more money available for Greece.  Volker Kauder , the
parliamentary caucus leader for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union , said neither the content nor the timeframe of the aid
program for the cash-strapped country can be re-negotiated.
Kauder was speaking on ZDF public television.  Setting a yield band target is an option gaining favor
among central bankers, but the decision would not be made before
the ECB’s next meeting, Reuters said, without identifying where
it got the information.  Pension Fund  Denmark’s biggest pension fund ATP is shifting more of its
investments over to longer-maturity bonds after short-term
yields in Denmark and Germany sank below zero, with the intense
focus on safety making it more difficult to generate returns.  ATP only holds  government bonds  from AAA rated Denmark and
Germany, Henrik Gade Jepsen, chief investment officer at the
Hilleroed-based fund, said in an interview.  Germany’s two-year note yield was little changed at minus
0.012 percent. Denmark’s two-year rate was at minus 0.213
percent.  A third of Dutch voters in the run-up to the Sept. 12
election back the Socialists, who oppose more spending cuts and
refuse to hand over more sovereignty to  Europe , or the  Freedom
Party , which seeks an exit from the European Union and the euro.  That will make it tough for caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s Liberals to find support from perhaps three or four
parties for a majority in parliament and keep cutting the
deficit.  Volatility on Italian government bonds was the highest in
euro-region markets today, followed by Germany and Spain,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian 10-year bond yields rose two basis points to 5.72
percent, with the rate on similar-maturity Spanish debt climbing
eight basis points to 6.42 percent.  German government debt returned 3.7 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Spanish securities fell 2.3 percent and Italian bonds earned 11
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  