-- German Stocks Rise as Merkel Meets Greek Prime Minister
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-08-24T16:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/german-stocks-decline-before-euro-area-leaders-meeting.html
German stocks  rose, rebounding from
earlier losses, as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said Greece must
stick to its commitments to stay in the euro area, and a news
report said the  European Central Bank  is considering setting
yield band targets.  Bayer AG jumped 1.3 percent. Linde advanced 1.2 percent as
the company was named among European chemical companies which
may look at mergers and acquisitions within the next year.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  slipped 2.2 percent, following a gauge of European
carmakers lower.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.3 percent to 6,971.07 at the close
of trade in Frankfurt, paring its weekly loss to 1 percent. The
measure has still rallied 17 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he
would do everything possible to preserve the euro. The broader
HDAX Index rose 0.2 percent today.  “We need clear decisions,” said  Robert Halver , head of
capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt. “There
is a possibility that Greece will leave the euro zone in
October. Preparations for a Greece exit, and a subsequent domino
effect are running. Markets need to know what the face of the
new euro zone and policy will be.”  Merkel said that Germany is ready to help the Greek
government as it takes the necessary steps to resolve its
economic woes, rebuffing European critics who advocate Greece’s
exit from the euro.  “I am deeply convinced that the new government under the
leadership of Prime Minister Samaras will do what it takes to
solve the problem in Greece,” Merkel said at a joint press
conference withSamaras in Berlin today. “I want Greece to stay
in the euro zone and that’s what I’m working for.”  The ECB is considering setting yield band targets under a
new bond-buying programme, Reuters reported, citing unnamed
central bank people.  Bayer, Germany’s largest drugmaker, jumped 1.3 percent to
61.46 euros.  Linde, the world’s second-biggest maker of industrial
gases, advanced 1.2 percent to 125.05 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
said the stock is one of a number of European chemical companies
that may look at mergers and acquisitions within the next six to
12 months for profit growth.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  climbed 1.1 percent to 57.14 euros as the
stock was highlighted as being among those with above average
potential for margin expansion in weak growth environment by
Exane BNP Paribas.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest car manufacturer, fell 2.2
percent to 142.60 euros. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , declined 1.3 percent to 60.05
euros. A gauge of carmakers posted the biggest drop of the 19
industry groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  