-- GM Doubling Credit Lines Would Help Ensure Cash Access
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/gm-said-to-have-initial-talks-with-banks-to-expand-credit.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , said to be
exploring as much as another $5 billion in short-term credit, is
seeking to secure low borrowing costs as it pours billions in 
cash into new products and pension obligations.  GM may seek $4 billion to $5 billion in additional
revolving credit from some of the lenders that provided its
current line of credit, said a person familiar with the
discussions who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. GM declined to comment in an Aug. 24 e-mail.  The move should lock in the Detroit-based automaker’s
ability to borrow at good rates and give it capacity similar to
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , which has $9.3 billion in revolving credit
facilities. GM has “substantial cash requirements going
forward,” including pension obligations and reinvesting in
operations, according to an Aug. 3 regulatory filing.  “Money is really cheap now,” Dennis Virag, president of
Automotive Consulting Group in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “They don’t need it today
but they do have obligations that they’re going to have to tap
their cash reserves for.”  Borrowing costs for high-yield, high-risk companies are at
the lowest level in more than 14 months. Yields declined
to 7.318 percent as of Aug. 24, down from this year's high of
8.465 percent on Jan. 3 and the lowest since June 1, 2011,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch  U.S. High Yield
Master II index . GM is rated Ba1 by Moody's Investors Service
and an equivalent BB+ at  Standard & Poor's , both the highest
levels of speculative grade.  New GM  GM had $32.6 billion in cash and marketable securities on
hand on June 30. It also has a $5 billion revolving credit line
that was set up in October 2010, according to the filing.  “While we do not believe that we will draw on the secured
revolving credit facility to fund operating activities, the
facility provides additional liquidity and financing
flexibility,” GM said in the filing.  The company was revamped in a government-backed bankruptcy
in 2009. GM in 2011 took back the title of the world’s top
seller of cars and light trucks from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson is trying to boost sales in the
U.S., where the automaker’s share slid to 18 percent through
July from 20 percent a year earlier. Akerson also wants to end
losses in  Europe  that have totaled $16.8 billion since 1999.  GM has already made efforts this year to reduce its pension
obligations. In June, the company announced it was offering
lump-sum payments to about 42,000 salaried retirees and shifting
plans to a Prudential Financial Inc. unit, eliminating about $26
billion in the automaker’s pension obligations.  The automaker ended last year with a $134 billion pension
obligation. Its global pension plans were underfunded by $25.4
billion at the end of 2011, up from $22.2 billion a year earlier,
according to federal filings.  Financing Business  Akerson is also looking at ways to improve GM’s customer
and dealer financing. GM in July made a bid for  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) ’s international operations, which, if successful, could
more than double the consolidated assets of GM Financial Co.,
the automaker’s lending arm. Ally used to be known as GMAC Inc.
and had been GM’s financial-services unit.  Ally, which in May said it was putting its ResCap mortgage
subsidiaries in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, is also seeking to divest
more than $30 billion of assets in  Canada ,  Mexico , Europe and
 Latin America .  “We’re interested in it, but we’re not going to bleed to
buy it,” Akerson said in May of Ally’s international operations.
“We’re the natural buyer.”  The negotiations about the new credit were reported Aug. 24
by the Wall Street Journal, which cited people with knowledge of
the discussions whom it didn’t identify. The newspaper also said
GM hadn’t made an official request to banks.  Also on Aug. 24, GM’s issuer-default rating was raised by
 Fitch Ratings  to BB+, the highest non-investment-grade level,
from BB.  The change reflects GM’s “continued positive free cash
flow generating capability” and “very low leverage,” Fitch
said in a statement.  GM slipped 0.7 percent Aug. 24 to $21.18 in  New York . The
automaker has slid 36 percent since its November 2010 initial
public offering. The U.S. still holds a  32 percent  stake in the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  