-- Golden Cross, Ichimoku Cloud Signal Japan Stock Rally
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-24T00:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/golden-cross-ichimoku-cloud-signal-japan-stock-rally.html
Japanese stocks may extend gains as
a cluster of technical indicators signal a continuing rebound in
the worst-performing equity market in the developed world this
quarter, according to Tachibana Securities Co.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  formed a “golden cross” on
Aug. 20 when its 25-day moving average rose above its 75-day
moving average, pointing to more gains, said  Kenichi Hirano , a
Tokyo-based strategist at Tachibana. The broader Topix Index
formed the pattern yesterday. Both gauges on Aug. 16 broke above
their Ichimoku clouds, an indicator of support, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Several indicators have surpassed key levels,” Hirano
said. “That signals the market has bottomed out and stocks are
now out to test their highs.”  The Nikkei 225 gained 1.9 percent this quarter through
yesterday. The gauge has returned less since June 29 than any
other developed market except Ireland, where the ISEQ Overall
Index advanced 0.5 percent for the period. The 1,672-member
Topix isn’t included among Bloomberg’s developed markets
benchmark indexes.  The last time the Nikkei 225 formed a  golden cross  right
after emerging from an Ichimoku cloud was in early February. The
benchmark gauge then surged 16 percent to its March 27 high.  The Nikkei 225’s completion this month of a so-called
double-bottom pattern may be another reason to expect a rally.
The benchmark on Aug. 17 surpassed a July 4 high that was
reached between lows on June 4 and July 25, tracing a W-shape
that suggests underlying support for stocks, according to
Naohiko Miyata, chief technical analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley. Technical analysts study price charts and trading
patterns to make forecasts.  More Volume  Still, without more trading  volume  it’s not certain that
the chart patterns are reliable signals, Tachibana’s Hirano
said. The average number of shares changing hands on the Topix
each day this month has been about 12 percent below the 12-month
average. Volume fell to the lowest this year on Aug 13.  “With thin trading, it’s easy for the market to break its
form,” Hirano said. “Fewer participants mean things can be
rocky.”  Ichimoku analysis, developed by a Japanese journalist in
the 1940s, attempts to predict a market’s direction by analyzing
the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The  conversion line 
plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low during the past
nine trading days, while the baseline is the same calculation
covering the most recent 26 days.  Ichimoku Cloud  The so-called Ichimoku cloud is the region between one line
based on the mean of the conversion and base lines and another
that takes the average of the highest high and the lowest low
from another preset period.  Both the Nikkei 225 and the Topix Index have broken above
their clouds, and their conversion lines have passed upward
through their base lines. Another line based on closing prices
projected 26 days in the past is also showing a bullish trend,
said Yutaka Miura, a senior technical analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co.  The combination of these “is the most bullish signal in
Ichimoku chart analysis,” Miura said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in 東京 at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  