-- Google Says 10 People, Groups It Paid Commented on Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-24T22:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/google-says-10-people-groups-it-paid-commented-on-suit.html
(Corrects identification to “spokesman” in third
paragraph.)  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said at least 10
individuals and groups receiving company money, including Google
attorney William Patry and the Electronic Frontier Foundation,
wrote commentaries about  Oracle (ORCL)  Corp.’s copyright lawsuit over
Android software.  Google said in a filing in federal court today that it
didn’t pay anyone to write or comment about the case. The filing
was in response to an order from the judge who presided over the
Oracle trial and who said public commentary that purports to be
independent can influence courts “in subtle ways” and writers’
financial ties to the companies should be disclosed.  “Our reply to the court is clear; no one on our side paid
journalists, bloggers, or other commentators to write about this
case,” Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the filing.  A jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed Android software
for mobile devices. The jury deadlocked on whether the copying
was “fair use.”  The deadlock denied Redwood city, California-based Oracle
the ability to seek as much as $1 billion in damages from
Google. The jury found May 23 that Google didn’t infringe two
Oracle patents.  Oracle hired one writer, Florian Mueller, author of the
FOSS Patents blog, as a consultant, not to blog about the case,
Oracle said in an Aug. 17 filing. Mueller, who disclosed the
relationship in April, has written extensively on the lawsuit.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  