-- Greenpeace Climbs Gazprom Arctic Rig to Protest Drilling
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-08-24T16:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/greenpeace-occupies-gazprom-arctic-oil-rig-to-protest-drilling.html
Greenpeace activists scaled OAO
Gazprom’s Prirazlomnaya platform in the Arctic to protest
drilling plans on  Russia ’s first major oil project in the ocean.  Six ecologists, including the environmental organization’s
executive director Kumi Naidoo, approached the rig in inflatable
speedboats and occupied it early this morning, Greenpeace said
in an e-mailed statement. They ended their protest 15 hours
later, the group said in a subsequent release.  Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company by market value, in May
forecast it would start production at the Prirazlomnoye field in
the fourth quarter. The $7 billion project in the Arctic’s
 Barents Sea  has been delayed by about five years by  technical
issues  and underfunding. The deposit is expected to yield as
much as 6.5 million metric tons of crude annually, helping
President  Vladimir Putin ’s plan to maintain Russia’s oil output.  Gazprom Neft Shelf, the Gazprom subsidiary that holds the
license for the field, said the Greenpeace activists were
invited to come onboard for a “ constructive dialog.” They
declined the offer, Gazprom Neft Shelf said in an e-mailed
comment.  Work at the platform continues as planned, it said.  Targeted Vessels  Greenpeace, along with other environmental organizations,
has opposed drilling plans in the Arctic. The ecologists have
targeted vessels operated by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Cairn
Energy Plc (CNE) , which explore for oil and gas in the polar ocean
that’s partly covered by sea ice.  The environmentalists claim the Gazprom platform is
operating without an official oil spill response plan. The
company’s response plan was approved in July 2007 for five
years, Greenpeace said.  “The company would be completely unprepared to deal with
an accident in the Far North, and would rely on substandard
clean-up methods -- such as shovels and buckets -- that simply
do not work in icy conditions,” Greenpeace said.  Gazprom Neft Shelf said it has special vessels and boats
for oil collection, marine and coastal booms, sorbents, remotely
operated skimmers and other means for prevention and oil spill
response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin and Anna Shiryaevskaya in London at 
   egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  