-- Lilly Treatment Slows Alzheimer’s Course in Some Patients
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-24T20:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/lilly-alzheimer-s-drug-slows-course-of-disease-in-some-patients.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said its
experimental Alzheimer’s treatment slowed the decline of
cognition in some patients while failing to meet the primary
goals of two large trials. The shares rose.  Lilly’s drug, solanezumab, delayed the worsening of mental
loss in a sub-analysis of patients in the earliest stage of the
disease, the Indianapolis-based company wrote in a  statement 
today. The medicine didn’t restore thinking, memory or daily
activities in any of the groups studied.  The mixed finding wasn’t expected by analysts, who had
given the drug a less than 20 percent chance of showing any
benefit. Still, doctors and investors said more study is needed
to confirm the positive outcome. Earlier this month, a similar-acting medicine from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed to
help any group of Alzheimer’s patients in any way.  “People expected nothing, and instead we have some hints
of efficacy,” said Mike Krensavage, founder of New York-based
Krensavage Asset Management who owns shares of Lilly. “The
right thing now is probably to do another trial.”  Lilly rose 3.4 percent to $43.86 at the close in New York
trading, the most in eight months. It has risen 21 percent in
the past 12 months.  The stock is being driven up by “the possibilities now
left open,” for the drug and the low expectations investors had
before today,  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C Bernstein
& Co., wrote in a note to clients.  Combined Results  It’s unclear whether the findings will be enough to get
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval since the drug didn’t
meet its primary goal in either study. A benefit was only seen
when the two trial results were combined and the company did an
analysis looking just at patients with the mild and mild-to-moderate stage of the disease.  “All these results ultimately will mean is that they have
to do another study,” said David Knopman, a neurologist at the
 Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota  and head of the trials’ data
safety monitoring board. “For patients and families, I don’t
think this can be anything but mostly disappointing.”  Lilly said it hasn’t determined yet what steps it will take
and is in discussions with U.S. regulators. An outside group of
Alzheimer’s researchers will do their own analysis of the
findings and the full data will be presented at two medical
meetings in October, Lilly said.  No Home Run  “We wish we could have hit the primary endpoint, that
would have been the absolute home run for this,” said Anthony Ware, Lilly’s vice president of biomedicines product
development, in a telephone interview. “But once we saw the
pooled statistical analysis and realized that this was the first
agent ever to show a slowing in the cognitive decline in this
group of patients, then we were excited by that.”  Even as the shares rose, some analysts cautioned against
buying Lilly on the expectation the drug will get to market.  “Their studies may continue, but today’s data only
reinforces that you should not own Lilly as an Alzheimer’s
play,” said  Jon Fisher , a  fund manager  in the Minneapolis
office of Fifth Third Asset Management, which manages $17.8
billion, in an e-mail.  “I had always viewed the Alzheimer’s efforts from Lilly
and Pfizer as long shots,” Fisher wrote. “After seeing Pfizer
discontinue its efforts, I think more of the market moved in
this direction with Lilly too.”  Disease Cause  Despite billions of dollars spent and years of research,
the only drugs now on the market only treat symptoms of the
disease rather than the underlying cause. None slow its
progression. There are 5.4 million Americans with Alzheimer’s
and that number is expected to surge as the population ages.  The only other therapy in final-stage testing is  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX) ’s Gammagard. The product is an expensive,
scarce treatment derived from donated blood plasma that replaces
antibodies in people whose immune systems can’t protect them
from infection. Results on whether it could slow or stop
Alzheimer’s may be available next year.  “I can predict two possible futures here” on the Lilly
finding, said Bill Thies, chief medical and scientific officer
for the Chicago-based  Alzheimer’s Association . “We can’t
replicate it and it becomes a historical anomaly, or we look
back 20 years from now and say this is the day we moved toward
managing  Alzheimer’s disease . It would be nice to know the
difference but, to be frank, we just don’t know yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net  