-- Lilly Wins Appeal Upholding Patent for Alimta Cancer Drug
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-24T17:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/lilly-wins-appeal-upholding-patent-for-alimta-cancer-drug-1-.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  won a U.S. appeals
court ruling that upholds the validity of a patent for the lung-
cancer drug Alimta and blocks generic competition through 2017.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit today
rejected arguments by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  that
the patent was invalid. It affirmed a lower court ruling. The
 decision  was posted on the court’s website.  Alimta, whose chemical name is pemetrexed, generated $2.5
billion in sales last year for Indianapolis-based Lilly, making
it the company’s third biggest-selling drug. Alimta is designed
to hamper cancer cells’ ability to use folic acid to grow after
an initial treatment with other drugs.  Teva, based in  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , had argued that Lilly
had patented a compound that wasn’t much different from what was
covered by two earlier patents. The three-judge panel said the
lower court was correct to rule that the 2017 patent is distinct
from the earlier inventions.  “By affirming the district court ruling, we believe that
the court fairly applied long-standing patent law principles,”
Lilly General Counsel Robert Armitage said in a statement.
“Protection of intellectual property rights is extremely
important to the biopharmaceutical industry and the physicians
and patients we serve, as these rights help support the
development of the next generation of innovative medicines to
treat unmet medical needs.”  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, said the company
had no comment.  The case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Teva Parental Medicines
Inc., 2011-1561,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Teva
Parenteral Medicines Inc., 08CV335, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net 
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  