-- Indian Bonds Advance in Week on Speculation RBI Will Ease Policy
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-24T11:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/indian-bonds-advance-in-week-on-speculation-rbi-will-ease-policy.html
India ’s government bonds completed a
weekly gain on speculation slowing economic  growth  will prompt
the central bank to ease monetary policy.  The nation needs to revive investment in public works to
help counter the weakest expansion in nine years, the  Reserve
Bank  of India said in its annual report released yesterday.
Gross domestic product may rise 6.7 percent in the year that
began April 1, less than the 7.6 percent gain forecast in
February, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s economic panel said in
a report last week.  “The RBI’s reference to its concern about growth is
positive for bonds,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, a Mumbai-based
executive vice president of treasury at Dhanalaxmi Bank. “You
can expect some monetary easing sometime in the future.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, this week to 8.21
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate dropped two basis points today.  Lenders should follow  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
largest bank that cut interest rates this month, in lowering
borrowing costs to help revive investment, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said on Aug. 18.  The central bank last cut its benchmark repurchase  rate  by
50 basis points to 8 percent in April. It refrained from
reducing the rate at a policy review on July 31.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed this week at 7.81 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate fell one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  