-- Indian Stocks Drop Most in Month as RBI Fans Deficit Conc
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-08-24T11:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/indian-stocks-decline-as-reserve-bank-fans-deficit-concer.html
Indian stocks declined, paring an
weekly gain, and the rupee ended a four-day rally on concern the
government may miss its budget deficit target.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 0.4 percent
to 17,783.21 at the close. The gauge still gained for a fourth
straight week.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the largest
refinery complex, slid to a two-week low.  ICICI Bank Ltd (ICICIBC) , the
third-biggest lender by value, slid for a second day this week.  India’s government may miss its budget-deficit target as
higher spending on fuel subsidies and a weak economic expansion
could lead to a tax shortfall, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in
a report yesterday. Forecasters from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  cut their growth predictions for India this month
while raising inflation estimates and scaling back expectations
for interest-rate reductions by the  central bank .  “Focusing on reducing the fiscal deficit is one of the key
things the government needs to do,” Sampath Reddy, chief
investment officer at Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co., said in
an interview on Bloomberg TV India. “Our  interest rates  are one
of the highest globally. We are probably the only country where
rates are higher than what they were in the pre and post Lehman
crisis.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram today expressed
concerns over the rising deficit at a meeting of the ruling
coalition, Bloomberg TV India reported, citing people it did not
identify. The gap may reach 6 percent of GDP if subsidies are
not capped, he said. That’s higher than the government’s target
to pare the  deficit  to 5.1 percent this year from 5.8 percent in
2011-12 by keeping fuel and fertilizer subsidies at less than 2
percent of GDP.  Growth Outlook  The RBI left borrowing costs unchanged at 8 percent last
month to tackle inflation risks as the rupee dropped and the
impact of deficient rainfall on crops threaten to stoke prices.
While headline inflation eased to a 32-month low last month, it
is the fastest among the biggest emerging markets. The economy
may grow 6.5 percent in 2012-2013, matching the slowest pace in
nine years, the central bank forecast last month.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is struggling to revive his
economic reform agenda as infighting in the ruling coalition and
allegation of graft paralyze policy making. Both houses of
parliament were adjourned for a fourth day today after protests
by groups led by the  Bharatiya Janata Party . The BJP, the main
opposition party, has demanded that Singh resign after a report
by the chief auditor last week said the government may have lost
$33 billion by not auctioning coal blocks.  ‘No Loss’  “This presumptive loss is so flawed,” Chidambaram told
reporters in  New Delhi  today. No coal has been mined so far in
56 of the 57 blocks examined by the auditor, he said. “If the
coal is not mined, where is the loss.”  The Prime Minister is willing to give a statement on the
auditor’s report on Aug. 27 if the BJP allows the parliament to
function, Chidambaram said.  “The government will find it hard to push important bills
given the opposition onslaught in and outside parliament,” Amar Ambani, head of research at  IIFL Ltd. (IIFL) , said in an e-mail. “This
is not good news as the rally was driven by optimism of material
progress on reforms. Foreign inflows may taper off if the
government fails to take decisive action.”  The Sensex has increased 15 percent this year, helped by
the biggest overseas equity  investments  among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Foreign funds bought a net $72 million of
stocks yesterday, the 18th straight day of purchases, taking
their investments in equities this year to $11.6 billion, data
from the regulator show.  Rupee Weakens  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 55.495 per dollar at the
close, paring the week’s gain to 0.5 percent. The currency has
lost 4.4 percent this year.  Reliance declined 1.6 percent to 782.1 rupees, the lowest
price since Aug. 10. ICICI Bank lost 2 percent to 954.35 rupees.
 Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  slid 1.3 percent to 2,444.8 rupees.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the world’s biggest producer of
tractors by volume, fell 1.2 percent to 761.95 rupees after it
reduced its forecast for sales growth of the  farm equipment  in
India as the worst rains in three years delays sowing. Industry
sales may expand as little as 2 percent in the year to March,
Pawan Goenka, president of the automotive and farm equipment
division, said by e-mail yesterday. He had earlier estimated
sales to increase as much as 10 percent.  The Sensex trades at 14 times estimated earnings, compared
with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s valuation of 10.4 times.  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index, rose 0.3 percent to 16.16.
The Nifty fell 0.5 percent to 5,386.70 and its August futures
settled at 5,402.7. The BSE-200 Index declined 0.4 percent. The
top two bourses traded 793 million shares on Aug. 23, 12 percent
less than the 12-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  