-- India Nippon Said to Expand Capacity After Winning Honda Order
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-24T06:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/india-nippon-said-to-expand-capacity-after-winning-honda-order.html
India Nippon Electricals Ltd. (INE) , a
two-wheeler components maker, plans to expand capacity and build
a factory after winning an order from the local unit of Honda
Motor Co., a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The company, 20 percent owned by Japan’s  Kokusan Denki Co. (6992) ,
will spend 400 million rupees ($7.2 million), including 150
million rupees on the plant scheduled to start production of
motorcycle alternators by the end of March, the person said,
asking not to be identified before a public announcement.  The vendor to  TVS Motor Co. (TVSL)  will also boost capacity at its
facilities located in the states of Haryana,  Tamil Nadu  and in
the union territory of Puduchery to meet demand in the South
Asian country. The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers ,
an industry body, expects two-wheeler sales in the country to
rise as much as 13 percent in the year ending March 31, after
climbing 14 percent in the previous 12 months.  Shares of the company rose 2.6 percent to 180.50 rupees as
of 11:39 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock has risen 20 percent this
year, compared with a 15 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India Nippon, based in the southern city of Chennai, offers
ignition system solutions and makes parts including regulators,
rectifiers, flywheel magneto and coils used in two- and three-
wheelers.  The component maker will start supplying 4,000 alternators
a day to Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. from the new
factory, the person said. A spokeswoman at Honda’s local unit
declined to comment on the order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  