-- Insider Attacks Are Symptoms of Larger Afghan Challenges
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-24T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/insider-attacks-are-symptoms-of-larger-afghan-challenges.html
The commander of allied forces in
 Afghanistan  said the war effort there is succeeding as Afghan
forces assume more responsibility for their nation’s security
and bear a greater burden of losses to the Taliban.  Insurgent attacks “are increasingly localized, affecting
an ever-shrinking proportion of the Afghan population,” U.S.
Marine General John Allen told reporters yesterday by satellite
from Kabul. He praised expanded, better-trained Afghan security
forces, notwithstanding so-called green-on-blue attacks by
Afghans against their U.S. and coalition partners.  While Allen and top administration officials herald
progress in Afghanistan, other U.S. and NATO officials say the
insider attacks on coalition forces are symptomatic of deeper
challenges the U.S. and its allies face in their effort to
withdraw almost all allied combat forces and turn over security
to the Afghans by the end of 2014.  “A lot of the prognosis and analysis has been turning
around, ‘Can we or can’t we make the transition in 2014?’”
 Stephen Biddle , a professor at George  Washington  University in
Washington, said in an interview. That question, he said, is
“ultimately short-sighted” because the more important issue is
“how we get from 2014 to the end of the war.”  Biddle said a central problem of the Obama administration’s
Afghan policy has been its focus on handing responsibility to
Afghan security forces without paying equal attention to weak
governance, official corruption and rivalries among ethnic
groups and factions.  ‘Glide Path’  When President  Barack Obama  announced plans in December
2009 for a troop surge to be followed by a gradual drawdown
starting two years later, the idea was to put the war “on a
glide path to success in a relatively short time, knock the
stuffing out of the insurgency,” and hand off an easier task to
Afghan forces, said Biddle, who helped assess conditions in
Afghanistan in 2009 for then-U.S. Army General Stanley McChrystal when he led U.S. and NATO forces there.  Instead, the insurgents dug in, announcing that they’d wait
out the U.S. withdrawal, and attempts to facilitate peace talks
between the Afghan government and the Taliban have faltered.
U.S. allies have begun pulling out -- troops from  Canada  and the
Netherlands have left, and forces from  France  and  New Zealand 
are due to withdraw next.  Although the  U.S. economy  remains the dominant political
issue in the 2012 presidential campaign, creating the impression
that the war is reaching a successful conclusion has assumed
greater importance in the White House as the November election
draws near, said two U.S. officials involved in Afghan policy.
They spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to speak to the media.  Temporary Surge  U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan have reached 2,091,
according to Defense Department figures. About 70 percent of
those casualties have occurred since Obama took office in 2009
and temporarily deployed an additional 33,000 troops seeking to
squelch the insurgency.  The increase in attacks against North Atlantic Treaty
Organization forces by Afghan military, police or civilians has
raised concerns about the U.S. and allies’ willingness to keep
training Afghans and funding the war. There have been 40
coalition deaths from insider attacks so far this year, compared
with 35 in all of 2011, according to the  International Security
Assistance Force  in Kabul.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  has blamed the insider
attacks on efforts by neighboring  Pakistan  and  Iran  to undermine
the U.S. and NATO’s partnership with Afghanistan. Allen said
from Kabul that the attacks won’t derail the U.S. strategy or
scare the U.S. into abandoning cooperation with Afghan forces.  ‘Transition Plan’  Obama this week defended the training initiatives, saying
that the U.S. military is stepping up counterintelligence,
screening of Afghan trainees and U.S. force protection.  “In the long term,” Obama said, “we will see fewer U.S.
casualties and coalition casualties by sticking to our
transition plan and making sure that we’ve got the most
effective Afghan security forces possible” after 2014.  Two U.S. intelligence officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity said they think the spate of insider attacks reflects
infiltration of Afghan forces by insurgents and support for the
Taliban, as well as cultural clashes with U.S. soldiers and
resentment of the almost 11-year American presence in
Afghanistan.  The hostility, according to the two officials, as well as a
State Department official who served in Afghanistan and also
spoke on condition of anonymity, is rooted in frustration over
perceived American support for what many Afghans consider an
ineffective and corrupt Karzai government, raids that have
killed innocent civilians, and U.S. military convoys and bases
that are frequent reminders of foreign presence on Afghan soil.  Foreign Presence  The new U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, James Cunningham,
disputed that notion during a press briefing in Kabul last week,
saying: “I haven’t seen any wave of Afghans questioning
American motives or intentions in Afghanistan.”  Another Obama administration official in Washington who
served in Afghanistan also rejected the idea that insider
killings reflect wider anti-Americanism. Afghans want Americans
to leave their country not because they hate the U.S., but
because they want to be a sovereign nation, said the official,
who was not authorized to speak publicly.  Cultural misunderstandings between foreign troops and
locals don’t help, said the official, adding that some minority
groups want the U.S. to stay as a guarantor of their rights.  Positive View  Said Jawad, a former Afghan ambassador to the U.S. under
Karzai, cited polls showing Afghans have more positive views of
Americans than citizens of other Muslim nations do.  Jawad said that a Loya Jirga council representing a cross-
section of Afghan society voted by secret ballot for a strategic
partnership agreement allowing a continued U.S. military
presence after combat troops leave in 2014. The agreement was
swiftly approved by the Afghan parliament, an impossibility “if
there were real anti-U.S. sentiment,” Jawad said.  Corruption may be more at the root of problem, weakening
the ability of Karzai’s government to deliver services and
undermining Afghans’ trust of the U.S.-backed government,
according to some analysts.  Graft also threatens military bases and resources after
their transfer to Afghan control. In some cases, Afghan officers
skim resources for local warlords, undermining morale among
rank-and-file Afghan soldiers, Biddle said.  If corruption worsens, “it will make success impossible,”
Biddle said. The last several commanders of coalition forces, he
said, “put their priority on security and not on good
governance,” which is essential to long-term stability.  ‘Civilian Surge’  Kenneth Katzman , an Afghanistan specialist at the
 Congressional Research Service , said the U.S. “could
conceivably be working on the corruption issue for the next 10
years and it could still be a problem.” Ethnic rivalries fan
incentives for graft, he said, with various factions stockpiling
resources and weapons for a possible future power struggle.  U.S. officials acknowledge that corruption is a challenge
to their efforts, though they say critics ignore the progress
that’s been made.  A so-called civilian surge by the Obama administration
brought specialists from U.S. agencies to help the Afghan
government in an array of tasks, including probing corruption
and training prosecutors and judges to punish the guilty, said
another U.S. official involved in Afghan policy who also spoke
on condition of anonymity.  The official said the U.S. was encouraged that Karzai
recently announced a long list of domestic priorities, including
anti-corruption measures and electoral reform.  Peace Hurdles  A greater challenge for the U.S. may be the stalled effort
to promote reconciliation among the government and insurgent
groups, including the Taliban.  Cunningham, in his Senate confirmation hearing last month
in Washington, testified that for the first time in a decade,
the Taliban “are debating and signaling an openness to
negotiations.”  Still, efforts at peacemaking have been marred by the
assassinations of senior Afghan officials by killers posing as
peace envoys. Efforts to create a channel for talks with the
Taliban through an office in  Qatar  failed in March, when the
insurgents broke off negotiations over what they called an
“erratic” U.S. stance toward a possible prisoner exchange.  Two U.S. diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity said
the Taliban is not a monolithic movement, and it’s hard to know
who among the leadership may be open to reconciliation.  ‘Escape Route’  Another administration official said that while the
reconciliation process is not dead, it has been put on hold. The
U.S. has been clear about what the Taliban must accept to join
talks -- including renouncing ties to al-Qaeda, disarming, and
abiding by the Afghan constitution -- and is ready to resume
discussions under those terms, the official said.  The Obama administration fundamentally understands that
“the escape route” in Afghanistan is a negotiated settlement
to end the conflict that creates a level of power-sharing and
gives former insurgents a voice in government, Biddle said.  The dilemma is that by reducing the U.S. force presence
gradually through 2014, “you lose your bargaining leverage with
the Taliban,” he said.  An administration official who wasn’t authorized to be
named said that, in any scenario, the U.S. has limited resources
and strategic interests and would have to leave eventually. By
signaling the planned drawdown, the U.S. spurred a sense of
urgency in the Afghan government to build its own forces and
capacity, the official said.  Opposite Effect  Other officials, though, say that signal had the opposite
effect, telling the Taliban and neighboring states that American
patience is limited and encouraging them to concentrate on
battling for power after the U.S. departs.  The administration has sought to underscore a long-term
commitment, with Obama flying to Afghanistan to sign a 10-year
strategic partnership and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
going to Kabul to declare Afghanistan a major, non-NATO ally.  Andrew Exum, a former U.S. military officer who briefly
advised McChrystal and former U.S. Army General David Petraeus,
now the CIA director, when they were the top allied commanders
in Afghanistan, said he thinks Afghans, including the Taliban,
now understand that the U.S. isn’t rushing for the exits.  “It’s reasonable to expect that the U.S. and NATO are
going to continue to support Afghans in intelligence, supply
chains, close air support, Medevac, some degree of logistical
support” -- areas of weakness for Afghan forces, said Exum, a
fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington.  Exum said criticism of Afghan security forces is also
largely misplaced. For starters, NATO training has dramatically
improved since 2009, he said.  Are Afghan forces “going to be equivalent to a NATO ally
or the Lebanese or Iraqi military?” he said. “Probably not,
but they don’t need to be. They just need to be slightly better
than the Taliban.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  