-- Japan Boosts Security of Outlying Islands Amid Regional Disputes
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-08-24T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/japan-south-korea-spat-threatens-to-scotch-bond-purchase-plan.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the government will increase security around its
outlying islands amid maritime territorial disputes with China
and  South Korea .  “It is important to explain to our people how we are
protecting our territory and our waters,” Noda said at a press
conference today in  Tokyo . He urged parliament’s upper house to
pass a law allowing the Coast Guard to make arrests on land.  Noda called South Korea’s occupation of a set of rocky
islets “illegal.” He said the government would do all it can
to prevent a recurrence of last week’s landing by Chinese
activists on islands in the  East China Sea  controlled by Japan
and claimed by both countries.  The disputes have damaged ties between three of Asia’s four
biggest economies at a time when the region’s leaders have
stressed coordinated action to counter the  European debt crisis .
The three countries reached a bond purchase deal in May that may
be in jeopardy after Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today Japan
may not buy South Korean bonds.  The comments came a day after the two countries played a
game of diplomatic ping pong over a letter Noda wrote to South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak . A South Korean official tried
yesterday to return the letter protesting Lee’s Aug. 10 visit to
the islets known as Takeshima in Japanese and Dokdo in Korean,
only to be denied entry to the foreign ministry in Tokyo. The
letter was mailed to the ministry and accepted today.  Noda’s letter was returned because it referred to the
islets by the Japanese name, South Korean foreign ministry
spokesman Cho Tai Young told reporters yesterday in Seoul.
Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba , who called the action
“diplomatically inconceivable” yesterday, said today the
letter had arrived and that the government won’t send it back.  Competing Denunciations  Japan’s parliament passed a resolution today denouncing
South Korea’s actions, while South Korea’s foreign ministry
released a statement “strongly demanding Japan not to repeat
its wrongful claims on our sovereignty.”  The islets are 87 kilometers (54 miles) east of the closest
South Korean territory and 158 kilometers from the nearest
Japanese land. Sovereignty over the area means control of
fishing grounds and natural gas reserves, and South Korea has
bolstered its claims by stationing coast guard personnel there
year-round.  Noda’s letter proposed taking the dispute to the United
Nations International Court of Justice, which South Korea has
rejected. It also objected to Lee’s comments saying Emperor
Akihito should apologize for Japanese aggression during the
first half of the 20th century, when it occupied the Korean
peninsula and much of  China , before making any visit to South
Korea.  The Japan-China dispute escalated after a group from  Hong
Kong  was arrested and deported last week for landing on islands
known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Japanese
activists landed there days later, sparking protests in Hong
Kong and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  