-- John Taylor Says Gold Standard Not Best Way to Stability
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H a y s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-24T22:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/john-taylor-says-gold-standard-not-best-way-to-stability.html
Stanford University Professor  John Taylor , a supporter of Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, said that a return to the gold standard isn’t the best
way to increase economic stability in the U.S.  “There are better ways to do that, to get to those more
rule-like policies,” Taylor said today in a Bloomberg radio
interview on “The Hays Advantage” with Kathleen Hays and
Vonnie Quinn. Pegging the dollar to “a broad  price index ”
would be preferable because it would be “more robust.”  Taylor, who is among a group of 576 economists who endorsed
Romney, created a rule for guiding monetary policy and served as
a Treasury undersecretary in Republican President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Republican drafters of their party’s 2012 platform included
a plank this week to create a commission to “consider the
feasibility” of returning the  dollar  to the gold standard. They
proposed “to set a fixed value” for the currency after two
days of deliberations in Tampa before the  Republican National
Convention  begins there on Aug. 27.  Asked if he would accept a nomination as Federal Reserve
Chairman by Romney, who said yesterday that he wouldn’t appoint
 Ben S. Bernanke  to a third term, Taylor said that the question
was “completely hypothetical” and that he is enjoying his
research and advising the former Massachusetts governor.  ‘Enjoying Tremendously’  “I’m enjoying tremendously what I’m doing right now,”
Taylor said in the Bloomberg interview. “I’m having such a good
time in civil society, as they say, in doing my research and
commenting on what’s going on.”  Romney, asked yesterday in an interview on Fox Business
Network who should replace Bernanke, said two of his top
economic advisers,  Glenn Hubbard  of  Columbia University  and Greg Mankiw of  Harvard University , are “excellent” aides. Romney
said he hasn’t considered a “single person” to replace the Fed
chief, whose second term ends in January 2014.  Taylor, Hubbard, Mankiw and  Kevin Hassett , a director of
economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington, backed Romney’s economic program in  a paper  this
year that said President Barack Obama’s policies are causing the
“economy’s awful performance.”  Romney’s plan to cut federal spending, reduce regulation,
overhaul the tax code and reinforce entitlement programs “will
completely change the direction of economic policy,” they
wrote.  Fed officials should refrain from a third round of
large-scale bond purchases known as quantitative easing, Taylor
said in today’s interview.  “That’s created way too much uncertainty, the speculation
about whether they will occur or not,” Taylor said. The benefits
from the first two rounds “have been as far as I can see and
estimate quite minimal,” he said.  “They should try to get away from these things and go back
to the kind of policy that I think worked very well in much of
the ’80s and ’90s,” the Stanford professor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  