-- Kapsch Falls as South Africa Lawsuit Halts Start of Toll
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-08-24T16:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/kapsch-falls-as-south-africa-lawsuit-halts-start-of-toll.html
Kapsch TrafficCom AG (KTCG)  headed for an
almost 11-month low in Vienna trading after the Austrian maker
of road-toll systems reported a first-quarter loss because of a
slow start to U.S. sales and a project delay in South Africa.  Kapsch  fell  as much as 7.2 percent to 48.90 euros and
closed down 7.1 percent at 48.98 euros, the lowest level based
on closing prices since Oct. 6. The stock has dropped 16.3
percent this year, with a decline of 9.6 percent Aug. 20
prompted by Deutsche Bank AG recommending that investors not buy
the shares.  The net loss was 5.9 million euros ($7.4 million) in the
quarter ended June 30 compared with net income of 11.1 million
euros a year earlier, Vienna-based Kapsch said in an earnings
report. Revenue dropped 21 percent to 106.4 million euros.  The start of a road-toll system in  South Africa ’s Gauteng
province was postponed indefinitely in April because of a
lawsuit, eliminating expected revenue, Kapsch said. In the U.S.,
the sale of E-Z Pass on-board toll-calculating units started
slowly in the quarter because of contract negotiations, the
company said. In  Poland , costs were higher than expected.  Kapsch has expanded into 30  countries  including the U.S.,
where it supplies technology to 22 million drivers using E-Z
Pass Group passes on toll roads. The technology provider said
today that it expects a road-toll system in Belarus to begin
operations later this year.  The company is a listed unit of Austria’s 120-year-old
Kapsch Group, which supplies location-based services to
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and 3M Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  