-- KKR Said to Consider Investing in Africa, Following Carlyle
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-08-24T09:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/kkr-said-to-consider-investing-in-africa-following-carlyle.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private equity firm
started by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is hiring a
dealmaker to look for investments in Africa as it tries to tap
the region’s growth, said two people with knowledge of the plan.  KKR’s team in Europe, run by  Johannes Huth , plans to add
the executive in London after reviewing the region’s potential,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are at an early stage. The New York-based firm would use
its existing funds to finance investments in Africa and isn’t
planning to raise a dedicated pool for the region at this point,
one of the people said.  KKR follows Carlyle Group LP in turning to Africa as global
buyout firms seek to diversify away from western economies to
achieve higher returns. A so-called frontier market because it
is perceived as riskier than more mature emerging economies such
as  China  or  Brazil , Africa is appealing to investors partly
because of its steady economic growth over the past five years,
its 1 billion inhabitants and growing middle class.  “That Carlyle or KKR are looking at Africa is a good sign,
because it shows that investors’ appetite is growing,” said Mark Richards, Head of Financial Services at London-based Actis LLP,
which has about $1 billion allocated for the region. “African
private equity is going to deepen, the market is going to grow,
and not everyone is going to succeed.”  Carlyle, the world’s second largest private-equity  fund
manager , is seeking about $500 million for its first fund
targeting sub-Saharan Africa, two people with knowledge of the
plans said last year. The buyout firm opened offices in  South
Africa  and  Nigeria .  Bob Geldof  An official at KKR in London declined to comment.  Helios Investment Partners LLP, a London-based fund
manager, gathered $900 million for African investments last
year, the largest dedicated pool raised for the continent. Irish
rock star and anti-poverty campaigner Bob Geldof is helping
London-based 8 Miles LLP raise money for deals in Africa too.  Credit-default swaps on South Africa, the continent’s most-developed economy, are at 145.18, while those on Morocco stand
at 220.83. China’s five-year CDS are at 103.37. The measure
typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and falls as
it improves.  Africa’s economy grew by 5 percent last year and is
projected to grow at 5.5 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  ‘More Buoyant’  “The overall picture in sub-Saharan Africa is markedly
more buoyant than the outlook for some other regions in the
world, notably the advanced economies of Europe and North
America,” the IMF said in an April report. “Growing working-age populations, rising urbanization, and absorption of new
technological advances provide strong platforms for sustained
growth.”  Funds of about $1.3 billion were raised for the region last
year, compared with about $1.5 billion in 2010, according data
compiled by the  Emerging Markets Private Equity Association .
That compares with $16.6 billion raised for China in 2011, $7
billion for Brazil and $2.7 billion for  India .  While the number of private equity investments in China and
India declined by 8 percent and 25 percent respectively in the
first half of this year, they jumped by 27 percent in sub-Saharan  Africa , the EMPEA said in a survey last month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  