-- Czech Bonds Head for Biggest Weekly Gain on Record: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-08-24T16:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/koruna-weakens-on-czech-rate-cut-bets-european-growth-concern.html
Czech  government bonds  headed for
their biggest weekly rally on record as investors stepped up
bets the country will cut  interest rates .  The yield on 2017 koruna notes slumped 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, in five days to 1.18 percent by 5:04 p.m.
today in Prague, set for the lowest close and steepest weekly
drop since Bloomberg began tracking the generic index in 1997.  Data this week from the euro area, the biggest buyer of
Czech exports, and  Japan  signaled a deepening economic slump.
The Czech National Bank may further lower its forecast for gross
domestic product and rate cuts toward zero cannot be ruled out,
board member Lubomir Lizal said on Aug. 19.  “Central bankers’ dovish comments are prompting the market
to bet on further interest-rate reduction” while “demand for
Czech exports will probably keep waning,” Jan Bures, an analyst
at CSOB AS in Prague, wrote in a report today.  Forward-rate agreements fixing interest in February fell to
45 basis points  below  the Prague interbank offered rate today,
the strongest bet on monetary easing since at least March 2010.
November FRAs traded 26 basis points below the  interbank rate .  “We expect the policy rate to be cut to 0.05 percent
before the end of 2012 after a 25 basis-point cut to 0.25
percent on Sept. 27,”  Jaromir Sindel , a Prague-based economist
at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  The koruna strengthened 0.2 percent to 24.861 per euro,
reversing earlier losses after  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed today
the country’s AA- rating, four steps above Italy and  Spain , with
a stable outlook. S&P said that Czech “financial, monetary, and
economic institutions remain robust and stable, enabling the
prosperous economy to adjust quickly to adverse shocks.”  ‘Vulnerable’  The Czech currency has appreciated 1.9 percent this month
versus the euro, the second-most among major emerging-market
peers tracked by Bloomberg, after Romania’s leu and followed by
the Hungarian forint and Poland’s zloty. The recent gains make
the central European currencies the most “vulnerable” to a
worsening of the euro area’s debt crisis, strategists at Societe
Generale SA wrote in a report to clients today.  “We can’t rule out a correction for the koruna to back
above 25 per euro,” Bures said in the CSOB report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  