-- Naira Gains First Day in 3 as Sanusi Says Tightening Effective
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-08-24T13:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/naira-gains-first-day-in-3-as-sanusi-says-tightening-effective.html
The naira gained against the dollar,
snapping two days of declines, after Central Bank of Nigeria
Governor Lamido Sanusi said monetary policy tightening had been
“very effective” in keeping the currency stable.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer rose 0.3
percent to 157.875 a dollar as of 2:20 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. The naira has advanced 2.8 percent this
year, the second-best performance in Africa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanusi has tried to support the naira and control inflation
by increasing the amount of cash commercial lenders must hold
with the central bank to 12 percent from 8 percent on July 24,
while keeping the benchmark  interest rate  at a record high of 12
percent. The regulator restricted access to its twice-a-week
foreign-exchange  auctions  on Aug. 1, preventing dealers from
buying foreign currency using naira purchased at a discount
through the central bank’s standing lending window and
repurchase facility.  “The tightening of monetary policy has been very effective
in terms of keeping the  exchange rate  fairly within the band,”
which damps down the impact of imported inflation, Sanusi told
reporters yesterday in Abuja, the capital. The bank sells
foreign currency at twice-a-week  auctions  to keep the naira
within a 3 percent band around 155 per dollar.  Inflation may peak this month or in September before
declining toward the end of the year, said Sanusi. The central
bank previously forecast it would reach as high as 14.5 percent
in the third quarter after the government partially removed a
fuel subsidy in January.  ‘Lower Inflation’  “Although inflation may yet increase slightly from its
current levels, the decline in the month-on-month figures, and
the increased stability in the naira currency, bode very well
for lower inflation figures ahead,” Thalma Corbett, chief
economist at NKC Independent Economists in Paarl,  South Africa ,
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Yields on the West African nation’s 16 percent domestic
debt due 2019 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 16.43 percent, according to yesterday’s prices on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the West African nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due 2021
declined four basis points to 4.86 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi gained for a fourth day, adding 0.5 percent to
1.9295 a dollar in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  