-- NYC Best: Jake Gyllenhaal, Erykah Badu at Afro-Punk Fest
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-08-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/nyc-best-jake-gyllenhaal-erykah-badu-at-afro-punk-fest.html
Check out Ft. Greene’s two-day Afro-
punk Festival, with appearances by Erykah Badu, Janelle Monae,
Das Racist, Toro Y Moi and many others.  There’s also a street skate competition, a best bike show,
an artwall, a market with local artisans and food trucks galore,
including Korilla BBQ and Fishing Shrimp.  The event is free and starts at noon each day.  At Commodore Barry Park, Nassau St. between Navy St. and N.
Elliot Place,  Brooklyn . Information:  http://afropunkfest.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Focus on new filmmakers who’ve emerged since the Arab
Spring.  The Film Society of  Lincoln Center  presents “Orientation:
A New Arab Cinema,” including Michel Khleifi’s “Zindeeq,”
about a Palestinian who returns to his native Nazareth after a
long sojourn abroad.  Richard Pena moderates a panel discussion today with 3
filmmakers about working in the  Middle East .  Runs through Aug. 29 at Lincoln Center. Information: +1-
212-875-5601;  http://www.filmlinc.com .  Saturday Shows  You still have time to take in a lot of cutting-edge shows
at the  New York  International Fringe Festival.  It’s among Manhattan’s most overwhelming theatrical
offerings and one of its biggest bargains: tickets are $18 at
the door.  On view this weekend: “20 Somethings” and “Non-Equity
The Musical!” among many others.  Through Sunday at 20 theaters in downtown Manhattan.
Information:  http://www.fringenyc.org .  Jake Gyllenhaal  makes his U.S. stage debut in the London
hit “If There Is I Haven’t Found It Yet.”  He plays the ne’er-do-well uncle of a fat girl targeted by
bullies.  Directed by Michael Longhurst, the comedy also stars Brian F. O’Byrne, Michelle Gomez and Annie Funke as the teenage girl.  In previews at the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St. for
a Sept. 20 opening. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org .  Afterward, stroll over to Chef Edwin Bellanco’s Vitae for a
refreshing glass of Tommy’s Ocean Air Margarita, followed by
rock shrimp risotto.  At 4 E. 46th St. Information: +1-212-682-3562.  Saturday Night  Mostly Mozart goes out with a bang with Beethoven’s
mysteriously underperformed Mass in C Major.  The top-notch soloists are joined by the Concert Chorale of
New York, with  Louis Langree  on the podium.  Also on the program, Mozart’s Clarinet Concerto in A major
with Martin Frost.  At  Avery Fisher Hall , Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-
721-6500;  http://www.mostlymozart.org .  Sunday  Reflect on the beauty of nature depicted in  Yuan  Jiang’s
18-foot-wide painting of the Palace of the Nine Perfections.  It’s one of many images of Chinese gardens in the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s exhibition of paintings, ceramics,
lacquerware, textiles, metalwork and other objects from their
magnificent collection.  See the tame fish, birds and pets, as well as the seasonal
flora -- pine, plum, bamboo and lotus -- that enliven these man-
made Edens.  “Chinese Gardens: Pavilions, Studios, Retreats” runs
through Jan. 6 at 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Matinee  Can’t wait for the  Metropolitan Opera  to open? Try
dell’Arte Opera Ensemble’s production of Poulenc’s “Dialogues
of the Carmelites,” which ends with the mass decapitation of
the nuns in the time of the French revolution.  Jennifer Moore sings Blanche, who comes to terms with her
fears and joins her sisters on the guillotine.  At the East Thirteenth Street Theatre, 136 E. 13th St.
Information: +1-212-352-3101;  http://www.dellarteopera.org .  For post-Poulenc refreshment, stop by the Blue Water Grill,
located in a converted bank on  Union Square .  At 31 Union Square West. Information: +1-212-675-9500.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include a Louis Lapham  podcast  and  Jeremy
Gerard ’s look at the Salzburg Festival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 