-- Nykredit to Reduce Junior Bonds as Collateral Need Ebbs
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-08-24T09:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/nykredit-to-reduce-junior-bonds-as-collateral-need-ebbs-1-.html
Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest
issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages, plans to reduce its
issuance of junior bonds backed by collateral, Chief Financial
Officer Soeren Holm said.  Nykredit had used junior covered bonds to fulfil collateral
requirements linked to loan-to-value ratios. The need for the
securities is declining as house values stabilize, meaning the
Danish lender won’t have to issue as many of the securities,
Holm said.  “We think the LTV levels will flatten,” Holm said in an
interview at Nykredit’s headquarters in Copenhagen yesterday.
“It’s starting to look relatively good in the bigger cities.”  Denmark ’s  housing market  is showing signs of stabilizing
after prices dropped about 25 percent from their 2007 peak.
Mortgage lenders in the Nordic country have to put up 246
billion kroner ($41 billion) in extra collateral to comply with
demands from financial regulators and ratings companies, the
central bank said in June.  “It’s expensive for the mortgage banks,” Jens Peter Soerensen, chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest
commercial lender, said in an interview. “Nobody else has this
kind of a construction. This is a Danish specialty.”  House prices  European-wide covered-bond legislation, adopted by Denmark
in 2007, requires lenders to provide the extra collateral if
house price fall. In Denmark, mortgage banks are required to
ensure that bonds issued equal loans outstanding. As a result,
lenders can’t buy back bonds and fund loans from other sources
such as deposits if LTV ratios increase, as they can in other
countries.  House prices  have stabilized after hitting a low in
December, according to an index published monthly by the Danish
statistics agency. The six-year-old measure of sales values was
84.2 in May, compared with 83.8 in December.  After Danish lenders adopted the covered-bond legislation,
they have provided 122 billion kroner in supplementary
collateral to meet the law and a further 124 billion kroner to
meet rating companies’ demands, the central  bank said  in June.  Nykredit reported yesterday a 44 percent increase in junior
covered bonds outstanding, to 45.2 billion kroner, as of June 30
from the end of last year. Net interest expenses related to the
bonds almost doubled, to 186 million kroner, in the first six
months of this year compared with a year earlier, it said.  “Nykredit’s funding costs have grown in the past year in
line with general market trends,” the mortgage lender said.
“However, Nykredit continues to have good access to capital
market funding.”  The lender’s loan-to-value ratio rose more slowly. The
ratio increased by 1.8 percentage points to 75.1 percent this
year from 2011, it said. That compares with a 7.4 percentage
point increase for the previous period.  “Overall, it should be more or less flattening,” Holm
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  