-- Tobacco Groups Win Challenge to FDA Cigarette Label Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-24T17:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/tobacco-groups-win-challenge-to-fda-cigarette-label-rule.html
Tobacco companies  defeated a U.S.
law forcing cigarette packaging and advertisements to display
images such as diseased lungs, persuading a federal appeals
court that the requirements violate their free speech rights.  In a 2-1 decision, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington 
today ruled that Food and Drug Administration regulations
mandating visual-image warnings of smoking’s health risks, along
with the telephone number 1-800-QUIT-NOW, are “unabashed
attempts to evoke emotion” and “browbeat consumers” to stop
buying the companies’ products.  “These inflammatory images and the provocatively named
hotline cannot rationally be viewed as pure attempts to convey
information to consumers,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Janice Rogers Brown  wrote in her majority opinion.  Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and  Santa Fe 
Natural Tobacco Co. sued the FDA last year, claiming the
mandates for cigarette packages, cartons and advertising, passed
as part of the Family Smoking Prevention and Control Act,
violated the First Amendment.  The companies said in court papers that complying with the
requirements would cost them a total of about $20 million. The
mandate, scheduled to go into effect next month, was put on hold
by a lower-court judge while the appeals court considered its
legality.  Selected Images  The government argued in court papers that nine images
selected by the agency to be placed on packages and
advertisements are true depictions required by Congress in the
 law  to show the negative health consequences of smoking.  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements. The FDA estimated the visual warnings would help
lower the smoking rate by about 0.212 percentage points,
according to the lower court judge who also ruled against the
FDA.  Jennifer Haliski, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency
doesn’t comment “on possible, pending or ongoing litigation.”  The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, an anti-smoking group,
urged the government to appeal the ruling, noting that a federal
appeals court Cincinnati upheld the packaging requirements in
March.  “The split decisions make it likely the U.S. Supreme Court
will settle the issue,” the group said in an e-mailed
statement.  Charcoal Warnings  During a Feb. 1 hearing before U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, Mark Stern, a Justice Department lawyer, compared the
FDA’s proposed cigarette warnings to those on charcoal that
advise people to not use it indoors, noting that 28 people a
year die from carbon monoxide poisoning from using charcoal
inside their homes.  With cigarettes, there are 440,000 deaths, Stern said.  “It’s very unusual to sell a product that when used as
intended will kill you,” Stern said.  He said that the image of a man with cigarette smoke coming
out of a tracheotomy hole in his throat conveys addictiveness.  Brown said the image could be misinterpreted to suggest
that the procedure is a common consequence of smoking.  In a dissent, U.S. Circuit Judge  Judith Rogers  said Brown’s
opinion applied the wrong level of First Amendment scrutiny and
disregarded the tobacco companies’ history of deceptive
advertising.  Noel Francisco, a lawyer for R.J. Reynolds, a unit of
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , argued that “the purpose of the
warnings is not to inform, but to scare consumers into adopting
the government’s course of action.” He said during the February
hearing that the government was using “threats and fear” to
motivate people to stop using a lawful product.  ‘Smoking Rates’  FDA “failed to present any data” showing that the
proposed graphic warnings “will accomplish the agency’s stated
objective of reducing smoking rates,” Brown said in the
opinion.  “The First Amendment requires the government not only to
state a substantial interest justifying a regulation on
commercial speech, but also to show that its regulation directly
advances that goal,” she said in the ruling.  On Aug. 15, the  High Court  of  Australia  upheld that
country’s requirement that cigarettes be sold in uniform
packages barring display of company trademarks.  New Zealand  and
the U.K. are among countries whose governments have indicated
interest in implementing similar legislation, which takes effect
in Australia Dec. 1.  The case is  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-5332, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 