-- Oil Rises for Fourth Week as Isaac Heads for Gulf
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-24T19:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/oil-rises-as-merkel-backs-samaras-on-greece-s-euro-future.html
Oil rose for a fourth week as
Tropical Storm Isaac strengthened in the  Caribbean Sea  on a path
that may threaten crude production in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Prices capped the longest stretch of weekly gains this year
on forecasts that Isaac will enter the Gulf next week after
crossing Haiti today and reaching the southwest coast of Florida
on Aug. 27.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Apache Corp. (APA)  said
they were planning to evacuate some nonessential Gulf workers.  “The storm is going to be news over the weekend, and
people just don’t want to go short at a time like this,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Crude for October delivery slid 12 cents to settle at
$96.15 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices rose
14 cents this week. Oil has rallied 24 percent since this year’s
closing low of $77.69 reached on June 28.  Brent oil for October settlement fell $1.42, or 1.2
percent, to end the session at $113.59 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Isaac was 135 miles (217 kilometers) south-southeast of
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, as of 2 p.m. East Coast time, the Miami-
based National Hurricane Center said in  an advisory . The storm,
moving northwest at 14 miles per hour, had top sustained winds
of 60 mph.  The system is forecast to strengthen into a hurricane off
the west coast of Florida in about four days, the center said. A
storm becomes a hurricane when winds reach 74 mph.  Storm Evacuations  “It takes a lot of courage to carry a short through the
weekend,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion.  BP began evacuating its Thunder Horse oil platform in the
Gulf and suspended all crude and natural-gas production from the
installation in anticipation of Isaac, Arturo Silva, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today. The London-based
company also plans to remove nonessential workers from its Na
Kika, Horn Mountain and Marlin platforms in the Gulf.  Shell said on its website that drilling operations have
been suspended on some central and eastern Gulf assets.  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  and  Ensco Plc (ESV)  also
said they were planning to evacuate some nonessential personnel
from Gulf facilities.  Gulf Production  “On the current calculated path, we expect that the U.S.
Gulf will at least lose between 2 and 3 million barrels of crude
production due to precautionary shutdowns, while oil imports
will also be delayed,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Zug,
Switzerland-based Petromatrix, said in a report today.  The U.S. pumped 1.27 million barrels a day of oil from the
Gulf’s federal waters in May, or 39.4 million total for the
month, according to the Energy Department.  The Gulf is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil production and 7
percent of natural-gas output, according to the U.S.  Energy
Department  in Washington. About 44 percent of refining capacity
is located on or near the Gulf Coast.  Prices also rose this week on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will provide additional stimulus measures to boost
economic growth.  Minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-
Aug. 1 meeting showed many members judged that stimulus “would
likely be warranted fairly soon” unless the recovery’s pace
picks up. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to
clarify his views in an Aug. 31 speech at Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
where he signaled a second round of bond buying in 2010.  U.S. Economy  “Expectations that the Fed is trying to stimulate economic
growth” have boosted oil prices, said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Oil erased gains in afternoon trading on a report that the
biggest consuming countries may tap emergency crude stockpiles.  The U.S. may lead  International Energy Agency  member
nations in a joint release of oil from emergency reserves as
early as next month, industry publication Petroleum Economist
reported, citing unidentified sources.  The IEA has backed the move, reversing what had been vocal
opposition, to discourage the U.S. from unilaterally tapping its
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, the London-based journal said
today. France and the U.K. have also endorsed the White House
strategy and are willing to draw from their own oil stockpiles,
the report said.  “The IEA news led the selloff in the market,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
Chicago.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 383,431
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 466,874
contracts yesterday, 14 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.49 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  