-- Oil Declines for Second Day as Storm Approaches Gulf
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-08-24T12:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/oil-falls-a-second-day-on-u-s-jobless-claims-european-crisis.html
Oil fell for a second day amid
concern of slowing economic growth in the U.S. and speculation
that European leaders aren’t making progress on resolving the
region’s debt crisis.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent earlier today. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she and French President  Francois Hollande  will maintain the pressure on  Greece  to overhaul its
economy at meetings with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras in
Berlin today and tomorrow. Demand for U.S. capital goods such as
machinery and communications gear dropped in July by the most in
eight months, indicating companies are pulling back on
investment.  “Oil is down today on economic concerns,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “QE3 hopes,
geopolitical tensions and supply-side risks should limit the
downside,” he said, referring to a possible third phase of
asset purchases by the Federal Reserve.  Crude for October delivery dropped as much as 86 cents to
$95.41 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.12 at 2:35 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday fell 1 percent to $96.27, the lowest close
since Aug. 20. Prices are up 0.1 percent this week and 2.7
percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement slid 9 cents, or 0.1
percent, to $114.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.8, from $18.74 yesterday.  Oil is declining in  New York  after futures reached
technical resistance yesterday along a downward-sloping trend
line going back to March 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This line, starting at the 2012 intraday high of
$110.55 a barrel, is at $98.48 today. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Bailout Program  Samaras has used interviews this week with German and
French newspapers to call for more time to meet targets under
its bailout program as European officials look for ways to tame
the debt crisis. Greece is dependent upon receiving outside
funds to remain in the 17-nation euro area.  There won’t be anything tangible from the meetings before
next month, said  Michael Hewson , a London-based analyst at CMC
Markets. “Merkel has already said that no decisions will be
made before the troika report is delivered.  Spain  won’t ask for
a bailout before the ECB meeting so we’re still waiting.”  Bookings for non-military capital equipment excluding
planes slumped 3.4 percent, a Commerce Department report showed
today in  Washington . Total orders for goods meant to last at
least three years jumped 4.2 percent, paced by a 54 percent
surge in demand for civilian aircraft.  China Oil Demand  China ’s oil-demand growth will lag behind the average rate
of the past five years as the country’s slowing economy reduces
consumption of gasoil, or diesel, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Demand in China, which uses more oil than any country apart
from the U.S., will increase 3 percent this year and 4.5 percent
in 2013, below the five-year average of about 7 percent,
Soozhana Choi, the head of Asian commodities research based in
 Singapore , said in an e-mailed report today. Gasoil use, the
biggest contributor to the nation’s oil-consumption mix, rose
1.3 percent in the first half of 2012, Deutsche Bank said.  “While demand will seasonally pick up in the second half,
a dramatic recovery, especially in gasoil, is unlikely to
materialize given the growth outlook,” she said.  Storm Issac  Tropical Storm Isaac strengthened in the  Caribbean Sea  on a
path projected to bring rain and heavy winds to the  Gulf of
Mexico  next week and threaten energy facilities. The Gulf is
home to 29 percent of U.S. oil production, 6.3 percent of
natural-gas output and 40 percent of refining capacity,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  “The storm is currently expected to hit the U.S. Gulf as a
category 1 Hurricane, which is only a minimal threat for oil
assets but on the current calculated path we expect that the
U.S. Gulf will at least lose between 2 and 3 million barrels of
oil production due to precautionary shutdowns, while crude
imports will also be delayed,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director
of Zug, Switzerland-based research group, said today in an e-
mailed report.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon will attend a
summit of the Non-Aligned Movement in Iran’s capital on Aug. 29
to Aug. 31. Hosting the summit next week in Tehran will reduce
the Persian Gulf nation’s isolation and help it bypass
international sanctions, the state-run Mehr News agency reported
today, citing Industries, Mines and Commerce Minister Mehdi Ghazanfari. Ban condemned Iranian remarks threatening Israel’s
existence, according to a UN statement on Aug. 17.  New York crude may rise next week on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will boost stimulus and on concern  Middle East 
tension will disrupt supplies, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Twenty-seven of 47 analysts, or 57 percent, forecast oil
will increase through Aug. 31. Fifteen respondents, or 32
percent, predicted that futures will fall and five said there
will be little change in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  