-- Oil Donors Fete Romney Days Before Unveiling Energy Plan
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-24T14:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/oil-donors-fete-romney-days-before-unveiling-energy-plan.html
While the presidential election
isn’t until November, it’s already clear that  Mitt Romney  has
won over America’s oil and gas industry.  Days removed from fundraisers attended by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  and  Continental
Resources Inc. (CLR)  Chairman  Harold Hamm , Romney called for the
aggressive development of fossil fuels to make the U.S. an
“energy superpower” in a 21-page plan released yesterday.  Opening the Atlantic coast to oil and gas production and
giving states control over energy development on the federal
lands within their borders, would help achieve North American
energy independence by 2020, create 3 million jobs, and add $1
trillion to federal, state and local government budgets,
according to the plan.  Oil industry executives lauded the proposal. Democrats said
it would weaken federal environmental safeguards.  “The Romney plan demonstrates a very clear understanding
of how America’s oil and natural gas companies, like mine,
work,” Virginia Lazenby, the chairman of Bretagne LLC, an oil
and gas company based in Nashville, said in a statement released
yesterday by the Independent Petroleum Association of America.  State Regulation  “The states, not bureaucrats from Washington, best know
how to protect the environment while allowing for responsible
American energy production,” said Lazenby, who is also chairman
of the Washington-based trade group.  Energy has been a major topic in the election as gasoline
prices rally to record levels for this time of year. Nationwide,
prices at the pump rose 1.2 cent to $3.73 a gallon yesterday,
AAA data showed. Prices have climbed 40.4 cents since July 1,
according to the  AAA data .  While every president since  Richard Nixon  has promoted
energy independence, Romney told supporters at Watson Truck and
Supply in Hobbs,  New Mexico , yesterday that his plan was
achievable.  “This is not some pie-in-the-sky kind of thing,” he said.  The speech capped a week of energy events as Romney, the
presumed Republican presidential nominee, seeks to use the issue
as a springboard for a broader discussion about the  U.S.
economy , where unemployment remains above 8 percent.  Coal Plant  As governor of Massachusetts, Romney once vowed to close a
coal plant because it “kills people.” As a presidential
candidate he has embraced fossil fuels as an engine for economic
growth.  President Barack Obama has spent too much time and money
promoting clean-energy sources like wind and solar power, while
neglecting fossil fuels that drive the economy, Romney has said.  The White House says oil and gas production has increased
during Obama’s first term, driving down U.S. dependence on
foreign oil to its lowest level in almost 20 years.  On Aug. 21, Romney attended an energy roundtable in Houston
with Tillerson, Hamm, and  Richard Kinder , the head of energy
pipeline and storage company  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI)  The event was
part of a series of fundraisers expected to raise as much as $7
million for his campaign.  Tyson Slocum , director of the Energy Program for Public
Citizen, said Romney was benefiting from his party’s historic
ties to the  energy industry .  Republican Ties  “What’s a surprise to me is how politically entrenched
with the Republican Party the oil industry continues to be,” he
said in a phone interview.  Before this week, oil and gas employees and their families
had contributed $4 million to the Republican National Committee,
its sixth-largest source of donations, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.  The industry, through political action committees, is the
10th-biggest giver to the Romney campaign. Employees working in
the energy and natural resources sector contributed $4.2 million
to Romney compared with $1.3 million to Obama.  Exxon, Continental Resources and  Hess Corp. (HES)  would all
potentially benefit from Romney’s energy plan. The companies
hold leases in the Bakken shale formation in North Dakota.  By giving states control of energy development within their
borders, Romney seeks to boost production. The U.S. takes more
than 300 days to issue a permit for a project, according to the
Romney campaign white paper. North Dakota issues one in as
little as 10 days.  Slow Permits  Romney said the federal permitting process was
“extraordinarily slow.”  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Exxon, and Hess spokesman  Jon Pepper  said they didn’t have any immediate response to the
Romney proposal.  Romney’s plan for “energy independence in North America
benefits all Americans,” Kristin Miskovsky, a spokeswoman for
Continental Resources, said in an e-mail.  Environmental groups and alternative-energy advocates said
the plan gives away too much to the industry.  The plan is a “sop to the oil and gas and coal guys who
would rather deal with the states,” said John Leshy, a
professor at the  University of California ’s Hastings College of
law and former general counsel to the Interior Department during
President  Bill Clinton ’s administration. “The states don’t
regulate as tough.”  Environmentalists’ Objections  Environmentalists objected to the expansion of drilling in
the Atlantic coastlines.  Drilling there “would have profound implications for the
Southeast,” said  Stephen Smith , executive director of the
Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, headquartered in Knoxville,
Tennessee.  “We still have people that have been negatively affected
by the spill in the Gulf,” Smith said.  While presidents since Nixon have promoted U.S. energy
independence, the U.S. has made progress toward the goal in
recent years.  Net petroleum imports reached 60 percent of U.S. supplies
in 2005 fell to 45 percent of the total last year.  Adam Sieminski , the head of the U.S. Energy Information
Administration, which tracks and analyzes energy data, said in
an interview Aug. 22 that imports could fall to 42 percent of
the total this year, the lowest level in two decades.  Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell , the chairman of Republican
Governors Association, praised the Romney plan for creating
“good-paying jobs” for Americans.  “The president has said no to those new jobs, Mitt Romney
is saying yes,” McDonnell said in a statement distributed by
the Romney campaign last night. “Mitt Romney will replace the
road blocks of the Obama administration with the real leadership
the states need to responsibly develop our bountiful energy
resources.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  