-- Omnicare Agrees to Settle Suit Over Reimbursement Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-24T21:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/omnicare-agrees-to-settle-suit-over-reimbursement-claims.html
Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , a supplier of drugs
to nursing homes, agreed to settle a lawsuit claiming it paid a
kickback in buying a pharmacy company, and that it submitted
false claims for reimbursement to government health insurers.  Lawyers told a federal judge in Chicago yesterday that they
reached a “settlement in principle” to resolve a 2007 lawsuit
by whistle-blower Maureen Nehls, a court docket entry shows. The
terms, if final, weren’t entered into the docket. U.S. District
Judge John J. Tharp Jr. set a hearing for Sept. 25.  Nehls claims Omnicare’s $25 million purchase of Total
Pharmacy Services LLC in 2004 included a kickback to one of its
owners, Philip Esformes, and his father, Morris. That payment
helped Omnicare win contracts with nursing homes owned or
controlled by Morris Esformes and gave the company thousands of
elderly and disabled customers, according to the complaint.  “Omnicare capitalized on the illegal kickback arrangement
at the heart of Total Pharmacy’s operations,” Nehls attorney
Matthew Organ said in a March 21 filing. “As Total Pharmacy
held no assets, aside from a small inventory, virtually all of
the $25 million that Omnicare ultimately paid to purchase Total
Pharmacy amounted to a kickback” for long-term contracts.  Omnicare, based in Covington, Kentucky, has denied
wrongdoing in court papers. Ed Loyd, an Omnicare spokesman,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  David Chizewer, an attorney for Nehls, declined to comment
on the settlement. He said that Nehls, who once worked at Total
Pharmacy, is now pursuing a nursing degree.  Adam Resnick  Nehls initially filed a complaint in 2006 with another
whistle-blower, Adam Resnick. He pleaded guilty that year to
siphoning $10.2 million from Universal Federal Savings Bank in
2001 and 2002, court records show. Universal collapsed as a
result and was taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Resnick was sentenced in 2007 to 42 months in prison. In
December 2010, Resnick withdrew from the lawsuit being settled.  The settlement doesn’t include the Esformes, Philip’s
lawyer, Michael Pasano of Miami, said in an e-mail. The father
and son rejected Nehls’s offers to resolve the case, he said.  “Philip Esformes understands that Omnicare made a business
judgment to reach a settlement in this case,” he said. “That
settlement in no way speaks to Mr. Esformes’s position, and Mr.
Esformes continues to emphatically emphasize he has done nothing
wrong and is in no way liable in this matter.”  Last year, U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve, who oversaw the
case, denied Philip Esformes’s request to dismiss Nehls’s fifth
amended complaint. He filed an answer denying wrongdoing.  ‘Arm’s Length’  “Omnicare’s purchase of Total Pharmacy Services LLC was
the result of an arm’s-length negotiation,” his lawyers said in
that April 2011 filing. “Omnicare paid the reasonable market
value for Total Pharmacy Services LLP and therefore, no kickback
was paid and no violation of federal and state anti-kickback
laws can be alleged in connection with the purchase.”  In a separate filing, Morris Esformes also substantially
denied the allegations against him.  One of his lawyers, Harvey Tettlebaum of Husch Blackwell
LLP, declined to comment on the Omnicare settlement, saying he
hadn’t seen the documents. Tettlebaum said his client
“continues to insist that he’s done nothing wrong,” and would
file a motion seeking a judgment in his favor.  Boston Suit  Nehls sued in Boston with Resnick under the U.S. False
Claims Act, which lets whistle-blowers sue on behalf of the
government and share in any recovery. The U.S. Justice
Department declined in January 2010 to join the case. They also
sued under false claims laws in Illinois and Florida.  On May 11, Omnicare settled a case with the Justice
Department for $50 million. The agency called it the “largest
controlled substance settlement in history,” and said Omnicare
gave nursing home residents medicines without a prescription,
with missing prescription information or without documentation.  Omnicare agreed in November 2009 to pay $98 million to
settle civil allegations by the U.S. government and various
states that it took kickbacks from  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)  Omnicare,
which didn’t admit liability, entered into a five-year corporate
integrity agreement as part of the settlement.  Resnick Settlement  Omnicare also settled part of the Resnick whistle-blower
lawsuit that month for $19.9 million, according to court
records. Resnick was awarded $2 million for the federal portion
of the settlement. The portion of the lawsuit relating to the
Total Pharmacy transaction was transferred to Chicago in 2007,
court records show.  Resnick, who owed $10 million in restitution for his
Universal crimes, was sued by the federal government, which
sought his whistle-blower award to pay depositors.  Resnick said he stole the money from Universal partly
because he was a gambling addict, according to court papers. He
wrote a book called: “Bust: How I Gambled and Lost a Fortune,
Brought Down a Bank -- and Lived to Pay for It.”  On June 11, Omnicare’s chief executive officer, John Figueroa, resigned after 18 months on the job. That day, the
shares fell the most in 18 months. John Workman, Omnicare’s
president and chief financial officer, took over as interim CEO
while the company looks for a permanent replacement.  The case is United States of America v. Omnicare Inc., 07-
cv-5777, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  