-- Monti Homestretch Starts With Push for Corporate Tax Breaks
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-08-24T08:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/monti-s-homestretch-starts-with-push-for-corporate-tax-breaks.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
who imposed austerity in the first half of his 18-month
caretaker administration, is considering tax breaks for
businesses in the homestretch.  His ministers will propose stimulus measures in a Cabinet
meeting today in  Rome  in a bid to reverse an  economic slump  that
has deepened since Monti came to power in November. Deputy
Industry Minister Mario Ciaccia is pushing for infrastructure
tax breaks of as much as 50 billion euros ($63 billion) through
2020, while Labor Minister Elsa Fornero has proposed fiscal
benefits for companies that invest in training workers.  Monti is shifting focus as Italy’s  fourth recession  since
2001 worsens. Since taking over from  Silvio Berlusconi  in
November, the premier has reined in  Italy ’s deficit and lowered
borrowing costs through an austerity program that included tax
increases on fuel, real estate and  luxury goods . Now, with
unemployment at a 13-year high, Monti and his ministers are
pushing for relief.  “It is something we need to work on,” Fornero said of her
plan in a speech broadcast yesterday from Rimini, Italy, by
SkyTG24. “We may reduce their tax burden.”  European Push  Monti is restocking his agenda in Italy as he continues his
diplomacy abroad to calm Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. He is
traveling to Berlin for an Aug. 29 meeting with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who has stressed the importance of
budget discipline. Monti has been joined by French President
 Francois Hollande  and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  in
calling for policies to stimulate economic growth and bring down
high borrowing costs.  The infrastructure proposal that Ciaccia announced this
week calls for the elimination of value-added tax on
construction projects like highways and ports. According to
Ciaccia, it could spur 300 billion euros of investment through
2020. The plan won the support of Italy’s biggest business
lobby, Confindustria.  At today’s cabinet meeting all ministers will present
individual proposals to spur growth, which include a plan by the
Treasury to reduce the country’s debt by as much as 20 billion
euros a year through the sale of state-owned assets. Other
measures that will be discussed are speeding up the justice
system, cutting red tape, introducing measures aimed to support
start-up businesses and promoting Italy’s less-known tourist
sites, daily newspaper La Stampa reported today without saying
where it got the information.  Bond Gains  Monti will be called on to weigh the economic benefits of
tax breaks against potential costs in the  bond market . The yield
on Italian 10-year bonds has fallen more than 1 percentage
points to 5.71 percent since Nov. 16 when Monti took over and
began his campaign of budget rigor.  “I don’t think it makes sense,” said Alberto Mingardi,
head of the pro-free market Bruno Leoni research center in
Turin. “If the government really had the ability for fiscal
easing of that scale, which I don’t think it does, it would make
much more sense to do something across the board,” instead of
focusing on infrastructure, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  