-- Osaka Shares Plunge After TSE Tender Success: Osaka Mover
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-24T05:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/osaka-shares-dro-after-tse-tender-succeeds-osaka-mover.html
Osaka  Securities Exchange Co. shares
headed for a record decline a day after Tokyo Stock Exchange
Group Inc. won control of  Japan ’s No. 2 equity venue.  Osaka Securities shares sank 16 percent to 368,000 yen as
of 2:36 p.m. on the Jasdaq market.  Trading volume  for the shares
was almost 10 times its five-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock also fell after a report
Japan’s financial market regulator may issue a business
improvement order to the Tokyo bourse after its second major
system error in seven months took derivatives trading offline
for 95 minutes on Aug. 7.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. yesterday said Osaka
shareholders offered to sell 80 percent of the smaller bourse’s
stock at 480,000 yen per share. That was more than the 67
percent the TSE sought in a tender offer that closed Aug. 22.
The companies project the deal will close in January.  “Investors are probably worrying there will be more
selling pressure of OSE shares by those who couldn’t tender, as
the offer exceeded the maximum the TSE would buy,” said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Tokyo-based Toyo Securities Co. “It
wouldn’t be a surprise if investors are starting to worry that a
merger with the TSE would cause some system problems for the
OSE. The market may be starting to price in concerns about the
costs to prevent the merged company from system errors.”  Japan’s Financial Services Agency may issue a business
improvement order to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported, without citing anyone. The error,  which
affected  government bonds , index-futures and other derivatives,
was compounded by a failure of backup systems similar to that
which caused the biggest disruption in six years on Feb. 2,
Hiroaki Uji, director of trading systems at the bourse, said on
Aug. 7.  Government Policy  Osaka’s J-Gate derivatives system uses technology from
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and hasn’t had a major error since it
began operations in February 2011, Fumihiro Yada, a spokesman
for Osaka Securities Exchange, said Aug. 7. Some firms reported
that placed options orders didn’t appear on the system in
February this year, Yada said.  Effective control of the Osaka exchange means the Tokyo
bourse won’t need the support of other shareholders to approve
the deal. While regulators around the world have blocked more
than $30 billion in other mergers since 2010, the marriage of
Japan’s two largest equity-trading venues is part of a national
plan to consolidate the country’s fragmented exchange industry
amid competition from  China  and other  emerging markets .  Japan’s government said in 2010 it wanted to create a
“comprehensive” exchange that combined the country’s nine
bourses into a single entity handling stocks, commodities and
other securities. The country’s Financial Services Agency was
involved in discussions between TSE and Osaka before the deal
was announced, two people with direct knowledge of the talks
said in March.  “The days when we were competing with TSE in ‘‘a small
glass’’ are over,” Osaka President  Michio Yoneda  said in a
 statement  yesterday. “The world exchange industry got into the
age of global market competition, and each market is competing
for investors cross borders. We throw off the cloak of OSE or
TSE and create the all-Japan exchange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  