-- Outokumpu Gets EU Antitrust Complaint Over Inoxum Steel Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-08-24T17:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/outokumpu-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-over-inoxum-steel-deal.html
Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V) , a Finnish maker of
stainless steel, received a European Union antitrust complaint
over its plan to buy  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s Inoxum unit and create
 Europe ’s largest maker of the alloy.  Outokumpu got a so-called statement of objections from the
European Commission listing regulators’ concerns in detail,
Saara Tahvanainen, a spokeswoman for the Espoo, Finland-based
company said in a telephone interview. The company will respond
to the EU’s concerns at a hearing, she said.  The steelmaker agreed to buy Inoxum on Jan. 31 in a deal
valuing the German unit at about 2.7 billion euros ($3.4
billion.) The EU antitrust agency expanded its investigation
into the deal in May, saying the transaction would shrink to
three the number of producers of stainless steel flat products
in Europe. Officials have an Oct. 24 deadline to rule on it.  “We don’t wish to estimate at this point whether this will
accelerate or delay the process,” Tahvanainen said. “We’ve had
positive and open communication with the commission and expect
it to continue.”  A statement of objections sets out regulators’ case for
blocking a deal. Companies may seek an oral hearing to defend
the deal and can offer to sell assets to resolve any concerns.
The EU has blocked two deals in the last two years, including
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s bid for NYSE Euronext.  Outokumpu has said the Inoxum purchase will result in cost
savings. ThyssenKrupp would retain a 29.9 percent stake in the
business, receive 1 billion euros in cash, and transfer
liabilities of 422 million euros for Inoxum to Outokumpu.  ThyssenKrupp expects to close the deal by the end of 2012,
according to an e-mail from the company.  Simon O’Connor, a spokesman for the European Commission,
didn’t immediately respond to a call or e-mail outside office
hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  