-- P&G CEO McDonald’s Pay Declines 6.1% as Sales Growth Slumps
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-08-24T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/p-g-ceo-mcdonald-s-pay-declines-6-1-as-sales-growth-slumps-1-.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer Robert McDonald’s compensation declined 6.1 percent last
year, reduced by a smaller bonus, as the world’s largest
consumer-products company worked to improve growth.  McDonald, who’s been CEO for three years, earned $15.2
million in salary, bonus, stock and options, compared with $16.2
million the previous year, according to a proxy statement filed
today. McDonald’s salary remained the same at $1.6 million,
while his bonus, stock and option awards decreased.  McDonald has disappointed investors by lowering profit
 forecasts  three times this year and is working to boost sales
and execute a plan to save $10 billion by 2016 through cuts in
jobs and marketing. In July, activist investor  Bill Ackman  took
a $1.8 billion stake in P&G and plans to push for management
changes, people familiar with the matter have said.  “This company continues to kind of be under the gun
here,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis , said today in an interview. “The level of urgency has
kind of gone up here a little bit,” said Russo, who has a buy
rating on the shares.  Lower Bonuses  The company’s top five executives, including Chief
Financial Officer Jon Moeller, all received bonuses lower than
their targets, according to the filing. McDonald’s bonus shrank
to $2.43 million last year, as he missed a target of $3.04
million, from $2.63 million the prior year, according to the
filing.  Moeller’s salary increased by $75,000 to $825,000 last
year. His total compensation was $5.35 million, a 7.7 percent
increase.  P&G, the maker of Tide laundry detergent and Duracell,  rose 
0.5 percent to $67.02 at the close in New York. The shares have
gained 5.9 percent in the past year.  P&G, along with competitors  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  and
 Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) , is paying more for the raw materials used
in its products, which range from shampoos and house cleaners to
pet foods. The stronger dollar also has reduced the value of
their sales abroad at the same time that economies in  Europe  are
slipping into recession.  While P&G has reduced forecasts this year, Kimberly-Clark
and Colgate have managed to stick to their projections. The
lagging performance prompted Ackman’s Pershing Square to make
its stake in P&G its largest initial investment ever. He plans
to seek other investors to help push for management changes or
asset sales to boost the shares, according to people familiar
with the matter.  P&G’s  sales  in the quarter ended June 30 fell 1.2 percent
to $20.21 billion, trailing the $20.25 billion average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Executives on the conference call this month said they
expected the company to return to long-term growth rates by
fiscal year 2014, helped by a strengthening U.S. business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  