-- Pennsylvania Pays Pension Penalty as Bond Costs Climb
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-08-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/pennsylvania-pays-pension-penalty-as-bond-costs-climb.html
Pennsylvania, home to a quarter of
all U.S. public pensions, has spent at least $2 billion since
1985 to help pay for managing the  retirement plans , including
thousands that cover no more than 10 municipal workers each.  The subsidy has prompted towns such as Halfmoon and Elk
Lick to set up even smaller plans, with fewer than five members.
Some don’t monitor or rein in administrative costs, including
those paid to firms such as  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)   “There’s no incentive to reduce your municipal expenses if
the state’s paying,” said James McAneny, executive director of
Pennsylvania’s Public Employee Retirement Commission. He calls
the pensions “snowflakes” because each is different.  With 21 communities operating under state fiscal oversight,
Pennsylvania’s aid staved off insolvency for “multiple”
retirement funds, according to a commission report last year.
Yet almost half of covered workers were in plans that lacked at
least 50 percent of assets needed to pay promised benefits. Such
unfunded costs have helped force cities from  California ’s
Stockton to  Rhode Island ’s  Central Falls  into  bankruptcy court .  Even Pennsylvania’s two statewide systems, those for school
and state workers, had less than 70 percent of needed assets,
contributing to a Moody’s Investors Service downgrade of the
commonwealth’s general-obligation debt last month, to Aa2.  Trailing Returns  Investors are demanding 0.45 percentage point of  extra
yield  to own 10-year bonds of Pennsylvania issuers rather than
AAA tax-exempts, almost double the average for the past decade,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The state’s debt has earned 5.3
percent this year, underperforming the $3.7 trillion municipal
market’s 5.7 percent returns,  Standard & Poor’s  data show.  In Elk Lick, where about 2,200 residents a two-hour drive
from Pittsburgh can pick from five churches and three bars, the
township supervisors board started a plan to cover four workers
-- including two of the board’s three members -- in 2006.  “If the pension fund gets to a point that they may raise
taxes, I don’t know what they’ll do,” said Ardith Deal, who has
served as the town’s secretary and treasurer for 17 years. “I
know that’s not what they had in mind. They don’t want to raise
taxes to pay the four of us to retire.”  As for the costs of running the plan, Deal said she wasn’t
familiar with those expenses.  “Honestly, I don’t look at this stuff,” she said.  Insurance Tax  Since 1943,  Pennsylvania  has used a 2 percent tax on out-of-state casualty and fire insurance companies to help pay for
pensions, distributing the money among municipalities based on
the type and number of covered workers. A change in 1985
expanded the measure to cover administrative costs, with about
half the aid since then going to that purpose, McAneny said.  The state has provided $4.05 billion to its 3,200
municipal-pension plans from 1985 through 2011, according to
data from the auditor general and retirement commission.  Pennsylvania’s subsidy is unusual. Helping local
governments with pension costs occurs in a minority of states
and a dedicated tax for the purpose is uncommon, said Tim Blake,
a public finance analyst with Moody’s Investors Service.  Oklahoma ,  Colorado ,  Florida ,  Idaho ,  Illinois  and  Indiana 
are among states that collect taxes to provide local pension
aid, according to  Keith Brainard , research director at the
National Association of State Retirement Administrators, and the
 Civic Federation , a research organization in  Chicago .  Expense Boost  By fueling the proliferation of small funds, Pennsylvania’s
assistance may be creating additional expenses paid to firms
such as PNC and  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit. The
costs of administering the plans are higher and their returns on
assets are lower than larger retirement systems, Brainard said.  As a result, small funds pose a greater risk for taxpayers,
he said.  “Some plans are in good financial shape; many of them in
the older communities in Pennsylvania are not,” said Jack Wagner, the state auditor general, who disburses pension aid.
Those that lack sound finances place a greater burden on
taxpayers, he said.  Amy Vargo, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based PNC, declined
to comment. Matthew Card, a spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank
of America, didn’t comment.  About two-thirds, or 67 percent, of Pennsylvania’s local-government plans cover no more than 10 active members. A third
have three or fewer.  Cost Tripled  The management costs for small plans are almost triple the
administrative expenses of systems covering more than 500
workers, at $1,440 per beneficiary compared with $404 for the
larger funds, according to the retirement commission’s report.  Inefficiencies drive up costs for the smaller pensions,
Brainard said.  It’s “more difficult for them to achieve the investment
returns they can likely generate if they were pooling their
assets with other funds,” he said.  While acknowledging that administrative costs are
significant, Elam Herr, assistant  executive director  at the
 Pennsylvania State Association of Township Supervisors , said
that forcing small systems to combine may have negative effects.
The lobbying group sells retirement services, earning a total of
about $60,000 a year from 114 plans it manages for 110
townships.  Taxpayer Tab  State aid once covered all pension costs for most cities
and towns. As of 2010, about a third got enough help to cover
their total expense, compared with 75 percent in 1985, meaning
taxpayers now pick up most of the tab, according to the
commission report. Retirements and failure to make up for
returns on assets that were weaker than expected have
contributed to growing unfunded liabilities.  North Sewickley Township , a community 40 miles (64
kilometers) from Pittsburgh, may have to raise taxes to cover
the cost of a police pension plan set up in 2001.  After two retirements, the one-streetlight town’s annual
contribution to the plan quintupled to $91,221 in 2011 from
$16,230 a year earlier. The pension accounted for 7 percent of
the 2012 general-fund budget, compared with 1 percent in 2010.
With just one active member, it has 51 percent of needed assets.  “If you expect some benefits, you’re going to have to pay
for them, that’s all,” said Norman Giancola, chairman of the
supervisors board, said from his hometown of about 5,500. “Our
police officers who go out every day and put their life on the
line for this or for that, we got to do them well.”  Following is a pending sale:  COLUMBUS, OHIO, is set to issue about $197 million in
taxable and tax-exempt general-obligation debt as soon as next
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P assigned the
bonds its top grade. (Added Aug. 23)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  