-- Peru Bonds Post First Five-Day Gain in Three Weeks on Refuge Bid
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-08-24T19:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/peru-bonds-post-first-five-day-gain-in-three-weeks-on-refuge-bid.html
Peruvian bonds posted their first
five-day advance in three weeks, following Treasuries higher, as
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will get worse boosted the
haven appeal of  government securities .  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due in August 2020 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 4.55 percent, extending the decline
since Aug. 17 to eight basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the first decrease since the
week ended Aug. 3. The price rose 0.19 centimo to 121.64
centimos per sol in trading today.  “Peru, like Mexico, is following the trend in
Treasuries,” said Alberto Jabiles, a trader at  BBVA Banco
Continental  in Lima. “If Treasury yields fall, they can rally
here, and if Treasury yields rise, they may rise here too. It
used to be the reverse, but the relationship has changed a
little. Peru and Mexico have good fiscal positions, reserves and
don’t have much debt,” boosting their appeal in times of
instability, Jabiles said.  The sol was little changed at 2.6140 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The
currency has gained 1.9 percent since June 29, the strongest
advance among major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg behind Chile’s peso.  Treasury 10-year notes pared gains today as investors
reacted to an Aug. 22 letter Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  sent to the chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee in which he said “there is scope
for further action” to spur the economy.  The debt was supported by a bid for safety on concern the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to buy euro-area  government bonds 
to curb financial turmoil will be delayed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  