-- Platinum-Mine Violence Politically Motivated, Cosatu Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z ,   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-24T16:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/platinum-mine-unrest-politically-motivated-cosatu-s-vavi-says.html
Unrest at  South Africa ’s platinum
mines is politically motivated by former leaders to undermine
the Congress of South African Trade Unions and current heads of
the ruling party, Cosatu General Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  said.  The  National Union of Mineworkers , Cosatu’s biggest
affiliate, is battling to retain members in the platinum
industry. Police shot and killed 34 protesters at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana complex on Aug. 16 after 10 people died in fighting
among workers during a strike by rock drillers that started on
Aug. 10.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  shut a mine for six weeks
this year in a similar dispute in which four people died.  Cosatu’s alliance with the ruling  African National Congress 
won’t be broken, Vavi told reporters in Johannesburg today.
“They will fail to break the back of the NUM, they will fail to
break the back of Cosatu,” he said.  At a memorial service held yesterday for those who died in
the violence at Marikana,  Julius Malema , the expelled president
of the ANC’s youth league, told the crowd that President  Jacob Zuma ’s government is responsible for the deaths, saying it has
become “a pig that is eating its own children.”  “We will have to do a lot of work to show workers they are
falling into a trap where political hyenas are using genuine
grievances to pick up emotions against the very same people who
have been fighting to improve their conditions,” Vavi said.  Unions Meet  Lonmin management met today with unions including the NUM,
the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union,
Solidarity, as well as Cosatu, to try to resolve the standoff
with striking workers. Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant
facilitated the meeting held in Rustenburg, her department said
in an e-mailed statement. They will meet again on Aug. 29 when
they could sign a peace accord, Musa Zondi, Oliphant’s
spokesman, said by mobile phone.  The government is investigating whether platinum-mine
workers are being politically manipulated into causing unrest,
Johannesburg-based Business Day reported, citing Police Minister
Nathi Mthethwa.  A decline in support for the NUM, which is South Africa’s
largest labor group, may allow other groups, such as the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, to recruit,
leading to rivalry at operations and divided, lengthy pay talks.  Unemployment Levels  South Africa’s mining industry has cut 131,000 jobs since
2001 as output has fallen below 1994 levels, while wage costs,
adjusted for inflation, have increased 47 percent over the past
decade, said  Fitch Ratings , which has a BBB+ assessment, the
third-lowest investment-grade level, on South African credit,
with a negative outlook.  “Failure to speed up growth and sustain  job creation  will
weaken South Africa’s credit fundamentals,”  Carmen Altenkirch ,
an analyst at Fitch, said in a statement. “High unemployment is
already associated with widespread crime, which is regularly
cited as one factor deterring foreign investment. Over time it
could also threaten social and political stability, damaging the
investment climate further.”  The  nation’s economy , the continent’s biggest, will
probably expand 2.6 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , less than the National Treasury’s
February estimate of 2.7 percent. The government has said it
needs 7 percent annual growth to cut the jobless rate to 14
percent by 2020 from 25 percent currently, the highest of more
than 60 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  Lonmin said output remained at a standstill as 24 percent
of workers returned following the memorial service.  Worker Discontent  “Mining operations will only resume once we have
sufficient workers in attendance and the necessary safety
procedures have been undertaken,” the Johannesburg-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Zuma declared a week of mourning, which ends on Aug. 26,
after police fired on protesting workers armed with machetes,
spears and pistols on Aug. 16, at Lonmin’s Marikana mine, which
taps the world’s biggest platinum field, the Bushveld Complex,
northwest of Johannesburg.  The operation, which accounts for about 10 percent of
global platinum output, has lost 2,500 ounces of output daily
since the strike started. Lonmin is the third-biggest producer
of the metal, used in jewelry and anti-pollution devices.  Worker discontent has spread to other platinum operations
in the area.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer
of the metal, said 100 employees out of its workforce of 4,114
refused to go underground at its Thembelani mine near Rustenburg
today. The miners eventually conceded, it said in an e-mailed
response to a query.  CEO Illness  Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP)  said an illegal strike by
about 500 workers at its mine near Rustenburg ended last night.
Milled output for the month will be unaffected,  Royal Bafokeng 
said in a statement.  Lonmin’s troubles have been compounded by the illness of
Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer, who won’t return to his
full-time job for “some months” after he was hospitalized
earlier in August following an unspecified ailment, the company
said in an earlier statement. Chief Financial Officer Simon Scott is acting in his position.  Lonmin won’t issue workers with any ultimatums to return at
least until it has signed a peace agreement with unions, Sue
Vey, a spokeswoman for the company, said by mobile phone.  Lonmin, which has declined 45 percent in past 12 months was
unchanged at 640 pence by the close in  London . Platinum rose 0.4
percent to $1,548.99 an ounce in the city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  