-- Priebus Says Party Convention Will Give Romney Popularity Bump
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-08-25T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/priebus-says-party-convention-will-give-romney-popularity-bump.html
Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus predicted that presumptive presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  will get a “real” and “visible” bump in
the polls at the party’s national convention next week in Tampa.  “As people get to know Mitt Romney, we have a higher
propensity for a quicker ascent than” President  Barack Obama ,
Priebus said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend ahead of
the convention’s Aug. 27 start.  Priebus said past conventions produced bigger leads in the
polls and “nowadays the news cycle is two or three times a
day,” limiting those kinds of huge changes in public opinion.  Republicans are seeking momentum after a week of
distractions, including Missouri Republican Senate candidate
Todd Akin’s assertion that “legitimate rape” doesn’t often
lead to pregnancies and the publication of hundreds of pages of
investment and tax documents from Boston-based Bain Capital LLC,
the private-equity firm Romney helped establish.  Romney also had to explain, in a CBS interview, that a
comment he made at a Michigan rally yesterday about his birth
certificate was a joke, not a swipe at Obama, after Democrats
said he had aligned himself with the so-called birther movement
that questions where the president was born.  Gold Standard  Priebus said he supports a plank in the Republican
platform, drafted by a party committee in Tampa earlier this
week, that calls for a study to determine whether to return the
 U.S. dollar  to the gold standard. It also advocates an annual
audit of the  Federal Reserve  Board and the 12 regional reserve
banks, including monetary policy decisions.  “Doing an accounting of the Federal Reserve, finding out
where the money’s coming and where it’s going is not a bad thing
for our country,” Priebus said in the interview, outside the
Tampa Bay Times Forum where the convention will be held.  The platform proposal, to be submitted for approval by the
convention, calls for a commission to study “possible ways to
set a fixed value for the dollar” similar to one in the early
1980s that studied “the feasibility of a metallic basis for
U.S. currency.”  Priebus said, “It’s an issue that’s bubbling up in this
country, and in particular in our party.”  Bin Laden  The chairman defended his party’s decision not to mention
the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama  bin Laden , killed in a May
2011 raid overseen by the president.  “It’s a mission accomplished,” Priebus said. “We’ve
given credit to the president for his role in that mission and
we applaud him for his role in that mission and I think we’re
better off as an entire world without bin Laden in it.”  Priebus repeated his calls for Akin, a U.S. House member,
to “get out” of the Missouri Senate race after his Aug. 19
remarks that “legitimate rape” rarely leads to pregnancy. Akin
has since apologized for the remark, which he made as he argued
that abortion shouldn’t be allowed even in cases of rape. Akin
has rejected calls for his exit from prominent Republicans
including Romney.  Akin is running against Democratic incumbent  Claire McCaskill , whose seat is considered a central part of Republican
strategy to take control of the Senate.  Someone Else  “People that really believe that the idea of liberty and
freedom is on the ballot, people who are really believers in the
cause, sometimes ought to kind of look in the mirror and realize
that, you know what, sometimes you have to put yourself aside
and give someone else an opportunity to win,” Priebus said.  Priebus said that while he doesn’t know whether Akin
ultimately will step aside, he hopes he can “read a few polls
and realize where he sits.”  He insisted that Akin’s remarks won’t hurt Romney with
women voters because he said they still care most about the
economy.  “We know that our party is the party of a better future,
the American dream,” Priebus said. “And these are things that
my mom and my sister care about deeply.”  On the Hispanic vote, Priebus said he expects Romney to get
more than the 31 percent the party’s 2008 nominee,  Arizona 
Senator  John McCain , won. Romney may even “get close” to
President  George W. Bush ’s 40 percent of the Hispanic vote in
2004, Priebus said.  Obama Favored  An NBC News-Wall Street Journal-Telemundo poll showed
Hispanics favoring Obama over Romney 63 percent to 28 percent.
The poll of 300 registered voters was conducted Aug. 16-20 and
has a margin of error of 5.66 percent.  For Romney to win Hispanic voters, Republicans have to make
clear that Obama hasn’t delivered on his promises, Priebus said.  “Our party’s actually done very well with Hispanic
candidates,” he said, citing U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida
and New Mexico Governor  Susana Martinez . “We’ve done a lousy job
talking about it.”  Priebus said he is optimistic that Tropical Storm Isaac
won’t interfere with the convention. While the storm, which may
reach the southwest coast of  Florida  on the opening day of the
convention, “looks very good on the track,” the RNC is
“prepared for anything,” he said.  “We can do whatever we need to do to make sure that,
number one, people are safe, but also that we conduct the
business of the convention, which is what we’re here to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  