-- Quinn Emanuel, MoFo, Wachtell, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-24T21:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/quinn-emanuel-mofo-wachtell-sidley-business-of-law.html
     Aug. 24 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. has spent at least
$32 million in one patent-infringement dispute with  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit -- one among many legal fights on
four continents.  Add them up and it’s clear the Cupertino, California-based
company is paying hundreds of millions of dollars in its quest
to prove that  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Motorola Mobility and HTC
Corp. ripped off the iPhone.  As Bloomberg’s Susan Decker reports, the lawsuits are a
boon for patent lawyers, who bill companies as much as $1,200 an
hour each for their ability to help jurors and judges understand
technology and arcane rules of law. Apple has spent more than $2
million on expert witnesses alone for a  trial  in its case
against Samsung in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , based
on a compilation of what witnesses said they were being paid.
That case is in the hands of the jury.  Quinn Emanuel  Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, the firm that has
become the Android protector in representing Samsung, Motorola
and HTC, bills an average of $821 an hour for a partner and $448
for an associate, according to a July 22 filing in the trial in
San Jose. Lawyers can bill as much as 80 hours a week during
trial.  Morrison & Foerster LLP , which represents Apple in the
trial, has a median partner rate of $582 an hour and $398 for
associates, the firm said in a May 7 filing.  For more, click here.  Dish Network Sued by FTC Over ‘Do Not Call’ List Violations  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  was sued by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission and accused of violating the agency’s National Do Not
Call Registry in its telemarketing operations.  The FTC said in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court
in Springfield,  Illinois , that the second-largest U.S.
satellite-television provider illegally called millions of
consumers who asked its telemarketers or its affiliates not to
call them again.  “We have vigorously enforced the  Do Not Call  rules and
will continue to do so to protect consumers’ right to be left
alone in the privacy of their own homes,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said in a statement.  Leibowitz said it was “particularly disappointing when a
well-established, nationally known company -- which ought to
know better -- appears to have flagrantly and illegally made
millions of invasive calls to Americans who specifically told
 Dish Network  to leave them alone.”  Dish said in an e-mailed statement that it disputed the
FTC’s allegations, saying its marketing practices reflect
“best-in-class standards” and have been certified by an
independent third-party expert after a thorough review.  “We vigorously will defend ourselves against the claims,”
 John Hall , a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, said
in the statement.  DirecTV (DTV) , based in El Segundo, California, is the largest
satellite-TV provider.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Dish Network LLC,
3:12-cv-03221, U.S. District Court, Central District of Illinois
(Springfield).  Deals  Wachtell, Sidley, Shumaker in Sunrise Acquisition  Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN) , the third-largest health-care real
estate investment trust by market value, agreed to acquire
 Sunrise Senior Living Inc. (SRZ)  for about $845 million to expand its
assisted-living communities.  In the deal, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz represented
Sunrise. Leading the Wachtell team are partners Adam Emmerich
and David Lam. Also on the deal are tax partner T. Eiko Stange,
antitrust partner Joseph Larson and restructuring and finance
partner Scott Charles.  Partners Eugene Pinover and David Drewes of Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP also advised Sunrise.  Michael Anderson  of Arent
Fox LLP provided regulatory advice to Sunrise.  Sidley Austin LLP and Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick LLP of
Toledo,  Ohio , represented Health Care REIT. On the deal are
Sidley partners David Zampa and Matthew McQueen. From Shumaker
are partners Mary Ellen Pisanelli and Cynthia Rerucha.  Under the terms of the deal, Health Care REIT will pay
$14.50 a share in cash. Sunrise has about 58.3 million shares
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
transaction reflects a real estate value of about $1.9 billion,
Toledo-based Health Care REIT said in a statement Aug. 22.  Demand for assisted-living and senior housing is expected
to rise as the U.S.  population  ages. The number of residents
aged 65 and over will increase 79 percent through 2030, Health
Care REIT said in a quarterly regulatory filing, citing Census
Bureau data. The acquisition of McLean, Virginia-based Sunrise
will expand Health Care REIT’s presence in major markets such as
 New York ,  Los Angeles ,  Washington  and Philadelphia.  U.S. health-care REITs have announced deals totaling $3.44
billion in the last 12 months at an average premium of about 13
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more on the deal, click here.  Moves  Seyfarth Shaw Adds Litigator in Los Angeles Office  Seyfarth Shaw LLP said Scott M. Pearson joined the firm’s
Los Angeles office as a partner in its litigation department. He
will also co-chair the firm’s consumer financial services
litigation practice group with David Bizar.  Pearson joins from Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP.  With a practice concentrated in complex commercial
litigation and consumer law, Pearson defends consumer financial
services class actions and governmental enforcement actions. On
behalf of financial institutions, Pearson has successfully
defended more than 70 class actions and hundreds of other cases
involving credit cards, mortgages, retail banking, real estate,
auto lending and  student loans , Seyfarth said in a statement.  Pearson also has managed other types of complex litigation,
including claims against directors and shareholders, securities
class actions and arbitrations, antitrust cases, intellectual
property disputes, false advertising claims, data security and
privacy matters, and large contract disputes.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys in 10 offices
throughout the U.S.  Davidoff Hutcher Adds Partner in New York and Long Island  Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP, a law and government
relations firms, added Thomas P. Mohen as a partner resident in
the firm’s  Manhattan  and  Garden City ,  Long Island , offices.  He specializes in general business matters, employment law
and commercial litigation.  Mohen has represented individuals, businesses, financial
institutions and governmental units for more than 25 years, the
firm said in a statement. He formerly was a partner in Mohen &
Treacy LLP with offices in Manhattan and Locust Valley, New
York.  Davidoff Hutcher has 48 attorneys in offices in New York
and Washington.  Intellectual-Property Lawyer Joins Barnes & Thornburg  Kenneth D. Suzan joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP in its
Minneapolis office as of counsel.  Previously a partner at Hodgson Russ LLP in Buffalo, New
York, Suzan focuses on trademark law and strategy, including
prosecution, clearance, licensing, infringement, copyright, and
policing and litigation. He has assisted clients with
prosecuting and defending trademark opposition and cancellation
proceedings before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, and
also advises clients in domain name, Internet, social media, and
new media matters  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 550 attorneys nationwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  