-- Range Wins Appeal in Suit Against Texas Landowners
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/range-wins-appeal-in-suit-against-texas-landowners.html
Range Resources Corp. (RRC) ’s lawsuit
against Texas landowners who accused it of contaminating their
water by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, can’t be halted
under a state law that bans litigation meant to stifle public
protest, an appeals court said.  The landowners, Steven and Shyla Lipsky, sued Range in June
2011 in state court after the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency issued an administrative order saying the gas driller was
responsible for contaminating their water with dangerous levels
of methane and benzene, which can cause cancer. Range
countersued, alleging in court papers that the couple and a
consultant, Alisa Rich, conspired to persuade the EPA to
intervene. The company is seeking $3 million in damages.  Rich and the Lipskys asked Judge Trey Loftin of Weatherford,
 Texas , to throw out the counter-suit on the ground that it
violated a Texas law prohibiting so-called Strategic Lawsuits
Against Public Participation, or SLAPPs. Loftin rejected that
argument in February and the case was appealed.  The Texas Second District Court of Appeals in Fort Worth
Aug. 23 ruled that it lacked jurisdiction to overturn Loftin’s
ruling. The appeals panel said it was willing to hear a petition
for mandamus, an order blocking the lower court from enforcing
Loftin’s ruling.  Fracking Cases  Fracking requires the pumping of water, sand and chemicals
underground to release gas.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  has celebrated
the economic benefits of increased natural-gas production in the
U.S. and the gain for chemical, refining and manufacturing
plants. At the same time the EPA has moved to regulate air
emissions from fracking and interceded in local water disputes
between residents and gas drillers in  Wyoming  and Texas.  In each of those instances, the EPA has retreated, settling
the case with Range Resources in Texas and agreeing to re-test
water in Pavillion, Wyoming.  “I’m somewhat optimistic the court will consider our case
at greater length,” Brent Rosenthal, a lawyer for the Lipskys,
said in a phone interview. He said the appeals court will need
to find “a clear abuse of discretion that cannot be rectified
on appeal” to grant the writ of mandamus.  Matt Pitzarella, a Range spokesman, didn’t return a call
for comment on the ruling.  ‘A Pretext’  Range alleged in court papers the Lipsky couple and Rich
engaged in a conspiracy to defame the company and used false and
misleading evidence as “a pretext for getting the EPA and the
media to wrongly label and prosecute Range as a polluter of the
environment.”  The Lipskys shot video of methane-fueled flames shooting
from a hose hooked up to their well in Parker County, Texas, and
sent it to a blogger who posted it on Google Inc.’s YouTube
video-sharing site. Range also alleged that they hired Rich to
test their well water and alert the EPA.  Texas’s anti-SLAPP Act allows pretrial appeals only in
cases where the trial court fails to make a timely ruling on a
motion to dismiss, the court of appeals said in June.  Range lawyers said the law was “plain and unambiguous”
when a trial judge issues a timely ruling on a motion to dismiss,
as occurred in this case. They said Rich and the Lipskys
shouldn’t be allowed to pursue a pretrial appeal by any avenue
because they had not proven the trial court committed “a clear
abuse of discretion.”  ‘Defeat’ Purpose  The Lipskys argued that denying immediate review would
“defeat the purpose” of anti-SLAPP rules. They asked the
appeals court to hear the appeal and “direct the trial court to
dismiss Range’s counterclaim.”  In the original lawsuit, Loftin ruled in January that the
Lipskys had to take their complaint to the state Railroad
Commission, not to the court. The EPA later settled its dispute
with Fort Worth-based Range.  Loftin attracted attention in May when he promoted his
rulings in the case during his run for re-election in a
Republican primary. He sent flyers saying he forced the EPA to
back down after the agency “using falsified evidence provided
by a liberal activist environmental consultant, accused and
fined a local gas driller of contaminating wells.”  The Lipskys and Rich filed a motion seeking to have Loftin
removed from the case because he showed bias. Loftin, who lost
his primary bid, agreed to step aside in June and another judge
was assigned the case.  Shale Exploration  Range expanded into shale exploration in 2006 when it
entered the Barnett Shale formation in north Texas. In the
following year, the company reduced its offshore holdings to
increase its focus on shale and other so-called unconventional
geologic formations.  The company was one of the first energy producers to
successfully harvest natural gas from the Marcellus Shale
formation that stretches beneath Appalachia, according to a
company history on its website.  Range almost tripled its  proved reserves  in the past five
years to the equivalent of 842.3 million barrels of crude at the
end of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  shares 
climbed 0.9 percent to $66.27 yesterday in  New York  and have
risen 7 percent this year after jumping 38 percent in 2011.  The EPA case was U.S. v. Range Production Co., 11-cv-00116,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ). The
case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-cv-0798, 43rd
District Court of Texas, Parker County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  