-- RBA’s Stevens Calls Switzerland’s Aussie Purchases ‘Remarkable’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-24T04:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/rba-s-stevens-calls-switzerland-s-aussie-purchases-remarkable-.html
Australia’s central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  expressed surprise his counterparts in  Switzerland 
have bought the local dollar, a currency investors traditionally
sold when commodity prices declined.  The  Swiss National Bank  has purchased the Australian dollar
since May, according to the RBA, and Stevens told a
parliamentary panel in Canberra today that the holdings
reflected the severity of Europe’s economic problems.
Australia’s currency is increasingly viewed as a safe haven for
some investors, both private and official, he said.  “I never thought I would ever see such an anti-
inflationary, conservative institution as that hold our currency
as part of its reserves,” Stevens told lawmakers. “It’s a
remarkable thing. But it’s a picture of how bad the world is in
 Europe .”  Switzerland started a currency cap in September to fight
deflation and help exporters. Australia’s currency renewed its
appreciation in the past two months, surging 7.1 percent since
the RBA last lowered rates on June 5, even as commodity prices
declined. The local dollar bought $1.0430 at 1:48 p.m. in
Sydney.  “Historically, we were places you ran away from when risk
was perceived as growing,” Stevens said. “It’s conceivable
that you could get the terms of trade fall but there’s some
event that causes safe-haven flow towards us. I don’t actually
think that will happen. You can imagine it, but most likely if
the terms of trade fall the currency will go down.”  During three hours of testimony, Stevens said he’s seeing
more “official flows” into the Aussie recently, referring to
central banks and other government institutions that typically
are “not usually the most adventurous” of investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ; 