-- RBA’s Stevens Sees Aussie ‘Bit on the High Side,’ Not Dramatic
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-24T02:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/rba-s-stevens-sees-aussie-bit-on-the-high-side-not-dramatic.html
The following are comments  Reserve
Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  made in parliamentary
testimony today. He was responding to questions about the
strength of the local currency.  “The main story I think is we’ve had the very high terms
of trade historically that has been associated -- there is an
observable relationship with the real exchange rate. I think
what’s happening is a sort of signal if you like of potentially
attractive returns in this country, not just on financial assets
but the real capital stock and investors find that attractive.
There can be a kind of risk-seeking dynamic as well, some in the
financial markets regard the Australian dollar as a kind of
play, if you like, on the global economy, but then if the global
economy does well, we typically would have high terms of trade
and the high currency would go with that so those people are
really just helping to make that happen.”  “I think there is more tendency now for some official
flows seeking the high quality assets. I’d have to say that it’s
most likely that the official investors, they’re not usually the
most adventurous, they’re usually the ones that come along after
others have been coming for a while, so I think all those things
are at work.”  “I guess what I’d say is the fact that it’s high, you can
say on its face that must be a distortion, it could be, but
let’s put it this way. In the internal work that I’ve asked the
staff for, we had various econometric relationships over the
years that have what’s in the market now, compared with what
would be predicted. In some of those, it’s higher than would be
predicted, there are one or two models you can actually come up
with that says it’s undervalued, I personally wouldn’t draw that
conclusion. But as with any model you can find various
answers.”  “I think probably it’s the case that on balance it looks
higher relative to the mean prediction of models, though the
size of that gap is not especially large in comparison to other
forecasting errors or misalignments we’ve seen in the past.”  “So it’s a bit on the high side, I’d say, probably not
dramatically so.”  “I’d describe it as probably, at present, trading a bit
above where I would’ve thought it would be based on these past
relationships and just based on my instinct of the sorts of
things that have been happening in say the past six months: the
terms of trade have declined, global growth outlook is not
catastrophically bad but it’s softer than it was, and so on. So
I’m probably, to be honest, a little surprised that it’s not a
little bit lower than it is. But we’re not talking 20 cents or
something, we’re talking, well I don’t want to give figures, so
I’d say it’s probably a little on the high side but in terms of
the statistical relationships you can fit, you can’t actually
say that that error is all that significant.”  “If it’s a long way above fair value for a long time, then
that’s, one would’ve thought, unnecessarily contractionary for
those trade-exposed sectors so how far above is it and how long
and they would be the questions. So that risk clearly exists.”  “The big strategic question is, if you think that there is
a fundamental change in global relative prices, a lot of which
is going to be persistent, not all of it, if that’s going to be
the case then we will have a larger resource sector and some
other sectors will be smaller to be at full employment. If
that’s the case, then you would think that the mean  exchange
rate  we used to see, we won’t see any more. You’ll see on
average something higher, I can’t really tell you exactly where
that would be. If that’s what you think, you still wouldn’t be
sure the exchange rate is correct.”  Referring to the nation’s resource investment boom, he
said: “If you really think the whole thing’s going to go away,
imminently, the mining boom, this thing is going to completely
crash, the relative price shift isn’t there, the whole thing’s
not really going to persist, then the Aussie dollar in that
scenario presumably would need to be much lower than it is. It
probably will go there if that scenario unfolds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  