-- Treasuries Snap Four-Week Decline on Fed Signals, Europe Outlook
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-24T21:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/treasuries-extend-gains-as-ecb-said-to-wait-on-bond-purchases.html
Treasuries snapped a four-week slide
after Federal Reserve meeting minutes suggested a weakening
economy may lead to more stimulus measures and concern increased
that progress toward resolving Europe’s debt crisis stalled.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators boosted
futures wagers that 10-year notes will rise to the highest level
since 2008, a week before Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks at
a Jackson Hole, Wyoming, conference where he previewed monetary
stimulus programs the past two years. Yields declined even as
the U.S. prepares to auction $99 billion in notes next week.  “The minutes repriced the market,” said Thomas Connor,
president and head of trading at Pierpont Securities Stamford,
Connecticut. “I tend to think Bernanke will be somewhat
noncommittal, but will keep further easing action on the
table.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  dropped 12 basis points
this week, or 0.12 percentage point, to 1.69 percent at 5 p.m.
New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was
the biggest decrease since the five days ended June 1. The yield
was little changed today after dropping earlier as much as five
basis points to 1.63 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 13.
The price of the 1.625 percent security due in August 2022
gained 1 1/8, or $11.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 14/32.  Thirty-year bond yields  fell 13 basis points, also the most
since June 1, to 2.8 percent. They were little changed on the
day, after sliding five basis points earlier to 2.74 percent,
the least since Aug. 14.  Net Longs  Speculative  long positions  on 10-year note futures, or bets
prices will rise, outnumbered short positions in the week ended
Aug. 21 by 97,540 contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
most since March 2008. The so-called net-long positions more
than tripled from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Treasuries climbed earlier today as investors sought refuge
amid concern ECB President Mario Draghi may not announce a
definitive bond-purchase program at the bank’s Sept. 6 meeting.
A German court is scheduled to rule Sept. 12 on the legality of
Europe’s permanent bailout fund, and two central-bank officials
said Draghi may wait until after the decision. The officials
requested anonymity because the deliberations are not public.  The ECB chief announced on Aug. 2 the bank may intervene in
the secondary market to reduce bond yields in countries such as
Spain and Italy if they apply to Europe’s bailout fund for aid
and accept the conditions attached.  Bonds pared gains on prospects that further Fed stimulus
may increase appetite for risk and damp demand for the safety of
government securities.  ‘Further Action’  Bernanke, in a letter dated Aug. 22 to Representative
Darrell Issa, said the Fed has the ability to take additional
steps to boost the economy. Issa, a California Republican,
chairs the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke said in the letter.  The Fed chairman is scheduled to speak on Aug. 31 at a
Kansas City Fed conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, where he
may clarify his thinking on the need for stimulus.  The central bank signaled earlier this week it’s ready to
take further steps to spur the recovery. Many policy makers said
additional stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the
economy shows signs of a durable pickup, according to minutes
released Aug. 22 of the central bank’s most recent meeting, on
July 31-Aug. 1. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of a stimulus strategy called
quantitative easing.  Fed Sale  The Fed sold $7.8 billion today of Treasuries due from May
2015 to November 2015. The action was part of the central bank’s
efforts to exchange shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings for
those due in six to 30 years to support the economy by putting
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  Treasuries have “more room to rally,” according to the
Barclays Plc. One of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. The rally over the past week hasn’t erased the full
increase in 10-year yields over the previous four weeks, Ajay Rajadhyaksha and Vivek Shukla, analysts at Barclays Capital in
New York, wrote in a client note today. Yields rose 35 basis
points over the four weeks ended Aug. 17.  “In the absence of policy surprises in Europe or a sudden
shift in the tone of economic data -- we see neither as likely
-- the rally is unlikely to reverse,” they wrote.  Investors should sell Treasuries and buy inflation-indexed
securities, betting expectations for rising prices continue amid
speculation the Fed will add further monetary stimulus,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Break-Even Rates  Break-even rates, the yield gap between nominal notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, from one to
five years are poised to widen after the Fed’s stimulus signals
this week, said Jabaz Mathai, an interest-rate strategist at
Citigroup. The five-year break-even  rate  was 1.93 percentage
points today, versus 1.68 on July 25.  Treasuries are almost the most expensive in more than two
weeks, according to the term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for interest
rates, growth and inflation. The gauge was negative 0.83 percent
today, from negative 0.85 percent two days ago, the most costly
since Aug. 6. It reached negative 0.70 percent on Aug. 16, the
least costly since May. A negative reading indicates investors
are willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  U.S. government securities have lost 0.7 percent this
month, paring their 2012 return to 2 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index.  The Treasury will auction $35 billion of two-year debt on
Aug. 28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 30. The amounts
were unchanged from last month’s sales of the securities.  Bonds extended gains earlier after data showed bookings for
non-military  capital equipment  excluding planes slumped 3.4
percent, the most in eight months, a Commerce Department report
showed today in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  