-- Treasuries Rise This Week as BlackRock Says Fed to Act
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-24T10:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/treasuries-gaining-most-on-week-in-almost-3-months.html
Treasuries rose for a sixth day on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will increase its efforts to cap
borrowing costs as soon as its September meeting to help support
the  U.S. economy .  U.S. securities extended their biggest weekly gain in
almost three months after Rick Rieder, chief investment officer
of fundamental fixed-income at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said the Fed will
be “aggressive” and there’s a 50 percent chance it will act
next month. A stimulus plan is “almost a done deal,” said  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co. Treasuries also gained before German
and Greek leaders meet today to discuss Greece’s debt crisis.  “Treasuries have done well because investors see it as
near certainty that the Fed will take further policy action
soon,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “Yields are likely to stay
low at least in coming weeks.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.66 percent at 6:45 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in August 2022 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 22/32. The yield declined 16 basis points this
week, the most since the period ended June 1.  Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would probably
be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a durable
pickup, according to minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting
released on Aug. 22. The central bank has purchased $2.3
trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related debt since 2008 to cap
borrowing costs.  ‘Being Aggressive’  “Are they going to keep being aggressive?” Rieder said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Deirdre Bolton . “I think so. Rates are staying low for a long time.”
The central bank will probably implement a new set of bond
purchases and extend its low-rate pledge beyond 2014, and it may
announce the measures this year or next, according to BlackRock,
which is based in New York, and oversees $3.56 trillion, making
it the world’s largest money manager.  Gross, who manages the $270 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) 
in Newport Beach,  California , said in the interview with CNBC
yesterday that investors should buy what the central bank will
purchase and affect, including mortgage securities.  The Fed is swapping shorter-term Treasuries in the bank’s
holdings with those due in six to 30 years to put downward
pressure on long-term  interest rates . The central bank is
scheduled to sell as much as $8 billion of Treasuries due from
May 2015 to November 2015 today as part of the plan, according
to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Job Growth  U.S. employers hired 163,000 workers in July, the Labor
Department said on Aug. 3, more than the 100,000 projected by
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The jobless rate climbed
to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent, the report showed.  Orders (DGNOCHNG)  for durable goods rose 2.5 percent in July from
June, the most this year, based on a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before today’s Commerce Department report.  Treasuries are headed for a monthly loss, reflecting waning
demand for safety following the payroll report and European
efforts to curb the region’s debt crisis. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 the bank may buy bonds in
the region to bring down borrowing costs. The ECB holds its next
meeting on Sept. 6.  Monthly Loss  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 0.7
percent loss this month, versus a 0.2 percent decline for an
index of sovereign bonds around the world, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities dropped 0.8 percent, the data show.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the debt, widened to 2.32 percentage points from
2.10 percentage points a month ago. The average over the past
decade is 2.16 percentage points.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that Germany and
France will keep pressure on Greece to overhaul its economy when
she meets today with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who is
seeking more time to fix his debt-ravaged country.  “We, and I, will encourage Greece to pursue the path of
reform that demands a lot from the people,” Merkel said late
yesterday before hosting French President  Francois Hollande  for
a working dinner in Berlin to coordinate positions on Greece.
Merkel receives Samaras at the Chancellery today.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said
yesterday he wouldn’t appoint Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to a
third term and said he hasn’t considered a “single person” to
replace the Fed chief whose second term ends in January 2014.  Romney has said Bernanke doesn’t deserve a third term. The
Fed chief hasn’t said he wants one.  “As a European investor in U.S. Treasuries, I think what
Romney said was so unnecessary,” said Fabrizio Fiorini, chief
investment officer at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan, which
oversees $6.5 billion in assets. “The timing is just wrong.
This will undermine his authority when he still has a lot of key
decisions to make.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 Aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  