-- Storm May Spare Romney Convention, Florida’s Scott Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-24T17:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/republican-convention-won-t-be-postponed-florida-governor-says.html
Tropical Storm Isaac may not disrupt
the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa next week because
its projected path has moved about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
west, Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said.  “Everybody is moving forward,” Scott, a Republican, said
today during a news briefing in Tallahassee, the state capital.  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area for the four-day convention starting Aug. 27 to nominate
 Mitt Romney  as their presidential candidate, said James Davis, a
spokesman for the event. The storm is forecast to become a
hurricane as it approaches Florida and may reach the southwest
corner of the state on the convention’s opening day, according
to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Scott said there was no indication that convention
attendance would decline because of the storm. Isaac gained
strength in the  Caribbean Sea  and was expected to cross  Haiti 
today, then move over eastern Cuba during the next few days.  The Hurricane Center’s current forecast has Isaac making
landfall near  Pensacola , close to the western edge of Florida’s
panhandle, on Aug. 29. Scott said there was no need for
evacuations “at this point.”  ‘Significant Uncertainty’  “It should be noted that there is significant uncertainty
in tropical cyclone intensity predictions at three to five
days,” the Hurricane Center said.  The odds it will hit Florida are about 30 percent,  Matt Rogers , president of Bethesda, Maryland-based Commodity Weather
Group LLC, said in an interview. Rogers said he increased the
odds of Isaac plowing into the western  Gulf of Mexico  and going
ashore somewhere from Texas to Louisiana to 45 percent.  “I am afraid we are not going to get this resolved by this
weekend,” Rogers said.  Isaac was 185 miles south-southeast of Port-au-Prince,
Haiti, as of 11 a.m. East Coast time, the Miami-based hurricane
center said in an  advisory . The system, moving west-northwest at
14 miles per hour, had top sustained winds of 60 mph, up from 50
mph. A storm becomes a hurricane when winds reach 74 mph.  The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the convention, is in a
mandatory evacuation zone once storm winds reach 96 mph, a
 Category 2  hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale,
according to the  National Weather Service . Tampa is the second-
biggest metropolitan area in Florida, after Miami, with almost
2.8 million people, Census data show.  Tampa International Airport is expecting 23,000 arrivals on
Aug. 26 and 19,000 arrivals on Aug. 27, airport spokeswoman
Janet Zink said in an interview. US Airways Group Inc. today
issued a travel advisory for Monday and Tuesday affecting nine
Florida locations, including Tampa, saying it will waive flight-
change fees for affected passengers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 