-- Reviving Gold Standard Studied in Republican Platform
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-25T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/reviving-gold-standard-studied-in-republican-platform.html
A  Republican Party  call to study
whether to return the  U.S. dollar  to the gold standard drew
skepticism from economists and industry experts.  The proposal is included in a draft platform to be
submitted for approval to the  Republican National Convention ,
which is scheduled to start Aug. 27 in Tampa, Florida. The draft
calls for a commission to study “possible ways to set a fixed
value for the dollar,” similar to one in the early 1980s that
studied “the feasibility of a metallic basis for U.S.
currency.”  That commission, appointed early in Ronald Reagan’s
presidency, “advised against such a move,” the draft said.
Industry experts such as Erik Davidson, deputy chief investment
officer at Wells Fargo Private Bank in San Francisco, said the
U.S. isn’t likely to return to the gold standard, which
President  Richard Nixon  abandoned in the 1970s.  “I just don’t see it being a discussion that has any legs
or probability,” said Davidson, who helps oversee $169 billion.
“We all want to go back to the good old days, but when there
was a gold standard economic ups and downs were quite common.”  The platform statement said that, three decades after the
Reagan study, the U.S. should reconsider the “feasibility of a
metallic basis” for the dollar “as we face the task of
cleaning up the wreckage” of President  Barack Obama ’s policies.  The statement was included along with a provision that
advocates an annual audit of the  Federal Reserve  Board and the
12 regional reserve banks, including monetary policy decisions.  Ron Paul  Both reflect campaign themes adopted by Texas
Representative  Ron Paul , who ran against Republican candidate
 Mitt Romney  in the party’s presidential primaries. Paul’s
supporters have been threatening to instigate a floor fight if
the platform wasn’t amended to reflect their views.  Romney said on Aug. 20 that “the Federal Reserve should be
accountable” so he “would like to see the Fed audited” in a
way that preserves its independence. He hasn’t endorsed
legislation the House passed last month to have the Government
Accountability Office, a watchdog of Congress, audit the Fed,
including monetary policy deliberations.  Gold capped the biggest weekly gain since January amid
speculation that the Fed will take additional steps to spur the
economy, boosting demand for the metal as an inflation hedge.  The Fed has the ability to take further steps “to ease
financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a letter to California Republican  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee. The Aug. 22 letter was released to  Bloomberg News 
yesterday.  Bullion, Equities  Gold futures for December delivery rose 10 cents to settle
at $1,672.90 an ounce at 1:43 p.m. in New York yesterday, adding
3.3 percent for the week. Gold is up 6.8 percent this year
compared with a 12 percent rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Bernanke’s comments drove the benchmark for American
equities up 0.7 percent to 1,411.13 yesterday.  The gold standard is unlikely to return because of a lack
of international agreement on the matter and insufficient
supply, according to the industry-funded World Gold Council.  “The inability to achieve widespread international
agreement on the standard” makes a return unlikely as well as
determining “what price to return to it at,” David Schraeder,
a spokesman for the New York-based group said in an e-mail. He
also cited growth of gold supplies that “may not necessarily
match the appropriate growth in the monetary base.”  Romney Interview  Romney distanced himself from a return to a gold standard
in a CNBC interview in January.  “I know that in the past when we had a gold standard, the
idea that somehow it was detached from or free from any
interference by Congress was simply wrong because even with the
gold standard someone has to decide what is the conversion rate
between gold and the dollar,” Romney said.  The draft language pleased anti-tax Tea Party movement
supporters who attended the platform hearings, and talk about a
convention showdown has quieted among Paul’s supporters.  “We like the idea of looking at monetary policy and
looking at what we call sound money,” said Russ Walker, an
Oregon delegate and a vice president of FreedomWorks, a
Washington-based Tea Party umbrella group.  John Taylor , one of 576 economists backing Romney, said
“there are better ways” to achieve economic stability than the
gold standard. Pegging the dollar to “a broad  price index ”
would be preferable because it would be “more robust,” Taylor,
a former Treasury undersecretary and a Stanford University
economics professor, said yesterday in an interview on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “The Hayes Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn.  Tampa Panel  Republican panel leaders avoided endorsing a return to the
gold standard at an Aug. 21 press conference in Tampa after the
platform hearings were completed.  The gold-standard study was included “so we have some
language for evaluation to make sure that we have a good, sound
monetary policy,” said North Dakota Senator  John Hoeven , a co-chairman of the platform panel.  The proposal “is primarily symbolic to demonstrate the
desire of the Republican Party to be more fiscally
responsible,” said  Philip Orlando , who helps manage $360
billion as chief equity market strategist at  Federated Investors
Inc. (FII)  in New York.  Orlando said it represents a Republican attempt to
“demonstrate to the electorate that we’re the party that’s
concerned about trying to restore fiscal prudence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  