-- Tribune Creditors Seek to Scrap Bond Needed to Halt Case
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-24T21:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/tribune-creditors-seek-to-scrap-bond-needed-to-halt-case.html
Tribune Co. creditors asked a judge
to halt the newspaper chain’s plan to exit bankruptcy for six
months without requiring them to post a $1.5 billion bond.  Aurelius Capital Management LP  is seeking to overturn a
bankruptcy court order that required the bond to protect Tribune
lenders from any delay stemming from an appeal of the exit plan.
The hedge-fund manager asked the U.S. District Court in
Wilmington, Delaware, to quickly hold a hearing.  “An expedited hearing on the emergency motion will help
safeguard Aurelius’s rights to challenge the bankruptcy court’s
erroneous conclusions,” the hedge fund’s attorney, David M. Zensky of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, said in court
papers filed today.  On Aug. 22, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey gave Aurelius
and other Tribune noteholders the chance to temporarily halt the
television and newspaper company’s exit from bankruptcy, if they
agreed to post a $1.5 billion bond.  Unless that requirement is overturned, Aurelius and the
other creditors would have to put up the bond by Aug. 29 to
prevent Tribune from implementing its reorganization plan and
exiting bankruptcy, possibly later this year.  Carey said he agreed with noteholders who claimed they
would be “irreparably harmed” if Tribune exits before
creditors have a chance to try to overturn the reorganization
plan by appealing it to a higher court.  Lenders Sued  Aurelius and other holders of Tribune’s oldest debts say
Carey erred in approving Tribune’s reorganization plan and a
related legal settlement. That settlement ended some lawsuits
against lenders that financed the more than $8 billion leveraged
buyout of Tribune in 2007.  Tribune, based in Chicago, owes creditors about
$13 billion. The company is valued at more than $7 billion,
Tribune said in court papers.  Tribune owns the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune and
television and radio stations around the country. Without a
temporary halt to the reorganization plan, Tribune will be free
to move to the next phase in the bankruptcy: winning approval
from federal regulators to transfer its radio and television
licenses to the proposed new owners.  Tribune officials have said the company will be able to
exit bankruptcy this year if federal regulators approve the
reorganization plan and the license transfers.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  