-- Rio ‘Confident’ of Securing China Power Supply for Oyu Tolgoi
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-24T06:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/rio-confident-of-securing-china-power-supply-for-oyu-tolgoi.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , developing a $6.2
billion copper-gold mine in Mongolia, is certain of reaching a
power-supply agreement with  China  for the project scheduled to
start production next year.  “The negotiation is going well,”  Andrew Harding , chief
executive officer of the London-based company’s copper unit,
told reporters today in Parkes,  Australia . “I’m very confident
the negotiation will deliver the outcomes that I need. The power
supply line is ready to go.”  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , a unit of Rio Tinto, said
Aug. 15 it expects talks with the Mongolian and Chinese
governments for a power agreement to be expedited and supply to
be available during the third quarter. Should talks fail, Oyu
Tolgoi, located close to the Chinese border, would need to build
its own power plant, delaying the start, it said.  Oyu Tolgoi may produce 60,000 to 70,000 metric tons next
year, Harding said, without mentioning when he expects a power
supply agreement. The mine, due to start during the first half,
will have an average annual output of 425,000 tons of copper and
460,000 ounces of gold. Rio produced 520,000 tons of copper last
year, according to its annual report.  Rio this month reported a 22 percent drop in first-half
profit and is assessing spending plans on new operations,
joining rivals  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Xstrata Plc.  “We’ve taken and are taking a full look at the portfolio
and being very sensible about the rate of spend at some of the
projects,” Harding said, specifying there are no changes
planned for  Oyu Tolgoi .  Chop, Change  For mines yet to reach production stage, such as Resolution
in the U.S. or La Granja in Peru, “you have the ability as the
manager of the projects to chop, to change the delivery dates of
particular packages of work,” he said.  Rio expects global copper demand to grow 25 percent to 25.5
million tons by 2020, it said on its website. The global copper
outlook remained positive, driven by industrialization and
producers struggling to bring on new supply, Harding said.  Increased copper production from Oyu Tolgoi will help
diversify Rio Tinto’s income stream.  Iron ore  provided 78
percent of profit last year, followed by copper with 12 percent.  “By 2014, we estimate copper will make up a quarter of
Rio’s earnings and iron ore 60 percent, so Oyu Tolgoi certainly
helps,”  Lyndon Fagan , a Sydney-based resources analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone. “We’re certainly positive
on the outlook for copper as supply from existing mines falls as
grades decline.”  Rio Tinto also owns copper operations in the U.S., Papua
New Guinea, Australia, Peru and  South Africa .  Northparkes, located in Parkes, New South Wales state, last
year produced 50,000 tons of copper. Rio owns 80 percent of the
operation and Sumitomo Corp., the remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  