-- Romney Says Bain Capital Taught Him What He Needs as President
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-24T16:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/romney-says-bain-capital-taught-him-what-he-needs-as-president.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney , making a new effort to tout his tenure at
 Bain Capital  LLC, said his work at the private-equity firm
provided him with the knowledge to turn the  U.S. economy  around.  “The lessons from that time would help me as president to
fix our economy, create jobs and get things done in
 Washington ,” Romney wrote in an article in the  Wall Street 
Journal. “A broad message emerges from my Bain Capital days: A
good idea is not enough for a business to succeed. It requires a
talented team, a good business plan and capital to execute it.”  The essay was published as the release of Bain documents by
the website  Gawker  yesterday renewed the focus on Romney’s
business career. More than 950 pages of confidential financial
reports and investor correspondence, which Gawker obtained from
someone it didn’t name, showed that Romney invested in funds run
by his former firm that used investing and tax strategies beyond
the reach of ordinary savers.  Romney in his article said his experience at Bain gave him
the expertise he needed to run the 2002 Winter  Olympic Games  in
 Salt Lake City , and later to govern the state of  Massachusetts .
He also cited successful companies that Bain invested in,
including the Staples Inc. office supplies chain that he said
“is one of many businesses we helped create and expand.”  ’Create Jobs’  “I know what it takes to turn around difficult
situations,” Romney said. “And I will put that experience to
work, to get our economy back on track, create jobs, strengthen
the middle class and lay the groundwork for America’s increased
competitiveness in the world.”  President  Barack Obama  and allied political action
committees have attacked Romney over his work at Bain, linking
him to job layoffs and outsourcing by companies that the Boston-
based private-equity firm invested in.  “We don’t need a president who wants to ship more jobs
overseas,” Obama said last month to about 1,200 supporters in
Cincinnati.  In a response to Romney’s article, the Obama campaign today
said Romney at Bain forced companies into bankruptcy after
loading them with debt to pay itself millions of dollars.  ’Quick Profit’  “Now he’s promised to bring that same economic philosophy
to the White House -- a philosophy that is focused on turning a
quick profit for investors, not a philosophy that would help
grow America’s economy over the long term,  create jobs , or
strengthen the middle class,” said a spokesman, Danny Kanner,
in a statement.  Romney’s championing of his Bain record was combined with
criticism of Obama. He renewed his pledge to repeal the
president’s health-care law that extends insurance coverage to
30 million Americans and was modeled after legislation Romney
signed as Massachusetts’ governor.  Romney, who has said the state law wasn’t meant to apply
nationally, said in his article he wants a replacement federal
measure “that contains costs and improves care.”  He also promised to cap federal spending, lower taxes, and
reduce government regulations.  “President Obama has piled on excessive regulations,
proposed massive tax increases, added more than $5 trillion in
federal debt, and failed to address the coming fiscal cliff --
all of which is miring our nation in sluggish growth and high
unemployment,” Romney wrote.  “I’m not sure Bain Capital could have grown or turned
around some of the companies we invested in had we faced today’s
anti-business environment.”  Romney’s Republican nomination rivals also sought to make
his tenure at Bain an issue during the primaries.  A super-political action committee supporting  Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House speaker, aired a film during the
primaries, “When Mitt Romney Came to Town,” touted as “a
story of greed, playing the system for a quick buck, a group of
corporate raiders led by Mitt Romney, more ruthless than Wall
Street.”  Gingrich has since endorsed Romney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 