-- Romney’s Bumpy Road to Tampa Turns With Bain Record Dump
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-24T00:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/romney-s-bumpy-road-to-tampa-turns-with-bain-record-dump.html
When Shaun Boyd, a reporter with the
CBS affiliate station KCNC in Denver,  Colorado , began her report
yesterday on her sit-down with  Mitt Romney , she told her
audience: “The one stipulation to the interview was that I not
ask him about abortion and Todd Akin.”  Romney’s campaign aides denied they’d imposed such
limitations, including fielding queries about the Aug. 19
assertion by Akin, a Missouri Republican running for Senate,
that “legitimate rape” doesn’t often lead to pregnancies.  Still, Boyd’s assertion joined a growing list of political
distractions that have buffeted Romney’s campaign as it heads to
Tampa next week for the Republican Party National Convention and
his formal nomination to run for president. The website Gawker
yesterday posted hundreds of pages of investment and tax
documents from Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, the private equity
company Romney helped establish that the Democrats have targeted
in attack ads.  “Each day they aren’t talking about the economy is a bad
day for Romney,” said  Matthew Dowd , a former aide to President
 George W. Bush  who is now a Bloomberg News analyst, in an e-
mail. “In a very tight election and little time left, each day
lost on your own message is a win for the other side.”  Republicans designed their convention, which starts Aug.
27, to be a made-for-television display of Romney’s economic
credentials and a party rallying around his candidacy.  Economic Focus  Romney, who spent the first two days of this week joining
other party leaders in trying to pressure Akin, who has
apologized for his remarks, to drop his Senate bid, sought
yesterday to return to the issues of jobs and the economy. In
Hobbs,  New Mexico , he delivered a speech on  energy policy  and
unveiled proposals he said would create 3 million new jobs.  Romney and his advisers said they are confident the
convention will spotlight their central economic themes and
build new enthusiasm for their campaign. “I feel pretty good
that we’ll be in Tampa and will have a great convention,”
Romney said in an interview on Fox Business News.  In a Wall Street Journal opinion column released yesterday,
Romney uses the start to school season to promote his Bain
credentials, particularly his role in helping  Staples Inc. (SPLS) 
expand. “The lessons from that time would help me as president
to fix our economy, create jobs and get things done in
 Washington ,” he wrote.  Chicago Mining  Yet as Romney tried to reset the focus of his campaign,
aides at President  Barack Obama ’s campaign headquarters in
 Chicago  were pouring over the 950 pages of Bain documents,
searching for an opportunity to renew calls for the candidate to
release additional tax returns or attack his Bain record.
Romney, who’s said he paid a tax rate of at least 13 percent
over the past decade, has refused to release more than two years
of filings.  “One thing that really jumps out is that a fundamental
business objective set out in these documents is to enable
investors to avoid U.S. income taxes,” said deputy campaign
manager  Stephanie Cutter . “It’s becoming more and more clear
that Mr. Romney engaged in massive overseas  tax avoidance .”  The document release comes after Obama and his allies have
aired thousands negative ads focusing on Romney’s tenure at Bain
and raising questions about his personal finances, including
offshore bank accounts and his refusal to disclose additional
returns. Romney has estimated his wealth to be as much as $250
million in public disclosure reports.  New Records  The newly released records show that Romney put money in a
web of funds run by his former firm that used investing and tax
strategies beyond the reach of ordinary savers. One tactic
employed by Bain and other firms to achieve the lower  tax rate 
for some compensation is known as management-fee conversions or
fee waivers.  Bain Capital Fund VII LP disclosed in a 2009 report that
the general partner in the fund had in the past waived
management fees and converted those fees into an interest in the
fund called a “priority profit share.” That had the effect of
turning fees that would be taxed at ordinary income rates, as
high as 35 percent, into  capital gains , taxed at a rate of 15
percent.  Andrea Saul, Romney’s campaign spokeswoman, referred
questions about the record to Bain.  Alex Stanton, a Bain spokesman, released a statement that
said: “The unauthorized disclosure of a number of confidential
fund financial statements is unfortunate.  Our fund financials
are routinely prepared by auditors and demonstrate a commitment
to transparency with our investors and regulators, and
compliance with all laws.”  Voters’ Concerns  Republicans discounted the impact of the new information,
saying voters already know the scope of Romney’s wealth.  “This is still an election viewed through the lens of the
economy and the direction of the country,” said  Kevin Madden , a
Romney campaign adviser. “Those issues are figuring most
prominently in the minds of voters right now.”  Barring a major revelation, the new Bain documents are
unlikely to change the race, said  Dan Schnur , chairman of the
Jesse Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of  Southern
California  and a former Republican strategist.  “Most people know Romney’s wealthy and they know that he
made his money in all sorts of complicated ways,” he said in an
interview. “It’s the equivalent of another organization
releasing a trove of documents that says that unemployment is
still over 8 percent,” as it has been for 42 consecutive
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  