-- Romney Birth Certificate Remark Prompts Obama Fundraising Pitch
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/romney-makes-reference-to-birth-certificate-in-speech-1-.html
Mitt Romney ’s allusion to doubts
raised by some of  Barack Obama ’s opponents that the president
was born in the U.S. prompted a fundraising pitch from Obama’s
campaign, as the Republican challenger later termed his comment
“humor.”  Romney set off the political flap at a rally yesterday in
Commerce, Michigan. “No one’s ever asked to see my birth
certificate,” Romney, standing with his wife, Ann, told his
crowd after noting he was born in Harper Hospital in  Detroit ,
about 25 miles away. “They know that this is the place that we
were born and raised,” he added.  Obama, the son of a mother from  Kansas  and a father from
 Kenya , has provided a long-form birth certificate showing he was
born in  Hawaii  in 1961.  Romney, in later saying his remark was meant as a joke,
also said that Obama “was born in the U.S.”  Still, the birth certificate comment marked a departure for
the former Massachusetts governor, who previously kept his
distance from so-called birthers who question whether Obama was
born an American citizen and thus may not be qualified to serve
as president. Obama’s campaign pounced, linking Romney to the
birthers.  “Governor Romney has embraced the most strident voices in
his party instead of standing up to them,” Obama campaign
spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said in an e-mail. “But Governor Romney’s
decision to directly enlist himself in the birther movement
should give pause to any rational voter across America.”  Fundraising Pitch  The Obama forces followed up with its appeal for money. An
e-mail sent by  Jim Messina , the campaign’s manager, reprised the
birth certificate remark and asks recipients to “take a moment
or two to think about that, what he’s actually saying and what
it says about Mitt Romney.”  It then asked for donations of $3 or more.  Romney’s campaign played down the candidate’s comment.  Kevin Madden , a Romney adviser, said the former governor
“has always said, and has repeatedly said, he believes the
president was born here in the  United States .”  “He was only referencing that  Michigan , where he is
campaigning today, is the state where he himself was born and
raised,” Madden said in a statement shortly after yesterday’s
rally.  Romney termed his remark a joke in an interview with CBS
Evening News that aired last night. “The crowd loved it and got
a good laugh,” he said.  No ’Swipe’  He also said his words weren’t intended as a “swipe” at
Obama, and that “I’ve said throughout the campaign and before,
there’s no question about where he was born. He was born in the
U.S. This was fun about us, and coming home. And humor, you know
-- we’ve got to have a little humor in a campaign.”  Romney’s rally comment capped a week of distractions from
his economic message as he prepares to officially claim his
party’s presidential nomination next week at the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida .  Romney and other Republican leaders failed to persuade
Senate candidate Todd Akin to step aside after an uproar over
the Missourian’s comment that “legitimate rape” doesn’t often
lead to pregnancies. And the posting of hundreds of pages of
investment and tax documents from Boston-based Bain Capital LLC,
fueled Democratic criticism about the private-equity firm Romney
helped create.  Economic Focus  Appearing yesterday with his running mate, Representative
 Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , Romney tried at the Michigan event to
return to the issues of creating jobs and sparking economic
growth.  “This president tried,” Romney said at the Long Family
Farm, Orchard and Cider Mill, about 20 miles away from companies
such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. “He was
headed in the wrong direction.”  Especially in Michigan, Obama is using the federal rescue
of  U.S. automotive  companies as a selling point in his re-
election campaign while Romney has criticized those efforts.  Romney said he wants “to get America on an entirely
different track. And I know how to do it.”  Unemployment Numbers  Unemployment in Michigan was 9 percent in July, compared
with a national jobless rate of 8.3 percent.  Romney said his economic plan is focused on five elements:
“energy, skills to succeed, education, opening up new markets
and cracking down on cheaters in trade, finally getting
ourselves to a balanced budget and opening an era of encouraging
small business.”  “If we do those five things, we’ll create 12 million jobs
and finally see a rise in take-home pay,” Romney said.  Ryan, speaking before Romney, took a dig at Obama for
saying during the 2008 campaign that some voters “cling to
their guns or their religion.”  “This Catholic deer hunter is guilty as charged and proud
of it,” Ryan said.  Obama carried Michigan by 16 percentage points in 2008, and
led Romney by 6 percentage points in a Detroit News poll taken
Aug. 18-20. The last Republican presidential candidate to win
the state was  George H.W. Bush  in 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  