-- Romney Long-Term Budget Focus Matches Obama With No Quick Fixes
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-08-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/romney-long-term-budget-focus-matches-obama-with-no-quick-fixes.html
In a campaign marked by voter
anxiety over the economy, both presidential campaigns avoid
promises of a quick jolt to boost job creation and focus on
long-term policies.  The prescriptions offered by President  Barack Obama  and
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  are a departure from the
typical election season vows of immediate relief.  “There’s nothing waiting in January 2013 that either side
has proposed that would really jump-start the economy,” said
Joel Prakken, senior managing director of Macroeconomic Advisers
LLC, a forecasting firm in St. Louis.  The budget proposals from Obama and Republican vice
presidential candidate Paul Ryan both would start reducing the
deficit next year, turning federal fiscal policy into a short-term drag on economic growth.  “The math in both their budget proposals has pretty
significant tightening,” said  Alec Phillips , a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst in Washington. He calculated in an Aug. 14
report that fiscal contraction would be the equivalent of 1.4
percent of gross domestic product next year under the Obama
budget and 2.6 percent of GDP under the Ryan budget.  Romney hasn’t released enough detail on his budget plan to
determine how it would affect the economy in its first year,
said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the Tax Policy
Center, a nonpartisan research institute in Washington that has
analyzed Romney’s campaign positions.  Divergent Visions  The presidential campaigns have emphasized their divergent
visions of how to achieve long-term growth. Romney said he would
unleash the private sector with less government regulation and
lower tax rates, especially on corporations and high-income
“job creators.” Obama would ask the wealthy to pay more in
taxes while the government puts funds into infrastructure,
education and clean energy technology.  The campaign debate reflects a shift in public attitudes
toward the concept of economic stimulus following criticism of
Obama’s 2009 recovery legislation.  “Stimulus has gotten a bad name,” said Martin Neil Baily,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers from
1999-2001 under President Bill Clinton. “The Republicans are
running ads basically saying Obama wasted $800 billion of
taxpayer money on the stimulus.”  Skeptical Economists  It also reflects the nation’s changed economic
circumstances. While former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Alan Blinder and Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman advocate
more stimulus, few economists see a great need for a major
package with the economy growing again, Baily said.  “Even traditional Keynesians like myself get a little bit
nervous because deficits are so large and global financial
markets are so shaky,” Baily said.  With the political branches of government gridlocked, the
Federal Reserve has stepped into the breach with successive
rounds of monetary easing. Members of its policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee signaled in minutes released Aug. 22 they
are ready to inject more stimulus “fairly soon” unless the
economy strengthens.  The  unemployment rate , while down from a peak of 10 percent
in October 2009, has remained stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009 -- the longest stretch in the post-World War II
era. Joblessness was 8.3 percent last month.  The economy has regained only 4 million of the 8.8 million
jobs lost during the 2007-2009 recession and its aftermath. If
the economy continues to add jobs at the 163,000 pace of last
month, it would take another two and a half years to make up the
loss.  Jobs Plan  Obama continues to press for provisions of the jobs plan he
proposed a year ago and isn’t going to be passed by
congressional Republicans this year. The plan includes public
works spending, aid to state and local governments to prevent
layoffs of teachers and money to rehabilitate schools and
foreclosed homes.  Obama also has championed legislation that would make it
easier for millions of homeowners to refinance mortgages at
lower interest rates, which the White House estimates would save
$3,000 for the average family affected.  “This is a president who has made very clear what he
thinks are the smartest ways to get people back to work and
increase the pace of job growth,” said Brian Deese, deputy
director of Obama’s National Economic Council. “The president
has on the table as his proposal a short-term jobs and growth
package which is more substantial than anyone has proposed.”  Payroll Tax  Still, the White House has yet to say whether the president
would seek an extension of a 2 percentage point payroll tax cut
that expires on Dec. 31 -- and consequently would remove a $120
billion stimulus from the economy. The Obama budget plan assumes
the payroll tax cuts expire on schedule and the jobs act
provisions are enacted.  Romney has promised to lower income tax rates for
corporations and individuals, cut non-security government
spending by 5 percent, ease limits on oil and gas drilling and
roll back government regulations, including the Obama-backed
health-care law and financial regulatory overhaul.  Romney and his economic advisers argue that durable changes
in the tax burden and government regulation will provide the
most effective stimulus. Investors are more apt to build
factories or start businesses if they can look forward to many
years of higher after-tax profits, they say.  “Long-term reform can boost short-term confidence and
growth,” Glenn Hubbard, a Romney economic adviser, said in an
e-mail. “Short-term growth comes from reduced policy
uncertainty and greater investment and employment accompanying
tax reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 