-- Russia Stocks Post Fourth Weekly Gain as Oil Rallies on Merkel
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-08-24T16:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/russia-stocks-drop-as-oil-falls-on-european-crisis-u-s-economy.html
Russian stocks  rose, erasing earlier
losses and posting the fourth weekly gain, as crude oil, the
nation’s chief export earner, rallied on optimism European
leaders will contain the region’s debt crisis.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1,454.08
by the close in Moscow, with the benchmark adding 0.7 percent in
the week. OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer by
volume, jumped 0.7 percent, while OAO Mobile TeleSystems added
0.6 percent. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) ,  Russia ’s biggest coking-coal producer,
slid 2 percent, leading the declining stocks. OAO Magnitogorsk
Iron & Steel slipped 1.3 percent.  Russian stocks erased a loss of as much as 0.9 percent as
oil gained after German Chancellor Angela Merkel Chancellor
Angela Merkel said  Germany  is ready to help the Greek government
combat its economic woes. Crude rose 0.4 percent to $96.62 in
 New York , extending its advance this week to 0.9 percent.  “High  oil prices  are supporting the Russian shares,”
Viktor Markov, a senior analyst at the Moscow-based Kapital
Asset Management LLC, said in an e-mailed note.  Russian stocks declined earlier after a report showed
demand for U.S. capital goods such as machinery and
communications gear dropped in July by the most in eight months,
indicating companies are pulling back on investment.  Fund Outflows  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted outflows of $20
million in the week ended Aug. 22, compared with an inflow of
$23 million a week earlier, according to Troika Dialog’s
research note, which cited EPFR Global data.  Federal Grid Co., Russia’s high-voltage power transmission
monopoly also known as FSK, dropped 0.5 percent to 22.08 kopeks.
HSBC Holdings Plc cut the stock’s price estimate on lack of
“clarity” relating to the results of the company’s merger with
MRSK Holding, analysts led by Dmytro Konovalov said in today’s
report.  “There is a high likelihood that the process could have a
negative impact on Federal Grid’s investment case,” HSBC
analysts wrote.  OAO MRSK Holding advanced 0.5 percent to 1.919 rubles, the
highest level since Aug. 9. A Russian electricity distributor
climbed on an Interfax report Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  is against OAO Rosneftegaz’s participation in the
company’s merger with Federal Grid.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s  Russia Utility Index (MXRU0UT)  fell 0.9 percent to 39.28.  Preferred shares of OAO Surgutneftegas added 7 percent this
week, the biggest weekly advancer. Mechel dropped 6.3 percent in
the week, the biggest decliner.  The Micex trades at 5.1  times earnings  after gaining 3.7
percent this year. That compares with a multiple of 11.7 times
for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added 5.5
percent.  Russian equities trade at the cheapest valuations among 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. Oil and gas contribute
about 50 percent to the government’s revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  