-- Sales of Corporate Bonds Tumble in U.S. as August Losses Loom
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-24T14:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/sales-of-corporate-bonds-tumble-in-u-s-as-august-losses-loom.html
Sales of U.S. corporate bonds
plummeted 79 percent this week as borrowers stood on the
sidelines with investment-grade buyers poised for their first
monthly losses since March.  A $1.1 billion offering of perpetual preferred shares by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. lender by assets, and a
similarly sized issue of 30-year bonds by  Illinois Tool Works
Inc. (ITW)  led $7.5 billion of deals, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with $35.5 billion last week and
$7.1 billion in the corresponding period last year.  “It’s a dramatic slowdown versus the last couple of
weeks,” Simon Mayes, head of the financial institutions group
syndicate at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s been a much busier August than previous
Augusts, but it was very much concentrated in the first couple
of weeks.”  Offerings slowed with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master losing 0.23 percent in August, the first
decline since a 0.59 percent drop in March. Bond buyers are also
waiting to see if Federal Reserve policy makers plan another
round of economic stimulus through bond buying, a move that
would likely lower Treasury rates and push investors in search
of higher yields to corporates.  Yields on bonds from the most creditworthy to riskiest
corporate borrowers reached 3.881 percent yesterday, from 3.995
percent on Aug. 17, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index. The extra yield
investors demand to own the bonds rather than government
debentures was unchanged at 264 basis points.  Investment Grade  Investment-grade sales of at least $5.6 billion this week
compare with $24 billion in the five days ended Aug. 17 and a
2012 weekly  average  of $20.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Yields on the debt decreased to 3.042 percent yesterday,
from 3.157 percent on Aug. 17, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index. Spreads decreased 1
basis point to 184 basis points.  Illinois Tool Works, the Glenview, Illinois-based maker of
Hobart food mixers and Duo-Fast nail guns, sold 3.9 percent
securities maturing in September 2042 at a yield of 105 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data
show. Proceeds will be used to repay debt incurred under a
commercial-paper program and for general corporate purposes.  “It’s a continuation of opportunistic issuance,” Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “We
see an ongoing healthy appetite on the part of investors to own
corporate bonds, particularly higher quality exposures.”  High Yield  Sales from high-yield borrowers, rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s , fell to $1.9 billion this week compared with $11.4
billion in the period ended Aug. 17 and a 2012  weekly average  of
$6.1 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Yields on junk debt decreased to 7.318 percent yesterday
from 7.411 percent on Aug. 17, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. Spreads were
unchanged at 589 basis points.  JPMorgan issued $25 shares, callable after five years, to
yield 5.5 percent, Bloomberg data show. The offering, rated the
highest level of speculative grade at Ba1 by Moody’s, was
earlier marketed at $500 million. The sales followed an offering
of $2.5 billion of 2 percent, five-year notes on Aug. 13.  Overall sales total $90.1 billion this month, making it the
third-busiest August on record, behind $104.3 billion in 2010
and $97.9 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s July 31-Aug. 1 meeting showed many
policy makers said a third round of quantitative easing, or QE3,
would probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of
a durable pickup. Many participants said a new large-scale
asset-purchase program “could provide additional support for
the economic recovery,” the record showed.  “All indications are pointing in the direction of QE and
further accommodation are highly likely,” Marrinan said. “That
could lead to lower risk-free rates and a re-invigorated
appetite for risk.”  Issuers planning bond sales include  Wells Fargo & Co ., the
largest U.S. home lender, with a $250 million five-year issue
and Asia Cement Corp., the seller of Skyscraper brand cement,
with a $300 million sale of five-year convertible notes,
Bloomberg data show.  “I think there will be a lot of people taking a breather
next week in preparation for a very busy September,” Mayes
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 