-- Salim Life Sentence for Terrorism, Jail Attack Is Upheld
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-24T17:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/salim-life-sentence-for-terrorism-jail-attack-is-upheld.html
The life prison term imposed on
suspected al-Qaeda leader Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, who plunged a
comb into the eye of a jail guard in 2000, was upheld by a
federal appeals court.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan today rejected
Salim’s argument that the sentence was unreasonable and invalid
because he wasn’t in court when U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in  New York  handed it down in August 2010. The appeals
court in 2008 overturned Batts’s previous sentence of 32 years
in prison, saying the she wrongly concluded that Salim’s crime
didn’t meet the legal standard for terrorism.  “Salim has not explained why his absence might have
altered his resentence, nor has he demonstrated that any error
in his resentencing was so egregious as to warrant relief,” a
two-judge appeals panel  said today .  Salim, 54, a Sudanese-born Iraqi whom an admitted al-Qaeda
member identified in court as an adviser to  Osama bin Laden ,
pleaded guilty in 2002 to conspiracy to murder and attempted
murder of a federal official. Salim admitted stabbing Louis
Pepe, a guard at the federal jail in lower  Manhattan , with a
plastic comb on Nov. 1, 2000. At the time of the attack, Salim
was awaiting trial for an al-Qaeda conspiracy that included the
1998 terror attacks on U.S. embassies in Kenya and  Tanzania .  Government Evidence  Evidence from the government showed that Salim’s attack on
Pepe was part of an attempt to force a judge in his case to
assign him new counsel. Prosecutors also provided evidence that
Salim and another inmate had intended to take hostages. Batts
initially sentenced Salim in 2004.  In the latest appeal, Salim, who is serving his term at the
federal supermaximum-security penitentiary in Florence,
 Colorado , claimed that his attendance at the 2010 resentencing
via videoconference violated his right to be present. A
correction officer had spat on him during the previous
sentencing, Salim told Batts in explaining why he didn’t want to
attend. Salim argued that his waiver of that right wasn’t
voluntary, because it stemmed from a fear of abuse by guards.  “We see no basis for concluding that the acceptance of
Salim’s waiver of presence, while erroneous on this record,
warrants reversal under a plain-error standard,” the appeals
court said in today’s ruling.  Embassy Bombings  At the 2001 trial of four men accused in the embassy
bombings, al-Qaeda founding member Jamal Ahmed al-Fadl testified
that Salim advised bin Laden and served on al-Qaeda’s ruling
council. Salim approved the destruction of U.S. military
property, even if civilians were nearby, al-Fadl testified.  The four men, including Salim’s cellmate and co-conspirator
in the the stabbing, Khalfan Khamis Mohamed, were convicted and
sentenced to life terms.  The case is U.S. v. Salim, 01-cr-0002, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan); U.S. v. Salim,
10-3648,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  