-- HSBC in Settlement Talks With U.S. Over Money Laundering
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-08-25T01:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/hsbc-in-settlement-talks-with-u-s-over-money-laundering.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which is under
investigation by U.S. regulators for laundering funds of
sanctioned nations including Iran and Sudan, is in talks to
settle the matter, two people with knowledge of the case said.  The bank, Europe’s largest by market value, made a
$700 million provision in July for any U.S. fines after a Senate
Committee found it had given terrorists and drug cartels access
to the U.S. financial system. That sum might increase, Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  has said.  An HSBC settlement regulators and the Manhattan District
Attorney were aiming to conclude as early as September may have
been slowed when New York’s banking superintendent accused
Standard Chartered of laundering $250 billion for Iran.
Regulators had been talking with both banks about universal
accords when  Benjamin Lawsky  on Aug. 6 threatened to revoke
Standard Chartered’s license. Deals with the London-based banks
next month are still possible, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the investigations are confidential.  “This is an epidemic of banks willfully, consistently
violating economic sanctions,” Jimmy Gurule, a former
undersecretary for enforcement at the  U.S. Treasury , said of
sanctioned-nation money laundering. “It calls for more serious
sanctions than a monetary fine for an individual bank that does
nothing more than harm shareholders.”  Set Aside  HSBC’s $700 million set-aside, if paid, would constitute
the largest U.S. settlement reached over such allegations,
topping the $619 million in penalties and forfeitures paid in
June by ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services
company.  Standard Chartered  agreed on Aug. 14 to pay $340
million to settle the New York state matter, an accord that
broke a previous pattern of resolving all such U.S. probes at
once in a unified agreement.  HSBC’s credit-rating outlook was cut this week by  Standard
& Poor’s , which questioned whether the lender is too big to be
managed effectively in the wake of money-laundering
investigations. S&P reduced its outlook on HSBC’s long-term
rating to negative from stable.  HSBC fell  as much as 1.5 percent yesterday in London
trading, closing down .4 percent to 557.00 pence. HSBC’s
American depositary receipts fell 22 cents, or .5 percent, to
$44.05 in New York trading. Each ADR represents five underlying
shares.  HSBC, Standard Chartered and other European banks have been
under investigation by U.S. regulators that include the Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the  Federal
Reserve  and Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.  Other Banks  The multiyear probe into money-laundering has resulted in
settlements with Lloyd’s Banking Group Plc, ABN Amro Bank NV,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and ING.  Other European banks, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , are cooperating with U.S. regulators
in similar investigations, according to other people familiar
with the matter. Two French banks,  Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , are working with U.S. authorities in similar probes,
according to their regulatory filings.  “Here we are at bank number seven, with Standard Chartered,
and no individual banker has been held criminally responsible,
and that’s a shame,” said Gurule, a professor at the University
of Notre Dame. “Checks and balances on banks weren’t working.
Bad conduct was going on for years undetected.”  HSBC handled so-called U-turn transactions through U.S.
financial institutions that involved funds from Iran to non-U.S.
banks, altering its transaction records to obscure information
about its clients, according to U.S. Senate testimony in July.  Iran Transactions  Around 25,000 transactions with Iran worth more than $19.4
billion were made with about 90 percent passing through the U.S.,
according to an audit by Deloitte LLP. Senate investigators
documented similar transactions with  North Korea , Cuba, Sudan
and Burma, which along with Iran are subject to sanctions
administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.  HSBC also dealt with  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , a Saudi Arabian client
whose account the bank closed in 2005 over alleged terrorist
financing before reopening it in 2007, according to the Senate
testimony.  Christopher Lok, former head of global banknotes at HSBC
Bank USA, testified that while Al-Rajhi was a “controversial
name,” the bank’s group compliance department had reversed
earlier concerns and allowed business to proceed. David Bagley,
HSBC’s head of group compliance, announced July 17 at the Senate
hearing that he would step down.  ’Overwhelming Information’  From 2000 to 2009, HSBC also gave its lowest risk rating to
Mexico despite “overwhelming information” that it posed a high
risk for drug trafficking and money laundering, Senate
investigators wrote in their report.  HSBC, which declined to comment on the matter, said in its
2011 annual report that it “continues to cooperate in ongoing
investigations” by the Department of Justice, the Manhattan
District Attorney, the Office of Foreign Asset Control, the
Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency “regarding historical transactions involving Iranian
parties and other parties subject to OFAC economic sanctions.”  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance,  Barbara Hagenbaugh  of
the Federal Reserve,  David Neustadt  of Lawsky’s Department of
Financial Services and  John Sullivan  of Treasury’s OFAC unit
declined to comment on the investigation.  In the prior five settlements, the banks involved agreed to
pay or forfeit money under so-called deferred prosecution
agreements that mandate improved compliance systems. If the
agreement is followed, the banks will avoid criminal prosecution.  Bank Settlements  Aside from ING’s record payment, ABN Amro paid $500 million
in 2010, London-based Barclays paid $298 million in 2010,
Zurich-based Credit Suisse paid $536 million in 2009, and
London-based Lloyds paid $350 million in 2009.  Some investigations don’t result in such agreements because
wrongdoing isn’t found, one of the people familiar with the HSBC
case said.  Paris-based BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole have both
disclosed probes into potential U.S. sanction violations in
their annual reports since 2009, and added new disclosures in
2011 to indicate that outcomes would be difficult to predict.  BNP said in 2011 that following discussions with the U.S.
Department of Justice and Vance’s office, it was reviewing
operations to see if it has complied with sanction rules of the
Office of Foreign Assets Control.  Credit Agricole likewise said in 2011 that it was
cooperating with the Manhattan District Attorney and “other
American governmental authorities” who sought information about
payments in U.S. dollars involving sanctioned countries.  Credit Agricole and Credit Agricole CIB, its investment
banking unit, were conducting internal reviews, the company said.  “It’s time to reexamine the audit function of federal
regulators,” said Gurule, speaking of U.S. regulations meant to
enforce sanctions. “It’s bad and the system is not working.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 