-- TSE’s Osaka Deal Marred by Share Fall, Regulator Scolding
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-08-24T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/tse-s-osaka-deal-marred-by-share-fall-regulator-scolding.html
The Tokyo Stock Exchange Group
Inc.’s purchase of its  Osaka  rival is off to a rocky start.  Just one day after winning control of Osaka Securities
Exchange Co., the president of  Japan ’s biggest bourse and three
other executives had their pay docked after the company was
reprimanded by regulators for computer errors that disrupted
trading twice in the last seven months. Shares of the Osaka
exchange plunged by a record 16 percent yesterday amid
speculation the merger will hurt profit.  Combining the Tokyo exchange, which handles 88 percent of
Japan’s equity trades, with the only domestic venue for futures
on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average is part of a national plan to
reinvigorate the country’s exchange industry. Six months after
the  failure  of backup systems caused the  Tokyo  exchange’s worst
trading disruption in six years, a similar malfunction on Aug. 7
caused a 95-minute halt to the bourse’s derivatives trading.  “It wouldn’t be a surprise if investors are starting to
worry that a merger with the TSE would cause some system
problems for the OSE,” said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at
Tokyo-based Toyo Securities Co. “The market may be starting to
price in concerns about the costs to prevent the merged company
from system errors.”  The Financial Services Agency said the Tokyo exchange
didn’t do enough system checking after the February disruption,
which stopped trading of 241 securities including Sony Corp. for
more than three hours. The bourse needs outside experts to
inspect its countermeasures and to report progress regularly, a
spokesman for the regulator said in Tokyo, declining to be named
due to official policy.  Pay Cut  Minutes after the FSA statement, the Tokyo Stock Exchange
cut President Atsushi Saito’s salary by 30 percent for two
months. General Manager Hiroyuki Iwakuma, Chief Information
Officer Yoshinori Suzuki and Yasuhiro Yoshida, and executive
officer, will be docked 30 percent of one month’s pay. Two
managers in the information technology department received so-
called strict admonishments.  “The TSE will figure out a solution for the system trouble
alone, not together with the OSE because we have to figure out a
solution as early as possible,” Suzuki said at a press
conference yesterday. “This system trouble will not directly
affect talks on derivative-system integration between TSE and
OSE.”  Osaka spokesman Masahiro Yada declined to comment on the
smaller company’s share plunge or on the system errors at the
Tokyo exchange.  The TSE said Aug. 23 that Osaka shareholders offered to
sell 80 percent of the smaller bourse’s stock at 480,000 yen per
share. That was more than the 67 percent the TSE sought in a
tender offer that closed the day before. Shares of Osaka slid
0.7 percent from Nov. 22 when the deal was announced through
Aug. 23. The companies project the deal will close in January.  Targets Cut  UBS AG analyst Mariko Watanabe cut Osaka’s target price to
300,000 yen from 390,000 yen citing the prospect of lower
profitability after the tie-up. Deutsche Bank AG on Aug. 23
lowered its 12-month price estimate for the bourse to 350,000
yen from 449,000 yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock closed at 367,500 yen on Aug. 24.  Osaka’s J-Gate derivatives system uses technology from
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and hasn’t had a major error since it
began operations in February 2011, Fumihiro Yada, a spokesman
for Osaka Securities Exchange, said Aug. 7. Some firms reported
that placed options orders didn’t appear on the system in
February this year, Yada said.  Effective control of the Osaka exchange means the Tokyo
bourse won’t need the support of other shareholders to approve
the deal. While regulators around the world have blocked more
than $30 billion in other mergers since 2010, the marriage of
Japan’s two largest equity-trading venues is part of a national
plan to consolidate the country’s fragmented exchange industry
amid competition from  China  and other  emerging markets .  Government Plan  Japan’s government said in 2010 it wanted to create a
“comprehensive” exchange that combined the country’s nine
bourses into a single entity handling stocks, commodities and
other securities. The country’s Financial Services Agency was
involved in discussions between TSE and Osaka before the deal
was announced, two people with direct knowledge of the talks
said in March.  The Aug. 7 error took place somewhere in Tokyo’s Tdex+
system used to trade derivatives at the bourse, not Arrowhead
that handles cash equity transactions, Hiroki Kawai, director of
information technology planning and corporate strategy at TSE,
said that day. A switch that was supposed to automatically
activate backup systems didn’t work and all derivatives trading
was halted for about 95 minutes. A failure of backups was blamed
for the February crash as well.  “The market is concerned whether there will be hidden
problems from the merger,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive
officer at Tokyo-based Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which
manages 1.5 trillion yen ($19 billion) of assets. “We have to
wait and see how far they will be capable of managing the
trading if volume starts to increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;  Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 Ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  