-- Sell Treasuries for TIPS as Inflation Bets Rise, Citigroup Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-08-24T18:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/sell-treasuries-for-tips-as-inflation-bets-rise-citigroup-says.html
Investors should sell Treasuries and
buy inflation-indexed securities, betting expectations for
rising prices continue amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
add further monetary stimulus, according to Citigroup Inc.  Break-even rates, the yield gap between nominal notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, from one to
five years are poised to widen after the Fed signaled this week
it’s ready to embark on a third round of asset purchases under
quantitative easing, said Jabaz Mathai, an interest-rate
strategist at Citigroup. Inflation expectations should increase
further, he said, reflecting the 23 percent rise in crude-oil
prices since June 28.  “TIPS are cheap to Treasuries given the fact that QE3
remains on the table, and likely, and that the rally in oil
hasn’t fully been priced into the TIPS market,” Mathai said in
a telephone interview. “There is more widening to come in
break-even rates.”  The  break-even rate  between five-year notes and TIPS has
risen to 1.94 percentage points from a low this year off 1.51
percentage points in January.  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference is the break-even rate.  Inflation Protection  Demand for inflation protection has pushed an index of TIPS
to a 5.4 percent gain this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Indexes. Conventional Treasuries returned 2
percent.  The Fed’s favored bond-market  gauge of inflation 
expectations was 2.55 percent on Aug. 21, up from 2.38 percent
on July 26. The five-year, five-year measure shows how much
traders anticipate consumer prices will rise during a period of
five years starting in 2017.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak on Aug.
31 at a Kansas City Fed conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
where he may clarify his thinking on the need for stimulus.  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican who chairs the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Many policy makers said additional stimulus probably will
be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a durable
pickup, according to minutes released Aug. 22 of the central
bank’s most recent meeting, on July 31-Aug. 1.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of a stimulus strategy called quantitative
easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  