-- South Africa Pushes for Company Debt Under Basel Liquidity Rules
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-08-24T11:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/south-africa-pushes-for-company-debt-under-basel-liquidity-rules.html
South Africa  will push global
banking regulators next month to amend liquidity rules so that
lenders can include some corporate debt in the asset buffer they
must hold against a possible credit squeeze.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is considering
changes to the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, that requires
lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive if they’re
shut out of credit markets for 30 days. The committee’s
standard, part of an overhaul of regulations known as Basel III,
has been criticized by governments and banks as too restrictive
because few assets other than sovereign debt would qualify.  Rene van Wyk, who represents South Africa’s central bank on
the committee, said corporate debt rated higher than the
country’s sovereign bonds would qualify as “highly liquid”
under the proposed amendment. “If the local ratings are done by
a creditable rating agency they would be able to pierce the
sovereign ceiling for Basel,” he said by telephone.  Without the rule change, South African lenders may fall
about 260 billion rand ($31 billion) short of the assets they
would need to meet the liquidity coverage ratio, according to
Van Wyk. This figure is based on the assumption that five
significant banks would simultaneously experience a run by
depositors, he said.  Superior Ratings  South Africa’s long-term debt is rated A3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. Some of the country’s largest companies, including
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , diversified mining stock  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  and the world’s largest forklift dealer,  Barloworld
Ltd. (BAW) , have issued debt this year with credit ratings superior to
the sovereign level.  Basel’s secretariat has agreed that the local, stand-alone
rating of a corporate bond mustn’t be “capped” by the
sovereign rating of the country in which it operates, Van Wyk
said. If the committee agrees, South Africa’s proposed bank
bailout facility may be unnecessary, according to Van Wyk.  The proposed change would also help to promote South
Africa’s corporate debt market, Van Wyk said.  The market isn’t “as liquid as you would want, but I’m
sure that with the Basel regulations, if national scale is what
counts, then it provides help for the development of bond
markets,” he said. Companies would have an incentive to raise
cash by issuing debt instead of taking bank loans, he said.  ‘Exceptional Conditions’  The Basel committee is targeting a deal by January 2013 on
revising the LCR amid warnings that the standard may hamper
economic growth and efforts to tame the euro area’s debt crisis.
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said in June that “current
exceptional conditions” meant that “the need for banks to hold
large liquid asset buffers is much diminished, and I hope
regulators around the world will take note.”  “If Basel does accept national-scale ratings, it will be a
stronger incentive for banks to encourage their larger clients
to list debt on Johannesburg’s stock exchange rather than doing
direct loans,” Elena Ilkova, a Johannesburg-based credit
analyst at  FirstRand Ltd.’s (FSR)  RMB Global Markets, said by
telephone. “It’s very difficult to determine how big the market
is going to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net 
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  