-- Spain Cabinet Set to Make Evictions Easier to Boost Rent
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-08-24T10:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/spain-cabinet-set-to-make-evictions-easier-to-boost-rent.html
Spain’s cabinet is likely to approve
measures today making it easier for landlords to evict non-
paying tenants as the government tries to encourage investment
in rental property.  The changes  proposed  in May will “most probably” be
approved today and sent to Parliament, according to a state
official who asked not to be named citing government policy.  “We need this reform like a desert needs rain,” said
 Fernando Encinar , co-founder of Idealista.com, Spain’s largest
property website. “A dynamic and functioning rental market is
essential for labor mobility and a healthy economy.”  Spain has just 1.8 million rented homes out of a total of
25 million, according to the Public Works Ministry. The small
proportion of rentals hurts  labor mobility  because displaced
workers have difficulty changing their residence to follow job
opportunities. Spanish law, which has been stacked in favor of
tenants, discourages investment in homes bought for the purpose
of renting them out.  The changes being considered today will give landlords
greater legal protection and recourse to recover their
properties from tenants who stop paying rent.  Landlords currently have to go to court to evict non-payers
in a process that could be long and expensive. If tenants paid
the amount owed at the last minute, the process would be halted.
That would allow the tenant to remain in the property and to
reoffend, forcing the landlord to start proceedings again. Under
the new proposals, defaulters will have a 10-day window to pay
arrears or face eviction.  Rent Increases  Annual rent increases for tenants, which can only match
inflation currently, will be subject to agreements between the
landlord and tenant, according to the May 11 proposal. Owners
will also be able to retake their property with two months’
notice if they need the home for themselves, a blood relative,
or a partner in the case of divorce.  “With the drop in mortgage lending and the hike in
unemployment, rental accommodation in  Spain  is going to become
much more necessary,” said Alexander Pelteshki, an analyst at
ING Financial Markets in Amsterdam.  Tenants had been entitled by law to remain in a property
for five years and a further three if they had the tacit
agreement of the landlord. That time will be reduced to three
years of permanence plus another year if the landlord tacitly
agrees.  SOCIMI, Spain’s version of real estate investment trusts
established in 2009, will also be modified to make them more
attractive to investors and more competitive with European
REITs, according to the spokesman.  Property Companies  Minimum investment in SOCIMI will fall to 5 million euros
from 15 million euros. In addition, they will no longer be
required to hold at least three assets and the minimum period to
hold them will fall to 3 years from 7 years.  “These are clearly steps to encourage investment,
especially from abroad, in Spain’s real estate market to help
absorb some of the overhang of housing stock,” ING’s Pelteshki
said.  Foreign investors will be given tax breaks of 60 percent
from income generated from rented apartments and 100 percent if
the properties are rented by 18 to 30 year-olds who are not
eligible for state rent support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 