-- Spain Bailout Request May Not Hurt Credit Rating, Fitch Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-24T11:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/spain-bailout-request-may-not-hurt-credit-rating-fitch-says.html
Spanish sovereign bond purchases by
European rescue funds are unlikely to hurt the nation’s credit
rating as the aid may help the country overhaul its economy,
 Fitch Ratings  said.  “Such external support could provide  Spain  with the
breathing space to implement its ambitious fiscal and economic
reforms,” Fitch Ratings said in an e-mailed statement today.  Bond purchases by the European Financial Stability Facility
or European Stability Mechanism would significantly “reduce the
risk of a self-fulfilling liquidity crisis,” especially if
supported by secondary market purchases by the  European Central
Bank , it said.  Fitch is the second rating company after Standard and
Poor’s this week to view bond buying as possibly positive for
Spain’s credit rating. The statements come as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is considering requesting more aid to help lower
the nation’s borrowing costs.  Spain is rated BBB+ at S&P, three levels above non-
investment grade. It has a BBB rating at Fitch Ratings -- two
levels above junk, while its Baa3 grade at Moody’s Investors
Service is the lowest investment grade rating.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond was at 6.4
percent as of 1:03 p.m. in Madrid, down from a euro-era high of
7.75 percent on Aug. 25.  Fitch said the move would be positive as long as Spain
retained access to markets. The credibility of Rajoy’s overhaul
of the euro area’s fourth-largest economy may be helped by the
conditionality imposed in return for aid, Fitch said.  Spain has urged the ECB to commit to unlimited support in
possible debt buying operations after ECB President  Mario Draghi 
announced proposals earlier this month to re-enter the  bond
market .  The nation signed off last month on as much as 100 billion
euros ($125 billion) of aid from European rescue funds to shore
up banks burdened with bad loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  