-- Spanish Budget Cuts Won’t Have Lasting Impact, Economist Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-24T08:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/spanish-budget-cuts-won-t-have-lasting-impact-economist-says.html
Spain ’s 17 semi-autonomous regions,
charged with the bulk of the government’s planned budget cuts
this year, are relying on one-off reductions that won’t solve
their long-term fiscal woes, economist Juan Rubio-Ramirez said.  “The plans are mostly one-time expenditure cuts or revenue
increases, so they aren’t addressing the regions’ long-term
budget issues,” Rubio-Ramirez, an economist at  Duke University 
in Durham,  North Carolina , said in an interview in Madrid
yesterday. “They’re hard to understand and there are clearly
incoherencies in some parts.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has ordered Spain’s regions
to make 70 percent of all cuts in the 2012  budget deficit  as he
aims to tackle the euro area’s  third-largest  shortfall amid a
 recession  and a surge in borrowing costs. Municipalities must
come up with 3 percent of the savings, with the central
government and welfare system responsible for the remainder.  The regions accounted for most of Spain’s  overspending  last
year, pushing its budget gap to 8.9 percent of GDP compared with
a target of 6 percent. Economists predict the gap will exceed
the European Union’s target of 6.3 percent in 2012. The central
government in June exceeded its limit for the year as it bailed
out regions, town halls and the welfare system.  Regional budgets were “artificially” balanced in the
first quarter with an 87 percent increase in transfers from the
state, Rubio-Ramirez said. In the period, the regions made 4
percent of payroll reductions planned for the year. A sharp fall
in current expenditures suggests that outlays in the previous
quarter may have been inflated or spending was postponed, he
said.  Health Care, Education  Most of the regions’ austerity measures involve selling
real estate or postponing infrastructure projects, Rubio-Ramirez
said. They do little to curtail big-ticket items such as health
care and education, he said.  A  report  released earlier this month by the Fedea research
institute in Madrid concluded that the regions won’t keep their
economic promises this year. It forecast overspending for the
regions may reach 4 percent of gross domestic product, compared
with 3.3 percent last year and a target of 1.5 percent. Rubio-
Ramirez co-authored the report.  Regions’ budget plans take into account debt financing
costs as well as lower tax receipts, a Budget Ministry official
said on condition of anonymity in line with government policy.
All regional budget data are revised by the administration’s
public account auditors, the official said.  Regional budget data for the second-quarter are due in
September. The central government is scheduled to release data
for July on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  