-- Stevens Sees Mining Boom Peaking, RBA Ready to Act
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-08-24T07:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/stevens-sees-mining-boom-peak-in-2013-14-while-rba-ready-to-act.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said policy makers are prepared to respond in the
event the economy slows, predicting the nation’s mining
investment boom has at least another year before easing.  “The peak of the resource investment boom as a share of
gross domestic product, the highest such peak in at least a
century, will occur within the next year or two,” Stevens  said 
today in semiannual testimony at parliament in Canberra. The RBA
is ready to act if growth veers off from the outlook, he said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s decision this week to delay approval of
an estimated $33 billion expansion of the Olympic Dam copper,
uranium and gold mine in  South Australia  has sparked suggestions
the resources boom that has powered economic growth is over. A
slowdown in  China , the nation’s largest trading partner, may
extend into a seventh straight quarter as a contraction in
manufacturing probably deepened this month.  “With commodity prices coming off, it adds a bit more
uncertainty to how quickly mining investment retraces after its
peak,” said Justin Fabo, senior economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney. “There is a bit more of a
risk that the down leg of investment may be a little bit quicker
than previously thought.”  A drop in resource investment may threaten Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s pledge to return the budget to surplus this
fiscal year after four straight deficits. BHP and Rio Tinto
Group both reported profits have declined as commodity prices
fall amid slowing global growth.  Mining Tax  Lower earnings for mining companies may reduce the A$6.5
billion ($6.8 billion) the government estimates it will reap
over two years from a new tax on  iron ore  and coal profits. The
mining tax is payable when a company’s annual profits reach A$75
million, so as not to burden smaller businesses. The government
expects to raise A$3.2 billion from the tax in fiscal 2015 and
A$3.7 billion in 2016.  “Given what has happened recently with commodity prices,
the assumption the government has in the budget around
 Australia ’s terms of trade might look a little bit optimistic
but we are only two months into the financial year,” Fabo said.  The local dollar slid to a one-month low against its New
Zealand counterpart after Stevens said the nation’s currency
would probably fall if a mining boom ends. The so-called Aussie
touched NZ$1.2820, the weakest since July 12, before trading at
NZ$1.2830 as of 4:37 p.m. in Sydney.  Economic Boost  Australia’s economy and currency have been bolstered in
recent years by the biggest resources bonanza since a gold rush
in the 1850s as Chinese-led demand for iron ore, coal and
natural gas brought investment projects the government estimated
to be worth A$500 billion.  The central bank governor’s comments on the timing of the
resource-investment peak contrast with Australian Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson , who said the mining boom has ended.  “You’ve got to understand, the resources boom is over,”
Ferguson told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio yesterday.
“It has got tougher in the last six to 12 months.”  He later said he had been talking only about the end of the
boom in commodity prices, the Financial Times reported. The
mining boom “in terms of construction is not over,” the paper
said, citing Ferguson who referred to A$270 billion in committed
 capital investment . Deutsche Bank AG estimates BHP’s Olympic Dam
expansion will cost $33 billion.  Brazil ’s Vale SA, the biggest iron-ore producer, said this
month that China’s “golden years” are gone as its growth slows.
Iron-ore prices fell to the lowest since December 2009 yesterday
as slowing growth curbs demand in China, the biggest buyer.  China Slowdown  China’s industrial production and lending missed
economists’ forecasts last month. Foreign direct investment in
China fell to the lowest level in two years in July, fueling
concern that waning confidence in the nation’s growth prospects
may restrain any economic rebound.  There is increasing evidence of slowing growth in the Asia-
Pacific region.  New Zealand  reported today exports fell in July
from June, while Singapore said industrial output growth slowed
to a three-month low.  Vietnam ’s inflation eased in August, a
report showed.  Britain’s economy may have shrunk less than previously
estimated in the second quarter, the statistics office is
forecast to report today, while  Poland  will release unemployment
and retail sales data. In the U.S., data today may show orders
for durable goods climbed in July.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  Stevens said today he’s cautiously optimistic about the
outlook for the global economy and that Australian policy makers
are “well equipped” to manage any turmoil that arises. He
cited several favorable domestic signals including low
unemployment, top-rated government debt, tame inflation and a
strong banking system.  The RBA’s central outlook is for growth “close to trend”
and inflation within a 2 percent to 3 percent target range, and
the central bank is “prepared to respond to significant
deviations,” he said.  Australia’s central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total
of 50 basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points
in May and June to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slower growth in China. It held the key rate at 3.5
percent, the highest among major developed economies, at the
past two meetings.  The reductions in rates have resulted in borrowing costs
“a little below their medium-term averages,” Stevens said.  Upbeat Picture  The RBA this month predicted average GDP growth of 3.75
percent in 2012, stronger than its May estimate of 3 percent.
Consumer prices will rise 2.25 percent in the year to December,
from a previous prediction of 2.5 percent; underlying inflation
is forecast at 2.5 percent from a previous 2.25 percent, the
central bank said in its Aug. 10 statement on monetary policy.  Traders are estimating a 29 percent chance Stevens will
reduce rates by a quarter point to 3.25 percent at the next
meeting in September, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The governor continued to paint an upbeat picture of the
Australian economy, traveling well through global headwinds,”
said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.
“With the economy growing close to trend, further rate cuts are
unlikely.”  Gillard is faced with a two-speed economy -- a phrase the
RBA uses to distinguish resource-rich regions in the north and
west that are powering growth and hiring workers, from
struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail industries across
the south and east.  Commodity Shipments  Growth in resource exports will exceed that of investments
after the peak, Stevens said today.  “By then we might expect that some other sectors that have
been weak of late, like residential and non-residential
construction, might be starting to pick up,” he said.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
nation’s currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for all but 23 days this year, remaining stronger than
the average 75 U.S. cents since the currency was freely floated
in December 1983.  The local dollar has advanced about 7 percent since the
central bank last lowered rates June 5, making it the best
performer after the Swedish krona and the  New Zealand dollar 
among the Group of 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  