-- Swap Margins, New York Fed, SEC-Money Funds: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-24T11:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/swap-margins-new-york-fed-sec-money-funds-compliance.html
Banks and money managers will need
to post $480 billion in new collateral to back swaps processed
by clearinghouses under the Dodd-Frank Act, according to a
Morgan Stanley analysis.  The firms would need to post as much as $1.3 trillion and
as little as $20 billion of so-called initial margin, analysts
led by Tiffany Wilding wrote in a note to Morgan Stanley clients
yesterday. The demands will be mitigated by “unencumbered
collateral” already at the firms, the fact that only new trades
need to be cleared and that a range of assets from sovereign
debt to corporate bonds can be used, they wrote.  Dodd-Frank requires most interest-rate, credit-default and
other swaps to be processed by clearinghouses in an effort to
cut counterparty risk after the  $648 trillion  privately
negotiated market complicated efforts to resolve the financial
crisis in 2008. Initial margin hasn’t always been required on
swaps trades outside clearinghouses.  The new regulations also require swaps that can’t be
processed by a clearinghouse to be backed by collateral.  “We estimate this market is approximately $170 trillion in
size, which implies significantly greater potential
incremental” margin growth, the analysts wrote. They said they
would estimate the amount needed to back non-cleared swaps in a
future report.  Compliance Policy  SEC Money-Fund Talks Included Proposal to End Outflows in Crisis  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro , who said she couldn’t get fellow commissioners to
agree to tighten money-market fund rules, rejected an
alternative that would give funds authority to halt or limit
withdrawals in times of crisis, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the discussions.  Schapiro said in a statement Aug. 22 that she canceled a
vote on her plan to give funds the choice of switching to a
floating share price or establishing a capital buffer with
redemption restrictions. She said three of the five
commissioners told her they wouldn’t support the idea.  At least two commissioners previously made a
counterproposal that would allow firms running money funds to
stop investor flight, similar to how hedge funds operate, said
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks have been private. The so-called gating proposal also
would have required additional disclosure to investors about the
risks of putting money in the funds, the person said.  The chairman also rejected an idea posed by Commissioner
Luis Aguilar, one of the three standing against the proposal, to
issue a so-called concept release to gather public comments on
money-fund oversight instead of formally proposing changes, the
person said.  For more, click here and see Levitt interview, below.  Ontario Securities Commission Seeks Comment on Proposed Fee Plan  The Ontario Securities Commission published a draft of its
proposed fee model and is seeking comment on the plan.  The proposed changes are intended to provide the commission
with more resources to meet increasing regulatory operations,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Biggest Turkish Pension Fund Sees Fee Cap Lifting Savings  Turkey’s biggest provider of pensions said proposed rules
slashing fees that fund managers charge their clients will
encourage Turks to save more, lifting an obstacle to the country
winning investment-grade status.  Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik AS (ANHYT) , which manages $1.7 billion,
expects the rules, poised to slash charges from as much as 8
percent annually, will boost its pension’s pot in the long run,
deputy chief executive Mine Kumcuoglu said. Moody’s says
Turkey’s savings rate of 12 percent of  gross domestic product ,
compared with China’s 53 percent, makes the economy vulnerable
to foreign-capital outflows. Local-debt yields of 7.66 percent
are the highest among major  emerging markets  after Brazil.  Turkey must fund economic growth either with savings or
money from abroad. Investor concern that the country may be too
reliant on foreign inflows was heightened last year as consumer
borrowing rose 40 percent and an import boom lifted the current-
account deficit to a record $77 billion, or 10 percent of GDP.  The Treasury is proposing a law reducing management and
entrance fees charged by private pension companies, which
Kumcuoglu and Ata Invest analyst Faith Tugrul Topac say will
take effect by early 2013.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  HSBC in Settlement Talks with U.S on Money-Laundering Probe  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which is under investigation by U.S.
regulators for laundering funds of sanctioned nations including
Iran and Sudan, is in talks to settle the matter, two people
with knowledge of the case said.  The bank, Europe’s largest by market value, made a $700
million provision in July for any U.S. fines after a Senate
Committee found it had given terrorists and drug cartels access
to the U.S. financial system. That sum might increase, Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  has said.  An HSBC settlement regulators and the Manhattan District
Attorney were aiming to conclude as early as September may have
been slowed when New York’s banking superintendent accused
Standard Chartered of laundering $250 billion for Iran.
Regulators had been talking with both banks about universal
accords when  Benjamin Lawsky  on Aug. 6 threatened to revoke
Standard Chartered’s license. Deals with the London-based banks
next month are still possible, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the investigations are confidential.  “This is an epidemic of banks willfully, consistently
violating economic sanctions,” Jimmy Gurule, a former
undersecretary for enforcement at the  U.S. Treasury , said of
sanctioned-nation  money laundering . “It calls for more serious
sanctions than a monetary fine for an individual bank that does
nothing more than harm shareholders.”  HSBC’s $700 million set-aside, if paid, would constitute
the largest U.S. settlement reached over such allegations,
topping the $619 million in penalties and forfeitures paid in
June by ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services
company.  Standard Chartered  agreed on Aug. 14 to pay $340
million to settle the New York state matter, an accord that
broke a previous pattern of resolving all such U.S. probes at
once in a unified agreement.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Urges SEC to Block Nasdaq’s Facebook Payout Plan  Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose market-making unit suffered millions
of dollars of losses trading  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in its public debut,
urged U.S. regulators to reject  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s proposal
to make up for its errors.  The third-biggest U.S. bank said New York-based  Nasdaq 
OMX’s claims that its liability should be limited by immunity
afforded to exchanges is unsupported by legal precedent.
Decisions made by the second-largest U.S. equity trading venue
in the May 18 initial public offering were aimed at protecting
its profits rather than member firms, the company said.  Citigroup’s assertions, contained in a 17-page letter to
the Securities and Exchange Commission, came one day after rival
market-maker Citadel LLC said Nasdaq OMX’s proposal should be
approved. The New York-based bank said its losses exceed its
portion of the pool proposed by Nasdaq OMX last month, which
would compensate Wall Street firms that lost money after a
design flaw in its computers delayed Facebook’s open and left
traders confused about how many shares they owned.  “Market participants suffered hundreds of millions of
dollars of losses as a result of Nasdaq’s profit-driven conduct
prior to and during the Facebook IPO, not as a result of
protected regulatory activity by Nasdaq, or routine system
failures,” Citigroup wrote. “Nasdaq should not be permitted to
hide behind regulatory immunity.”  Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to
comment.  The opposition is another sign Nasdaq’s responsibility will
be determined in court rather than by regulators.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s largest bank, said last month that it is examining
legal options after losing as much as $350 million in the IPO.  For more, click here.  New York Fed Unloads Last Debt From AIG’s 2008 Rescue  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ’s role in the $182.3
billion rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  has ended on
a high.  The central bank sold $3.4 billion in toxic mortgage debt
yesterday that it inherited four years ago when it bailed out
AIG, once the world’s largest insurer. The assets were the last
batch from its Maiden Lane III LLC  portfolio  created to purchase
$62.1 billion of collateralized debt obligations tied to risky
residential- and commercial-mortgage securities that helped sink
AIG when property markets tumbled.  The New York Fed’s management of Maiden Lane III will
result in a cumulative net gain to the public of about $6.6
billion, the district bank said yesterday in a statement.  Yesterday’s sale “marks the end of an important chapter,
our assistance to AIG, that was undertaken to stabilize the
financial system in the midst of the financial crisis,”  William
Dudley , president of the New York Fed, said in the statement.  Joe Norton , a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to
comment yesterday.  For more, click here.  Nasdaq Says Some Short Orders May Have Broken 10% Rule, WSJ Says  Nasdaq said that an unspecified number of orders may have
broken the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s alternative
uptick rule, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The rule, which limits bearish bets on stocks that are
already down significantly, is triggered after a stock drops 10
percent in one day, the Journal said.  Interviews  Levitt Says SEC Money-Fund Punt a ‘National Disgrace’:  Tom Keene   U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary
Schapiro’s abandonment of her quest to impose tougher rules on
money-market mutual funds is a “national disgrace,” said
former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt .  “There’s clearly a need to do something about money-market
funds,” Levitt, 81, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio
interview with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “Everything else is
marked to the market. This should be marked to the market in the
interest of investors. The fact that Mary Schapiro couldn’t get
her three members of the commission to support this is really a
national disgrace.”  Three of the four other SEC commissioners didn’t support a
four-year effort to make money funds more stable, Schapiro said
in a statement that urged other policy makers to take action.
That could move the fight over regulating the funds to the
Financial Stability Oversight Council.  “This is a national issue,” Levitt said. Protecting
investors “is a matter that the president should weigh in on.
The Federal Reserve Board took that position. The Treasury
Department is supportive of money-market regulation.”  Schapiro has worked to make money funds safer since the
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund in September
2008.  For more, click here, and see Compliance Policy, above.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  