-- U.K. Second-Quarter Slump Smaller Than First Estimated: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-24T11:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/u-k-second-quarter-slump-smaller-than-initially-estimated-1-.html
The  U.K. economy  shrank less than
initially estimated in the second quarter after construction and
production output were revised to show a smaller slump.  Gross domestic product fell 0.5 percent, compared with an
initial estimate of a 0.7 percent decline on July 25, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in London. The report also
showed the impact of cooling export demand, with net trade
cutting 1 percentage point from GDP, the most since 1998.  The revision may not change the broader view of the economy
as it struggles to recover amid the government’s fiscal squeeze
and the fallout from the euro-area debt crisis.  Bank of England 
policy makers cut their growth forecasts this month and left the
door open to more stimulus if needed, with Governor  Mervyn King 
saying they will do all they can to spur growth.  “The big picture is that the economy has been roughly flat
over the last couple of years and we expect it is unlikely to
improve significantly during the rest of this year or 2013,”
said  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“The economy faces powerful and persistent headwinds. With
prolonged stagnation in prospect, we believe the economy needs
more stimulus.”  The GDP decline matched the median forecast of 30
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier, the
economy shrank 0.5 percent.  The pound fell for a second day against the dollar,
slipping 0.1 percent to $1.5844 as of 12:05 p.m. in London. The
FTSE 100 Index declined 0.3 percent and the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  was down 0.2 percent and was headed for its first weekly
fall since June, before meetings between German, French and
Greek leaders to discuss  Greece ’s second bailout program.  Revisions  U.K. construction output dropped 3.9 percent in the second
quarter, less than the 5.2 percent initially estimated, while
production declined 0.9 percent compared with 1.3 percent, the
statistics office said. Services, the largest part of the
economy, were unrevised at a 0.1 percent decline. Changes in
inventories added 1.2 percentage points to GDP.  Consumer spending  fell 0.4 percent and  government spending 
was unchanged, according to the report. Gross fixed capital
formation fell 3.2 percent, exports dropped 1.7 percent and
imports rose 1.4 percent.  A separate U.K. report showed  business investment  fell 1.5
percent in the quarter from the previous three months and was up
1.7 percent from a year earlier. An index of services dropped
1.7 percent in June from May.  “Private domestic demand is thus performing particularly
poorly and the euro crisis is taking its toll,” said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Only
stocks stepped into the breach to prevent a sharper fall, which
does not bode well for future output.”  ‘Challenging’ Europe  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller, said yesterday
that  Europe ’s economy “remains very uneven.” Chief Financial
Officer Deirdre Mahlan said that the region is “very
challenging.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said late yesterday that Germany
and France will keep pressure on Greece to overhaul its economy
when she meets today with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. Merkel
is trying to prevent an escalation of Europe’s debt turmoil
after international monitors report on Greece’s finances.  Erratic Factors  The Bank of England has said that “erratic factors” such
as an extra public holiday for the queen’s Diamond Jubilee in
June exaggerated the weakness in second-quarter GDP and growth
would have been 0.5 percentage points higher excluding them.  Recent reports suggest the economy’s weakness has continued
into the current quarter, with an index of  manufacturing  falling
to the weakest level in three years in July. Services grew at
the slowest pace in 19 months.  The Bank of England is currently in the middle of a 50
billion-pound ($79 billion) round of stimulus that’s scheduled
to run until November. Policy maker  Martin Weale  said in an
interview published today in The Herald newspaper that he
doesn’t see a need right now to add to bond purchases.  If stimulus is needed, he said he may favor an interest-
rate cut over more quantitative easing if it could be achieved
“without finding some banks got themselves into a position
where they had to reduce lending because of the effects.”  Global Stimulus  Separately,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said today that policy makers are prepared to respond in
the event of a slowdown. He said he’s cautiously optimistic
about the global outlook and that Australian policy makers are
“well equipped” to manage any turmoil. He cited several
favorable domestic signals including low unemployment, top-rated
government debt, tame inflation and a strong banking system.  The RBA’s central outlook is for growth “close to trend”
and inflation within a 2 percent to 3 percent target range, and
the central bank is “prepared to respond to significant
deviations,” he said.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington  may show that orders for  durable goods  rose 2.5
percent in July, the most this year, after a 1.3 percent
increase the previous month, according to the median forecast of
75 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  