-- U.K. Lawmakers Seek Probe of FirstGroup Rail Win Over Virgin
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-08-24T12:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/u-k-lawmakers-seek-probe-of-firstgroup-rail-win-over-virgin.html
Louise Ellman , who heads the U.K.
Parliament’s Transport Committee, called on the government to
delay signing a contract for  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  to run Britain’s
premier express rail route instead of Virgin Trains so her
committee can probe the deal.  “This franchise will affect millions of passengers and
last for up to 15 years,” Ellman said in an e-mailed statement
today. “A great deal of public and private money is at stake. I
have no fixed view on the matter and no preference for any of
the bidders. My wish is simply to bring greater transparency to
the process.”  The Department for Transport said Aug. 15 it was awarding
the franchise for the West Coast line, operated by Virgin since
1997, to FirstGroup for at least 13 years in a deal generating
5.5 billion pounds ($8.7 billion) for the government. Ellman
said she’d written to Transport Secretary Justine Greening
asking her to delay the signing planned for Aug. 28.  Virgin founder  Richard Branson  responded to the franchise
award by announcing he’ll quit the U.K. rail business,
describing the decision as “insanity” that could end in
bankruptcy. The RMT rail union said that the winning tender,
worth more than Virgin’s, was based on a “massive cuts plan”
that it will oppose.  The decision excluded Branson from the U.K. rail industry
for the first time since its privatization. He said he made a
“strong and deliverable” offer for the West Coast line, which
transports 31 million people a year between London and the
cities of Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool and
Manchester.  “Our published processes and criteria do not provide for a
role in a live procurement exercise for the Transport Select
Committee, which has not requested any kind of dialogue on this
issue before now,” the Department for Transport said in an e-
mailed statement. Greening “is due to appear in front of the
select committee in early September and will be happy to talk
about the business of her department.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  