-- U.S. Stocks Snap Six-Week Rally Amid Europe Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/u-s-stocks-snap-six-week-rally-amid-europe-concern.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
snapped a six-week gain amid concern European leaders may fail
to tame the region’s debt crisis and as investors speculated
whether central banks will provide further economic stimulus.  Equities rallied the final day on bets the  Federal Reserve 
will act to boost growth.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
slumped at least 7.8 percent for the week while discount chain
 Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  plunged 21 percent on disappointing forecasts.
 Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the retailer resisting a takeover attempt by its
founder, sank 15 percent after profit trailed estimates.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  rose 2.3 percent and set a record U.S. market value.  The  S&P 500  declined 0.5 percent to 1,411.13, after the
benchmark index for American equities briefly topped a  four-year 
high during the week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped
117.23 points, or 0.9 percent, to 13,157.97.  “There’s lack of data or news to push the market,” Wayne Lin, a  money manager  at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in
a phone interview. His firm oversees $636 billion. “The
European situation is not resolved. The market wants the global
economic environment to look weak enough to trigger central bank
action, but not so weak that it’s going to threaten earnings.”  Stocks started the week lower as Germany’s Bundesbank
stepped up criticism of the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
program. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Europe is in one
of its deepest crises and while the path to a solution is “long
and arduous,” the region will emerge stronger. In the U.S., Fed
minutes showed many policy makers backed monetary easing and
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited the ability to stimulate growth.  2008 High  Concern about a global slowdown and a worsening of Europe’s
debt has prevented the S&P 500 from rallying further, according
to Peter Gunning at Russell Investments. On Aug. 21, the gauge
briefly traded above a four-year high of 1,419.04 reached in
April. The S&P 500 has rallied 2.3 percent in August and is on
pace for its third straight monthly gain.  The index has struggled to break out of a narrow trading
range as price swings have averaged 0.7 percent a day since Aug.
6, the smallest fluctuation over any comparable periods since
January 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market has run ahead of itself,” said Gunning, the
global chief investment officer at Seattle-based Russell. His
firm oversees $160 billion. “There are lots of dark clouds.
It’s problematic to solve what Europe needs to solve given the
political landscape. The U.S economy really hasn’t grown much.”  Attention now turns to Bernanke’s Aug. 31 speech in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , where he may clarify his thinking on the need for
stimulus. While data showed sales of existing homes in the U.S.
climbed from an eight-month low, a slump in demand for U.S.
capital goods signaled a factory slowdown.  Biggest Declines  Companies which are most dependent on the pace of economic
growth slumped during the week. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical
Index dropped 1.2 percent, ending a five-week rally.  Technology shares, which comprise about  20 percent  of the
S&P 500, declined 0.6 percent amid disappointing outlooks at
some of the industry’s largest companies.  Dell sank 7.9 percent to $11.26. The company’s strategy of
using  acquisitions  to add software, storage and networking
equipment has been slow to offset declining sales of desktops
and laptops, which account for  half  of revenue. Consumers and
businesses increasingly favor Apple’s iPad and other tablet
computers over traditional machines.  Hewlett-Packard slid 9.9 percent, the most since February,
to $17.58. The company posted a record quarterly loss and
reported slumping sales for personal computers and services
aimed at businesses, underscoring the turnaround challenge
facing Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman .  Big Lots  Big Lots plunged 21 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$30.28. Slowing demand for lawn and garden items as well as
furniture will force discounting and pressure profit margins for
the rest of the year, Chief Executive Officer Steve Fishman said
on a conference call with analysts.  Best Buy slipped 15 percent, the biggest decline since
December, to $17.31. The company suspended providing an earnings
forecast as sales of computers and televisions dropped. Best Buy
also hired Hubert Joly as its chief executive officer to oversee
a turnaround plan that entails shifting to smaller locations in
a bid to fend off Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Boeing Co. (BA)  fell 3.8 percent to $71.09. It lost an order for
35 Dreamliners with a list price of $8.5 billion in the biggest
787 cancellation yet as Qantas Airways Ltd. scrapped a contract
after delivery delays and losses on international routes.  Lower Rating  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  declined 6.5 percent to $4.44, a record low.
Barclays Plc cut the price estimate and  rating  for the shares,
citing the potential for increasing marketing costs and
narrowing profit margins amid sales of discounted items.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, rose 2.3 percent
to $663.22. The company climbed to a record $665.15 on Aug. 20,
giving it a market value of $623.5 billion, the highest ever for
a U.S.-based company.  While the stock has jumped more than 80-fold in the past
decade, earnings have gained more than 300-fold to $28.05 a
share last fiscal year. Projections for further gains reflect
optimism that Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  will use $117.2
billion in cash to keep growing in markets such as mobile
devices, while pushing into new ones, including televisions.  “Apple has more fundamentals backing the company’s market
cap,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach in San
Francisco. “They have a lot of earnings, and lot of cash, which
a lot of companies can’t really claim.”  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the largest U.S. gold producer,
increased 4.4 percent to $49.23. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc., the biggest publicly traded copper producer, gained 2.2
percent to $36.13. Gold capped its biggest weekly gain since
January amid speculation that potential Fed stimulus measures
would boost demand for the metal as an inflation hedge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  