-- U.S. Stocks Rise as Fed Sees ‘Scope for Further Action’
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-08-24T20:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed.html
U.S. stocks rose, paring the first
weekly decline in almost two months for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he
saw “scope for further action,” increasing speculation the
central bank will act to boost economic growth.  Nine out of  10 groups  in the  S&P 500  rose, as consumer
discretionary, industrial and technology stocks erased earlier
losses.  Watson Pharmaceuticals (WPI)  Inc. climbed 6 percent for the
biggest gain in the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks as its
generic painkiller Lidoderm got approval from the  Food and Drug
Administration .  QEP Resources Inc. (QEP)  jumped 6 percent after
agreeing to buy North Dakota oil assets.  The S&P 500 added 0.7 percent to 1,411.13 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The gauge fell 0.5 percent for the week. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  rose 100.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to
13,157.97 today. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S.
was 4.7 billion shares, 24 percent below the three-month average
and the third-lowest level of the year.  “It was confirmation of Bernanke’s commitment to
potentially do something more if the economy appears it needs
it,”  John Carey , who helps oversee about $220 billion at
Pioneer Investments in Boston, said in a telephone interview.
“That was reassuring to people who might have thought he was
stepping back from that.” He said, “It’s summer trading and
volume is light so it doesn’t take much to move the market. A
little whiff of positive news was enough.”  The S&P 500 had advanced for the past six straight weeks
amid optimism that global central banks will take actions to
stimulate growth. At the same time,  trading volume  and
volatility have dropped this month as vacationing traders await
policy clues from the Fed’s annual summit in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, and a European Central Bank meeting in September.  ‘Further Action’  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke said in an Aug. 22 letter to California Republican
 Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee.  Minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-
Aug. 1 meeting showed many members judged that more stimulus
“would likely be warranted fairly soon” unless the pace of the
recovery picks up. Bernanke will have an opportunity to clarify
his views in his Aug. 31 speech at Jackson Hole, where he
signaled a second round of bond buying in 2010.  A report today showed demand for U.S. capital goods such as
machinery and communications gear dropped in July by the most in
eight months, indicating companies are pulling back on
investment. Bookings for non-military capital equipment
excluding planes slumped 3.4 percent, the Commerce Department
report showed.  Bailout Fund  Global stocks fell earlier as two central bank officials
said ECB President  Mario Draghi  may wait until Germany’s
Constitutional Court rules on the legality of Europe’s permanent
bailout fund before unveiling full details of his plan to buy
 government bonds . With the court set to rule on Sept. 12,
investors looking for Draghi to announce a definitive program at
his Sept. 6 press conference might be disappointed, according to
the officials.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said at a joint press
conference with Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras that
Germany is ready to help the Greek government as it takes the
necessary steps to resolve his country’s economic woes. Samaras
will go to Paris for a meeting with French President  Francois Hollande  tomorrow after concluding his visit to Berlin today.  ‘Resilient Market’  “It’s a resilient market,”  Walter Todd , who oversees
about $930 million as chief investment officer of Greenwood
Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina, said in a telephone
interview. “When you think that losses will accelerate, the
market rallies back.” He said, “It’s just a very difficult
environment to read.”  The S&P 500 has struggled to break out of a narrow trading
range as price swings in the index have averaged 0.7 percent a
day since Aug. 6, the smallest fluctuation over any comparable
periods since January 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has hovered above 1,400 since Aug. 7, and
failed to stay above a four-year high of 1,419.04 after briefly
surpassing it on Aug. 21.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , fell 4.9 percent to 15.18 today. It has lost 43
percent since June 1 and touched 13.45 on Aug. 17, its lowest
level since 2007.  Sears, Masco  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index, a  gauge of 30  U.S.
stocks tied to economic growth, rose for the first time in five
days, adding 0.4 percent. Sears Holding Corp.  led gains  in the
measure, rising 3.8 percent to $56.51.  Masco Corp. (MAS) , a home
improvement and building products maker, advanced 1.4 percent to
$14.13.  Nine out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 gained at least 0.4
percent, with telephone stocks rising the most.  Consumer
discretionary (S5COND)  companies climbed 0.8 percent, after earlier
falling as much as 0.2 percent. Industrial stocks added 0.5
percent after losing 0.4 percent. Technology stocks erased a 0.6
percent decline, advancing 0.4 percent.  Watson Pharmaceuticals advanced 6 percent to $83.32 after
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based generic-drug maker said in a
statement after the market close yesterday that its generic
version of Lidoderm received approval from the FDA and it is
planning on launching the product in September 2013.  QEP Resources rallied 6 percent to $28.80. The  explorer 
spun off from Questar Corp. in 2010 agreed to buy North Dakota
oil assets from companies including Sundance Energy Australia
Ltd., expanding its Williston Basin acreage by 30 percent.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  added 3.4 percent to $43.86 as the company
said its experimental Alzheimer’s treatment slowed the decline
of cognition in some patients even though it failed to meet the
primary goals of two large studies.  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  plunged 16 percent to $30.13 for the biggest
drop in the S&P 500 after the software maker lowered its annual
sales forecast and said it plans to cut jobs as it restructures
to focus on cloud and mobile computing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  