-- Turkey Bond Yields Rise Most in 2 Weeks; Lira Falls Second Day
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-08-24T12:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/turkey-bond-yields-rise-most-in-2-weeks-lira-falls-second-day.html
Turkey  Bond yields  rose the most in
more than two weeks on speculation the U.S. may refrain from
providing more stimulus, limiting room for central bank Governor
Erdem Basci to cut rates. The lira weakened for a second day.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt jumped 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.84 percent at 1:56 p.m. in
Istanbul, the biggest gain on a closing basis since Aug. 7. The
lira depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.7999 per dollar, retreating
the most in a week.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said late yesterday recent signs of improvement in the economy
would prompt him to oppose any new program to buy bonds to
reduce borrowing costs. Turkish yields dropped 11 basis points
yesterday after minutes of the Fed’s most recent meeting showed
U.S. policy makers favored more stimulus measures unless the
economy shows signs of “sustainable” recovery.  “The Fed minutes had increased expectations but Bullard
made an opposite statement, creating confusion in the market,”
Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is Securities in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. ‘Our central bank needs
support from abroad to cut interest rates and raise the amount
of liquidity, otherwise its hands will be tied as inflation is
still at 9 percent and the lira remains under pressure.’’  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci, who varies  interest
rates  daily between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent to rein in
credit growth and control inflation, said on July 26 he may
narrow the band by lowering the upper limit.  The central bank lent 6.5 billion liras ($3.6 billion) at
its lowest 5.75 percent funding rate in the one-week repurchase
agreements auction today, compared with 5.5 billion liras
provided yesterday. It also provided 4 billion liras in one-
month repo auction.  The bank has lent at its minimum policy rate since June 4,
bringing down  average borrowing costs  for lenders. The charge
fell to 6.54 percent on Aug. 17, the lowest since Nov. 21, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  