-- Hutchison Said to Give Liberty Global Unit Austria Access
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-08-24T10:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/hutchison-said-to-give-liberty-global-unit-austria-access.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , seeking
regulatory support to acquire Orange’s Austrian unit, offered
access to its mobile-phone network to  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s UPC
unit, two people familiar with the matter said.  UPC  Austria  GmbH, the country’s largest cable-television
operator, will be allowed to use to Hutchison’s systems to
provide service as a mobile virtual-network operator, the people
said under condition of anonymity because details of the deal
aren’t public.  Hutchison wants to buy the Austrian unit of Orange for 1.3
billion euros ($1.6 billion) and is looking at concessions to
alleviate European Commission concerns that the deal will cut
the number of mobile operators in the country to three. Jan
Trionow, the head of Hutchison 3G Austria, said yesterday that
his company would offer attractive terms to a virtual operator,
which he wouldn’t name because it doesn’t want to be identified.  Hutchison 3G Austria is the smallest wireless operator in
the country of 8.2 million people, where it competes with
Orange,  Telekom Austria  AG and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile.  The company, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-
shing, agreed to buy Orange Austria in February. Austria’s
competition authority is separately probing a side deal to the
Orange purchase, in which Telekom Austria plans to acquire about
700,000 clients using Orange via the Yesss! discount brand.
Orange Austria is 35 percent owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and 65
percent by U.K. private-equity firm Mid Europa Partners.  The Hutchison offer to UPC was reported in today’s edition
of Austrian newspaper Die Presse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  