-- Verizon Gets Mixed Ruling in Video-On-Demand Patent Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-24T20:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/verizon-gets-mixed-ruling-in-video-on-demand-patent-fight-1-.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  must pay
royalties to a California company whose patents it infringes,
though it doesn’t have to stop providing its FiOS TV customers
with video-on-demand service, a U.S. appeals court said today.  A jury’s $115 million damage award to ActiveVideo Networks
Inc. was affirmed, as was an order for Verizon to pay
ActiveVideo $2.74 per month for each FiOS-TV subscriber. The
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington 
upheld a finding that three ActiveVideo patents were infringed
and reversed a finding as to a fourth.  ActiveVideo, which licenses its technology to Verizon
competitor  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , owns inventions related to
delivering interactive television to subscribers. After Verizon
lost the trial, a federal judge in Norfolk,  Virginia , gave
Verizon six months to alter its video-on-demand service or stop
providing it. That order was put on hold pending the appeal.  The damage award has grown to almost $260 million with
interest and royalties, Jeff Miller, ActiveVideo’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement.  “We’re glad to have this part of the case behind us so
that we can put all of our energies into doing what ActiveVideo
Networks does best:  enabling our customers to deliver the best
TV navigation, guides and content experiences to all of their
subscribers,” Miller said in the statement.  ‘Substantial Evidence’  Edward McFadden, a spokesman for Verizon, said the company
had no immediate comment.  The appeals court said that “substantial evidence supports
the jury’s verdict” against New York-based Verizon regarding
three patents, while it doesn’t back up a claim against FiOS
processors involving one of the patents.  ActiveVideo can’t prevent Verizon from providing a video-
on-demand service when the  San Jose , California-based company
was actively licensing its patents to all comers, the panel
wrote. Cablevision might lose customers to the competition;
ActiveVideo only loses potential revenue that would be balanced
out by Verizon’s royalties, it said.  “In light of the record evidence including ActiveVideo’s
past licensing of this technology and its pursuit of Verizon as
a licensee, no fact finder could reasonably conclude that
ActiveVideo would be irreparably harmed by the payment of a
royalty,” the three-judge panel wrote in an  opinion  posted on
its website.  The Federal Circuit panel also vacated a judge’s ruling
that a Verizon patent was invalid and remanded that part of the
case for further proceedings. The jury had awarded Verizon
$16,000 in damages based on infringement of its patents.  The case is ActiveVideo Networks Inc. v. Verizon
Communications Inc., 2011-1538,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
ActiveVideo Networks Inc. v. Verizon Communications Inc.,
10cv248, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Norfolk).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  