-- Vietnam Stocks Fall Most in Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-24T11:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/vietnam-stocks-fall-most-in-asia.html
Vietnamese  stocks  approached a  bear
market  this week as the detention of a banking tycoon sparked
concern more arrests will disrupt the nation’s financial system.  The  VN Index (MXEF)  rose 1.8 percent at close in Ho Chi Minh City,
following a three-day, 10 percent tumble. The gauge has fallen
18 percent from its high this year on May 8, near the 20 percent
decline some investors regard as a bear market. The measure
 traded  for 9.5 times estimated profit yesterday, the cheapest
level since May 25 and lower than the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index’s 10.5 multiple, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asia Commercial Bank (ACB)  tumbled 19 percent the previous three
days after Nguyen Duc Kien, one of its founders, was arrested
Aug. 20 for what the central bank called conducting “business
illegally.” Vietnamese police said today they had arrested Asia
Commercial’s former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai. The
benchmark money-market rate climbed to a four-month high amid
concern about a cash crunch.  “Not every stock in Vietnam by any means is going to be
implicated or involved in any way in this, so there’s an
opportunity for brave investors to take advantage of some very
cheap valuations,”  Kevin Snowball , the Ho Chi Minh City-based
chief executive of PXP Vietnam Asset Management, which manages
about $100 million, said by phone. “If we get some definitive
news on what’s going on, that may provide a respite. But if
there are more arrests, then there will be more weakness.”  Slumping Valuations  Asia Commercial shares gained 3.8 percent today in Hanoi.
The stock’s three-day slump dragged its valuation lower
yesterday to 6.1 times estimated  profit , the lowest level since
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitch Ratings  placed the bank on rating watch negative, it
said in a statement today after market close. The lender’s long-
and short-term issuer default ratings may be cut if there are
sustained weakening in the bank’s liquidity and reputation,
according to the statement.  The lender’s former CEO Hai will be detained for four
months from Aug. 23 while police investigate him for allegedly
“intentionally violating state regulations on economic
management, causing serious consequences,” according to a
police statement on the government’s website today.  Hai was not reachable on his mobile phone. Asia Commercial
appointed one of Hai’s former deputies, Do Minh Toan, as CEO
late yesterday after accepting Hai’s resignation, according to
an e-mailed statement from the lender.  Deputy CEO Nguyen Thanh Toai declined to comment on reports
of Hai’s arrest and the police investigation when contacted on
his mobile phone today. Some Asia Commercial branches faced
crowds of customers wanting to withdraw funds in recent days,
though their numbers had eased, Toai said when contacted by
phone yesterday.  “Our situation is stabilizing,” he said. “We have
mobilized enough funds to meet demand.”  Bank Stocks  The lender borrowed about 7 trillion dong ($335 million)
from the central bank in open-market operations on Aug. 22 to
“calm” depositors and sought to withdraw 36 trillion dong of
loans from the  interbank market  to ensure it can cover its
liabilities, according Deputy CEO Toai.  Joint Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam,
the nation’s biggest lender by market value, climbed 4 percent
today after sinking 12 percent the past three days.  Vietnam
Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade , the second
largest, gained 4.1 percent after a 9.2 percent slump. Saigon
Thuong Tin Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, known as Sacombank,
added 2 percent after tumbling 14 percent.  PXP’s Snowball said he bought stocks yesterday, declining
to be specific. Consumer staple and agricultural companies
“look pretty good,” he said.  Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-
Stock Co. (VNM) , the nation’s biggest listed dairy producer, accounts
for 8.2 percent of his $34.4 million Vietnam Emerging Equity
Fund. The stock rose 2 percent today after a 4.7 percent slump
yesterday dragged its valuation to 11.6 times estimated profit,
the lowest level since Aug. 8.  Foreign Purchases  Overseas investors bought a net $15 million of Vietnamese
equities in the past four days, headed for the biggest weekly
 purchases  since the week to March 30, Ho Chi Minh City exchange
data show. Tran Dac Sinh, the bourse’s chairman, was not
reachable on his mobile phone.  “Even though stock prices have fallen, liquidity in the
market has increased significantly,” the Hanoi Stock Exchange
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Foreign investors are
“not affected by psychology and took the chance to buy stock at
low prices,” according to the statement.  More than half the  VN Index (VNINDEX) ’s 303 companies fell at least 4
percent yesterday. The State Securities Commission urged
investors to stay calm, saying it will intensify monitoring and
“strictly deal” with investors who spread rumors, according to
a statement on the regulator’s website yesterday.  Hoarding Cash  “The Vietnam issue is more about confidence than market
valuations,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-
based Parry International Trading Ltd. “The high probability of
more high-profile banking arrests is creating uncertainty for
the banking system. The central bank has stepped in to assure it
will cover its liabilities.”  The nation’s benchmark money-market rate has more than
doubled in the past week on concern banks will hoard cash to
meet customer withdrawals. The overnight interbank deposit  rate 
gained 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, today to a
four-month high of 6.80 percent, according to data from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. A 198 basis-point jump on Aug. 22 was the
biggest since December 2010.  State Bank  of Vietnam injected 13 trillion dong into the
financial system through open-market operations on Aug. 22, the
most over a seven-day period this year. Governor Nguyen Van Binh
said Aug. 21 the monetary authority stands ready to ensure banks
have adequate cash after Kien’s detention.  Political Rivalry  “Although the central bank has been supplying quite a lot
of liquidity to open market operations over the last couple of
days, interbank rates have risen quite sharply,” Fiachra MacCana, managing director of brokerage  Ho Chi Minh City 
Securities Corp., said by phone yesterday. “This appears to
have reduced liquidity, especially for some smaller banks.”  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is seeking to
shore up a banking system saddled with the highest bad debt in
 Southeast Asia  that credit-rating companies cite as a threat to
the economy. The arrest of Kien, who has links to the prime
minister, may also be related to Dung’s rivalry with President
Truong Tan Sang for power within the Communist Party ranks,
Steve Norris, a Singapore-based analyst at  Control Risks Group ,
said this week.  Dung was reappointed to a five-year term last year. Sang
formerly headed the  Central Committee ’s central economic
commission before he was appointed as president last year, one
of the country’s top three leadership positions.  Vietnam ’s stock exchange in Ho Chi Minh City started
trading in 2000 with shares of four companies that began as
state-controlled businesses. The first private company was
listed four years later and a second bourse in Hanoi opened in
2005. The two exchanges now have about 700 stocks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  