-- Vodafone Said to Near Middle East Partnership With Zain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-08-24T10:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/vodafone-said-to-near-middle-east-partnership-with-zain.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is nearing an
agreement with Kuwait’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN) , known as
Zain, to expand access to networks across the Middle East,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The accord covers countries including Saudi Arabia, Iraq
and Bahrain, and would let Vodafone, the world’s second-largest
mobile-phone company, lower roaming fees and share handset-
purchasing costs, the people said, declining to be identified
because the talks are confidential. An announcement may be made
as early as next week, one of the people said.  Vodafone is seeking to expand in countries where it has no
existing presence with roaming deals and carrier agreements. The
Newbury, England-based operator last year signed accords with at
least 10 Asian carriers to lower roaming rates and give
subscribers and enterprise customers better network coverage.  Vodafone is seeking to tap a market where wireless calling
and data usage is soaring. Annual smartphone shipments in the
 Middle East  and Africa are set to climb to 152 million devices,
or 21.7 percent of the population, by 2015, from 36.7 million in
2011, according to Ovum, a London-based research firm.  Vodafone  gained  0.2 percent to 184.5 pence at 11:09 a.m.
London time. The stock had risen 2.9 percent this year through
yesterday. Zain added 1.5 percent to 700 fils at the close in
Kuwait yesterday, the last day of trading before the weekend.
The shares have lost 22 percent  this year  compared with a 0.6
percent decrease for the benchmark Kuwait Stock Exchange Index.  Investor Pressure  Zain’s shareholders last year missed a second attempt to
sell control of the company after  Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. (ETISALAT)  abandoned a $12 billion offer for a majority holding. Zain
sold most of its African assets in 2010 to Indian billionaire
Sunil Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)   Zain has operations across the Middle East and North
Africa, while Vodafone’s presence in the region is limited to
majority stakes in carriers in Qatar and Egypt.  France Telecom
SA (FTE) , the biggest French phone company, has also sought to build a
cluster of companies in the region, striking deals to enter Iraq
and Morocco and boosting its stake in an Egyptian carrier.  Vodafone, which was pushed by investors at its annual
shareholder meeting to consider further acquisitions, is always
considering whether it makes best use of its size, Chairman
 Gerard Kleisterlee  told investors in July. Vodafone previously
looked at an unidentified carrier in Indonesia, he said.  Still, the company is increasingly relying on sharing and
combining networks to lower costs after European regulators
blocked takeover attempts including a combination of its Greek
assets with a competitor. The company is sharing parts of its
British network with  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and with  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13)  in Ireland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  