-- Water Polluted From Fracking Divides Wyoming Neighbors
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/water-polluted-from-fracking-divides-wyoming-neighbors.html
Louis Meeks held a mason jar under
his laundry-room faucet, filling it with the cloudy liquid that
flows from his backyard well. It smelled like diesel fumes.  “Would you want to drink it?” Meeks, a 62-year-old with a
walrus mustache and suspenders, said in an interview in his
farmhouse near the town of Pavillion,  Wyoming . It’s a
demonstration Meeks has given neighbors, film crews, federal
officials, and even Wyoming’s Governor Matt Mead.  Meeks blames  Encana Corp. (ECA) , which owns 169 natural gas wells
under his and neighboring lands, for contaminating the water.
The company denies this, though the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency backs him up. It said in a  draft report  last
December that this area is the nation’s one established incident
of water contamination from hydraulic fracturing, a drilling
technique that has surged across the country.  Far from thanking him for raising the alarm, many of Meeks’
neighbors blame him for driving away prospective home buyers,
mortgage lenders and even restaurant customers.  “This has turned friend against friend,” said Linda
Strock, the bartender at Possum Petes in Pavillion, where she
hands fifths of Crown Royal whisky to customers at a drive-up
window. “It just makes me sad.”  As soon as an EPA report on Pavillion was issued, demand
for specialties such as shrimp and sweet-potato fries at the
local restaurant,  Miss Ginny’s Roost , collapsed.  ‘I’m Stuck’  “It was instantaneous, like the spigot was turned off,”
Ginny Warren, the owner of the restaurant, said. “Now I’m stuck
with a property that I couldn’t give away if I wanted to.”  The case of Pavillion, a town of 231 residents where oil
and gas drilling began in the 1960s, illustrates the risks for
rural communities where fracking is booming from  Pennsylvania  to
 North Dakota . In the  United Kingdom ,  South Africa  and  Poland ,
regulators are monitoring how fracking is evolving in the U.S.
as they decide on their own rules and procedures.  Water is the key to hydraulic fracturing: thousands of
gallons of it are mixed with sand and chemicals and shot
underground to break apart rock and free trapped oil or gas.
Industry officials say the process is safe and that they keep
gas and chemicals from escaping the wells and safely dispose of
the water that flows back up. Environmental advocates say the
example of Pavillion belies such assurances.  “We need to make sure that the rest of the country learns
from what we’re dealing with here,” said Wes Martel, co-chairman of the Eastern Shoshone Business Council, which
represents the interests of a local Native American tribe. “We
got lulled to sleep because industry said these chemicals would
never reach the groundwater.”  Controls Sought  After meeting with Meeks and other residents recently,
Martel began  advocating  for tighter controls on gas drillers.  Encana (ECA) , a Calgary-based company and  Canada ’s biggest
natural gas producer, and state officials say the water in
Meeks’ well doesn’t have contaminants in excess of federal
safety standards and shows no sign of an impact from gas
drilling. The company provides water to about 20 area households,
including Meeks, even though it denies contaminating any wells.  “The domestic wells show no impact from oil and gas”
production, Doug Hock, a spokesman for Encana, said in an
interview. Of the sulfates and methane federal officials found
in the water, he said: “We didn’t put it there, nature did.”  And some of Meeks’ closest neighbors say their water is
fine, and that the persistent complaints from Meeks are just a
bid by him to force Encana to buy him out, as it did with
another resident.  House Unsold  Jon Martin, who lives just to the east of Meeks and has an
EPA letter saying his water is safe, said he tried
unsuccessfully for two years to sell his home and 50 acres for
$375,000. When potential home buyers came to tour it, “their
first comment would be: Tell me about the water,” he said.  He blames Meeks for scuttling his chance to sell. The
families agitating want a buyout, Martin said. “They’re holding
out for more money,” he said.  Meeks, who says he has been ostracized, isn’t coy about
what he expects from Encana now: “I want to be compensated for
what they did to me. I’m not greedy, but anybody in their right
mind would want to” be bought out, he said.  Of his neighbors’ complaints, he is equally blunt: “I
didn’t ruin their land values. Encana did.”  Unique Geography  Pavillion sits in a high, flat valley, surrounded by
irrigation reservoirs and rocky outcroppings. Gas drilling is
centered in an area five miles east of the town, where just a
few households of hay farmers and cattle ranchers reside.  Gas production in the area is in some ways unique. The
geology is made up of shifting sands with pockets of gas, not
the shale deposits walled off from groundwater by thousands of
feet of rock, which is typical in the Marcellus Shale in the
eastern U.S. The company that drilled, Tom Brown Inc., didn’t
install cement all the way down the wells, leaving pockets of
bore hole without an impermeable outer layer, according to the
EPA.  Encana’s Hock said that while some wells don’t have that
casing, pressure testing showed no signs of leakage.  The land ownership structure in parts of Fremont County,
where Pavillion is located, is also novel.  Because of a century-old legacy of federal reclamation, the
farmers and ranchers own the surface property, while the Eastern
Shoshone and Northern Arapaho tribes from the Wind River
Reservation own the mineral rights for the land below.  Fields Re-Opened  When Tom Brown, which was bought by Encana in 2004, decided
it wanted to re-open that field, it negotiated terms to pay the
Shoshone-Arapaho tribes, and then came to the farmers and told
them there would be drilling on their land, according to John
Fenton, another local farmer tussling with the gas company.
Because of state laws, farmers have no choice but to cut a deal.  “They have the right to do what they want,” Fenton said.  The farmers or ranchers do get paid for the access to their
land, as much as $6,000 up front, and $1,500 a year per well,
according to Vince Dolbow, a local farmer who supports Encana
and has wells and other gas equipment on his land.  Two events from the mid-2000s are still reverberating
through Pavillion, and the debate among residents about what’s
going on with their water.  Bill Garland, who owned property adjacent to Meeks’, said
his cattle were becoming ill and died after drinking water on
his property.  Buy Out  He also didn’t want the gas-company employees coming on his
land. He ended up in court, fending off Tom Brown’s drilling.
After Encana acquired Tom Brown, it settled with Garland and
bought out his property, ending the dispute over his water and
gaining access to the land for a pipeline. Both Hock and Garland
declined to discuss the terms of the settlement.  “That set a bad precedent for everybody else,” Dolbow,
the farmer who supports Encana, said in an interview.  Encana later said that there is contamination on the
Garland property from old mining disposal pits. When an Encana
affiliate sold the property in 2010, it included an access
agreement so that Encana could do “environmental remediation.”
A map was attached showing the “groundwater impact area,” and
a 9-acre buffer within which Encana “recommended for no
irrigation.”  It also added a clause to the deed in bold, capital letters
specifically exempting Encana from any future environmental or
drinking-water claims.  “Such disclaimers are common in real estate
transactions,” Hock said. “The buyer is expected to do their
own due diligence prior to purchase.”  Oily Sheen  Meeks began complaining about problems with his water
around the same time, and got Encana to test his well twice, in
September 2004 and April 2005. In each of those tests, the
company determined that his water had “typical water quality
conditions for the area.”  Meeks, who said his water was pristine before fracking
started, wasn’t convinced by those assurances.  He still saw the persistent oily sheen and cloudy
components in his water. It smelled of gas as well and sometimes
ran yellow or brown, Meeks said. He had stopped raising sheep,
as the lambs kept dying. He decided he needed a new source of
water, and contracted with Louis Dickinson, who has been
drilling water wells in the area since 1978, to make a new well.  On December 19, 2005, Dickinson drilled down 540 feet, and
then began pumping off the water. As he pumped, the well “blew
off” and methane gas and muddy water started shooting up and
out the hole, Dickinson said in an interview.  Shooting Gas  The well kept shooting gas that entire day. With no end in
sight, Meeks made an emergency appeal to a local judge, who
forced Encana to cap the well. For the three days it blew, 3
million cubic feet of gas escaped, according to Meeks. Both
Dickinson and Meeks say they are convinced that the blowout was
caused by the gas drilling nearby, and Dickinson has stopped
drilling deep water wells near the  gas field .  The blowout shouldn’t be a surprise, according to Encana.
“He hit a gas pocket in the Pavillion gas field,” Hock said.
“That’s not uncommon.”  For now, residents of Pavillion are waiting for the EPA and
other government agencies to come back with results from a re-test of residents’ wells and the two EPA-drilled test wells in
the area. The EPA agreed to take another round of water samples,
after Encana and Wyoming officials criticized the testing
methods that resulted in last December’s draft report, and those
conclusions are set to be delivered in September.  Cisterns Offered  With the tests outstanding, the state has stepped in to
offer cisterns for residents who feel their water is unsafe.
Martin signed up for one; Meeks did not.  Other residents haven’t been offered such assistance. Ginny
Warren’s family is holding onto two ranches, unable to sell the
second one because no buyer can get a mortgage, even though the
property is nowhere near the gas field and their water is
unaffected. Martin is on his third attempt to get an independent
appraiser to sign off on his refinancing application. He put
plans to sell the farm and retire on hold.  Meeks uses the bottled water Encana delivers for his
drinking water for everything from showers for his granddaughter
to drinking water for his chickens. If he uses his well water,
the chickens “will die,” he said.  While he seethes about the treatment from some of his
closest neighbors, Meeks is counting on the federal government
to come to his aid.  “I never liked tree huggers, but now I see why we need
some regulation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  