-- West Holdings, Partners Plan $1.3 Billion Solar Plants
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-08-24T09:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/west-holdings-to-develop-1-3-billion-of-solar-plants-in-japan.html
(Corrects first paragraph to say company set up by West to
make investment.)  A company set up by  West Holdings
Corp. (1407) , a Japanese home renovator, plans to invest 100 billion
yen ($1.3 billion) to develop solar  power plants  to take
advantage of higher tariffs offered for renewable energy.  The 250 plants with a combined capacity of about 500
megawatts will be set up over five years by Japan Mega Solar
Power Co., formed by West Holdings in June, Toshihisa Nagashima,
senior managing director, said by phone today. Japan Mega Solar
has attracted 12 investors including  Orix Corp. (8591) , a Japanese
finance and leasing company, Shanghai-based  JA Solar Holdings
Co. (JASO) , the biggest maker of photovoltaic cells, and LS Industrial
Systems Co. of  South Korea , he said.  Japan introduced an incentive program for power from
renewable sources such as solar and wind in July, requiring
utilities to pay above-market rates to producers of clean
energy, with the additional cost passed on to consumers as a
surcharge.  Sekisui House Ltd. (1928) , the Japanese house builder, plans
to move into electricity generation by installing solar panels,
it said in July.  “We will give priority to JA Solar and LS Industrial
Systems” for solar panels to be used in the plants, Nagashima
said. The company may review the project depending on
preferential rates set annually by the government for clean
energy, he said.  The government set the feed-in tariff for solar at 42 yen
per kilowatt-hour for 20 years, about three times the rate of
14.59 yen per kilowatt-hour that industrial users paid for
electricity in the 12 months ended in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  