-- Williams Favored at U.S. Open After Winning Olympics, Wimbledon
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-08-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/williams-favored-at-u-s-open-after-winning-olympics-wimbledon.html
Serena Williams  is primed to move
one Grand Slam closer to the apex of women’s tennis history,
entering the  U.S. Open  in top form at an age when many see their
skills erode.  Williams, who turns 31 next month, would be the oldest U.S.
Open winner since  Margaret Court  in 1973 by continuing the form
that yielded dominating wins at Wimbledon and the Olympics.  As play begins on Aug. 27 at the National Tennis Center in
New York, Williams, with an unmatched service game, is the even-
money favorite to win her 15th Grand Slam singles title, the
fourth most for women since professionals were admitted in 1968.
 Chris Evert  and  Martina Navratilova  have 18 and  Steffi Graf  has
22. Court won 24, claiming 13 before the so-called Open era.  After a 17-year pro tennis career that’s had to compete for
Williams’s attention with outside interests such as fashion
design and acting, as well as a severe illness, she appears
fresh and focused on taking her place among the game’s all-time
greats, say those who’ve followed her career.  “She’s a rare athlete that has repeatedly re-invented
herself,” Larry Scott, who ran the  WTA tour  from 2003 to 2009,
said in an interview.  When Scott, now the commissioner of the Pac-12 college
sports conference, took the women’s tour job he said he was
repeatedly asked about the future of women’s tennis amid talk
that Williams and her sister Venus, 32, soon would retire.  “Sitting here today in 2012 seeing Serena’s success at the
Olympics, I think she has regularly defied her critics and in a
way, taken a bit of a contrarian approach,” Scott said. “The
fact that she and Venus have all these other interests in their
lives has kept them fresh. They haven’t flamed out the way some
others have.”  Olympic Run  Williams won 72 of 89 games and never dropped more than
three in any set during her run to a gold medal at the London
Games. In late June she captured her 14th Grand Slam with a
Wimbledon title that included a record 102 aces.  With $38.2 million in career tennis earnings, Williams also
has  acting credits  on television shows such as “ER,” “ Law &
Order : SVU,” and “Drop Dead Diva.” She and her older sister
 Venus Williams  will share the  cover  of the New York Times
Magazine this weekend, as shown on the newspaper’s website. She
grew up in Compton, California, and lives in Palm Beach Gardens,
 Florida .  Her sponsors have included Nike Inc., Wilson Sporting Goods
Co., Hewlett-Packard Co., PureBrands LLC’s Sheets energy strips,
PepsiCo Inc.’s Gatorade, Kraft Foods Inc.’s Oreo brand and
IAC/InterActiveCorp’s Home Shopping Network, helping to make her
known by better than 90 percent of U.S. consumers, according to
Dallas-based Marketing Arm. That puts Williams in the company of
 Bruce Springsteen ,  Taylor Swift  and  Kim Kardashian .  Blood Clot  Williams said she cut her right foot on a shard of glass in
July 2010 after winning her fourth Wimbledon title. She had two
operations on the foot and in February 2011 was treated for a
blood clot in her lung, an episode she later called “life-
threatening.”  “She’s reached a spot in her life where she’s thankful to
be around,” Bud Collins, a tennis journalist and historian,
said in a telephone interview. “She’s always had the great
talent and she would be injured or wasn’t in a good mood or
something like that. Now she sees the future very well and she
sees that she can perhaps become the greatest player of all
time.”  Williams is the fourth-ranked player on the WTA tour, and
the 15 tournaments she had entered in the previous year were
fewer than any other player in the top 25. The light tennis
schedule has worked for her but it’s not a winning formula for
most players, according to former pro Jimmy Arias, a commentator
for the Tennis Channel.  Agassi Comparison  “You have to be better than everyone to take time off and
keep winning,” Arias said, comparing Williams to  Andre Agassi ,
who took time away from the game yet still won two Australian
Opens after turning 30.  Williams’s play during serves, both while hitting and
receiving, are what make her so difficult for her opponents to
handle, Arias said.  “She starts every point out with such an advantage,”
Arias said in a telephone interview.  Williams’s 382 aces are the most on the WTA tour, 151 more
than No. 2  Nadia Petrova . Williams won 77.9 percent of points on
first serve and 54.6 percent on second serve, both tops in the
women’s game. She’s first in service games won (88.1 percent)
and break points saved (68.6 percent).  Her first serve is powerful and well-aimed, “and more
importantly, her second can’t seem to be attacked,” Arias said.
“It’s heavy enough, it’s kicky enough that the other ladies are
struggling to do much with it.”  New York Trouble  Williams missed the 2010 U.S. Open because of her health.
Her most recent efforts ended in controversy. A 2009 semifinal
loss concluded with a foot fault and a penalty point when she
threatened a lineswoman. In 2011 she lost the final to
Australia’s Samantha Stosur, dropping a point and service game
in the second set after yelling “Come on!” in a moment of joy
before a point was over. After the umpire issued a code
violation Williams was verbally abusive, calling the umpire “a
hater and unattractive inside.”  “My mind frame this year is that something is going to
happen, for sure, because something always happens to me at the
Open,” Williams told reporters during the Western & Southern
Open in Cincinnati, where she lost in the quarterfinals last
week to Angelique Kerber, a 24-year-old German. “Whether it’s a
horrendous line call that’s two feet in or whether it’s a grunt
and I get a point penalized, or a foot fault when I actually
don’t foot fault, I’m prepared for something to happen.”  One Loss  Williams, seeded fourth, has only lost once since a first-
round elimination at the  French Open  in May. She begins play in
the U.S. Open against 20-year-old American Coco Vandeweghe, with
Las Vegas oddsmakers listing Williams as the 1-to-1 favorite to
win the title -- bet $1, win $1 if she’s champion. Top seed
 Victoria Azarenka , 22, of Belarus and  Maria Sharapova , 25, of
Russia are next at 7-1 odds.  “It doesn’t feel as though there are many young players
challenging,” Arias said. “It’s the same thing in the men’s
game. All of the sudden older players are still dominating.”  If successful tennis seasons are judged by major
championship victories, than the U.S. Open will be the tie-
breaker that determines which man had the best 2012.  Federer Win  Top-seeded  Roger Federer , 31, of Switzerland extended his
all-time Grand Slam record to 17 with a seventh Wimbledon win
last month. Defending U.S. Open champion Novak Djokovic, 25, of
Serbia, who won the Australian Open for his third-straight Grand
Slam in January, is seeded No. 2, followed by Olympic gold
medalist  Andy Murray , 25, of Britain. Spain’s  Rafael Nadal , 26,
who captured a record seventh French Open in June, will miss the
U.S. Open with a knee injury.  As for Williams, she said she’s hungry for more Grand Slam
wins, wanting to “keep doing more, and more, and more.”  “I love playing and walking out on the court and having
that crowd clap for you and your opponent,” Williams said in
Cincinnati. “That’s a great feeling. Doesn’t last forever. I’m
stretching it out as long as I can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 