-- Wolverhampton Sells Jarvis to West Ham, Fletcher to Sunderland
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-24T17:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/wolverhampton-sells-jarvis-to-west-ham-fletcher-to-sunderland.html
West Ham signed  Matt Jarvis  from
Wolverhampton, which also sold  Steven Fletcher  to Sunderland as
with one week to go in the soccer transfer period.  Jarvis, 26, signed a contract until 2017, with an option
for another year, West Ham said on its  website . He’ll be
available for tomorrow’s game at Swansea.  “He delivers in the business end of the field and creates
a lot of chances and is a player that can give opposition
defenses an awful lot of trouble,” Hammers manager  Sam Allardyce  said. “We are hoping he will produce that for us.”  English soccer’s summer transfer period ends at 11 p.m.
U.K. time on Aug. 31.  Jarvis scored 21 goals after joining Wolves from Gillingham
in 2008. He had a career-best eight last season as Wolves
finished last in the Premier League and were relegated to the
Championship.  Fletcher, 25, signed a four-year deal with Sunderland after
moving for an undisclosed fee, the club said on its  website .
He’ll be with the club for tomorrow’s home match against
Reading.  “It is no secret we needed to strengthen our attacking
options and Steven has a proven track record of scoring goals,”
Black Cats manager  Martin O’Neill  said.  Fletcher scored eight goals in his first Premier League
season with Burnley in 2009, after moving from Hibernian in
 Scotland . He then joined Wolves in 2010 and scored 24 goals in
47 appearances over the past two seasons.  Chelsea signed defender Cesar Azpilicueta from Marseille.
The 22-year-old spent the past two seasons in France after
beginning his career in 2007 with Osasuna in his native Spain.  Swansea completed the transfer of midfielder Ki Sung Yeung
from Celtic for an undisclosed club-record fee, subject to a
work permit and international clearance, the club said on its
 website .  Ki, 23, signed a three-year contract with the Swans but
won’t be available for tomorrow’s game with West Ham. He
recently played for  South Korea  at the London Olympics, helping
the team to the bronze medal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 