-- Yingli Leads Solar Makers’ Slump as Sohu Gains
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-24T16:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-24/yingli-leads-solar-makers-slump-as-sohu-gains-china-overnight.html
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  led
declines in Chinese solar makers in New York before reporting
second-quarter figures that may show a fourth straight quarter
of losses.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  rose after Citron Research said the
 Internet company  is undervalued.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 0.2 percent to 89.68 as of
12:23 p.m. yesterday. Yingli sank the most in three weeks as
analysts forecast the company’s losses may have widened from the
previous quarter. LDK Solar Co. was poised for the steepest
retreat since Aug. 1. Sohu was headed for an eight-week high
after Citron  said  yesterday the company is worth 50 percent or
more above its current price.  Yingli, the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module producer, may report Aug. 29 a net loss of $56 million in
for the April-June period, from a profit a year ago and a loss
of $45 million in the prior quarter, the average estimate of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg showed. Chinese solar companies
started to report losses in the second quarter of 2011 as the
industry has been plagued by overcapacity and as  Europe ’s debt
crisis prompts governments to trim solar energy subsidies.  “Overcapacity in the solar industry hasn’t shown much
improvement and there has been little consolidation,” Joshua
Giordano, a managing director at Energistics LLC., which advices
trading in energy companies, said by phone yesterday from New
York. “Chinese solar companies will continue to lose money
within the next 12 months. They are mostly insolvent without
credit lines from the government.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 0.6 percent to $34.01,
extending its loss to an eighth day. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of the biggest U.S. shares added 0.4 percent to 1,407.78.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  