-- Vodafone Promotes Humm, Bertoluzzo After Splitting Europe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-28T16:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/t-mobile-usa-ceo-stepping-down-following-failed-sale-to-at-t.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  split its
European unit into two divisions, appointing Philipp Humm and
Paolo Bertoluzzo to head the regional units as the world’s
second-largest mobile phone company revamps its structure.  Humm, who joins from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA,
will run the northern and eastern European units including
Germany, the U.K. and Turkey, while Bertoluzzo, the chief
executive officer of Vodafone Italy, will lead the southern
European businesses such as  Spain , Vodafone said today.  The reorganization, the third change to the operating
structure since 2008, follows the intended departure of Europe
chief  Michel Combes  to  Vivendi SA. (VIV)  The revamp allows Newbury,
England-based Vodafone to set out potential succession
candidates to CEO Vittorio Colao, people familiar with the
matter said in May.  “The division of the role in two parts tells you that
Colao will stay on for a couple of years,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London. The
Europe chief was seen as a deputy to the CEO, she said. Now,
“there may be a less clear-cut path to the top.”  Colao formerly held both positions of deputy CEO and Europe
chief when he rejoined Vodafone in 2006. Combes, who was due to
join Vivendi as head of the SFR French mobile-phone unit on Aug.
1, will no longer take that role, two people familiar with the
matter said today. Vivendi CEO Jean-Bernard Levy is preparing to
step down, the people said.  ‘Good Stuff’  Vodafone is seeking to refocus on Europe, its largest
market by sales as service revenue growth slows, held back by
declining consumer spending in Greece, Spain,  Italy  and
Portugal.  In northern and eastern Europe, “it’s all the good stuff,
the growing stuff, while the southern economies are seriously
afflicted,” Bienenstock said.  Vodafone on May 22 reported fourth-quarter revenue that
beat analysts’ estimates as German and Turkish customers
increased spending. Revenue climbed 4 percent in Germany,
offsetting declines in Spain and Italy.  Humm will start his new job on Oct. 1. He and Bertoluzzo
will join the company’s executive committee. Bertoluzzo will
continue as Vodafone’s Italy chief in addition to his new role,
the company said. Serpil Timuray, the head of Vodafone Turkey,
has also been given greater responsibilities including chairing
a committee overseeing the Vodafone brand.  Vodafone dropped 0.3 percent to 180.80 pence as in London,
valuing the company at 89 billion pounds ($138 billion).  Deutsche Telekom announced yesterday that Humm will quit as
T-Mobile USA chief, leaving  the German company’s  U.S. division
in search of a replacement as it tries to recover from a failed
sale to  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  