-- Adele, Aretha Get Upstaged as Emeli Sande Plans Invasion
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/adele-aretha-get-upstaged-as-emeli-sande-plans-invasion.html
Her first name is Adele, and she’s
the latest British soul singer to try to conquer the U.S.  She’s not Adele Adkins, the multi-Grammy-winner behind
“Rolling in the Deep.” She’s Adele Emeli Sande, a former
medical student who’s being compared to  Aretha Franklin .  Sande’s dropped her first given name, not surprisingly. She
still has the voice, the songs and the attitude -- with a
support slot on Coldplay’s North American summer tour.  She will be worth the ticket price alone, based on her
recent U.K. shows which have been continuing at a workaholic
pace all year, including at  London ’s O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire,
Lovebox Weekend on June 16 and the Hackney Weekend on June 23.  X-Factor mogul  Simon Cowell  has praised her, as have a
phalanx of grizzled critics, normally the implacable enemies of
anything touched by Cowell. Soul doyenne  Alicia Keys  and upstart
U.K. rappers like Wiley and  Professor Green  have recorded with
her, while Sande’s debut album “Our Version of Events” has
topped the U.K. charts.  Watching her perform, it’s not difficult to fathom Sande’s
popularity. A shocking-blonde super-size quiff dominates the top
of her head. The performance matches the hair. Sande sounds as
though she may have  jet engines  instead of lungs, all the better
for belting out the big choruses she repeatedly rustles up.  Vocal Acrobatics  It also suits Sande’s musical style. For all her soul roots
(she proved herself capable of deploying just enough wiggly
vocal acrobatics to keep the occasional plain verse
interesting), her basic four-piece band and two backing singers
frequently slide into polished classic mid-tempo rock.  In the first half of the concerts, it’s all a bit like Air
Supply. Crafted songs never quite transcend various combinations
of ‘stand up for who you are’ platitudes and well-tried cliches.  The stripped-back drums and chugging guitar of “Tiger”
bring to mind “Eye of the Tiger” by 1980s rockers Survivor.  “Read All About It (Part III)” is crooned earnestly over
a solo piano before exploding into Bon Jovi power-balladry with
swelling keyboards and ludicrous drum roll.  Then “My Kind of Love” switches leagues. The song, Sande
explains in her gentle Scottish burr, was inspired by her
experiences when training to be a doctor in a Glasgow hospital
(she quit medicine in the fourth year of studies). She watched
the interactions between patients and their visitors, and the
result shows what Sande can do when her inspiration matches her
technique.  A piano ballad, “Hope,” errs more toward the generalized
sentiment of Lennon’s “Imagine” than to Adele’s intimate
confessional style.  A slew of other numbers -- “Mountains,” ‘Next to Me” and
new tune “Wonder” -- suggest she will find her own audience.
“Heaven” is pleasingly reminiscent of Massive Attack’s classic
“Unfinished Sympathy,” Sande soaring above the slick dance
beats and swelling strings with uncomplicated pop pleasure.  Rating: ***.  “Our Version of Events” is on Virgin Records priced about
$13 in the U.S. Download rates vary across services. Sande is
playing three European festivals (Lounge on the Farm and T in
the Park in the U.K. on July 6-7 and the  Montreux Jazz Festival 
on July 14) before joining Coldplay’s North American tour
starting July 23 in Toronto.  Information:  http://us.emelisande.com/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art market,  Jason
Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 