-- Allianz Considers Offshore Wind Farm Investment to Boost Returns
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-27T08:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/allianz-considers-offshore-wind-farm-investment-to-boost-returns.html
Allianz SE (ALV)  may invest in offshore
wind farms as  Germany ’s largest insurer seeks alternative ways
to boost returns.  Allianz is “seriously” considering turbines at sea as
long as the risk-return profile is acceptable,  David Jones ,
chief executive officer of the Munich-based insurer’s Allianz
Specialized Investments unit, said at a conference. Allianz has
invested more than 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in
renewables since 2005 with a focus on land-based wind and solar,
he said.  Insurers and pension funds are searching for investment
options after low  interest rates  hurt bond returns and equity
markets suffered volatility. PensionDanmark A/S and Dutch
retirement fund administrator PGGM NV bought shares in offshore
wind projects expected to operate for about 25 years as European
nations promote the emissions-saving technology.  “We’ve taken the view that in principle we’re ready to
invest in offshore,” Jones said yesterday in London. “If we do
it at all, we’ll only do it as a minority investor with a
leading utility with a strong track record,” he said. Allianz
has had such a “dialogue” with utilities, Jones said.  Offshore wind ventures are larger than onshore
counterparts, requiring more capital. While the projects have
less proven technology and operational experience, they may
offer the chance for greater returns compared to onshore wind,
according to Jones.  “We don’t have to deploy a certain amount of money in a
particular time scale to hit clean-energy targets,” Jones said.
“We’re purely an investor looking for a good risk-adjusted
return for our pension holders.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
ALV GY <equity> 