-- Slim Wins in Europe as KPN Stake Reaches His Goal of 28%
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-06-28T20:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/america-movil-reaches-goal-for-28-stake-in-kpn.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s wireless carrier, won the 28 percent
stake it sought in  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , increasing its influence in
 Europe  even after opposition from the Dutch operator.  After expanding its holding in KPN to 24.9 percent through
market purchases,  America Movil  accepted 40 million shares
through a tender offer of 8 euros a share, Slim’s company said
yesterday. That took America Movil’s stake to almost 28 percent,
its limit under the tender offer.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, is seeking a long-term
alliance with KPN that may include partnerships for roaming,
marketing and joint purchasing. KPN, the former Dutch phone
monopoly, failed to find an alternative to the bid, which it had
described as “opportunistic.”  “Obviously shareholders thought the offer wasn’t as bad as
some people said,” said Alejandro Gallostra, an analyst at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  who recommends buying America
Movil shares. “The next step will be both companies’ management
working together to see what synergies they can get.”  KPN gained 0.4 percent to 7.35 euros at the close in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 10.5 billion euros ($13.1
billion). The Hague, Netherlands-based KPN’s stock hasn’t closed
higher than America Movil’s 8-euro-a-share offer since the bid
was announced on May 7.  Expanded Stake  America Movil climbed 0.2 percent to 17.24 pesos at the
close in Mexico City. Including its share purchases and the
tender offer, the company spent about 3.07 billion euros to
expand its KPN stake, according to a filing today.  Maryse Ducheine, a KPN spokeswoman, said by telephone that
the company has taken notice of the expanded America Movil
stake. She declined to comment further.  KPN investors tendered a total of 562 million shares,
representing 40 percent of shares outstanding in the Dutch
company, America Movil said yesterday. Because it doesn’t want
to surpass a 28 percent stake, America Movil will only accept 40
million of the shares.  America Movil is establishing footholds in Europe as the
continent’s debt crisis hurts the value of phone companies in
the region. America Movil said June 15 it agreed to buy 21
percent in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  from investor Ronny Pecik. While
America Movil won’t disclose how much it’s paying for the
 Telekom Austria  stake, the purchase would be worth about 875
million euros based on recent market prices, the Mexican carrier
said today in a filing.  Market Consolidation  “Now they’re going to consolidate all these acquisitions
in Europe,” Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB, said
by telephone yesterday. “They want to learn the market now that
they have coverage in various countries through these
companies,” said Lara, who recommends buying America Movil
shares.  Slim may have the chance to increase his stake in Telekom
 Austria  after the country’s September 2013 elections. Austria’s
current coalition government of  Social Democrats  and pro-
business People’s Party is split regarding the sale of state
assets, with the Social Democrats opposing divestments and the
People’s Party willing to consider them.  With the acquisition of Pecik’s stake, “America Movil has
effectively secured a first right of refusal on the state agency
stake of 28.4 percent and thus a full bid for Telekom Austria,
if it was to be privatized,” Usman Ghazi, a Berenberg analyst,
said in a June 15 note to customers.  ‘Adverse Conditions’  KPN said June 20 that it ended discussions on potential
market consolidation in  Germany , a deal the company had sought
to provide more value to shareholders than Slim’s offer. KPN
cited “adverse conditions” in the financial markets and didn’t
identify any other party.  KPN and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  were evaluating options, including a
merger of KPN’s E-Plus unit with Telefonica’s O2, the two
smaller of Germany’s four wireless operators, people familiar
with the matter said this month.  The Dutch company also plans to sell its Belgian mobile-
phone division. The carrier completed a strategic review and
will begin the sale process next month for the BASE unit, which
people familiar with the matter previously estimated may fetch
about 1.8 billion euros.  KPN’s share price could be affected by a potential
operating turnaround and any change in strategy or remuneration
policy that America Movil may want to implement, Javier Borrachero, a Madrid-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets,
said in a note to investors. Borrachero has a hold
recommendation on KPN shares, with a price estimate of 8 euros.  If it needs to counter Slim’s growing influence, KPN could
turn to its independent foundation, which can issue shares that
carry  voting rights . The foundation has responsibility for
defending KPN from “influences that may threaten the
continuity, independence and identity” of the company,
according to its annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  