-- AMR Labor Talks Race Clock as Court Deadline Nears on Accord
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-27T19:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/amr-labor-talks-race-clock-as-judge-s-deadline-nears-for-accord.html
American Airlines ’ pilots  union  is
deliberating whether to let members vote on the bankrupt
carrier’s last contract offer ahead of a court-imposed deadline
for a decision today.  Separately, another round of negotiations was set next week
with unions for flight attendants and mechanics. The flurry of
labor activity is occurring ahead of a second court deadline
June 29, when U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane plans to rule on
whether American can void existing contracts and impose new
terms to help cut annual labor spending by $1.25 billion.  A decision to throw out the labor agreements would be the
first such action by a  bankruptcy court  since Northwest Airlines
Corp. flight attendants saw their contract abrogated in 2007. It
would bring to a head failed negotiations between the airline
and its unions dating back as far as 2006.  “I don’t think anybody anticipates any kind of extension”
of the June 29 deadline, Tom Hoban, an Allied Pilots Association
spokesman, said today in an interview. “We’re hearing it’s a
firm deadline and nobody should anticipate a grace period.”  Voiding contracts would allow American’s parent company,
 Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR Corp., to change wages and work
rules immediately, and would put the unions’ bankruptcy claims
at risk. The airline and labor groups still would have to
negotiate for longer-term contracts that would remain in place
once the carrier leaves court protection.  A pilots’ contract never has been abrogated by a U.S.
bankruptcy court, Hoban said.  US Airways Plan  Lane has indicated he wants to rule on voiding contracts
for the APA,  Association of Professional Flight Attendants  and
two Transport Workers Union groups at the same time, and would
delay action if the pilots’ union members get to vote, said
 Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for the carrier.  Resolution of the labor-cost issue also will affect how
soon potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  can put a merger
plan before American’s creditors. Once American finalizes its
labor expenses, it can fully detail its standalone plan to the
creditors committee in its bankruptcy. That proposal then could
be weighed against any offer from Tempe, Arizona-based  US
Airways .  US Airways already has reached contract agreements with
American’s unions, pending a merger. It hasn’t yet formally made
a merger offer.  APFA Talks  “We return to the table knowing that the best possible
chance for our company’s survival will be with a pre-exit merger
with US Airways,” Leslie Mayo, an APFA spokeswoman, told
members in an e-mail. “We negotiate with that goal in mind.”  American will resume negotiations with APFA July 3 to July
5, the union said. Talks with mechanics and aircraft stock
clerks, the only TWU groups not to reach agreements, are set for
the same dates, Jamie Horwitz, a union spokesman, said today.
American said it was still working to finalize dates for the TWU
talks.  Five TWU-represented work groups that earlier accepted
contract offers are negotiating with American today over a
reduction in the value of concessions. A 15 percent cut in the
total sought from pilots triggered a clause in the TWU
agreements that guaranteed any benefits offered to other unions
would be extended to them. The groups include almost 11,000
baggage handlers and other airport ground workers.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  