-- AMR Pilots to Vote on Contract Paring Cuts in Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-27T22:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/amr-pilots-to-vote-on-contract-paring-cuts-in-bankruptcy.html
American Airlines pilots will vote
on a revised contract proposal paring bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s bid
for concessions, and the carrier said a judge would delay ruling
on a request to void contracts with its biggest unions.  The Allied Pilots Association board agreed today to hold an
election on the latest accord, which calls for shrinking AMR’s
demand for labor savings by 15 percent, to $315 million. That
step came just before the deadline set by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Sean Lane in  New York .  The move marks progress in Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR’s
effort to win $1.25 billion in annual labor savings. While five
employee groups in the Transport Workers Union have approved
givebacks, two other TWU groups held out. Neither the pilots nor
flight attendants unions have accepted demands from AMR, which
has asked Lane to cancel its existing agreements.  Lane will postpone his decision “on all the unions’
contracts pending the outcome of the pilots’ vote,”  Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We must use the additional time wisely to reach agreements”
with APA, TWU and attendants, he said.  That means a ruling won’t come until Aug. 8 while pilots
vote, according to a hotline message to APA members from a
spokesman, Tom Hoban, on the union’s website. The APA board
agreed by a 9-7 vote to put the proposal out for rank-and-file
balloting, according to a union e-mail.  US Airways  In the background is  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , whose interest
in a merger with AMR has led to provisional contract agreements
with pilots, TWU and the  Association of Professional Flight
Attendants . AMR is resisting the overtures, saying it wants to
leave Chapter 11 as a stand-alone airline.  US Airways , which is based in Tempe,  Arizona , hasn’t made a
formal bid.  Voiding contracts would allow AMR to change wages and work
rules immediately, and would put the unions’ bankruptcy claims
at risk. The airline and labor groups still would have to
negotiate for longer-term contracts that would remain in place
once the carrier leaves court protection.  A pilots’ contract never has been abrogated by a U.S.
bankruptcy court, Hoban said.  “We are confident our pilots will carefully consider the
tentative agreement,” American’s Hicks said in the statement.
“This is a critical step in American’s restructuring.”  Hoban, the pilot spokesman, didn’t comment on the agreement
in the union’s website hotline. He told members that APA
President Dave Bates would comment soon, “discussing issues
associated with the tentative agreements and next steps.”  Flight attendants and TWU-represented mechanics and
aircraft stock clerks are set to resume talks with American next
week.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  