-- Apple Said to Prepare ITunes Changes to Improve Sharing
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-28T13:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/apple-said-to-prepare-itunes-overhaul-improving-storage-sharing.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  plans an overhaul of
iTunes that would mark one of the largest changes to the world’s
biggest music store since its 2003 debut, according to people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  Apple will unveil the changes by year’s end, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t
public. The company will more closely integrate its iCloud file-
storage service with iTunes so users can more seamlessly access
and manage their music, videos and downloaded software apps
across different Apple gadgets, the people said. Apple also
plans new features for sharing music, the people said.  ITunes has been critical to Apple’s success over the past
nine years, generating revenue of almost $1.9 billion last
quarter alone as well as tethering users to a widening family of
Apple products. Any changes will have implications for the  media
industry , because the store is the gateway for millions of
iPhone, iPad, iPod and Mac users to buy music, movies and
television shows.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Apple’s iTunes Store has more than 28 million songs and
45,000 movies. It also houses the  App Store , which offers more
than 650,000 applications that can be downloaded for the iPhone,
iPad and iPod Touch devices.  Discovering Content  With an increasing amount of content available on the
 store , the overhaul is intended to improve how people manage all
their files, one person said. That includes changes to how users
find new material and how they access what they already own on
different Apple devices, said one person.  One of the main ways Apple will attempt to improve
discovery is by making it easier for people to share songs, a
popular feature of Spotify Ltd.’s music-subscription service.
Apple has been negotiating with major record labels for rights
that would let a user listen to a song sent to them from a
friend for free, one person said.  Apple also has announced tighter integration of social
networks Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. in iTunes, allowing
people to share what they are listening to.  Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs , who died in October, often
spoke about making Apple the “digital hub” in people’s lives.
ITunes has been the critical product to fill that role, starting
with  music sales  and expanding to movies and TV shows.  ICloud Integration  Customers also use the software to activate and update
iPhones, iPads and iPods, as well as to synchronize their
libraries of music, videos, photos and applications. Yet as more
content is being stored on people’s mobile devices, organizing
all that material has become increasingly difficult. The further
integration of the iCloud Internet-based storage service is
aimed at fixing some of those problems, according to the people
familiar with the changes.  Apple is creating separate applications for features that
had been included within iTunes. Podcasts now are a separate app
on iPhones, iPads and iPod Touch devices, instead of being part
of the iTunes app.  To add more multimedia features to iTunes, Apple has been
asking music labels for more band photos and videos that can be
included, one person said.  ITunes also is part of Apple’s plans to expand in  Asia . The
company this week announced that it will be opening the digital
store in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore ,  Taiwan  and nine other markets in
Asia.  Music labels also have been urging Apple to offer a music-
subscription service similar to Spotify’s, so customers could
pay a monthly fee to get unlimited access to songs, said one
person familiar with the matter. Still, Apple isn’t likely to
announce that type of service, another person said.  Apple’s shares fell 0.5 percent to $571.79 at 9:33 a.m. in
 New York . Through yesterday, the stock had increased 42 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  