-- Apple Wins Preliminary Injunction Against Samsung Tablet
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t ,   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-27T08:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/apple-wins-preliminary-injunction-against-samsung-galaxy-tab-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a court order
immediately blocking U.S. sales of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer as the companies continue their
global patent dispute.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
issued the order yesterday after rejecting a similar request in
December. Apple’s request, part of a broader patent dispute over
smartphones and tablets, was based on an appeals court finding
that it will probably win its patent-infringement claim relating
to the Tab 10.1 tablet.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung will take necessary
legal steps in response to yesterday’s ruling on the year-old
model, the company said in a statement today.  “This is an extension of their fight in the smartphone
space,” Kim Young Chan, a Seoul-based analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp., said by phone. “If you look at precedents,
different cases yielded different rulings. As long as
smartphones aren’t blocked, Samsung’s fundamentals will stay
intact.”  Quarterly sales of the Tab 10.1 in the U.S. may total about
300,000 units on average, Kim said. Samsung, which doesn’t
disclose shipment figures for smartphones and tablets, sold 44.5
million smartphones globally in the first quarter, according to
market researcher  Strategy Analytics . Apple is also the biggest
buyer of Samsung chips and displays.  Hague Ruling  Samsung shares gained 2.5 percent to 1,167,000 won at the
close of trading in  Seoul , while the benchmark Kospi index was
little changed.  The U.S. sales ban follows last week’s ruling in The Hague
that Apple has to compensate Samsung for damages caused by a
breach of patents since August 2010. Apple also sought a U.S.
ban on the latest model of the Galaxy S smartphone, which went
on sale in the market this month.  “In this case, although Samsung will necessarily be harmed
by being forced to withdraw its product from the market before
the merits can be determined after a full trial, the harm faced
by Apple absent an injunction on the Galaxy Tab 10.1 is
greater,” Koh said in yesterday’s ruling.  She said a June 29 hearing to address Apple’s third request
to block Samsung’s  tablet computer  wasn’t needed. A trial is set
for July 30.  The public interest “favors the enforcement of  patent
rights ,” Koh wrote. “Although Samsung has a right to compete,
it does not have a right to compete unfairly, by flooding the
market with infringing products.”  Samsung Products  Samsung said in a statement that it was disappointed in the
ruling, while it won’t have significant impact on its business.
Other Tab products will continue to be available to U.S.
consumers, the South Korean company said.  The ruling “will ultimately reduce the availability of
superior technological features to consumers in the U.S.,”
Samsung said in the statement. If Apple continues to sue based
on “generic design” patent claims “innovation and progress in
the industry could be restricted.”  Koh yesterday rejected Samsung’s arguments that the
injunction was overbroad because the infringement claim was
based on one aspect of the overall product, and that it would
hurt Samsung’s relationships with wireless carriers that provide
the Galaxy Tab to their customers.  ‘Important Driver’  Koh wrote in December that “design is an important driver
in the demand for tablet sales.” “Samsung cannot be heard to
complain about broken business relationships that it has
established on infringing products.”  On June 4, Koh rejected Apple’s second request to ban the
tablet sales while the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  was considering her first such denial in
December. Koh said then she didn’t have jurisdiction to issue a
preliminary injunction because the appeals court hadn’t issued a
mandate.  On June 19, the appeals court reaffirmed its May
determination that Apple’s patent on a design of the tablet is
likely to withstand challenges to its validity. That decision
allowed the Cupertino, California-based company to renew its
request to block sales of Samsung’s tablet in the U.S.  Kristin Huget, an Apple spokeswoman, reiterated an earlier
company statement saying it must “protect Apple’s intellectual
property when companies steal our ideas.”  Koh required Apple to post a $2.6 million bond to cover a
potential damages payment to Samsung if Apple loses the case.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  