-- Aquila Sees Better Farmland Returns in U.S. Plains Than Midwest
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-27T13:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/aquila-sees-better-farmland-returns-in-u-s-plains-than-midwest.html
Farmland prices in the U.S. Midwest
corn belt could be a “bubble,” while growing areas in the
Great Plains and Mississippi River Delta provide better returns,
said Detlef Schoen, managing partner at Aquila Capital.  New seed varieties and warmer temperatures are allowing
farmers to plant corn and soybeans in “peripheral” areas in
 North America , including regions further north and west of the
Midwest, Hamburg-based Schoen said today in an interview at an
agriculture conference in London. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  estimates that domestic producers will harvest a
record 14.79 billion bushels of corn this year.  “The corn belt and soybean belt are moving north at
incredible speeds, moving into the Great Plains, into  Nebraska ,
 Montana  and the Dakotas,” said Schoen, who helps manage about 5
billion euros ($6.24 billion) in assets for Aquila, including
about 200 million euros related to agriculture. “In five years
I think you’ll have more soybeans in that country, where today
you just have sunflowers and wheat, so that will lift your
returns per acre enormously.”  Farmers in a five-state region of the Midwest saw a 19
percent increase in land prices as of April 1 from a year
earlier, the Chicago Federal Reserve bank said in a report last
month. Prices jumped 27 percent in  Iowa , the biggest corn and
soybean producer. Great Plains states posted a 25 percent
increase in farmland prices, according to the Kansas City Fed.  “The corn belt is a bubble, but you can go to the Great
Plains, you can go to the Mississippi Delta and you can find
some fantastic opportunities,” Schoen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  