-- First Weight-Loss Drug Approved in 13 Years Spurs Eisai
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2012-06-28T00:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/arena-s-weight-loss-pill-approved-by-u-s-regulators.html
Eisai Co. (4523)  surged the most in two
years in Tokyo trading after its partner won Food and Drug
Administration approval for a  weight-loss  pill, making it the
first obesity medication cleared for the U.S. in 13 years.  The Japanese drugmaker jumped 4 percent to 3,505 yen as of
9:20 a.m. Tokyo time, the biggest intraday advance since May
2009, after San Diego-based partner  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) 
gained backing to market the treatment. Dubbed Belviq, the drug
affects an area of the brain that helps a person feel sated with
less food, the FDA said yesterday in a statement. Arena has
licensed the medicine to Tokyo-based Eisai to sell in the U.S.  More than 78 million U.S. adults are obese, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
Arena’s medicine, which will be its first marketed product, may
reach sales of about $2 billion in 2020, said  Edward Tenthoff ,
an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York .  “Two-thirds of the people in this country are overweight
or obese,” Tenthoff said in a telephone interview. “It’s an
enormous opportunity.”  Arena  increased  29 percent to $11.39 at 4 p.m. New York
time yesterday.  Obesity raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and
stroke, and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a
year in medical expenses and lost productivity, according to the
CDC.  Damaged Valves  The pill works in a similar way to fenfluramine, part of
the fen-phen appetite-suppression drug combination pulled from
pharmacies 15 years ago when it was linked to heart valve
abnormalities.  Arena and Eisai agreed to conduct six post-market studies
to analyze the safety and efficacy of Belviq, including a long-
term cardiovascular outcomes trial to assess the drug’s risk for
major cardiac risks such as heart attack and stroke, the FDA
said.  Belviq is indicated for people who have at least one
coexisting condition such as high  blood pressure  or Type 2
diabetes. The drug will be available after the Drug Enforcement
Administration completes a review to classify Belviq based on
its potential for abuse, Arena said yesterday in a statement.  The drug agency’s decision may take four to six months,
Arena’s management said yesterday on a conference call. The FDA
recommended Belviq be classified among the fourth class of drugs
of a five-tiered system, the company said, with those in the
first class being the most restricted because they have the
highest potential for abuse.  Those in fourth tier don’t have restrictions on samples,
advertising or automatic refills. The primary requirement is
keeping better records, Arena’s executives said.  Side Effects  The FDA said Arena’s pill shouldn’t be used by pregnant
women. Belviq may cause serious side effects, including a fatal
increase in the chemical serotonin produced by the body that can
cause muscle rigidity, fever and seizures, especially when used
with drugs that treat migraines and depression, the agency said.
Belviq may also cause memory or attention disturbances, the FDA
said.  The medication’s label also instructs patients to
discontinue use if 5 percent of weight loss is not achieved by
the 12th week of treatment.  Arena expects to begin the required cardiovascular study in
mid-2013, management said. The company is responsible for 10
percent of the cost of the study and Eisai will assume remaining
expenses.  Roche’s Xenical  Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  Xenical was the last obesity medicine
approved in 1999.  Arena’s drug, previously known by its chemical name as
lorcaserin, was rejected by the FDA in 2010 because the agency
had concerns about cancer. Advisers to the agency determined the
benefits of the drug outweighed the risks.  The watchdog group  Public Citizen , based in  Washington ,
urged FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  to reject Arena’s
medicine because of potential risks associated with heart valve
abnormalities.  “Faced with this serious concern, it would be dangerous
and unconscionable for you to allow the FDA to disregard the
available evidence and subject large numbers of obese patients,
already at risk of cardiovascular disease, to the added risk of
damaged  heart valves ,”  Sidney Wolfe , director of Public
Citizen’s Health Research Group, wrote Hamburg yesterday.  Belviq’s label warns patients to consider stopping the drug
if they exhibit signs of valvular  heart disease  and to get
evaluated for valve abnormalities.  Patients who tested Arena’s treatment in three studies lost
about 3 percent more of their body weight than those who took a
placebo, FDA staff said in a May 8  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Denver at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  