-- Argentina’s First National Strike Pressures Fernandez on Tax
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-27T19:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/argentina-s-first-national-strike-pressures-fernandez-on-taxes.html
Argentina’s biggest unions held
their first national strike against President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  as slowing growth and 24 percent inflation undermine
the government’s ties to its labor supporters.  Hugo Moyano, head of the country’s largest labor
confederation, known as the CGT, called on workers to strike
today to seek a rise in the threshold for income tax payments
after salary increases pushed them into a higher tax bracket.
Fernandez rejected Moyano’s request yesterday, saying that only
19 percent of workers pay the tax.  “We are demanding what the working class legitimately
deserves,” Moyano told thousands of supporters rallying in
front of the presidential palace in Buenos Aires today. “We
have to convince the government to abandon its arrogance. Mrs.
President, you lose nothing by talking to workers and other
sectors of our society.”  The strike comes as the government, blocked from
international credit markets since a 2001 default, resorts to
import restrictions and tighter oversight of the foreign
 currency market  to stem capital flight and bolster central bank
 reserves . Argentina’s  budget surplus  excluding interest payments
fell to 2.4 billion peso ($530 million) in May from 3.1 billion
pesos a year earlier.  “The fiscal outlook is no longer comfortable for the
government and that’s why it won’t give in to the union’s
demands,” said  Boris Segura , a Latin American strategist at
Nomura Securities International in  New York .  Cutting Shifts  Argentine industrial production fell for a second straight
month in May as auto output dropped 24 percent and companies
including  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Renault SA (RNO)  cut shifts.  Consumer
confidence  slid 4.4 percent in June, according to Buenos Aires-
based Torcuato Di Tella University. Consumer prices rose 23.5
percent in May from a year earlier, according to private
estimates, compared with the 9.9 percent reported by the
national statistics agency.  Moyano supporters waving Argentine flags and carrying signs
from the CGT’s different unions gathered at the Plaza de Mayo
square, adding to traffic around the capital that prompted
flight delays at Buenos Aires’ two biggest airports. Television
station C5N said about 25,000 people took part in the rally,
which ended at about 4:15 p.m. local time.  Fernandez, 59, didn’t address the strike today during a
speech in the western province of San Luis.  Union Support  The CGT, whose supporters include teachers, textile workers
and truck drivers, was a reliable ally for Fernandez’s late
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , organizing rallies and
turning out voters. Fernandez said she’s shown her commitment to
labor by backing wage increases of more than 20 percent per year
and raising the income tax threshold in previous years. Some CGT
members, including unions representing taxi and bus drivers and
metal workers, aren’t participating.  “We have increased the threshold every year except in
2009, the year of the crisis, when we had to defend the fiscal
accounts and inject money into the market,” Fernandez said
yesterday at the presidential palace. “Today we are in an
almost similar crisis as the one we faced in 2009.”  Argentina’s economy will expand 2.75 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of four economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, compared with 8.9 percent last year.  Government’s ‘Backbone’  Moyano, whose CGT was called the “backbone” of
Fernandez’s government in 2011 by then-Cabinet Chief Anibal
Fernandez, said the government needs to do more.  “Wage increases are useless if the minimum threshold is
not raised,” Moyano told reporters on June 21. “We invite to
all those who see themselves hurt by this tax to participate in
the rally so the government understands that it’s committing a
tremendous injustice.”  Today’s strike comes a week after truck drivers halted work
and caused fuel shortages throughout the country, forcing
Fernandez to return earlier than planned from the Rio+20 summit
in  Rio de Janeiro . The strike ended after truckers signed a 25.5
percent wage increase for the year starting July 1. A separate
strike by oil workers in Chubut province is crimping output by
Pan American Energy LLC, owned by  BP Plc. (BP/)   Tax Collection  Argentina’s  tax revenue  rose 20.6 percent in May from a
year earlier, the smallest increase since February 2010.
Fernandez’s government collects about 20 billion pesos a year
from income taxes, about 1 percentage point of the country’s
gross domestic product, according to Jorge Colina, an economist
at  Buenos Aires  research company Idesa. Workers who receive at
least 5,800 pesos a month pay the tax, Colina said.  “The people who support policies that result in such high
public spending with subsidies for transportation and energy are
the same people who are demanding a  tax cut ,” said Colina.
“The government doesn’t update the minimum threshold because it
helps it collect more through taxes.”  Nomura’s Segura cut his 2012 GDP forecast to 2 percent this
month from an earlier forecast of 3 percent, saying that
Fernandez’s decision to nationalize  YPF SA (YPFD) , the country’s
biggest oil company, controls over the currency exchange market,
restrictions on imports and fast inflation are undermining the
economy and investor sentiment.  “ Argentina  may face a similar situation as in 2009 but
that would be because of self-inflicted wounds and unfortunate
policy decisions,” Segura said in a telephone interview. “The
measures taken by the government affects growth because they
generate lack of confidence by investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  