-- Larry Bird Steps Down as Pacers’ President After Winning Award
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-27T15:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/larry-bird-steps-down-as-pacers-president-after-winning-award.html
Larry Bird  stepped down as the
Indiana Pacers’ president of basketball operations following a
season in which he won the  National Basketball Association ’s
Executive of the Year award.  Bird, 55, held the job for four seasons and had an
agreement with team owner Herb Simon on a year-to-year contract
because the Hall of Fame player wasn’t interested in a long-term
deal.  “I’ve had a number of health issues,” Bird said during a
televised news conference. “I think this is the right time.”  Bird’s departure comes the day before the NBA draft and
three days after the Indianapolis Star reported that his
predecessor,  Donnie Walsh , will return to the Pacers’ front
office.  Walsh, 71, was out of the NBA last season after stepping
down as the  New York  Knicks’ president of basketball operations
in June 2011. He spent three seasons with the Knicks following
24 years with the Pacers.  “What you have here now is a true team, and there’s a
different feeling when you’re with a true team,” Walsh said.  Bird, who won three NBA titles playing for the  Boston
Celtics , coached the Pacers from 1997 to 2000 and joined the
team’s front office in 2003, overseeing personnel and coaching
decisions. He took full control of basketball operations in 2008
when Walsh left to join the Knicks.  Bird helped reshape a team that made the playoffs in 2011
for the first time since 2006. Indiana had a 42-24 record last
season, finished second in the Central Division behind the
Chicago Bulls and advanced to the Eastern Conference semifinals
before losing to the eventual-champion Miami Heat.  Bird is the first person to receive the NBA’s top
executive, Most Valuable Player and Coach of the Year awards.
Red Auerbach, Frank Layden and  Pat Riley  are the only other
people to take both top coach and executive honors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  