-- AstraZeneca Delays Buying Merck’s Interest in Prilosec, Nexium
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-06-27T15:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/astrazeneca-delays-buying-merck-s-interest-in-prilosec-nexium.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  has postponed its
option to buy out  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s interest in heartburn treatments
Nexium and Prilosec until 2014 after agreeing the U.S. company’s
stake is worth $327 million.  A joint venture, called AstraZeneca LP, was created after
Sweden-based Astra AB and UK-based Zeneca Group merged in 1999
and covers royalties and an agreement with Merck to manufacture
some of the treatments Prilosec and Nexium.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , said it
will continue to receive income from the partnership, which is
expected to contribute about $200 million to Merck’s revenue and
from 3 cents to 5 cents in earnings per share this year. The
delay won’t affect either company’s forecasts for 2012, the
companies said in statements today.  Continuation of the agreement will offset income lost when
Merck’s blockbuster asthma drug Singulair loses patent
protection in the U.S. this year, Merck Chief Financial Officer
Peter N. Kellogg said in the statement.  “We are confident that we can achieve our 2012 targets,
and this agreement will help partially offset the macroeconomic
and market austerity pressures anticipated in 2013,” he said.  The value of Merck’s stake will be reassessed after four
years from the date of the option’s closing, based on sales of
the drugs between 2014 and June 2018. That means Merck would pay
AstraZeneca more money if sales of the drugs are worth more.  The exercise price also includes a value equal to 10 times
Merck’s average 1 percent annual profit in the partnership three
years prior to the exercise of the option. London-based
AstraZeneca expects this to be about $80 million.  Merck forecast the quarterly contribution from the venture
to its earnings in 2013 will be lower than in fourth quarter of
2012 because of declining sales of Nexium and bulk supply of
Nexium by third-party suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 