-- Hatch Thwarts Tea Party-Backed Challenge in Utah Primary
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-27T19:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/hatch-thwarts-tea-party-backed-challenge-in-utah-senate-primary.html
Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  defeated
a Tea Party-backed challenger in yesterday’s Republican primary,
clearing the way for winning a seventh term in November’s
election.  Hatch won 66.6 percent of the vote to 33.4 percent for
former state senator Dan Liljenquist, with 98 percent of
precincts reporting, according to a tally by the  Associated
Press .  “My message was heard loud and clear and I am grateful
that my fellow Utahns have entrusted me once again to be the
Republican nominee for this important office,” Hatch said in a
statement.  In heavily Republican Utah, Hatch’s primary victory makes
him the favorite in the general election contest against
Democrat Scott Howell. Hatch, the top Republican on the tax-
writing Senate Finance Committee, won re-election in 2006 with
62.6 percent of the vote.  Liljenquist’s challenge sought to repeat the success that
the Tea Party movement, which favors smaller government, has had
against two other veteran Republican senators.  Bennett’s Loss  Utah Republican Robert Bennett’s bid for a fourth Senate
term in 2010 was derailed at the state party’s nominating
convention and Tea Party-backed  Mike Lee  eventually won the
party’s nomination and the seat. This year, Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana lost his state’s May 8 Republican primary to
state Treasurer  Richard Mourdock , who was supported by Tea Party
activists.  “Every race is different,” Lee said today, declining to
comment further on the parallels between Hatch’s race and his
contest two years ago. “It was decisive victory, brought about
by hard work, leadership and there are a lot of constituents
grateful to him for his work.”  FreedomWorks, which has helped foster the Tea Party
movement, targeted Hatch for defeat in part because he supported
the 2008 bank bailout.  Spurred in part by Bennett’s defeat, the 78-year-old Hatch
focused on burnishing his credentials among Tea Party activists
in his state, including meeting with them at picnics.  At Utah’s Republican Party nominating convention on April
21, he fell just 32 votes short of the attaining the 60 percent
support he needed to avoid a primary challenge. His showing,
though, established him as the clear favorite in the contest.  Anticipating a Hatch primary victory, Senator  John Cornyn ,
the Texas Republican who leads the  National Republican
Senatorial Committee , told reporters earlier yesterday that his
colleagues efforts illustrated “the old Boy Scout motto: Be
prepared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  