-- Mauritius Bheenick Says Economy ‘Reform Drive’ Won’t Slow
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-06-27T08:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mauritius-bheenick-says-economy-reform-drive-won-t-slow-1-.html
Mauritius’s Central Bank Governor
Rundheersing Bheenick said the Indian Ocean island nation must
move forward with changes to modernize its economy or risk being
caught by global economic turmoil.  The country’s sovereign credit rating was increased one
level by Moody’s Investors Service to Baa1 yesterday, the third-
lowest investment grade. The credit rating company cited
stronger government institutions, increased diversification of
the economy and a lower debt burden.  “It is no time to relax our efforts and the reform drive
must continue or we may find ourselves being swept downstream by
the ongoing global economic crisis,” Bheenick said today in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Mauritius, with a population of about 1.3 million people,
is reducing dependency on Europe by targeting Brazil, Russia,
India, China and  South Africa , the largest  emerging markets , and
the rest of  Africa . The  European debt crisis  cut 1.5 percentage
points from the country’s growth rate this year, which Bheenick
forecast at 3.8 percent.  Mauritius is “actively transitioning the economy from a
comparatively low-skilled exporter to that of a highly skilled
service-based economy,” Aurelien Mali, a London-based analyst
at Moody’s, wrote in a statement yesterday. “Progress in this
area will mitigate the economy’s external vulnerabilities.”  Debt Improvement  The rupee appreciated as much as 1.1 percent and traded 0.8
percent stronger at 30.65 a dollar by 11:30 a.m., in Port Louis,
the capital.  “It’s further proof that our economic, monetary and
financial management is very much on top of the situation, which
allows us to swim against the tide” at a time when many others
are having their ratings cut, Bheenick said.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee left its
benchmark  interest rate  at 4.9 percent on June 11, after two
quarters of easing. At the end of May, government securities
debt reached 139.6 billion rupees ($4.5 billion), 23 percent of
which was short-term bills, data from the Bank of Mauritius
shows. The country plans to issue 15.4 billion rupees of long-
term bonds this year, the  Finance Ministry  said on  February 22 .  Moody’s said the country’s upgrade resulted from “the
government’s significant progress in reducing it’s debt-
servicing burden and improving its debt structure by lengthening
maturities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  