-- Aussie Falls Before EU Summit; Kiwi Drops on Trade Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-06-27T06:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/aussie-falls-before-eu-summit-kiwi-drops-on-trade-data.html
The Australian dollar weakened
against most of its major peers amid speculation a European
Union summit beginning tomorrow will fail to produce a lasting
resolution to the region’s debt crisis, curbing demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie slid for the second time in three days against
the yen before German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  confer ahead of the EU gathering.
Losses were limited on bets the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will
refrain from lowering its benchmark interest rate next week. New
Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, was lower against the
greenback after data showed the nation’s annual trade deficit in
May was the widest in more than two years.  “The market is paring some expectations for something
concrete to come out of the EU summit,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The Aussie
and kiwi will remain under pressure.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0063 as of
3:47 p.m. in Sydney. It slid 0.1 percent to 79.96 yen after
gaining 0.4 percent yesterday.  New Zealand ’s currency fell 0.1
percent to 79 U.S. cents and lost 0.2 percent to 62.77 yen.  The Aussie is headed for a 1.4 percent loss since Dec. 31,
while the kiwi has gained 1.7 percent.  The two-day EU summit in Brussels is the first meeting of
European leaders since parties supporting a bailout garnered
victories in Greek elections on June 17. France and Italy are
urging  Germany  to help end the debt crisis, now in its third
year. Italy is due to sell bills today after borrowing costs
rose at a debt auction yesterday.  EU Summit  Merkel told lawmakers of her ruling coalition she “doesn’t
see” shared debt happening in the euro area, according to
Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman. The chancellor is due to
meet her French counterpart in Paris today.  “There’s risk that this will be another summit that will
disappoint,” said Forecast’s Lee, who expects the Australian
dollar to fall to parity with the greenback this week. “Moving
ahead, there may be more contagion to other euro-zone countries.
Market sentiment will be fragile.”  Demand for the kiwi was damped after  Statistics New Zealand 
said today that imports exceeded exports by NZ$805 million ($636
million) in the 12 months ended May 31. That compared with a
revised NZ$557 million shortfall in the year through April.  RBA Forecast  Reserve Bank of Australia  officials will keep the overnight
cash-rate target at 3.5 percent when they meet on July 3,
according to  all estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  “The RBA has made some steep cuts in the last couple of
months, which have generally been passed on to the retail
market, and I think they will hold fire for now,” said Derek Mumford, a director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency
risk management company. “We could see the Aussie back above
$1.01 in the next couple of days, but any gains will be capped
at $1.02 to $1.0250.”  Interest-rate  swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 56 percent chance policy makers will keep the benchmark
rate unchanged next week. That’s up from a 40 percent
probability seen on June 20. Traders expect the RBA to cut the
rate to a record 2.75 percent by November, the data show.  Australia’s bonds declined as Asian stocks rallied
following a report from  China  Securities Journal that China may
introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure stable growth.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.97 percent. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks gained 0.9 percent.  “At the moment we’re in a period of policy response,”
 Richard Grace , chief currency strategist and head of
international economics at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in
Sydney, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “During
that period, the Aussie dollar can somewhat outperform,
particularly against the crosses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  