-- Aussie, Kiwi Advance for Third Day on Growth Outlook
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-28T06:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/aussie-kiwi-remain-higher-on-evidence-of-global-growth.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars climbed for a third day as U.S. economic reports eased
concern the world’s largest economy is faltering, boosting
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie headed for its biggest monthly gain
versus its U.S. counterpart since January as traders added to
bets the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will keep rates unchanged
next week as long as  Europe ’s debt crisis doesn’t worsen. New
Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, was set for the second-
biggest gain in June among the greenback’s 16 major peers as
Asian stocks extended a global advance.  “There seems to be sufficient life in the  U.S. economy ,”
said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. The RBA is “saying it will really only ease with
further unsettling news from Europe. The Aussie has the
potential to edge higher on the fact that our  interest rates 
seem stable for the time being.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0115 as of
3:50 p.m. in Sydney. It bought 80.34 yen from 80.36 yesterday.
 New Zealand ’s currency climbed 0.5 percent to 79.52 U.S. cents
and gained 0.1 percent to 63.17 yen.  The Aussie is set for a 3.9 percent advance against the
dollar this month, paring its decline this year to 0.9 percent.
The kiwi has strengthened 5.5 percent since May 31, the biggest
gainer after the Mexican peso among the greenback’s 16 major
counterparts. It has climbed 2.3 percent this year.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield was at 2.98
percent from 2.97 percent yesterday. New Zealand’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, was little
changed at 2.69 percent.  Stock Gains  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares  rose 1 percent after
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.9 percent yesterday. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.4 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see about a 59 percent chance policy makers will keep the
benchmark rate unchanged at 3.5 percent when they meet on July
3. That’s up from a 35 percent probability seen on June 21.
Traders expect the RBA to cut the rate to a record 2.75 percent
or lower by November, the data show.  In the U.S., orders for  goods  meant to last three years
rose 1.1 percent last month, the first increase since February,
a Commerce Department report showed yesterday.  Pending home
sales  climbed 5.9 percent after slumping 5.5 percent in April,
according to data from the National Association of Realtors.  European Union heads of government will gather in Brussels
today to start a two-day summit. They are set to discuss a plan
for closer integration seen playing out over more than a decade.  Quarterly Advance  Both the Aussie and kiwi have risen more than 0.6 percent
in the past three months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies.  Increased use of the two currencies for diversification
purposes by entities including global central banks and
sovereign wealth funds may be helping to keep volatility low,
according to  Andrew Salter , a strategist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney.  “These institutions are buying Australian dollar and New
Zealand dollar assets and are re-balancing their portfolios,”
Salter said. “Their re-balancing process typically opposes any
price moves, so that’s probably what’s keeping volatility
contained, in addition to the fact that they don’t divest their
holdings regularly.”  The  implied volatility  of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies was 9.9 percent yesterday, down from this
year’s high of 12.3 percent reached on Jan. 2, according to the
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A drop makes investments in
currencies with higher rates more attractive because it shows
the risk is lower that market moves will erase profits on such
trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  