-- Bad Hackers Turned Good Get Top Spot in Facebook Manhunt
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-27T22:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/bad-hackers-turned-good-get-top-spot-in-facebook-manhunt.html
Spend your Saturday night in a
dimly-lit room crowded with hackers and you may well land a job
in recession-hit  Europe . Recruiters are scouring hackathons --
venues for self-trained computer geeks to meet and train -- to
find those who could help fend off cyberthreats.  Companies and governments in western Europe will need to
double the number of security specialists by 2015 and are set to
face a shortage of talent, researcher IDC says. While jobless
rates in the 17-nation euro region hit  11 percent  in March and
April, security employment is getting a boost from tougher
regulation and heightened awareness, sparked by high-profile
breaches at companies, including  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  and Sony Corp.  “There’s no diploma to become a hacker,” said Guillaume
Vassault-Houliere, 29, also known as Free_Man, who helped host
1,200 participants outside Paris last weekend in an event
started 10 years ago by a local hacker. “Recruiters drop by
looking for talent that just can’t be learned at school.”  Employers from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to the U.K. government have
put up “wanted” signs looking for so-called white-hat hackers
-- computer geeks who probe networks and pry into private data
for recognition or just plain fun, not for money or criminal
purposes. The U.K. Ministry of Defence said last year it planned
to hire hundreds of security specialists.  Jonathan Evans , the head of the U.K. security service,
known as MI5, said this week in a speech in London that one
publicly traded British company incurred losses of 800 million
pounds ($1.25 billion) in revenue from a hostile “state-
sponsored” attack. “They will not be the only corporate victim
of these problems,” he said, without identifying the target.  11-Hour Hack  Recruiters are turning their backs on resumes, diplomas,
suits and ties as they work to attract atypical, sometimes
marginal profiles that fit into a different set of rules.  “We need to find a way to allow the most skilled people in
the world to land a job, instead of going to work for the mob,”
said Winn Schwartau, a security consultant in Nashville,
 Tennessee , who is starting a Web portal matching recruiters and
hard-to-come-by candidates. “The mob has its own geek
headhunters, and guess what: They pay better and they don’t care
if you have long hair or a tattoo.”  Long-haired men in their early 20s made up most of the
crowd on a Saturday night on the outskirts of the French
capital, as they arranged computers and swapped their names for
aliases to enter the country’s biggest hackathon. For 11 hours,
starting at 8 p.m., they emptied  beer bottles  and worked to
defend their team’s servers and infiltrate those of rivals in a
cyberwar similar to the one companies and governments are
fighting in real life.  Password Thefts  This year’s event got extra attention from recruiters
because recent high-profile attacks have reminded organizations
of the growing, increasingly complex threats, Vassault-Houliere
and other organizers said, declining to name the recruiters
because they asked to remain anonymous. This month, LinkedIn
said that hackers had stolen 6.5 million user passwords.
Customers of  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Last.fm music site and EHarmony Inc.’s
dating portal also had passwords stolen.  “Governments, large companies, banks -- we have all been
attacked on a regular basis,” said Boris Hajduk, chief
information security officer at Paris-based Viadeo SA, a social
network for professionals that competes with LinkedIn. “The
attacks are more and more technical and visible, so we have to
reinforce our defense skills.”  Viadeo is hiring to strengthen its cybersecurity team and
regularly goes to hackathons to spot talent, Hajduk said. Paris-
based  Sysdream , which helps banks, energy companies and the
French Ministry of Defense protect their systems, has also
recruited staff at the events, co-owner Olivier Franchi said.  Under 30  “The only question I ask when I’m doing a job interview is
‘How long have you been hacking?”’ Franchi said. “I need
people younger than 30, who will skip reading the manual when
they get their hands on a new gadget.”  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , the world’s largest
social network, has posted an ad on its site saying it is
“seeking a passionate hacker who derives purpose in life by
revealing potential weaknesses and then crafting creative
solutions to eliminate those weaknesses.”  Companies need to exercise caution when recruiting hackers,
said Graham Cluley, a technology consultant at Abingdon,
England-based security firm Sophos Ltd. Antivirus companies, for
instance, typically avoid hiring malware programmers to avoid
causing concern to customers, Cluley said.  “We need to trust our engineers and our partners need to
trust us,” he said. “If there’s someone that’s done something
criminal, that’d be a big no-no.”  ‘Tight Community’  The British security service is using unusual methods to
seek out candidates. GCHQ, the government’s intelligence and
cybersecurity arm, last year set out a code with 160 groups of
letters and numbers on an unmarked website, with successful code
breakers taken through to a site listing relevant jobs
available. Applications increased by 42 percent following the
campaign, according to a GCHQ representative.  “We’re recruiting more people who can think both like a
hacker and a defender to help us stay ahead of our
adversaries,” the agency said on its website.  Governments also want programmers and software engineers to
build as well as to protect, and are using hacking to get there,
Rohan Silva, a special adviser on technology to U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , said in an interview. Over the next 12
months, coders will be given data on topics from transport to
health in hackathon sessions to find ways of making such
information more easily accessible, he said.  At the Paris contest, the winners landed a trip to  Las
Vegas , where they will attend the world’s biggest hackathon,
dubbed Defcon. Though some contestants left with business cards
from recruiters, many said they came to meet and make friends,
not for the job opportunities.  “You get to finally meet face-to-face with those you’ve
been chatting with online for months,” Vassault-Houliere said.
“It’s a tight community. We all know each other. The holy grail
after-hours of hacking is really just grabbing a beer
together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  