-- Bahrain Said to Offer Record-High Yield in Bond Sale
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-06-27T13:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/bahrain-said-to-offer-record-high-yield-on-1-5-billion-bonds.html
Bahrain, which quashed anti-
government protests in 2011, will pay more to raise $1.5 billion
than it did in prior 10-year bond sales, a person familiar with
the sale said, as investors focus on political risks.  The smallest member of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council priced bonds at 437.5 basis points over similar-maturity
midswaps, or about 6.15 percent, according to the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Bahrain last sold 10-year debt in March 2010 at 5.5 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the bonds due in
March 2020 was 5.54 percent at 4:31 p.m. in Dubai.  “International investors are still a bit unsettled about
the situation there and they would demand a premium to reflect
their nervousness,” Nick Stadtmiller, head of fixed income
research at Dubai-based  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , said today. “Credit
spreads for Bahrain are quite a bit wider than they were a
couple of years ago, which largely has to do with political
uncertainty.”  The cost of  insuring  Bahrain’s debt for five years using
credit default swaps was 345 basis points on June 26, almost
double the level in January 2011, when an uprising toppled
 Tunisia ’s leader and protests started in  Egypt . Protesters led
by Bahrain’s Shiite Muslim majority started demonstrating last
year to demand more civil rights from the Sunni Muslim monarchy,
and low-level protests continue to take place in Shiite
villages. Security forces cracked down on mass protests
beginning in February 2011 using forces which included troops
from neighboring  Saudi Arabia .  Favoring Gulf Debt  Bahrain is rated BBB at  Standard & Poor’s , its second-
lowest investment grade. Debt of Egypt and Tunisia has been
downgraded to non-investment grade.  Bond sales in the GCC are having the best start of the year
on record, with offerings rising to $18.5 billion so far in 2012
from $10.3 billion in the year-earlier period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Investors are favoring investment-grade bonds
from the Gulf amid prospects that the U.S. Federal Reserve may
start a fourth round of stimulus to sustain the world’s largest
economy and on concern  Greece ’s potential exit from the euro
would hurt  Europe ’s economy.  Bahrain’s Ministry of Finance hired Citigroup Inc., Gulf
International Bank BSC,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  to arrange the sale, the person said. The CDS
contracts, tracked by data provider CMA, pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations. CMA is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices from the privately
negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  