-- Barclay Brothers Win Ruling Over $1 Billion Hotel Debt Transfer
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-27T13:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/barclay-brothers-win-ruling-over-1-billion-hotel-debt-transfer.html
David and  Frederick Barclay  won a
ruling in a dispute with Irish property developer Patrick McKillen involving a 660 million-pound ($1 billion) debt
transfer that allowed the billionaire brothers to take over
three luxury London hotels.  Judge David Neuberger in London said in a ruling today that
the transfer of the debt by Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency to a holding company controlled by the Barclays,
Maybourne Finance Ltd., last year was proper.  McKillen is suing the Barclays and companies they control
over their takeover of Coroin Ltd.’s Maybourne Hotels affiliate,
which owns the Berkeley, Claridge’s and Connaught hotels.
McKillen holds 36 percent of the hotel company and is seeking a
judgment that he has the right to buy the remaining shares.  Two Irish banks loaned 800 million euros ($1 billion) to
fund the acquisition of the hotels in 2005. Ireland’s National
Asset Management Agency, the country’s so-called bad bank,
acquired the loans to Coroin from the banks in 2010 and later
sold the debt to the Barclays, owners of  London ’s Ritz Hotel and
Daily Telegraph newspaper.  McKillen contended that NAMA exceeded its authority when it
sold the loans to the Barclays. Neuberger overturned a lower
court ruling in McKillen’s favor and ruled the transfer made
Maybourne Finance Coroin’s lender.  The ruling today “is a key moment because it confirms that
MFL is the lender to Coroin,” said Marco Compagnoni, a lawyer
for the Barclays, in a phone interview today. “It is
fundamental to Coroin and who it has to deal with going
forward.”  Neuberger denied McKillen permission to appeal the decision
to the U.K Supreme Court.  “The judgment today is a small part of the main unfair
prejudice and conspiracy proceedings in the  High Court  and does
not lead to the automatic strike out of any other aspects of Mr.
McKillen’s claims,” said Breda Keena, a spokeswoman for
McKillen, in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  