-- Barclays Fined by U.K., U.S. for Falsifying Libor Rates
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-27T19:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/barclays-said-to-be-nearing-libor-settlement-with-fsa-cftc.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million
pounds ($451.4 million), the largest penalties ever imposed by
regulators in the U.S. and U.K., after admitting it submitted
false  London  and euro interbank offered rates.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and three
lieutenants will forgo their bonuses as a result, Britain’s
second-biggest bank by assets said in a statement today. “A
member of senior management” instructed Barclays’ Libor staff
to lower their submissions to make them match other banks and
dispel concern about the lender’s health, the U.S.  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  said.  Derivatives traders requested the false submissions in the
Libor and Euribor setting process, as they were “motivated by
profit and sought to benefit Barclays’ trading positions,” the
U.K. Financial Services Authority said. The settlements with the
 FSA , the  CFTC  and the  U.S. Department of Justice  are the first
in an international investigation into whether banks tried to
manipulate Libor, the benchmark rate for $360 trillion of
securities, to hide their true cost of borrowing.  “Others will follow suit,” said Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow
in the financial-markets group at the  London School of
Economics . “That the company settled and the top leadership
team forgoes their bonuses sets the right tone.”  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,
ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among firms that are being probed by regulators worldwide into
how Libor is set.  BOE ‘Misunderstanding’  The bank is assisting the ongoing investigation into other
finance firms and individuals, and was the first to provide
“extensive and meaningful cooperation” to the U.S. government,
the  Justice Department  said. The breaches included “a
significant number of employees and occurred over a number of
years,” the FSA said.  Barclays declined to comment on any of the FSA and CFTC’s
statements or discuss what managers were involved in the Libor
submissions.  “The events which gave rise to today’s resolutions relate
to past actions which fell well short of the standards to which
Barclays aspires in the conduct of its business,” Diamond, 60,
said in the bank’s statement.  The FSA said that discussions between Barclays and the  Bank
of England  resulted in a “misunderstanding” down the chain of
command whereby lower-level Barclays staff believed they were
submitting a lower Libor rate at the Bank of England’s request,
which was not the case.  Largest Fine  Paul Tucker , then the U.K. central bank’s markets director
and now its deputy governor for financial stability, was the
official who had the conversation with Barclays, one of many
regular market calls, according to a Bank of England spokesman
who asked not to be identified in accordance with the
institution’s policy.  The FSA’s 59.5 million-pound fine is the British
regulator’s largest ever. The CFTC is imposing a $200 million
penalty, and the DOJ is fining Barclays $160 million.  “Banks that contribute information to those benchmarks
must do so honestly,” said  David Meister , the CFTC’s director
of enforcement. “When a bank acts in its own self-interest by
attempting to manipulate these rates for profit, or by
submitting false reports that result from senior management
orders to lower submissions to guard the bank’s reputation, the
integrity of benchmark  interest rates  is undermined.”  14 Traders  Barclays traders in  New York , London and  Tokyo  attempted to
manipulate rates to benefit their positions in swaps and futures
that were tied to the rates, according to the CFTC. They made
the requests regularly and sometimes daily from mid-2005 through
2007 and sometimes later until 2009, the agency said in a
statement.  At least 14 derivatives traders, including senior traders,
made requests to rate submitters at the bank. From January 2005
through May 2009, at least 173 requests for U.S. dollar Libor
submissions were made to Barclays’ submitters. That includes 11
requests based on talks with traders at other banks, the FSA
said. There were at least 58 requests for Euribor submissions
from September 2005 through May 2009, and at least 26 for yen
Libor submissions from August 2006 through June 2009.  ‘Dude’  The Barclays’ submitters responded to the traders’ requests
with responses including “for you, anything,” and “done...
for you big boy,” according to e-mails released by the
regulators. In another such instance, a trader thanked a Libor
submitter: “Dude. I owe you big time! Come over one day after
work and I’m opening a bottle of Bollinger.”  In February 2007, one of the Barclays traders wrote in an
instant message to a trader at another bank:  “If you know how to keep a secret I’ll bring you in on it,
we’re going to push the cash downwards on the imm day, if you
breathe a word of this I’m not telling you anything else, I know
my treasury’s firepower... which will push the cash downwards,
please keep it to yourself otherwise it won’t work.”  Traders at Barclays also coordinated and abetted with
traders at other banks to manipulate Euribor, including
affecting rates on specific dates when derivatives contracts are
settled or reset, according to the CFTC.  Senior Managers  “The derivatives traders discussed the requests openly at
their desks,” the FSA said. “At least one derivatives trader
at Barclays would shout across the euro swaps desk to confirm
that other traders had no conflicting preference prior to making
a request to the submitters.”  Senior Barclays managers were telling staff to submit
artificially low rates to Libor from August 2007 until early
2009 to boost the bank’s financial condition, according to the
CFTC. “We didn’t say they succeeded in it,”  Bart Chilton , a
Democratic commissioner, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview, referring to the attempted manipulation.  Barclays “increasingly felt tremendous external pressures
concerning how it was being perceived in the market and media”
as a result of its higher Libor submissions’’ and believed other
banks were lowballing their own figures, the CFTC said.  “The senior U.S. dollar submitter emailed his supervisor,
‘following on from my conversation with you I will reluctantly,
gradually and artificially get my libors in line with the rest
of the contributors as requested,’’ the CFTC said. ‘‘I disagree
with this approach as you are well aware. I will be contributing
rates which are nowhere near the clearing rates for unsecured
cash and therefore will not be posting honest prices.’’  Pressured Managers  ‘‘The critical regulatory issue and shareholder issue is
what do managers do under pressure?’’ said  Peter Hahn , who
teaches finance at London’s Cass Business School and was
formerly a managing director at Citigroup. ‘‘If the answer is
under stress you suspend your morality, there’s a problem.”  The CFTC required Barclays to put measures in place to
ensure the bank’s transactions, subject to certain adjustments,
are given the most weight in determining Barclays Libor
submissions. Barclays must put up firewalls between traders and
the employees who make the submissions and retain documents and
communications about the rates they report, the CFTC said.  “I’m not questioning how the rates are devised, but surely
we need to ensure the numbers being submitted are accurate and
not trying to game Libor to benefit a bank,” Chilton said in an
e-mail. “That’s what Barclays did.”  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London.  Libor Survey  Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a set number of quotes are excluded, those
remaining are averaged and published for each currency by the
BBA before noon.  “Because mortgages,  student loans , financial derivatives,
and other financial products rely on Libor and Euribor as
reference rates, the manipulation of submissions used to
calculate those rates can have significant negative effects on
consumers and financial markets worldwide,” said Lanny A. Breuer, assistant attorney general of the Justice Department’s
Criminal Division.  Employees responsible for Libor submissions have said in
interviews with Bloomberg News they regularly discussed where to
set the measure with traders sitting near them, interdealer
brokers and counterparts at rival banks. The talks became common
practice after money markets froze in 2007, they said, making it
difficult for individual bankers to gauge the cost of borrowing
from other lenders.  Regulators are focusing on the lack of so-called Chinese
walls between traders and employees making interest-rate
submissions on behalf of their banks, and whether the banks’
proprietary trading desks exploited the information they had
about the direction of Libor to trade interest-rate derivatives.  Barclays Bonuses  Barclays received the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount
for settling early. The FSA’s  biggest fine to date  was the 33
million pounds it levied on a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
2010 over a failure to segregate client money.  As well as Diamond, Barclays said Chief Operating Officer
Jerry del Missier, Finance Director Chris Lucas and corporate
and investment banking chief  Rich Ricci  are also forgoing
bonuses this year. They had already agreed to cut their deferred
bonuses after investors opposed the size of their pay.  Shares of Barclays  stayed higher after the announcement and
closed 1.9 percent higher at 196.05 pence in London. They are up
11 percent so far this year, ninth-most in the 43-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  “The fine will be seen as a one-off and getting a piece of
uncertainty out of the way,” said  Simon Willis , an analyst at
Daniel Stewart Securities Plc in London.  Diamond got as much as 6.3 million pounds in salary,
bonuses and stock awards for 2011 as well as a 5.75 million-
pound contribution toward his personal tax bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 