-- Barclays Reduced Libor After October 2008 Bank of England Call
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-06-27T17:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/barclays-reduced-libor-after-october-2008-bank-of-england-call.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  deliberately reported
artificially low borrowing costs at the height of the 2008
financial market turmoil after a senior manager discussed
external perceptions about the bank’s strength with regulators
at the Bank of  England .  Barclays, which was fined $453.2 million by U.S. and U.K.
regulators for submitting false  London  and euro interbank
offered rates, “believed mistakenly that they were operating
under an instruction from the Bank of England” to lower its
Libor submissions, Britain’s Financial Services Authority said
today.  The case is the first in an international investigation
into whether banks tried to manipulate Libor, the benchmark rate
for $360 trillion of securities, to hide their true cost of
borrowing as financial markets were roiled by the September 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  At that time, Barclays was concerned about how it was being
perceived due to its higher Libor submissions relative to other
banks whose reported borrowing costs helped establish the
benchmark rate, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in its order today.  “Even though it maintained that its liquidity position was
in fact strong, Barclays was increasingly worried about these
market and media perceptions,” the CFTC order said.  In October 2008, the  Bank of England  had a telephone
conversation with a senior individual at Barclays in which it
raised questions about the bank’s liquidity position and
relatively high Libor submissions, the CFTC said. In reaction to
the external pressure and the discussion with the Bank of
England, Barclays believed it needed to lower its Libor
submissions, the CFTC said.  A ‘Misunderstanding’  According to the U.K.’s FSA, the Bank of England did not
instruct Barclays to lower its Libor submissions during the
phone call. Instead, a “misunderstanding or miscommunication”
occurred within Barclays as the substance of the conversation
was relayed down the chain of command, the FSA said.  A Bank of England spokesman said the call was one of many
regular market calls made by the bank and was conducted by  Paul Tucker , who was markets director at the time and is now the
central bank’s deputy governor for financial stability.  A member of Barclays’ senior management later instructed
the employees to lower the Libor submissions for dollars and
sterling so Barclays would be “within the pack,” or in line
with rates reported by the other banks, according to the order.
The employees, whose identities were withheld by investigators,
reluctantly complied with the request, the CFTC said.  Complying ‘Reluctantly’  “I will reluctantly, gradually and artificially get my
libors in line with the rest of the contributors as requested,”
the Barclays employee responsible for submitting dollar
borrowing costs said in an e-mail cited in the CFTC order. “I
will be contributing rates which are nowhere near the clearing
rates for unsecured cash and therefore will not be posting
honest prices.”  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  