-- Barclays Shows Need for CFTC, SEC Funds, Wolin Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-27T15:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/barclays-shows-need-for-cftc-sec-funds-wolin-says.html
The  Barclays Plc (BARC)  settlements on
interbank rates shows the need for the U.S.  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  and the Securities and Exchange Commission to
be “appropriately funded,” the Treasury Department’s No. 2
official said.  “When they’re not funded appropriately, there aren’t the
right number of people policing these markets, which need, of
course, to be policed,” Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin
said today in an interview on CNBC television.  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($451.4 million)
after admitting it submitted false London and euro interbank
offered rates. The settlements were reached with the U.K.’s
 Financial Services Authority , the CFTC and the  U.S. Department
of Justice .  House Republicans  are seeking to cut the CFTC’s fiscal 2013
budget by $25 million to $180 million, about 42 percent below
President  Barack Obama ’s request.  Senate Democrats  are seeking
to increase the budget of the main financial-markets regulators
in spending plans that clash with House Republicans’ efforts to
cut funds and rein in the Dodd-Frank Act. A Senate
Appropriations subcommittee has proposed a 19 percent increase
for the SEC.  Wolin also said so-called “living wills” are a piece of a
bigger whole of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul to ensure that
banks can be unwound. Some of the largest banks, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America Corp., are required to
submit to regulators by July 1 drafts of plans, known as living
wills, of how they should be dismantled or rebuilt if they fail.  Living Will  “The living will is not the total solution, but it is
important that when these firms fail, that we have an
understanding before the fact not when the crisis comes about
how they can be pulled apart,” Wolin said.  Living will identify a bank’s strategy at the point of
insolvency, business lines that are most important and how they
relate to each other, and specify how much ready cash is needed
to sustain operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  