-- Barrick Loses Bid to Block Goldcorp Chile Mine Purchase
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-06-27T20:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/barrick-loses-bid-to-block-goldcorp-chile-mine-purchase.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, can’t block Goldcorp Inc.’s 2010
acquisition of a majority stake in the El Morro copper and gold
project in Chile.  Ontario Court Justice Herman Wilton-Siegel dismissed
Barrick’s claims that the purchase was unlawful and ineffective,
Goldcorp said yesterday in a statement. Barrick is reviewing the
ruling and may consider an appeal, the Toronto-based company
said in a statement yesterday.  “We are pleased that the court has confirmed our position
that our acquisition of El Morro was completely proper and
consistent with the relevant agreements and Chilean law and that
Goldcorp’s 70 percent ownership share of the project has now
been clarified for our shareholders,” Goldcorp Chief Executive
Officer Chuck Jeannes said in the statement.  Barrick started the action against Vancouver-based Goldcorp
in 2010 to overturn the company’s purchase of 70 percent of El
Morro.  Goldcorp advanced  New Gold Inc. (NGD)  $463 million so that New
Gold could exercise a right of first refusal to buy the 70
percent stake from  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  Goldcorp then paid another $50
million to acquire the shareholding from New Gold, which already
owned 30 percent of El Morro. Xstrata and New Gold were also
named in the complaint.  Barrick, which had an earlier agreement to buy the 70
percent stake from Xstrata, argued that the El Morro
shareholders’ agreement prohibited the transfer of rights to a
third party, which it said made the Goldcorp deal illegal.  A court filing wasn’t immediately available.  Work Stoppage  Goldcorp fell 0.2 percent to C$38.38 at the close in
Toronto. Barrick fell 0.7 percent to C$37.56.  El Morro, in north-central  Chile , has reserves of 8.4
million ounces of gold and 6.1 billion pounds of copper,
Goldcorp said Jan. 9. Reserves are mineral resources that
studies have shown can be viably mined. The mine may cost $3.9
billion with the startup of production expected in 2017, the
company said.  Goldcorp stopped work at El Morro after Chile’s  Supreme
Court  suspended approval of an environmental permit, it said
April 30. The Chilean court said April 27 that the permit would
be suspended until “deficiencies” identified by an Antofagasta
appeal court decision in February had been corrected.  Goldcorp, the second-largest gold producer by market
capitalization, is working with Chilean authorities and local
communities to correct those deficiencies, it said in
yesterday’s statement.  The case is Barrick Gold Corp. v.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) ,
10-8539-00CL, Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  