-- Batista’s OGX Posts Record Drop as Brazil Oil Targets Cut
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-06-27T21:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/batista-s-ogx-reduces-production-targets-at-first-oil-project.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA 
shares and bonds fell the most on record after the  oil company 
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  cut its first
project production targets by as much as 75 percent.  The stock tumbled 25 percent to to close at 6.25 reais in
 Sao Paulo . OGX dollar bonds fell the most since they were issued
in May 2011.  Two other Batista companies,  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA (MMXM3) 
and  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , were the second- and third-biggest
decliners on Brazil’s main index, falling 12.6 percent and 7.5
percent, respectively. Investors are losing faith in Batista’s
companies after OGX cut its targets “below all expectations,”
Lucas Brendler, who helps manage about 7 billion reais ($3.4
billion), including OGX shares at Banco Geracao Futuro de
Investimento, said by telephone from  Porto Alegre ,  Brazil .  OGX plans to stabilize production at 5,000 barrels a day at
each of its first two wells at the Tubarao Azul field, the Rio
de Janeiro-based company said late yesterday. OGX had planned to
pump as much as 20,000 barrels a day at each well in the Campos
Basin. OGX is the main pillar in Batista’s plan to become the
world’s richest man from Brazil’s natural resources through a
group of interlinked oil, mining, shipbuilding and logistics
companies.  “This is yet another setback related to flow rates, adding
to market concerns regarding the Campos Basin’s provable
potential,” Banco Itau BBA SA analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes said in a note to clients yesterday. “It is becoming
increasingly clear that the development of Campos will be far
more complicated and probably costlier than originally
expected.”  Bonds Decline  OGX has slid 54 percent this year after production and
reserves estimates at Tubarao Azul disappointed investors.
Brazil’s benchmark stock index is down 6.4 percent.  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  lowered OGX’s end-2013 share price target to 9.50
reais from 12.50 reais and reiterated a hold rating.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of 8.5 percent notes due in June 2018
fell 6.26 cents to 91.14 cents on the dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields surged 147 basis points, or 1.47
percentage points, to 10.55 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The company announced weaker-than-expected productivity
for its first two wells in the Campos Basin, a development that
supports our downgrade and results in our having to reduce our
estimates further,” Santander analysts Christian Audi and
Vicente Falanga Neto said in a note today.  OGX has cut Tubarao Azul output targets three times since
Jan. 18, when it predicted production of up to 20,000 barrels a
day per well, according to company statements and conference
calls.  Improving Output  Tubarao Azul will still yield a total of 110 million
barrels of oil and natural gas over the life of the project, and
the 5,000 barrel-a-day production levels are for the initial
phase of development, OGX said. The company over the next 12
months will complete two more production wells and two water
injection wells, which increase reservoir pressure to improve
output, the company said.  “These decisions were made to guarantee a sustainable
exploitation of the Tubarao Azul field in line with the best
industry practices,” Chief Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  