-- Billionaire Deripaska Targets China to Expand Russian Food Sales
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-06-27T06:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/billionaire-deripaska-targets-china-to-expand-russian-food-sales.html
The agricultural division of Russian
billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s Basic Element plans to export pork,
wheat and soybeans to  China  to tap into the “explosive” growth
in the Asian country.  Basic Element, a diversified group with stakes in
everything from energy to aviation, plans to start producing
10,000 to 15,000 metric tons of pork in Siberia to ship to
China and other Asian countries, said Andrey Oleynik, managing
director of the company’s agribusiness management directorate.  “China is one of the fastest growing consumption
markets,” Oleynik said in an interview at Basic Element’s
Moscow headquarters on June 15. “The growth is explosive both
in terms of food consumption and other products’ consumption.
That is why it would be silly not to focus on China.”  The world’s most populous country, with 1.34 billion people
according to the  World Bank , is importing more food as the
available farmland shrinks and people’s diets change with rising
incomes. China’s demand grew 41 percent for poultry and 27
percent for pork in the past decade, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . The average person in the country ate
about 41 percent more pork than his American counterpart last
year, Bloomberg Industries estimates show.  Basic Element, whose companies include United Co. Rusal,
already does business with China and the move into agricultural
trade with the Asian country will be a new development.  Under the company’s agricultural expansion plans, Basic
Element has a 2016 sales target of $450 million for produce, up
from $259 million now.  Its grain trade is seen growing to 1.5 million tons in 2016
from its target of 500,000 tons this year, Oleynik said, noting
that includes trading the company’s own harvest and selling
others’ crops as well.  Grain Crop  Basic Element’s grain crop is expected to grow more than
threefold to 650,000 tons in four years from 200,000 tons in
2012, Oleynik said. Technological investments will help boost
yields and harvests, he said, adding the company founded a bio-
laboratory in Krasnodar, which focuses on finding ways to
increase wheat yields.  Basic Element’s plans include expanding farming lands to
the Amur and Altai regions in Siberia to grow about 100,000 tons
of grains there for both the local market and for export to
 Japan  and other Asian Pacific countries, Oleynik said, without
giving a specific timeline.  Basic Element also aims to have the capacity to handle 6
million tons of grain a year in the port of Taman and other
facilities, he said, without providing a time reference.  The company plans to almost triple its agricultural
property to 300,000 hectares (741,316 acres) by 2016, by buying
existing farms and undeveloped lands, Oleynik said. Basic
Element has about 111,000 hectares of farmland in Krasnodar and
Volgograd in southern  Russia , in the Mordovia region of Volga,
and in the Moscow area.  To contact the reporter on this story: Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow
   msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  