-- BlackRock Weighs Spanish Debt Investment at 6%, Pellicciaro Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 2012-06-27T16:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/blackrock-weighs-spanish-debt-investment-at-6-pellicciaro-says.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  is “looking for
areas” to make an investment in Spanish debt as the nation is
systemically important to the European Union, according to Eric Pellicciaro, the firm’s head of global rates investment.  “We believe the line is drawn with Spain,” Pellicciaro of
New York based BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager,
said in an interview on “In the Loop” with Deirdre Bolton.
“We have no investment in it, but we’re looking for areas to
get in should there be some disappointment.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy   made a plea today for
help from tomorrow’s European summit. EU leaders meeting in
Brussels are due to discuss a plan for closer European
integration spearheaded by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  that
centers on common banking supervision and deposit insurance,
along with a “criteria-based and phased” move toward joint
debt issuance.  Yields on Spanish notes due in two years climbed to 5.4
percent today, the highest since June 18. Spain’s debt starts
“to make some sense” for shorter maturity securities at yields
of about 6 percent, Pellicciaro said.  While the  interest rate  may increase as much as about 1.5
percentage points, “you’re probably going to find some solid
support there from policy makers,” he said. “If Spain loses
access to the market, I would expect the  European Central Bank 
to come in with emergency measures that the market is not
expecting.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields were little changed at 6.9
percent after jumping 24 basis points yesterday, nudging the 7
percent level that forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to call
for sovereign bailouts. Equivalent German bonds yielded about
1.54 percent.  Government debt of Spain has lost 1.4 percent this month as
of June 26, compared with a 0.2 percent decline for U.S.
Treasuries and a 2 percent drop for German bunds, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Deirdre Bolton  in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  