-- BMW Ends Talks With GM on Fuel-Cell Research Cooperation
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-06-27T09:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/bmw-ends-talks-with-gm-on-fuel-cell-research-cooperation.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  ended
talks with  General Motors Co. (GM)  to cooperate on fuel cells to
power future vehicles, with the world’s largest maker of luxury
autos poised to expand its partnership with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “We are still talking to GM, but no longer on the topic of
fuel cells,” Alexander Bilgeri, a spokesman for the Munich-
based carmaker, said today by phone.  BMW and Toyota are set to expand their cooperation to fuel
cells and components for electric-powered cars, said a person
familiar with the situation who declined to be identified ahead
of an official announcement. BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  and Toyota President Akio Toyoda have scheduled a
press conference for June 29, according to an invitation today
from the German manufacturer. The carmakers declined to comment.  BMW said on Dec. 12 that it was in talks with GM to
cooperate on fuel-cell technology. Selecting Toyota as its
partner would expand on an agreement signed Dec. 1 to cooperate
on boosting the performance of lithium-ion batteries. At the
time, the companies said they would explore other projects to
develop fuel-saving technologies.  Der Spiegel  earlier reported
on the expanded cooperation between BMW and Toyota.  “We have business relationships with many different
manufacturers and regularly explore potential forms of
cooperations,”said Marc Kempe, a spokesman for GM in Europe.
“There is nothing to announce with regards to BMW.”  Research partnerships have become standard in the  auto
industry , as manufacturers look to reduce development expenses
to meet stricter emissions regulations. BMW cooperates with  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  on engines for the Mini brand. The two companies
are also currently cooperating on hybrid components. Those plans
are under review after GM took a stake in the French
manufacturer as part of a broader alliance.  BMW remains “committed” to the hybrid-component business,
Bilgeri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  