-- Boeing Says Conner to Replace Albaugh as Commercial Chief
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-06-27T16:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/boeing-says-conner-to-replace-albaugh-as-commercial-chief.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  named Ray Conner, a sales
chief and former mechanic, to lead its commercial-jet unit as
the planemaker pushes output to record levels and revamps some
of its top-selling models.  Conner, 57, immediately replaces  Jim Albaugh  as president
of Seattle-based Boeing Commercial Airplanes, the company said
yesterday. A new vice president of sales will be announced
later, and Albaugh, 62, will help with the transition until he
retires Oct. 1 after 37 years of service.  The move puts Conner in charge after he started as a
mechanic in 1977 and moved through production, materials and
sales jobs. He was a lead architect of November’s labor
agreement with Machinists, which is designed to assure almost a
decade of labor peace while Boeing speeds up assembly lines to
work off an order backlog of 3,953 jets.  “He’s got trust with the workforce, and there’s still a
ton of challenges in front of the company,” said  Howard Rubel ,
a Jefferies & Co. analyst in  New York . “You can’t ask for a
better leader to succeed Mr. Albaugh than who they’ve chosen.”  Conner’s to-do list will include accelerating production of
the composite-plastic 787 Dreamliner while ironing out
production snags and developing bigger versions of the plane,
whose commercial debut was more than three years late.  737 Upgrade  Boeing also is reworking the 737, the world’s most widely
flown airliner, to add new engines; studying upgrades to the
wide-body 777; and trying to avoid a repeat of the monthlong
factory shutdown that followed the last time production was
pushed this hard, in the late 1990s, as unfinished jets piled up
waiting for parts.  “Ray is exceptionally well-suited to lead BCA through
these challenging but exciting times,” Chief Executive Officer
Jim McNerney said in a memo to employees.  The timing of Albaugh’s exit surprised analysts such as
Stephen Levenson of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  It’s still “a good time to step aside and open the door to
increased effort on sales where Mr. Conner has most recently
focused his attention,” wrote Levenson, who like Rubel rates
the shares of Chicago-based Boeing as a buy.  Conner replaced  Marlin Dailey  as sales chief last year,
after AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  ended years of ordering only
Boeing jets to buy planes from Airbus.  It was Conner’s second stint in that position, sandwiched
around leading Boeing’s growing supply chain. Conner also has
been in charge of the 777 and 747 programs and worked in sales
in  Asia  and the Americas as well as in Boeing’s materiel unit.  Retirement Age  Albaugh, an engineer, decided to retire ahead of Boeing’s
mandatory age of 65 after achieving his three stated goals, said
John Dern, a company spokesman. Those were: helping win a $35
billion U.S. Air Force tanker contract; overseeing the delayed
commercial debuts of the Dreamliner and 747-8 jumbo jet; and
securing the labor accord with Boeing’s biggest union.  The Commercial Airplanes unit accounted for 53 percent of
Boeing’s $68.7 billion in  2011 sales , with the defense division
making up 46 percent. Conner takes over with the stock still
down 30 percent from the day before the first 787 postponement,
in October 2007, and new rivals from  China ,  Canada  and  Russia 
adding to the competitive pressure from Airbus SAS.  Conner has “remarkable experience” to lead the business,
Rubel said. “He’s touched so many parts of the organization
along the way, he’s been part of the change and he’s been part
of the success, and he’s known what’s worked and what’s failed
because he’s seen all sides.”  Farnborough Show  He will make his public debut right away, as industry
leaders begin gathering next week at the Farnborough air show in
 England , the year’s most important aerospace event. He will meet
customers and suppliers and brief reporters.  Boeing rose 1 percent to $71.64 at 11:56 a.m. in New York,
leaving the shares down 2.3 percent for the year. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has risen 5.9 percent in 2012, while Airbus
parent European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. has gained 10
percent.  Conner’s promotion and Albaugh’s departure completed a
second step in what Robert Stallard, an RBC Capital Markets
analyst, called a “generational shift” at Boeing. Chief
Financial Officer  James Bell , 64, retired earlier this year and
was replaced by  Greg Smith , 46.  Boeing CEO McNerney turns 63 in August. Below him at the
company’s two main businesses are Conner and Dennis Muilenburg,
48, who followed Albaugh at the military unit when the latter
shifted to run the commercial division in 2009.  ‘Top Slot’  McNerney’s successor “remains to be seen, but Boeing now
has two relatively new and capable executives heading each
division, and each could be vying for the top slot in due
course,” Stallard wrote in a note. He is based in New York and
 rates  Boeing as outperform.  Albaugh mended relationships with engineers that had been
strained by outsourcing work on the 787, which was partly to
blame for the plane’s delays. He presided over two of the
plane’s seven setbacks before the Dreamliner’s first delivery in
September, as well as complications that stalled the 747-8 by
two years.  His legacy includes Boeing’s 2009 decision to begin
producing 787s in  South Carolina , the first final-assembly plant
outside the Seattle area where the company was founded 96 years
ago. Conner was put in charge of that new site, which rankled
the company’s Seattle workforce.  Conner was a lead negotiator in November’s surprise
contract agreement with the Machinists that helped resolve a
U.S. labor complaint that the company had said it expected to
take all the way to the  Supreme Court . Instead, with Conner’s
help, the deal smoothed union-management ties after four strikes
since 1989.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  