-- Brazil Boosts Purchases, Cuts-Long Term Rate to Fuel Growth
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-06-27T17:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/brazil-reduces-long-term-interest-rate-to-record-mantega-says.html
Brazil ’s government plans to buy
over a third of the country’s output of buses and reduce
borrowing costs for state-funded investments to a record as part
of a new round of measures to revive stalled growth.  The  long-term reference rate  for loans from the BNDES state
development bank will be cut to a record 5.5 percent from 6
percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today. The
government will also increase purchases of trucks, buses,
ambulances, defense equipment and tractors by 6.6 billion reais
($3.2 billion) in the second half of the year, he said.  In just over a month, analysts have shaved more than one
percentage point off their 2012 growth estimate for Brazil,
lowering it to 2.18 percent, according to a central bank survey
released June 25. Economists predict the biggest emerging market
after  China  will slow for a second straight year even as the
government has cut interest rates, granted tax breaks on
industrial and consumer goods and provided more subsidized
credit. The economy grew 2.7 percent last year after expanding
7.5 percent in 2010.  “Brasil is one the countries that will withstand this
crisis because we opted for a development model that relies on
the strength of the Brazilian economy, of our domestic market
and in the strength of our workers and entrepreneurs,”
President  Dilma Rousseff  said today at an event in Brasilia.  Confidence Measure  Marcopolo SA (POMO4) , a Brazilian truck and bus body manufacturer,
rose 6.5 percent to 8.65 reais at 11:44 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  after
the government said it plans to buy 8,570 buses in the second
half of 2012, the equivalent of 36 percent of  projected output,
according to the  Finance Ministry . The purchases will cost the
government 1.7 billion reais.  The government will also buy 8,000 trucks, 7,971 tractors
and construction vehicles and 2,125 ambulances as part of the
plan.  “This isn’t the first measure and won’t be the only one to
be taken by the government,” Mantega told reporters in
Brasilia. “It’s very important to keep confidence in place.
Without confidence, business leaders don’t invest and people
don’t buy because they’re afraid of losing their job.”  The moves follow a 65 billion-real stimulus package
announced in April that included tax cuts and more subsidized
credit.  Growth Outlook  “This is one more attempt to boost confidence. It is about
showing that the government isn’t standing by idly, especially
regarding sectors that are doing poorly,” said  Solange Srour ,
chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX, in a phone interview from  Rio
de Janeiro . The measures announced today “won’t change the
economic growth outlook.”  The real has dropped 10.5 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 16 most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The real declined 0.5 percent to 2.0859 per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:03 p.m. local time.  Sales of trucks plunged 29 percent in May from a year ago,
according to Brazil’s automakers association, known as Anfavea.
Bus sales fell 20 percent in the same period, according to the
association.  Since August, central bank President Alexandre Tombini has
reduced the overnight rate by 400 basis points to a record 8.5
percent in a bid to shield the economy from the euro debt
crisis. Traders expect the rate to fall to at least 7.75 percent
this year, according to interest rate futures.  The long-term  reference rate , known as TJLP, had remained
at 6 percent since July 2009.  ‘Structural Change’  “Both the interest rate cuts and the weak  exchange rate 
are going to continue, spurring an important structural change
in the economy” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia. “This
process hasn’t ended, it’s only beginning and will continue over
the coming months.”  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, was unchanged
at 7.65 percent.  Brazil’s industrial output contracted 0.2 percent in April
after falling 0.5 percent in March even as the government
increased its efforts to boost growth.  In May, Brazil’s consumer loan default rate rose to 8
percent, the highest in 30 months, reinforcing concern that
households struggling with debt could further dent Brazil’s
credit-driven growth model.  Tombini said on June 12 that default rates would fall
throughout 2012 and help fuel an economic recovery as lower
 interest rates , rising wages, and low unemployment levels
bolster  household income .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at  jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  or  