-- Breaking Up Big Banks Hard to Do as Market Forces Fail
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-27T16:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/breaking-up-big-banks-hard-to-do-as-market-forces-fail.html
Seventeen years ago fund manager
Michael F. Price spurred the merger of Chase Manhattan Corp. and
Chemical Banking Corp., creating what was then the biggest U.S.
bank and laying the foundation for  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.  Now he has a new message: It’s time to break up.  The stocks of five of the six biggest U.S. banks --
JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- are languishing at or below
tangible book value. That means the pieces are worth more than
the whole, Price said.  “Within the banks are wonderful assets,” said Price, who
sold his fund-management company for $610 million in 1996 and
now runs MFP Investors LLC in New York. “How long are the
boards of directors going to stand by and take no action and let
them be pounded? So far there’s no indication that any of these
banks or boards of banks is willing to do anything about it.”  Politicians and regulators have resisted calls from some
investors to split up conglomerates that were assembled over two
decades by executives such as former Citigroup Chief Executive
Officer Sanford “Sandy” Weill and former Bank of America CEO
 Ken Lewis . These universal banks offered customers everything
from checking accounts and insurance to derivatives trading and
merger advice. The 2008 financial crisis and subsequent
performance of the companies is calling that into question.  Broken Model  Some investors, tired of unpredictable losses, costly
regulation and legal headaches, have abandoned the banks in
favor of more focused lenders such as  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. and  U.S.
Bancorp. (USB)  Bank of America has traded below book value since 2009,
while New York-based Citigroup has done so since 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is not clear why a bank needs to do lots of activities
in financial services that aren’t banking,” Ken Fisher, CEO and
founder of Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments, which
manages about $44 billion, said in an interview. “It is not
clear to me, other than perhaps in some very specialty cases,
that being a bank helps you be an investment bank or an asset
manager or an insurer.”  JPMorgan and Citigroup would be worth more broken up,  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in New York, told
Stephanie Ruhle and  Erik Schatzker  in a June 22 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s Market Makers.  “The universal bank model is broken,” Trone said.  Getting Bigger  There’s little sign that market forces are changing the
universal-banking strategy. Corporate raiders or potential
takeovers don’t provide the same impetus for banks as they do in
other industries. Laws prohibit non-financial firms from buying
lenders, and banks can’t make purchases that give them more than
10 percent of U.S. deposits. JPMorgan,  Bank of America  and Wells
Fargo were already at or above that level at the end of March,
according to data from the Federal Reserve and the companies.  Some banks have gotten bigger since the financial crisis.
The Fed, U.S. Treasury Department and other regulators supported
JPMorgan’s purchase of Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual
Inc. in 2008, as well as Bank of America’s acquisition of
Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co. JPMorgan’s
balance sheet has increased 49 percent to $2.3 trillion since
the end of 2007. Bank of America’s assets have grown 27 percent
to $2.18 trillion in the same period.  Citigroup, the third-biggest bank by assets after JPMorgan
and Bank of America, was given more federal aid during the
crisis than any other U.S. bank. Its $1.94 trillion balance
sheet is 11 percent smaller than at the end of 2007.  Bernanke, Geithner  After the crisis, policy makers, politicians and former
bankers began calling for a breakup of too-big-to-fail banks.
They’ve included former Citigroup co-CEO John Reed, U.S. Senator
Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, former Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig  and Dallas Fed President
Richard Fisher.  Morgan Stanley became the biggest U.S. securities firm in
1997, when it agreed to be acquired by Dean Witter, Discover &
Co., a brokerage run at the time by Philip J. Purcell. Purcell,
who oversaw the combined company until a revolt by some
shareholders and former employees led to his departure in 2005,
now thinks that breaking up the banks would be better for
shareholders, according to an opinion piece in yesterday’s Wall
Street Journal.  “The market is now discounting the stock prices of
financial institutions with investment banking and trading,”
Purcell wrote in the piece. “Breaking these companies into
separate businesses would double to triple the shareholder value
of each institution.”  ‘More Valuable’  Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman  said in an interview today
with Bloomberg Television’s Schatzker that he disagrees with
Purcell.  “This is a knee-jerk discussion that’s been going on,”
Gorman, 53, said. “We need to just calm down, let this play out
with new regulation, the new capital rules, and at that point
then figure out which businesses to accelerate, and which
businesses to slow down.”  Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, commenting at New
York’s Council on Foreign Relations in October 2009, said he
thought breaking up the banks might make them more valuable.  “In 1911, we broke up Standard Oil -- so what happened?”
he said. “The individual parts became more valuable than the
whole. Maybe that’s what we need to do.”  Bernanke, Geithner  That wasn’t the course taken by Greenspan’s successor,  Ben S. Bernanke , and Timothy F. Geithner, who led the New York Fed
before President Barack Obama appointed him Treasury secretary.
They supported legislation that allowed the banking
conglomerates to remain intact and sought to address the risks
of future collapse by requiring them to hold more capital,
submit to new regulations and prepare living wills to help the
government dismantle them in the case of a calamity.  The five biggest U.S. banks accounted for 52 percent of the
industry’s assets in 2010, up from 17 percent in 1970, according
to a report this year by the Dallas Fed. Four banks account for
93 percent of the notional derivatives holdings in the U.S.
banking system, according to the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency. Wells Fargo, the fourth-biggest U.S. bank, made
33.9 percent of the mortgage loans originated in the first
quarter, the highest share ever recorded and more than triple
its closest competitor, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.  To Ira M. Millstein, a senior partner at New York law firm
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and a veteran antitrust attorney, such
statistics indicate that the Federal Trade Commission and the
Justice Department should view banking conglomerates the same
way the government once looked at Standard Oil -- as an anti-
competitive oligopoly.  ‘Try Again’  “This kind of size or concentration is something that
antitrust always looks at,” Millstein said at a March 27
conference in New York on financial risk and regulation. Instead
“we’re simply allowing regulators who missed the boat the first
time to try again with even more regulation.”  When JPMorgan last month disclosed a $2 billion trading
loss, it reignited concerns that a bank with $2.3 trillion of
assets has too much risk for managers and regulators to monitor.  “I just don’t see how you manage those kinds of
institutions effectively,”  Gary Stern , a former Minneapolis Fed
president, said at a June 14 Bloomberg Link conference in
Boston. “But I think the responsibility for dealing with that
is principally with the management and boards asking themselves:
What businesses should we really be in?”  ‘Old World’  Price, Trone and other advocates for breaking up the
biggest lenders cite new regulatory burdens, including Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision capital requirements and the
Dodd-Frank Act, as core threats to profitability.  “They worked well together in the old world,” said Price,
61, who forecast in August 1995 that the merged Chase and
Chemical would become a $100 stock. Shares soared to more than
$138 before splits in 1998 and 2000. “That was the analog
world. This is the digital world.”  Those regulatory constraints will become even tighter after
the JPMorgan trading loss, according to Trone, who calls the
biggest U.S. banks “uninvestable” because of new regulation
and risks from the European sovereign-debt crisis. Dodd-Frank’s
so-called Volcker rule, which restricts trading at deposit-
taking banks, will be such a limitation on profits that “market
forces” will lead companies to split off trading and investment
banking from deposit-taking, Trone said.  That isn’t happening at two of the market’s worst
performers: Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
with 278,688 employees as of the end of March, and New York-
based Citigroup, with 263,000.  ‘Central Mission’  “Our customers need us to do this, and that’s why we do
it,” Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, told investors
on a May 30 conference call to explain why his bank needs to be
in consumer and corporate and investment banking. Vikram Pandit,
Citigroup’s CEO, said the bank’s “central mission” over its
200-year history has been “to support economic progress.”  “We’re going to continue to serve our clients by putting
our unique capabilities to work for them,” Pandit, 55, said in
defending the bank’s model during an April 16 conference call.  That hasn’t been serving shareholders. Over the past five
years, those two stocks were the worst performers in the 24-
company  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , dropping 84 percent and 95 percent,
respectively. Bank of America is trading at about 60 percent of
its tangible book value, while Citigroup is at 52 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tangible book value is
the best estimate of what shareholders would get if all of the
banks’ assets were sold and its liabilities paid off.  By contrast, a bank a fraction the size -- Minneapolis-
based U.S. Bancorp, with $341 billion in assets -- chalked up
the third-best performance in the KBW Bank Index and is trading
at 2.6 times tangible book.  Weill, Dimon  JPMorgan, led by former Weill protege  Jamie Dimon , 56, is
trading at about tangible book value even after posting record
profit for 2011. Wells Fargo, its smaller and more U.S.-centric
competitor, is valued at 1.72 times tangible book.  “That’s a valid question, we should look at it,” Dimon,
JPMorgan’s CEO, said at a Feb. 28 investor event when asked if
the bank would be worth more broken up. “But I can’t imagine
that the units of this company would perform better if they were
parts of a much smaller company.”  Marc Lasry , the billionaire co-founder of Avenue Capital
Group LLC, said on Bloomberg Television today that banks will
have a difficult time making money in coming years and weak
stock performance could lead boards to make changes. Davide Serra, the former head of European bank research at Morgan
Stanley who is now managing partner at Algebris Investments,
said on television today that the universal bank model “has
through time been the winning one.”  Emerging Markets  Spokesmen for Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs declined to comment on whether their boards are
considering breaking them up. A JPMorgan spokesman didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Jon Diat, a spokesman at Citigroup, said
in an e-mailed statement that the bank has been profitable for
more than two years and that its presence in emerging markets
and history of helping finance trade make it well-suited for
today’s economy.  “We know what trends will define the global economy,”
Diat wrote. “We have positioned our company to seize and
capitalize on nearly all of them.”  Empire Building  Fisher, who said he has been underweight bank stocks
compared with benchmark indexes for three years, sees another
explanation for why banks stick to their model.  “The inherent nature of a lot of CEOs is to love empire
building,” Fisher said. “The ones that love empire-building
will do whatever he or she can to dissuade the board of
directors” from breaking their companies up.  High compensation for bank CEOs and their boards of
directors is another reason they’re resistant to change,
according to David Ellison, president of FBR Fund Advisors Inc.
in Arlington, Virginia, and chief investment officer of FBR
Equity Funds.  A pay package for Pandit that would have awarded him about
$15 million for 2011, along with a retention plan that could be
worth about $40 million, was opposed by shareholders this year
in a non-binding advisory vote. Citigroup’s non-employee board
members received between $56,250 and $625,000 in 2011, including
a mix of cash and stock, according to the company’s proxy.  No Incentive  “The motivation is not there really,” Ellison said at the
June Bloomberg Link conference. “They’re not going to do it
unless they’re forced to do it.”  Managements and boards also are protected from market
forces in ways they wouldn’t be at industrial conglomerates,
said Amar Bhide, a professor at the Fletcher School of Law at
Tufts University. Regulators won’t permit leveraged buyouts of
banks, and the largest U.S. lenders are too large to be
candidates for LBOs, he said.  “Unless somebody comes in and says, ‘Aha, this bank is
trading so far below book value that I can come in and break it
up and sell the pieces,’ what’s the incentive for the boards of
directors?” Bhide said. “Banking is an industry where these
things are simply not allowed.’”  Because regulators only allow banks to acquire banks,
eventually some of the smaller lenders, perhaps supported by
private-equity companies as shareholders, could attempt to
acquire parts of the larger conglomerates, Fisher said.  Ant, Elephant  “The ant will swallow the elephant and disgorge the
pieces,” Fisher said. Regulators are unlikely to balk at such a
deal “if the avowed purpose is to set the bank to banking and
the other pieces off on their own.”  In April 1995, when Price’s Heine Securities Corp. became
Chase Manhattan’s biggest shareholder and said the bank’s stock
wasn’t being properly valued, Chase took action. Its $10.9
billion merger with Chemical four months later created the
biggest U.S. bank at the time, with almost $300 billion in
assets. Price reaped a profit.  About 18 months ago, Price said on a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Tom Keene  that New York-based Goldman Sachs
should break itself into separate trading, banking and money-
management businesses. Price said the parts could reward Goldman
Sachs shareholders, whose stock was then worth about $162, with
a value of $250 a share.  Goldman Sachs, with $951 billion of assets, closed
yesterday in New York at $91.03, or about 74 percent of tangible
book value. Greenhill & Co., which operates as a stand-alone
investment bank, is valued by shareholders at more than six
times tangible book value. Asset-management companies such as
Legg Mason Inc. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  trade at more than six
and four times tangible book, respectively.  “I talked about Goldman doing it, and Goldman doesn’t want
to hear it,” Price said. “I’m just a small money manager now,
so there’s nothing I can do. These are big banks now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  