-- Brown Will Benefit From $127 Million Bond Sale by Rhode Island
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-27T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/brown-will-benefit-from-127-million-bond-sale-by-rhode-island.html
Brown University , the Ivy League
school in  Rhode Island ’s capital of Providence, will use a
$127.4 million bond sale to renovate downtown property after
agreeing in May to almost double annual payments to the city.  Brown’s plans include buildings at 70 Ship Street and 233
Richmond Street, in Providence’s Jewelry District, as well as
its library, laboratories and residence halls, according to a
sale document. The revenue bonds will be sold today by the Rhode
Island Health and Educational Building Corp.  The debt is graded AA+ and Aa1 by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service, respectively -- both the second
highest ratings. That’s six levels higher than Brown’s hometown,
which had was cut to a third-lowest investment-grade by Moody’s
this year as the city coped with rising pension costs and weak
revenue. The nonprofit school agreed last month to increase
payments to Providence by $31.5 million over 11 years.  “Highly rated credits that are seemingly immune to the
current economic and fiscal problems continue to be in vogue,”
Chris Mier, chief municipal strategist at Loop Capital Markets
in  Chicago , said by telephone. He cited  Harvard University , an
Ivy League school in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , as an example.  Brown’s agreement with the city calls for it to provide an
extra $3.9 million in payments in lieu of taxes annually for
five years, beginning this month. In June 2017, the sum drops to
$2 million through June 2022.  Local Conditions  The additional payments aren’t listed among investor risks
in the offering document. The university’s financial performance
“will depend to some degree upon factors beyond the control of
its management, including general national and local economic
conditions,” it says.  Providence reached a deal with union leaders and retirees
on May 31, letting it cut pensions for police and firefighters.
The accord helped the city stave off bankruptcy.  No one from Brown’s Finance and Administration Department
was available to respond to questions about the sale, according
to Mark Nickel, a spokesman for the school.  The bonds mature in September 2021 and September 2022,
according to the sale document. The  yield  on top-rated 10-year
education debt declined to 2.24 percent yesterday from this
year’s high of 2.54 percent on March 20, a Bloomberg Fair Value
index shows. On Feb. 6, the index fell to 2.15 percent, the
lowest since at least 1998, when the data begin.  Brown’s academic prominence and name-recognition will
probably minimize the effect of the city’s fiscal situation and
debt ratings, said Robert Donovan, executive director of the
state agency involved in the sale. The university was started in
the city in 1764.  The school is tied for 15th on U.S. News & World Report’s
list of  best colleges . Brown’s acceptance rate has declined from
13.7 percent for the class graduating this year to 9.7 percent
for the class of 2016, according to the offering document.
Tuition, room, board and other student charges will be about
$55,000 in the 2012-2013 academic year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net 
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  