-- C&C Rises as Tennent’s Beer Helps Export Expansion: Dublin Mover
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-06-27T07:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/c-c-rises-as-tennent-s-beer-helps-export-expansion-dublin-mover.html
C&C Group Plc (GCC) , the maker of Magners
cider, rose the most in five weeks after reporting revenue
growth in export markets and at its beer unit, even amid
“challenging” business conditions in the U.K. and Ireland.  C&C  jumped  as much as 2.8 percent to 3.26 euros as of 8:55
a.m. in Dublin in the biggest intraday gain since May 22. The
stock has increased 14 percent this year.  Sales outside Ireland and the U.K. surged 63 percent and
revenue at the Tennent’s beer unit increased as C&C raised
prices and sold more expensive variants in the period from March
1 to today, the Dublin-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue and volume slid in the U.K. and Ireland as rainy weather
discouraged shopping.  C&C expects to report operating profit in a range of 112
million euros ($140 million) to 118 million euros for the year
through February 2013, it said. The median  estimate  of nine
analysts was for profit on the same basis of 117.7 million
euros. Operating profit, excluding some items, was 111.2 million
euros last year.  Exports have “performed well,” and the operating profit
forecast should “give investors some reassurance,” Phil Carroll, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, wrote in a
report today. “Whilst this update is weak, particularly in the
U.K. it is not surprising.”  More Marketing  C&C will increase “commercial support and brand activity”
for its ciders, which include Magners and Gaymers, and expects
volume and revenue to increase, it said. The company gets the
majority of  revenue  from cider.  “Despite a challenging quarter and tough consumer
backdrop, we are confident that our resilient business model and
strong brand market combinations will deliver continued earnings
growth for the full year and maintain our business momentum,”
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Glancey said in the statement.  British and Irish consumer-goods companies are looking to
sales outside their home markets as government spending cuts to
address a record budget deficit hurt  consumer confidence . Retail
sales slid 2.4 percent in the U.K. in April, hurt by the wettest
weather on record for the month, according to the  Office for
National Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  