-- Cameron Faces EU Exit Call as Leaders Press for More Integration
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/cameron-faces-eu-exit-call-as-leaders-press-for-more-integration.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
travels to a crisis summit today pinched by conflicting calls
from allies at home to quit the European Union and the quest by
euro leaders for a more integrated body politic.  Cameron, who says Britain is better off in the EU, is
struggling to silence those in his  Conservative Party  who want
to give voters a choice between staying in the 27-nation bloc
and leaving it in the first plebiscite on  Europe  since 1975.  Pressure for a vote is building as the quest to end
Europe’s debt turmoil propels the 17 countries that use the euro
toward closer political and fiscal union, leaving Britain
increasingly isolated.  “The general subject of Europe is vexed for Cameron
because he wants to keep Britain in Europe but there is a very
big group in his party -- as big as 40 percent  -- who would
like to take Britain out,” said  Bill Jones , professor of
politics at Liverpool Hope University.  EU leaders convene today and tomorrow in Brussels for their
19th summit since the sovereign debt crisis started two years
ago. Their talks will focus on a road map released this week by
four officials led by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  The plan centers on common banking supervision and deposit
insurance and a “criteria-based and phased” move toward
jointly issued debt. It also suggests that the EU could impose
limits on annual budgets and debt of nations that use the euro.  Cameron says euro-area countries need to press ahead with
fiscal and banking union to save their currency, yet insists
Britain will play no part nor contribute to bailouts of stricken
euro economies.  ‘Vital Summit’  “It is a very vital summit that is taking place,” he told
the House of Commons yesterday. “The euro-zone countries need
to do more in the short term to settle the financial markets but
they also need to take medium- and longer-term steps to make
sense of the euro zone. Now that will involve them sharing
greater powers and that is something that the U.K. shouldn’t be
involved in.”  Cameron says Britain must remain a part of the EU, with
which the country does half its trade and which supports an
estimated 3.5 million jobs. Still, he may ultimately find he has
little choice but to offer a popular vote after almost four
decades of membership.  According to some Conservatives, a vote is needed to fend
off the U.K. Independence Party, which wants Britain to pull out
of the EU. Forty percent of Conservatives are considering voting
for UKIP, enough to deny them a majority in 2015  elections,
according to  YouGov (YOU)  Plc President Peter Kellner.  ‘Happier Country’  At the same time, concerns are growing that the Labour
opposition may be first to promise a referendum in an attempt to
exploit Tory divisions. The government may seek to renegotiate
the terms of membership in areas such as employment rules and
promise a plebescite on the results. For many, that’s not
enough.  “We need an in/out referendum,” Tory lawmaker Douglas Carswell said in a telephone interview. “Once we have left the
EU, we will be able to become a more competitive economy, return
to being a truly global and open society and we will be able to
renew our democracy. We will be a happier country.”  Polls show popular sentiment against the EU providing
ammunition for Tories who want a relationship with the EU akin
to that of Switzerland and  Norway  -- a free-trade agreement
providing access to the single market of 500 million people, and
no more.  Limited Time  Fifty-one percent of voters said they’d vote to leave the
EU if there was a referendum on membership, compared with 28
percent who said they’d vote to stay in, according to YouGov
poll of 1,683 adults carried out on May 17 and May 18.  Meanwhile, 83 percent of rank-and-file Tories want an
in/out referendum to be included in the manifesto for the 2015
general election, with seven in 10 saying they’d vote the leave
the EU. The survey of 1,600 party members was carried out by the
 ConservativeHome  website for Channel 4 News last month.  Conservative Prime Minister  Edward Heath  took Britain into
an embryonic EU, the European Economic Community, in 1973, a
decision endorsed in a referendum two years later. His three
Tory successors have each battled to maintain influence in
Europe while refusing to sign up to the grander dreams of their
neighbors.  In December, Cameron left other EU nations to go it alone
with a new fiscal treaty after delivering on a veto threat his
predecessors carried with them to Brussels for 30 years.  Tensions flared earlier this month. As Cameron prepared to
visit Berlin on June 7, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told ARD
television that she backed a two-speed Europe in which Britain
would be relegated to the margins.  Tense Encounter  In October, former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  raised
his voice tell Cameron -- who had pressed for speedier action to
resolve the crisis --  that if the U.K. wanted to be involved it
should have joined the euro.  “There’s only a certain amount of time he can stall for,”
said Tim Bale, a professor of politics at the  University of
Sussex  who studies the Conservative Party. “There is pressure
on him to take powers back at a time when the rest of Europe is
pushing for more integration. There is nothing he can possibly
deliver: it will all be mood music.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  