-- Canada Stocks Gain as Energy Shares Follow Rally in Oil
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-06-27T21:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/canadian-stocks-gain-as-energy-shares-advance-barrick-retreats.html
Canadian stocks rose as energy
producers advanced along with oil and natural gas amid mounting
speculation that  China  will introduce additional economic
stimulus and better-than-forecast U.S. economic data.  Energy stocks rallied as oil traded above $80 dollars a
barrel.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  gained 1.8 percent while  Encana
Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s biggest natural-gas producer, climbed 3.8
percent.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the nation’s largest pipeline company,
rose 0.5 percent after falling as much as 1.6 percent yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index advanced 76.52
points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,410.94 in Toronto. Eight out of 10
industries in the index advanced, with phone and health-care
companies trailing. The index is down 0.9 percent in June,
headed for a fourth straight month of declines.  “Any positive news out of China is going to have a
positive effect on the whole commodity sector,” said  David Cockfield  of Toronto-based Northland Wealth Management, which
manages C$200 million ($195 million), in a phone interview.
“China has to move people in the country, into the cities,
build infrastructure, and that takes a lot of the resources they
import -- and energy.”  Canadian equities followed a rally in global stocks today
as the China Securities Journal said the country may introduce
“more proactive” policies to ensure stable growth in the
world’s second-largest economy and data on U.S. home sales and
durable-goods orders topped forecasts. European leaders prepared
for a two-day summit starting tomorrow.  Energy’s Push  Encana, which is expanding into Michigan’s shale-
exploration region, paced gains in energy, advancing 3.8 percent
to C$19.75. Natural gas futures jumped to a five-month high on
forecasts for hotter-than-normal weather that would boost fuel
demand from  power plants .  Suncor, the nation’s largest oil provider, rose 1.8 percent
to C$28.24. Enbridge gained 0.5 percent to C$39.96.  Spartan Oil
Corp. (STO) , a Calgary-based oil and gas exploration company with
mines in Alberta and Saskatchewan, jumped 6.1 percent to C$3.32.  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , a heavy crude producer with
deposits in Colombia, rose 6.4 percent, the most since April 11,
to C$22.44 as the company expects to receive an environmental
permit that will increase its oil output. The license will allow
greater water injection into wells at the onshore Rubiales field
in eastern Colombia, increasing possible production to 200,000
barrels a day.  Potash Corp of Saskatchewan, the largest fertilizer
producer in the world, moved up 1.7 percent to C$44.28, the
highest level since April.  MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. (MDA) , which made the
robotic arm for NASA’s defunct space shuttle, soared 28 percent,
the biggest jump ever, to C$57.25. The company bought Loral
Space & Communications Inc.’s commercial satellite unit to tap
growing demand for mobile entertainment and smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  