-- Canadian Natural Gas Rises on Forecasts Before Inventory Report
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-06-27T23:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/canadian-natural-gas-rises-on-forecasts-before-inventory-report.html
Canadian natural gas rose on
forecasts for hotter weather in the U.S. that may boost demand
for the fuel to power air conditioners.  July gas in  Alberta  advanced 0.7 percent as Weather
Derivatives of Belton,  Missouri , predicted cooling demand will
be 70 percent above normal in the northern U.S. Midwest,
 Canada ’s largest export market, through July 4.  “In April, we’ve seen 10-year lows and recently we’ve seen
a rebound in gas prices based on power generation demand and
some inventory numbers that can be interpreted as bullish
despite the fact that inventories are still quite high,” Ian
Nathan, an analyst at Energy Intelligence Group in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  Alberta gas for July delivery increased 1.5 cents to
C$2.085 gigajoule ($1.93 per million British thermal units) as
of 5:45 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market.
Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system. NGX gas
is down 19 percent this year, from $2.58 Dec. 31.  Natural gas for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 0.7 cent to settle at $2.774 per million Btu.  The U.S. Energy Department reports tomorrow on domestic
natural gas storage levels for the week ended June 22. It may
show inventories climbed 53 billion cubic feet, according to the
median of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect this week’s storage report to show an injection
of 55 billion cubic feet,” Eric Bickel, an analyst at Summit
Energy Services in Louisville,  Kentucky , said today in an e-
mailed statement. He cited warm weather and low nuclear
production last week as gas demand enhancers.  Hot Plains  “Hot temperatures will continue to span across the Plains
and Midwest through much, if not all, of the forecast period
with much-above-normal readings slowly shrinking in coverage
late,” Travis Hartman, a meteorologist with MDA EarthSat
Weather of Gaithersburg, Maryland, wrote today in a forecast for
July 2 to July 6.  The high in Lawrence, Kansas, tomorrow may be 106 degrees
Fahrenheit (41 Celsius), 20 above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Spot gas at the Alliance delivery point near  Chicago  rose
19.69 cents to $2.966 per million Btu on the  Intercontinental
Exchange . Alliance is an express line that can carry 1.5 billion
cubic feet a day from western Canada.  Border Flows  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas advanced 22.21 cents, or 9.6 percent, to $2.5304
per million Btu. At Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded
for California markets, prices gained 28.81 cents, or 12
percent, to $2.6729.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.6 billion cubic
feet at 5:30 p.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.94 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.23 billion cubic feet.  The available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia
system at  Kingsgate  was 533 million cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.84 billion cubic feet today, or 78 percent
of normal capacity of 2.37 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.86
billion cubic feet at 6:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  