-- Canadian Dollar Falls Against Most Major Peers on Growth Concern
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-27T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/canadian-dollar-falls-against-most-major-peers-before-eu-summit.html
Canada’s dollar dropped against most
of its major counterparts on concern tommorow’s two-day European
Union summit will do little to stem the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  The currency has tumbled this month against peers including
the New Zealand and Australian dollars on speculation dimming
prospects for global growth will prevent the Bank of Canada from
raising  interest rates .  Statistics Canada  reports April gross
domestic product data on June 29.  “Everyone’s waiting for the summit,”  John Curran , a
senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a telephone interview.
“Any positive sentiment will be short-lived. The market is just
waiting for confirmation. The Canadian dollar will underperform
on general  risk aversion , and on the growth slowdown.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, dropped 0.1 percent to C$1.0249
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
97.57 U.S. cents.  The loonie gained 0.6 percent over the past week among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes, the fourth-best performance after the New Zealand
dollar and yen, up 0.9 percent each, and the Australian dollar,
which rose 0.6 percent.  Oil for August delivery gained 1.5 percent to $80.54 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have fallen
22 percent this quarter, the biggest drop since the final three
months of 2008.  ‘Commodity Currency’  “We’ve seen oil prices come off quite a lot and the
Canadian dollar is perceived as a commodity currency,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
London, said in a telephone interview. “It has underperformed
the Aussie and New Zealand very significantly this month.”  Benchmark government 10-year  notes  yielded 1.72 percent,
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point. Yields reached
a record low 1.615 percent on June 1. The price of the 2.75
percent bonds due June 2022 rose 21 cents to C$109.37.  “I like the Canadian dollar,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head
of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen. “The Bank of
Canada is talking about rate increases. It will hold steady, if
there’s a bad summit outcome. Nowhere is absolutely safe, but
that’s one of the safer places.”  Canada’s currency will strengthen to parity by the end of
March, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 38 economists.  ‘Paring Back’  Speaking hours after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
made a plea for help from tomorrow’s European summit, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut the door to joint euro-bloc bonds
as a means of lowering borrowing costs. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  later called for stronger fiscal discipline
in the face of calls for growth.  “Investors are paring back foreign-exchange exposure ahead
of the European Union summit meeting,”  Shaun Osborne  and  Greg Moore , currency strategists at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in Toronto,
wrote in a note to clients today. “Market expectations appear
to be suitably low-key for what will be the 19th summit meeting
to be held in response to the euro-zone fiscal crisis. If 18
didn’t do it, there’s little chance that this one will alter
much in the near-to-medium term.”  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to almost the lowest level this
month. It touched 7.85 percent today, after falling to the June
low 7.8 percent last week. The 10-year average is 10 percent.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  ‘Downside Risks’  Options traders are becoming less bearish on the Canadian
dollar. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate,
which measures the premium charged for the right to buy the  U.S.
dollar  against the loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at
2.4 percentage points today, down from 3.2 percentage points at
the end of May. It averaged 2 percentage points this year.  “Downside risks for the U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar
exchange rate remain,” Osborne and Moore wrote, predicting the
pair might slip below C$1.02 temporarily. “We still view U.S.
dollar weakness as a buying opportunity, however, given what
remains a less-than-supportive backdrop for risk assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  