-- Caterpillar on Top After Bet at Bottom: Riskless Return
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/caterpillar-on-top-after-bet-at-bottom-riskless-return.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker
of construction and mining equipment, has provided the best
risk-adjusted return among its peers since financial markets hit
bottom in 2009 as it made acquisitions and expanded in  emerging
markets  such as  China .  Caterpillar’s risk-adjusted gain of 4.5 percent in the
three years through June 26 topped that of 20 competitors with
sales of more than $2 billion in the Bloomberg Industries
Construction & Mining Machinery Index, the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS
RANKING shows. The Peoria, Illinois-based company also had the
highest total return in the index at 157 percent and volatility
below 75 percent of stocks.  Doug Oberhelman  has announced at least $10.3 billion of
acquisitions since he became chief executive officer almost two
years ago, adding mining shovels, drills and gas-driven engines
while building and expanding factories from Brazil to China.
Customers replacing used machinery in the U.S. and  Europe  have
supported Caterpillar’s recovery after financial markets plunged
in late 2008. Earnings will more than quadruple in the three
years through 2012, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Over the past three years, their key end-markets have had
stronger growth such as the U.S. and Europe,”  Stephen Volkmann ,
a New York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co. who has a buy
rating on the shares, said in a telephone interview.
“Caterpillar’s been pushing a lot of levers to maintain
diversity.”  Lehman Aftermath  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Caterpillar’s risk-adjusted return was more than five times
that of Tokyo-based  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , its closest rival by size.
Sweden’s  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  and China’s Sany Heavy Industry Co.
provided the second- and third-highest gain with 3.2 percent and
3 percent respectively.  Caterpillar’s net income fell 75 percent to $895 million in
2009, while sales dropped 37 percent to $32 billion, the biggest
decline since the Great Depression. That year, the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  fell to the lowest in almost 12 years and the
24-commodity Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index dropped to a more
than four-year low as the U.S. and euro area experienced
recessions in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy.  ‘Tough Times’  In response, the company raised its research and
development spending to the second-highest in Caterpillar’s
history, partly to meet new emission rules and also to position
itself for an economic rebound, Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp
said in a June 15 interview. The company increased investment
and did so earlier compared with previous business cycles while
ensuring suppliers would be able to meet demand when an upturn
came, he said.  “You really find out who you are in tough times,” Rapp
said. “If we didn’t invest during the trough, we wouldn’t have
been in a position to compete when we came out.”  Since the start of 2010, Caterpillar has posted year-over-
year earnings growth and  topped  analysts’ profit estimates in
every quarter except one, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company posted net income of $4.9 billion on $60
billion in sales in 2011. While demand for excavators, shovels
and trucks has risen, Caterpillar has also boosted revenue with
a string of acquisitions.  Bucyrus Acquisition  The company completed its $8.6 billion purchase of mining-
equipment maker Bucyrus International Inc. in July, its largest
acquisition, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Caterpillar said June 6 it expects to complete the purchase of
Hong Kong-based  ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. (8043)  in the third quarter,
adding underground coal-mining equipment.  Caterpillar also bought assets in other industries. It
acquired German engine manufacturer Motoren-Werke Mannheim
Holding GmbH in November for 580 million euros ($724 million)
and in August 2010 completed the $820 million purchase of
locomotive manufacturer Electro-Motive Diesel Inc., a deal
announced under Oberhelman’s predecessor  Jim Owens .  The “depth and breadth” of Caterpillar’s product line,
which now ranges from electricity generators for vacation homes
to 100-ton trucks used at open-pit mines, helps keep sales
steady, Rapp said.  Geographic Diversity  Following the string of acquisitions, revenue is spread
more evenly on a geographical basis. North America was
responsible for 36 percent of sales last year, down from more
than half six years ago. A quarter of revenue came from the
Asia-Pacific region and the same proportion from Europe,  Africa 
and the Middle East last year.  In 2006, the company sold $1 worth of machines in the
developing world for every $5 in the developed world, Rapp said.
Revenue was split 50-50 last year, he said.  Caterpillar earned $7.40 a share in 2011, forecasts profit
of about $9.50 this year and is targeting $15 to $20 in 2015.
That’s based on “a non-recessionary, not great, but healing and
modestly growing world,” Caterpillar Group President Rich Lavin
said during a June 5 investor presentation.  Chinese Slowdown  Lavin said his scenario also includes a “healthy China, a
recovering Europe” and U.S. economic growth probably in a range
of 3 percent or more.  First-quarter Chinese sales fell by as much as $300
million, Caterpillar said in April. Demand in developing markets
will be lower than anticipated this year, it said.  Capital spending  by mining companies, an indicator for
equipment sales, will decline 3 percent in 2013 after increasing
for three straight years, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
June 1 report.  Capital expenditures  may decline as commodity
prices drop, Goldman Sachs said.  The  European debt crisis , global economic instability and
the prospect of construction machines sales growth from
replacement not continuing next year led Sameer Rathod, a San
Francisco-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., to lower his
profit forecast for this year to $9.30 a share from $9.50.  Caterpillar’s economic assumptions are looking optimistic
and “we think the market has already priced in a guidance
cut,” Rathod, who has a buy rating on the shares, said in a
June 13 report. The shares have fallen each month from March.  Commodities Drop  To those doubting Caterpillar’s underlying assumptions,
Rapp points out that a target set back in 2009 to boost annual
sales to $60 billion by 2012 was achieved last year. Also in
2009, the company set a profit goal for 2012 of $8 to $10 a
share. Based on the $9.72 average of 22 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg, it’s on course to achieve that target,
too.  Still, copper futures in New York have dropped 19 percent
over the past year while the price of coal from Australia, the
biggest exporter of the fuel, has dropped 31 percent. The
economy in China, which is the largest coal and metals user,
expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in almost three years.  The country’s central bank last week cut borrowing costs
for the first time since 2008 and loosened controls on banks’
ability to set lending and deposit rates, efforts to combat a
domestic slowdown.  Joy Forecast  Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , a U.S. competitor of Caterpillar, on May
31 cut its earnings and sales  forecasts  because of a contracting
U.S coal industry. It also said concerns about Europe and
“tempered growth expectations” in China are affecting demand
for mined commodities such as copper.  Growth in U.S. construction can help offset some weakness
in the country’s coal industry, which used to be a bigger part
of Caterpillar’s mining business, said Baltimore-based Russell Croft, co-portfolio manager of the Croft Value Fund.  “These cyclical slowdowns can come hard and heavy and the
more shots you have on goal, the more chances you have out
there,” said Croft, whose firm, Croft Leominster Inc., holds
153,000 Caterpillar shares. “It helps large global blue-chip
companies like Caterpillar to ride through cycles.”  Industry-wide construction equipment sales in Europe
increased in 2010 and 2011 after a two-year slump, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. In  North America , they have also gained in
the last two years, after dropping for three-straight years, the
data show.  Construction Growth  There may be room for further growth. North American sales
in units are 45 percent below their 2006 peak and Europe is 42
percent below its 2007 peak, said Karen Ubelhart, an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey.  The average age of the U.S. rental construction-equipment
fleet in April was 50.3 months, according to Rouse Asset
Services.  “Equipment is still old so demand should hold up,”
Ubelhart said.  While a bigger mix of larger, more profitable machinery
such as mining trucks is helping to boost returns, Caterpillar
also has benefited from increasing manufacturing efficiency,
said Andy Kaplowitz, a New York-based analyst for Barclays Plc.  Even as Caterpillar’s sales rose 24 percent from 2006
through 2008, earnings were little changed. Efforts to improve
productivity, profitability and market share started under Owens
and continued under Oberhelman, Kaplowitz said.  ‘Horrible Conditions’  Such moves are helping boost the bottom line, said Croft.
He said his fund bought the stock in October 2008 amid
“horrible market conditions” on expectations it would be a
“winner” when the economy improved.  Twenty analysts recommend buying Caterpillar’s stock, five
have a hold rating and none advise selling, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have  gained  139 percent in the
three years through June 26, the biggest increase of all
companies in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Still, Caterpillar’s ranking for risk-adjusted returns has
slipped over the last two years with competitors such as Chinese
manufacturers Sany and Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and
Technology Co. taking the top spots.  “If the global economy holds up, Caterpillar can maintain
its lead over global competitors,” Kaplowitz said. “Chinese
competitors have a long way to go to catch up” in terms of
quality, durability and technology, he said.  Caterpillar is in the third year of a roughly seven-year
cycle of improving business,  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor
relations , said during the same presentation at which Lavin made
his remarks.  “It might be bumpy along the way but I do think the
commodities and infrastructure build out in mining is a good
longer-term place to be invested,” Croft said. “I’d want to
own stocks like Caterpillar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  