-- McClendon Eating Healthy No Help in Bet Undermining Chesapeake
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2012-06-27T04:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mcclendon-eating-healthy-no-help-in-bet-undermining-chesapeake.html
Aubrey McClendon tried to eat
healthy on the morning of Jan. 10, 2007. No home fries, he told
the waitress at the International House of Pancakes in Oklahoma
City. Order the special with grits, she suggested. He’d save 25
cents.  Across from him sat Ronnie Irani, a local petroleum
engineer. Irani says he was trying to convince McClendon, the
chief executive officer of  Chesapeake Energy Corp., (CHK)  to join him
in staking a claim to more than 5 billion barrels of oil trapped
beneath Wyoming’s Powder River Basin.  And here was McClendon, the billionaire co-founder of one
of the largest natural gas companies in the U.S., saving a
quarter on breakfast, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
August issue.  “I had to go to somebody who could move fast and think
big,” Irani says. “He was a perfect choice.”  Irani had just founded his own firm after 26 years working
for other people. The Mumbai-born oilman says he needed a
partner to keep competitors from muscling him aside. McClendon,
whose voracious appetite for natural gas acreage had made him an
industry legend, knew how to seize control of new energy
prospects. He was Irani’s first pick.  In Irani’s maps, McClendon saw the chance to join the
pantheon of 19th-century oil titans, such as  John D. Rockefeller 
and Ludvig and Robert Nobel, the Swedish brothers who once
dominated Russia’s oil industry.  ‘Sweep of History’  “When you look at the sweep of history in this industry,
those who move first to lock in big new acreage positions when
technology changes emerge as the winners,” McClendon says.  Within weeks, Irani, 55, and McClendon, 52, had penned a
preliminary agreement to buy 1 million acres (405,000 hectares)
of oil leases in eastern Wyoming. They planned to move in
quietly, before their competitors noticed.  McClendon won the land grab, and his ambitious bid to
dominate the American oil rush may cost him his job and his
company. The secret deal McClendon struck with Irani helped kick
off a five-year buying binge that spanned the U.S. and pushed
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake’s  debt  to a crippling $12.6
billion. The company has put as much as $20.5 billion in assets
on the auction block to fill a gaping cash shortfall.  As Chesapeake careens toward financial ruin, corporate
governance scandals have shattered investor confidence in
McClendon’s leadership. In April, the board said it was
reviewing McClendon’s personal ventures with Chesapeake
financiers.  SEC Inquiry  In May, the directors said they would name a new chairman
to replace McClendon and disclosed that the Securities and
Exchange Commission had opened an informal inquiry. Shareholders
have sued. McClendon apologized to investors in May.  Corporate raider  Carl Icahn  demanded more. In June, after
amassing a 7.6 percent stake, Icahn forced Chesapeake to replace
four of its nine directors with people picked by him and
Southeastern Asset Management Inc., Chesapeake’s largest
shareholder.  “Aubrey was swinging for the fences,” says Terry
Whitaker, a longtime Wyoming oilman who once owned some of the
acreage Chesapeake bought in the Powder. “That’s what a
wildcatter does. And most wildcatters die broke.”  The very acreage McClendon so prizes has undermined
Chesapeake’s efforts to dig out of debt. Chesapeake expects to
spend up to $7 billion this year uprooting rigs from natural gas
prospects and redirecting them to more lucrative  oil fields .  Gas Falls  Paying for its drilling program has become tougher as
natural gas, which accounted for 81 percent of Chesapeake’s
sales volume last year, fell to its lowest price in a decade in
April. The cost to protect the company’s bonds from default -- a
measure of the perceived risk that the company won’t make good
on its debt -- increased 54 percent this year to June 14.  McClendon also bet his own fortune in deals that entangled
the company in his private financial empire. He used a perk that
gave him a 2.5 percent stake in Chesapeake’s wells as collateral
for massive personal loans.  He relied on some of the same lenders, investors and
advisers who have been instrumental in Chesapeake’s expansion,
such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , EIG Global Energy Partners
LLC, Wachovia Corp. and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , where McClendon’s
former Duke University fraternity brother Ralph Eads serves as
vice chairman and head of the firm’s energy investment banking
section. Eads, through a Jefferies spokesman, declined to
comment.  Leveraged Wine  In April, McClendon revealed that he had borrowed $846
million as of the end of 2011 to pay his slice of Chesapeake’s
drilling costs. McClendon has also leveraged his extensive wine
collection, his fleet of vintage boats and his share of future
oil and gas production, property records show.  “The funny thing is that I don’t consider myself a gambler
at all,” McClendon says. “I think a gambler is somebody who
just closes their eyes and rolls the dice. And we don’t do
that.” McClendon made his remarks for this story on April 21,
and since then has declined to comment.  McClendon, tall and rangy with a distinctive mane of unruly
blond hair, was born into an oil family. His great-uncle was
Robert S. Kerr, one-time Oklahoma governor and U.S. senator who
co-founded energy company Kerr-McGee Corp.  After graduating from Duke with a bachelor’s degree in
history, McClendon bought oil acreage to flip to larger
companies. His toughest competitor was  Tom Ward . Tired of
bidding up prices on each other, McClendon and Ward banded
together in 1983 and in 1989 formed Chesapeake with just $50,000
between them.  Unconventional Reservoirs  In the early 1990s, McClendon and Ward spotted the
potential of unconventional natural gas reservoirs, vast layers
of rock rich with trapped hydrocarbons that were just beginning
to open to development because of advances in technology.  “It requires a completely different mentality and a
completely different approach to land acquisition than in the
old days,” McClendon says. Chesapeake went public in 1993 at
$1.33 a share. By mid-1996, the stock had pushed above $30.  Then the company’s key venture, a natural gas prospect
called the Austin Chalk, which straddles the border between
 Texas  and  Louisiana , fell short of expectations. Shares
plummeted to 75 cents in 1998. He and Ward tried to sell the
company. Finding no buyers, they began borrowing heavily to
acquire new prospects.  Starting in 2000, Chesapeake went on a six-year buying
spree, spending $6 billion to acquire natural gas acreage in
states, including  Arkansas ,  Kentucky , Louisiana, Oklahoma,
 Pennsylvania , Texas and  West Virginia . McClendon quickly became
the best-known proselytizer of the  shale gas boom .  Can’t Get Enough  “When is enough enough?” Duane Grubert, then an analyst
with Fulcrum Global Partners LLC, asked McClendon during a 2005
conference call. “I can’t get enough,” McClendon responded in
part. “We sleep a little easier knowing that we’ve got this
enormous backlog.”  By the end of 2006, 10 months after Ward left the company,
Chesapeake had amassed more than 11 million acres and a backlog
of 26,000 drilling sites. The company had also racked up $7.37
billion in debt.  “I live in a world where you have to have a thick skin and
a short memory, and we were criticized a lot during that time,”
McClendon says. “But we knew we were making the right
decisions.”  In early 2007, under pressure from shareholders to make the
investments pay, McClendon declared the land grab over and
promised to turn Chesapeake’s focus to getting the gas out of
the ground. Instead, he kept spending, convinced that Chesapeake
had to find oil to survive.  Not Satisfied  “Some people thought we should just be satisfied with what
we had,” McClendon says. “But I knew that we needed more
balance.”  Irani couldn’t have timed his pitch to McClendon better.
After graduating from the University of Oklahoma with a
bachelor’s degree in petroleum engineering in 1980, Irani worked
for Woods Petroleum Corp., where he drilled for crude in the
Powder.  He later worked for Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas Corp. and
then for Dominion Resources Inc., leading exploration and
production for its western division. Irani says he decided to
try to find oil for himself and established RKI Land & Minerals
LLC in 2005.  He paid close attention to new drilling techniques being
pioneered in  North Dakota , where producers had cracked into the
Bakken shale with spectacular results. Sitting in his ninth-
floor office north of downtown Oklahoma City, Irani says he
asked himself, “Where’s the next Bakken?”  Thinking Big  Irani, a compactly built man with receding black hair,
remembered the Powder. Big  oil companies  had largely abandoned
drilling in the basin’s traditional reservoirs. Irani estimates
that modern technology could unlock 5 billion to 7 billion
barrels of  oil  in just one of the Powder’s many layers of oil-
bearing rock.  “Our industry was shrinking, and there were no big ideas
left except overseas or offshore,” Irani says. “Then the
shales came along, and we had to think big again.”  When Irani laid out his maps on the table at the IHOP
restaurant in 2007, McClendon was so intrigued that he called
his office to cancel his next meeting.  The Prize  “I knew we had to get busy,” McClendon says. The two
signed a final contract in May 2007, naming the project after
“The Prize” ( Simon & Schuster , 1991),  Daniel Yergin ’s sweeping
chronicle of the race to control the world’s oil. McClendon
gives a copy to every new Chesapeake hire.  To camouflage their growing position in the Powder from
competitors, Chesapeake and Irani bought land through third-
party brokers. In February 2007, Irani paid as little as $11 an
acre at a federal auction. As word of Chesapeake’s involvement
leaked out, bids climbed as high as $910 an acre in December
2007.  Chesapeake paid extravagant prices to drive off
competitors, says Wayne Neumiller, manager of North Finn LLC in
Casper, Wyoming. He has drilled in the Powder since the 1970s.
As acreage grew more expensive, Neumiller says he and his
partners at American Oil & Gas Inc. sold Chesapeake its leases
for $600 to $800 an acre.  McClendon quickly expanded Chesapeake’s land grab. In March
2008, the company announced five  new oil prospects , ranging in
size from 100,000 to 1 million acres, in four states. On July 2,
2008, as oil and gas prices surged, Chesapeake’s shares reached
a record $74.  Margin Call  Then came the crash. The global financial crisis dragged
Chesapeake’s shares below $30 in October 2008, while the
company’s capital spending accelerated to a record $7.3 billion
in the third quarter.  In October 2008, McClendon, who’d been buying Chesapeake
stock with borrowed money, was slammed with a massive margin
call that forced him to sell almost all of his 5.8 percent stake
in the company, SEC filings show. Chesapeake didn’t disclose the
names of the lenders or the amounts of the  loans .  The cash crunch brought Chesapeake’s land acquisitions to a
screeching halt. By the second quarter of 2009, the company’s
spending dropped to $1.06 billion, company records show.  Striking Oil  Then, in August 2009, the Prize Project struck oil on the
Wagonhound Ranch near Douglas,  Wyoming . The well produced as
much as 900 barrels a day, an encouraging result, Irani says.
McClendon met with Irani on Oct. 15, 2009.  “He said, ‘Well, I think we should kick it back up
again,”’ Irani says.  Chesapeake’s buying spree resumed in late 2009. By the
third quarter of 2010, debt had grown to $10.8 billion.
Concerned about the company’s rising burdens, Icahn amassed a
5.8 percent stake in December 2010 and pushed Chesapeake to cut
costs and pay off debt.  Chesapeake sold a third of the Prize Project in February
2011 for about $4,750 an acre to  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) , China’s largest
offshore oil producer. That helped the company whittle its
obligations to $9.07 billion by March 2011.  Icahn sold his shares, and Chesapeake’s efforts faltered.
In May, Icahn once again got involved, disclosing that he owned
7.6 percent of the company. In a May 25 letter filed with the
SEC, Icahn wrote, “Corporate governance reforms cannot, in our
view, be led by directors whose irresponsible actions have
brought this company to the edge of the proverbial cliff.”  McClendon Replaced  Icahn and Southeastern in June gained sway over the board.
Chesapeake named former  ConocoPhillips (COP)  chairman Archie Dunham on
June 21 to lead its board. Icahn didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Irani, meanwhile, says his investors, whom he describes as
private-equity people who know the energy business, have been
pleased with results in the Powder. The best wells have produced
as much as 1,450 barrels of oil equivalent a day. Irani says
he’s piecing together new prospects in other states.  McClendon insists that Chesapeake shareholders will one day
appreciate his vision. He credits Chesapeake with spearheading a
revival of U.S. oil and gas production that has brought the
nation closer to energy independence than it has been in 20
years.  “I’m paid by our shareholders to be a leader, not a
follower,” McClendon says. “If I wanted to always do the most
popular thing, then I’d be a follower.”  McClendon’s determination to seize the prize that made the
fortunes of oil titans before him has already cost him control
of the company he co-founded. Even if the oil land grab reaps
the riches he predicts, McClendon might not lead Chesapeake long
enough to savor the victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  