-- Centerra Gold Says Kyrgyz Resolution on Mine Not Binding
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-06-27T20:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/centerra-gold-says-kyrgyz-resolution-on-mine-not-binding.html
Centerra Gold Inc. (CG) , owner of the
Kumtor mine in Kyrgyzstan, said it believes a Kyrgyz
parliamentary resolution calling for changes to the agreements
governing the project isn’t legally binding.  The resolution issued today called for the creation of a
state commission to review a parliamentary report on Kumtor and
initiate revisions to 2009 agreements for the project, Centerra
said in a statement. The resolution also called on the
government to revoke decrees and licenses in relation to the
project, the Toronto-based company said.  “Any discussions of the Kumtor project must take into
account existing legal obligations and binding commitments,”
Centerra Chief Executive Officer Ian Atkinson said in the
statement. The company believes the findings of a June 18
parliamentary report are without merit, Atkinson said.  Centerra produced about 583,156 ounces of gold at Kumtor
last year, according to a statement Feb. 23. That’s about 91
percent of the company’s total gold output, which also includes
production from the Boroo gold mine in  Mongolia .  The Kyrgyz Parliament voted to reject an alternative
resolution that called for the government to take steps toward
nationalization of the Kumtor project, Centerra said.  Centerra fell 1.7 percent to C$9.88 at the close in
Toronto. The shares dropped 26 percent on June 22, the most in
three years, after the company said the parliamentary report
alleged that Centerra’s operations in Kyrgyzstan had caused
environmental damage.  Buying Opportunity  “We still see this as a buying opportunity and do not
think Centerra will face any renegotiation of terms, though
talks may extend for a few months,” Trevor Turnbull, an analyst
at Scotiabank in Toronto, said in a note today. “We expect a
steady rebound following the nationalization scare.”  In April 2009, Centerra and then-majority shareholder
 Cameco Corp. (CCO)  agreed to give the Kyrgyz government an increased
share in Centerra as part of a settlement to end legal disputes
threatening the Kumtor project. The agreement resolved back-tax
obligations, set a new  tax rate  and settled a clash over the
size of the project’s exploration and development concessions,
Centerra said at the time.  Centerra said March 27 that production at Kumtor would be
lower this year because ice movement would delay access to a
high-grade zone. The mine may produce 390,000 to 410,000 ounces
of gold, compared with a previous forecast of 575,000 to 625,000
ounces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  