-- Chamber of Commerce Said to Be Campaign Probe Subject
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-27T21:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/chamber-of-commerce-said-to-be-campaign-probe-subject.html
New York  authorities are
investigating whether a nonprofit affiliate of the  U.S. Chamber
of Commerce  illegally funded political activity, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman subpoenaed the
National Chamber Foundation seeking information about
$18 million that the organization reported it loaned to the
Chamber of Commerce, according to the person.  At issue is whether the nonprofit made political
contributions through the Chamber of Commerce that are
prohibited, said the person, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t to speak publicly about the investigation.  The probe also involves the Starr Foundation, which had
made $19 million in grants to the National Chamber Foundation
between 2003 and 2005, according to the person. In the same
period, the National Chamber Foundation reported in filings with
the attorney general’s office that it had loaned $18.1 million
to the Chamber of Commerce, the person said.  Schneiderman, a Democrat, is investigating whether the
funding from the National Chamber Foundation to the Chamber of
Commerce was a true loan, according to the person.  The National Chamber Foundation is the public policy think
tank affiliate of the Chamber of Commerce, according to its
 website .  Chamber Statement  Thomas J. Collamore, a spokesman for the Chamber of
Commerce, said the attorney general was using his office to
“rehash a very old story.”  “This curiously timed subpoena will play out in the
appropriate legal channels,” Collamore said in an e-mail.  A call for comment to the Starr Foundation wasn’t
immediately returned. Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former
chief executive officer of American International Group Inc., is
the chairman of the  Starr Foundation .  The probe comes as the U.S. Supreme Court this week threw
out  Montana ’s ban on corporate campaign spending in a
reaffirmation of its Citizens United decision in 2010 that left
federal elections awash in money from big spenders. That ruling
let corporations and unions spend unlimited sums.  More than 600 super-PACs have raised more than $240 million
and spent $133 million this election cycle, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group in
 Washington .  Election Spending  Nonprofit organizations that don’t have to report donors
have spent at least $12.4 million in this election cycle so far,
according to the  Sunlight Foundation , a Washington-based group
that promotes campaign-finance disclosure.  The expenditures by super-PACs and nonprofits add up to
more than twice what outside groups had spent by this point in
the 2008 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  The Chamber of Commerce opposed the Montana law. It said in
court papers that “to the extent that there has been more
speech in recent elections, that is a First Amendment good, not
an excuse to resurrect a censorship regime.”  The fundamental activity of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
which calls itself the world’s largest business organization,
“is to develop and implement policy on major issues affecting
business,” according to its website.  New York’s investigation was reported earlier by the New
York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 