-- Charging Mats Seen Boosting Market for Electric Vehicles
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/charging-mats-seen-boosting-market-for-electric-vehicles.html
One reason electric and plug-in
hybrid vehicles have hit the market with a thud is that there
are strings attached. Models such as the Chevrolet Volt and
Nissan Leaf are tethered. Drivers need to plug in to recharge
the battery.  A number of companies are developing ways to cut the cord,
to replenish the battery wirelessly with a mat that sits on the
floor. Coils on the underside of the car engage the charger when
the car is parked over them. The mats are plugged in while the
car isn’t. Automakers and suppliers expect to have the chargers
ready for sale around 2015.  “The feedback we see from initial Volt and Leaf buyers is
that, ‘Gee, these cords get really dirty; gee, these cords get
all tangled; what a pain in the neck,’” Phil Gott, an IHS
Automotive analyst specializing in power-train research, said in
an interview. “A wireless charger truly gives you total
freedom.”  Automakers are looking to such vehicles to comply with
regulatory pressure to boost mileage and pare emissions.
However, electric and plug-in vehicles aren’t even considered by
96 percent of consumers globally, Deloitte LLP said in a survey
last year.  Price and driving range deter purchases, Deloitte said, and
so does charging time, which ranges from three to more than
eight hours.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car maker that
delivered its first wholly company-produced sedans last week,
had said it’s close to announcing a plugged-in “supercharger”
network that can re-power one of its cars in less than an hour.  Two Methods  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Delphi Automotive Plc,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi, Toyota Motor Corp.,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) , Qualcomm
Inc., Evatran LLC, and Brose Fahrzeugteile GmbH & Co. are among
the companies developing wireless chargers.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. automaker and maker of
the Chevrolet Volt, invested $5 million in a private company
called Powermat and was joined by  Procter & Gamble Co . and Jay-Z
last year. So far, GM says it’s only using the technology to
charge smartphones and other devices in the car.  The chargers work one of two ways: by induction, similar to
the way the battery on an electric toothbrush charges when it’s
set back on its base, or magnetic resonance.  Delphi (DLPH) ’s charger, using a technology developed by WiTricity
Corp., uses a magnetic field to transfer the charge between
coils in the mat, about the size of a laptop, and bolted onto
the underside of the car. The gap can be as wide as 10 inches
(25 centimeters), depending on the car’s clearance, said Randy
Sumner, Delphi’s director of hybrid electric vehicle business
and technology development.  MIT Connection  The charger, using technology developed at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , can send 3 kilowatts of
electricity quickly enough to recharge a battery in about four
hours, Sumner said. Two coils are tuned to resonate at the same
frequency, creating the connection. Audi, Toyota and Mitsubishi
also are working with WiTricity.  Magnetic resonance allows more margin for error than
inductive charging, Sumner said. Inductive chargers require more
precise alignment for recharging. Magnetic resonance allows for
a lateral, or left-to-right, range of plus or minus 10
centimeters, he said.  The chargers probably will sell for more than $2,000, at
least twice the price of current charging stations, Sumner said.
They are also less efficient. About 10 percent of power is lost
in transmission, and the goal is to cut that by half, Sumner
said.  Kinks are still being worked out. A charging mat is flat
and warm, so how to keep a family cat from napping on one? How
does a user keep metal away? A group of engineers from suppliers
and automakers has been meeting for a year to resolve such
issues and to develop standards to make all chargers work on all
cars, Sumner said.  Market Demand  The other hurdle is the market. GM sold 7,671 plug-in
hybrid Volts and Nissan 9,674 all-electric power Leafs last
year, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Through May, Volt
and Leaf combined deliveries totaled 9,670. Nissan sold 510
Leafs in May, a 55 percent slide from a year earlier.  The Volt has a starting price of $39,145 while Leaf’s is
$35,200 before tax credits. Electric versions of gasoline-
powered models also cost more. Toyota said in May said its
electric RAV4 sport-utility vehicle, to be sold in  California ,
will cost $49,800, more than twice the gasoline version. Tesla
supplies the electric RAV4’s batteries and motor.  Pike Research, based in Boulder,  Colorado , forecasts sales
of 359,000 plug-in and all-electric vehicles in the U.S. by
2017. AutoPacific Inc., an industry researcher in Tustin,
California, estimates that plug-in and electric car sales will
total 320,000 units in 2017.  New Offerings  Offerings of rechargeable vehicles are expanding. Toyota
last year introduced a plug-in version of its Prius hybrid car.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  began selling an electric Focus this year and a
plug-in version of the Fusion goes on sale next year.  Delphi Chief Executive Officer Rodney O’Neal said consumer
demand hasn’t caught up with technology.  “There are a lot of things that are possible,” he said.
“The questions is, can you do it cost effectively and does the
world care, and can you make money and create value for your
shareholders?”  Wireless public chargers may mitigate concern that drivers
will run out of electricity before they can get home to
recharge.  The number of public charging stations globally is
projected to more than triple this year to 98,503 from 28,479 in
2011, according to an April 27 Bloomberg New Energy Finance
report. Most of the new stations will be in China and  Europe ,
according to the report.  London Test  A test under way in  London  is looking at how to embed
wireless charging mats in city streets and parking garages, said
Andrew Gilbert,  Qualcomm (QCOM)  executive vice president. The company
wants to license the technology to automakers and charger
manufacturers.  Qualcomm is outfitting as many as 50 electric vehicles with
chargers, he said.  “Plug-in is not a bad solution; we just see this as a
great opportunity to really improve the experience,” Gilbert
said in an interview. “The  power source  is the same; it’s just
whether it goes over the air or a cable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  