-- Chesapeake CEO Disavowed Role in 2008 Plunge, Sold Shares
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-06-27T06:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/chesapeake-ceo-disavowed-role-in-2008-plunge-sold-shares.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  disavowed any role in the
plunge in the company’s stock price in October 2008 after he had
sold more than 31 million shares to meet margin calls.  McClendon e-mailed employees on Oct. 10, 2008, urging them
“just to ignore” the decline in Chesapeake’s shares, which he
attributed to fallout from the global financial collapse
triggered by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy 26 days
earlier. Eighteen minutes before sending the message, the
company issued a statement through  Business Wire  that the CEO
involuntarily sold “substantially all” of his Chesapeake
shares over the previous three days to satisfy margin calls.  “Finally, let’s talk about the stock price, and what can I
say? It’s ridiculous at a multiple of 1.5 x 2009  cash flow , but
it’s real and my advice to all of you is just to ignore it,”
McClendon wrote in the e-mail, a copy of which was included in
court filings in an appeal of a federal court lawsuit in
Marshall, Texas, involving a dispute over drilling rights.  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, has lost
almost 40 percent of its market value in the past year as the
effect of tumbling energy prices was compounded by questions
about McClendon’s personal financial dealings. McClendon, who
led a costly push to expand the firm’s gas holdings during the
last decade, was replaced as chairman on June 21 by Archie Dunham.  McClendon’s Borrowing  McClendon has been under fire for using personal stakes in
the company’s oil and gas wells to privately borrow more than
$800 million last year from some of the company’s biggest
financiers. He also has been criticized for a wrong-way bet in
natural-gas prices that gutted the  Oklahoma  City-based company’s
cash flow, boosted its borrowing costs and spurred its biggest
investors to replace more than half the board.  McClendon apologized to shareholders twice in the past
eight weeks for the bad publicity surrounding his private
investments. The company said in a May 22 presentation prepared
for a UBS AG conference that it had withstood an “unprecedented
negative media campaign” that failed to reduce the value of its
assets.  Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, said yesterday the
company wouldn’t comment on anything stemming from ongoing
litigation.  The Oct. 10, 2008, statement disclosing McClendon’s stock
sale was distributed at 3:56 p.m. Oklahoma City time. The e-mail
to all Chesapeake employees was issued at 4:14 p.m.  Under an executive perk in place since McClendon co-founded
Chesapeake in 1989, he was allowed to buy 2.5 percent stakes in
almost every well the company drilled. McClendon used his
interest in those wells as collateral to borrow funds to finance
his proportionate share of drilling and leasing costs.  $87 Million  After McClendon’s 2008 selloff of  Chesapeake shares , the
board awarded him an $87 million package in the form of a
special bonus and the purchase of his collection of 19th-century
maps, according to public filings. He agreed last year to buy
back the maps for $12.1 million plus interest to settle a 2009
lawsuit by the  Louisiana  Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement
System that challenged his compensation package.  In the October 2008 e-mail, McClendon told employees there
was nothing they or the management team had done to reduce the
value of the company by 80 percent in 90 days.  “It’s just investors in full-scale panic across the globe
right now, selling whatever they can,” McClendon said in the
e-mail.  McClendon also said that given the economic downturn during
the second half of 2008, employees needed to focus on holding
down expenses.  “It is imperative that we negotiate lease prices
reflective of today’s economic conditions,” he said in the
e-mail. “So make sure you negotiate everything extra long and
hard.”  Drilling Rights  McClendon said in the e-mail that the  company  had paid
twice as much as it should have for drilling rights as plunging
natural-gas prices dashed prospects for profitable new wells.  The recommendation that employees reduce lease offers came
just days before Chesapeake backed out of a deal to buy oil and
gas rights from  Peak Energy Corp ., Peak’s lawyers said in court
filings in the lawsuit. That case, involving leases in the
 Haynesville Shale  formation in  Texas , led to a damages award of
$19.7 million against Chesapeake.  “What was a fair price 90 days ago for a lease is now
overpriced by a factor of at least 2X, given the dramatic
worsening of the natural gas and financial markets,” McClendon
said in the e-mail.  Ohio, Oklahoma  Chesapeake is shifting drilling rigs away from gas deposits
such as the Haynesville Shale toward more profitable oilfields
in Ohio and Oklahoma. The company warned investors last month
that it may run out of cash as soon as next year if it fails to
divest $7.4 billion in assets by the end of December.  Chesapeake said June 8 it will sell its interests in
 Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP (CHKM)  to Global Infrastructure
Partners for $2 billion. It also plans to raise more than
$2 billion by divesting its pipeline development unit and some
central U.S. conduits to Chesapeake Midstream.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  will hear
arguments next month on whether a judge erred in awarding Peak
damages for Chesapeake’s decision to pull out of what Peak said
was an agreement to buy shale gas rights in East Texas.  U.S. District Judge John Ward in Marshall, Texas, ruled in
September 2011 that Chesapeake officials wrongfully canceled
what he concluded was an agreement to buy the energy rights to
5,404 acres held by Plano, Texas-based Peak.  ‘Land Grab’  Chesapeake’s lawyers appealed, saying the judge
misconstrued what they argued was a tentative agreement in
ruling against the company. Chesapeake also argued that the
judge erred in concluding that Peak had met its obligations
under the agreement, according to court filings.  Peak officials alleged that  Chesapeake executives  began a
“land grab” in eastern Texas and western Louisiana in early
2008, seeking to acquire large swaths of the rights to the
Haynesville Shale area. The company relied on an “army of land
men” to acquire oil and gas leases in the area, the Texas
company’s attorneys said in court filings.  McClendon described the company’s push to acquire rights to
the Haynesville Shale formation, saying in a July 2, 2008, call
with investors that he was seeking to make Chesapeake “the only
game in town for a lot of owners of smaller tracts of land out
there.”  ‘Unconventional Plays’  “We especially understand the value in today’s world of
having a huge land machine that can devour big chunks of land
across these massive new unconventional plays,” McClendon said,
according to a transcript of the call. “In these plays, if you
snooze, you lose. And with over 4,000 land men in the field
every day buying new leases, I can assure you that Chesapeake is
not snoozing.”  Peak officials contend in court filings that McClendon was
personally involved in their deal, approving the land man’s
offer of $15,000 per acre and pushing to speed negotiations.  Upon learning Peak officials wanted to see the offer in
writing, McClendon sent his negotiator an e-mail urging him to
complete the deal promptly. “Sooner the better of course! :)”
McClendon said in the July 1, 2008, e-mail, according to court
filings.  Four months later, McClendon and other Chesapeake officials
weren’t as eager to complete the deal as gas prices continued to
fall, Peak’s lawyers said.  “The transaction failed to close because market conditions
had changed, Chesapeake ran into cash flow problems and
Chesapeake was looking for excuses to back out of its pending
deals for Haynesville Shale properties,” the Texas company’s
lawyers said in February appeals court filing.  Chesapeake’s Argument  In their court filings, Chesapeake’s lawyers countered that
the “letter of intent” between the two companies over the oil
and gas leases didn’t amount to a final contract and Peak
officials failed to come up with a final list of leases to be
covered by the agreement.  “It is undisputed that Chesapeake never agreed to a lease
list with Peak” and that means the Texas company couldn’t
properly quantify its damages in the case, Chesapeake’s lawyers
said in a February appeals court filing.  The case is Coe v. Chesapeake Exploration LLC, 11-41003,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  