-- Chesapeake’s McClendon Said Company Overpaid for Leases
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-27T00:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/chesapeake-s-mcclendon-said-company-overpaid-for-leases.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  told employees in a 2008
e-mail the company paid twice as much as it should have for
drilling rights as plunging natural-gas prices dashed prospects
for profitable new wells, according to court filings.  McClendon said the natural-gas provider overpaid for leases
just days before Chesapeake backed out of a deal to buy oil and
gas rights from  Peak Energy Corp ., Peak’s lawyers said in court
filings in a lawsuit. That case, involving leases in the
Haynesville Shale formation in Texas, led to a damage award of
almost $20 million against Chesapeake.  “What was a fair price 90 days ago for a lease is now
overpriced by a factor of at least 2X, given the dramatic
worsening of the natural gas and financial markets,” McClendon
said in the October 2008 e-mail, according to an appellate
filing by Peak’s lawyers in the case.  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, has lost
almost 40 percent of its market value in the past year as the
effect of tumbling energy prices was compounded by questions
about McClendon’s personal financial dealings. McClendon, who
led a costly push to expand the firm’s gas holdings during the
last decade, was replaced as chairman last week by Archie Dunham.  On the day McClendon wrote the e-mail in 2008, the CEO
disclosed that he had liquidated most of his Chesapeake shares
to cover margin calls, according to a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing.  Maps Bought  That year, the board gave McClendon an $87 million bailout
in the form of a special bonus and by buying his collection of
19th-century maps, according to public filings. He agreed last
year to buy back the maps for $12.1 million plus interest to
settle a 2009 lawsuit by the Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees’ Retirement System that challenged his compensation
package.  Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail messages today seeking comment on
McClendon’s e-mail that was included in court filings.  The  Oklahoma  City-based company has been shifting drilling
rigs away from gas deposits such as the  Haynesville Shale  toward
more profitable oilfields in Ohio and Oklahoma. Chesapeake
warned investors last month that it may run out of cash as soon
as next year if it fails to divest $7.4 billion in assets by the
end of December.  Asset Sales  Chesapeake said June 8 it will sell its interests in
 Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP (CHKM)  to Global Infrastructure
Partners for $2 billion. It also plans to raise more than
$2 billion by divesting its pipeline development unit and some
central U.S. conduits to Chesapeake Midstream.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  will hear
arguments next month on whether a judge erred in awarding Peak
$19.7 million in damages for Chesapeake’s decision to pull out
of an agreement to buy shale gas rights in East  Texas .  U.S. District  Judge  John T. Ward in Marshall, Texas, ruled
in September 2001 that Chesapeake officials wrongfully reneged
on an agreement to buy the energy rights to 5,404 acres held by
Plano, Texas-based Peak.  Chesapeake’s lawyers appealed, saying the judge
misconstrued the agreement in ruling against the company.
Chesapeake also argued that the judge erred in concluding that
Peak had met its obligations under the agreement, according to
court filings.  The case is Coe v. Chesapeake Exploration LLC, 11-41003,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  