-- Chile Traders Forecast Rate Cut in 3 Months as CPI Eases
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-27T12:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/chile-traders-forecast-rate-cut-in-3-months-as-cpi-eases.html
Chilean traders and investors
forecast policy makers will reduce their  benchmark interest rate 
within three months on easing inflation, according to a survey
posted on the central bank website today.  Policy makers led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara will
keep rates unchanged at 5 percent for a sixth straight month in
July before cutting to 4.75 percent by October, according to the
survey. The bank is working under the assumption that rates will
remain steady in the short term, Vergara said June 18.  Policy makers this month reduced their 2012 inflation
forecast to 2.7 percent from 3.5 percent in April on declining
commodity prices. Traders and investors in today’s survey
estimate inflation will slow to 2.7 percent in a year from 3.1
percent in May.  “Inflation has been lower than expected which, taken
together with the fall in international fuel prices, has reduced
the risks of its growth in the short term,” Vergara said in a
speech before the Senate Finance Committee. “However, medium-
term inflationary risks remain dormant because of tight internal
market conditions.”  Chile’s peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 507.43 per  U.S.
dollar  at 8:35 a.m. Santiago time from 508.64 yesterday. The
peso will trade at 510 in seven days, according to today’s
survey of 58 traders and investors.  The world’s top copper producer has shown mixed signs of
growth this year. Gains in the Imacec index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, slowed in March and April while unemployment
dropped to 6.5 percent in the three months through April from 7
percent in the same period last year.  “The growth rate for activity and internal demand has
diminished, but at a slower speed than expected,” Vergara said.
A “renewal of a more dynamic trajectory for activity could
increase pressure that leads to an acceleration of inflation
that requires a monetary policy response.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  