-- China’s Stocks Fall for 6th Day After Daiwa Cuts Growth Estimate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-27T08:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/china-s-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-drugmakers-rise.html
China’s stocks  fell for a sixth day,
the longest losing streak in six months, after Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. cut its second-quarter growth estimate for the
world’s second-biggest economy.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare Earth Hi-Tech Co. led a
gauge of material producers lower on the prospect of weaker
demand.  Shanxi Coal International Energy Group Co. (600546)  dropped to
the lowest level since August 2010 after the board approved the
resignation of its chairman.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. (2883)  and
Offshore Oil Engineering Co. jumped more than 6 percent on
expectations oil equipment makers will benefit after Cnooc Ltd.
invited bids for oil blocks.  “The market is bearish on the long-term outlook for
China’s economic growth and we haven’t seen a new driver for the
economy emerge so far,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief
investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co., which
manages about $120 million.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.2 percent to 2,216.93
at the close, after changing directions at least 10 times. The
six-day decline is the longest since the period ended Dec. 15.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 0.3 percent to 2,447.20. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, added 1.2 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Thirty-day volatility in the Shanghai Composite was at
15.71 today, compared with this year’s average of 18.35. About
5.3 billion shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday, 38
percent lower than the daily average this year.  Daiwa GDP Cut  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 6.5 percent in June,
poised for the worst monthly performance since March, on concern
the first interest-rate cut since 2008 won’t be enough to
prevent economic growth from missing the government’s target of
7.5 percent this year. Stocks in the measure are valued at 9.69
times estimated earnings, compared with the average of 17.6
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006.  Daiwa,  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage, cut its second-
quarter growth forecast for  China  to 7.8 percent from 8.2
percent and its 2012 growth estimate to 8.3 percent from 8.4
percent, analysts Mingchun Sun and Chi Sun wrote in a note
today.  Second-quarter growth of 7.8 percent would be the lowest
since the global financial crisis in the first quarter of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The economic data is
scheduled to be released on July 13.  HSBC Holdings Plc yesterday cut its 2012 estimate for China
to 8.4 percent from 8.6 percent, while Citigroup Inc. lowered
its forecast on June 25 to reflect “anemic” domestic activity
in the second quarter and further weakening of European demand.  ‘Doldrums’  Baotou Steel led a gauge of material producers to the
biggest decline among 10 industry groups in the CSI 300, losing
3.4 percent to 40.15 yuan.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
listed unit of nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal,
declined 1.9 percent to 6.27 yuan.  China’s economy  will probably stay in the “doldrums” in
coming months, preventing a second-half rally for the nation’s
equities, according to the country’s best-performing fund
manager. The government will do just enough to prevent the
world’s second-biggest economy from slowing further instead of
taking more aggressive measures to boost growth, Yu Guang of
Invesco Great Wall Fund Management Co. in Shenzhen, said in an
e-mailed interview on June 21.  Chinese property, auto and household-appliance stocks may
outperform even as the overall market stalls, said Yu, whose
Core Competitiveness Fund has returned 25 percent this year,
ranking it first among 714 China-based mutual funds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg as of June 25.  Policy Easing  Shanxi Coal tumbled 7.7 percent to 21.33  yuan . The
company’s board approved the resignation of Du Jianhua from his
position as chairman, the coal producer said in a statement.  China may introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure
stable growth, the China Securities Journal said in a commentary
published on the front page of the newspaper today. Policies to
stabilize foreign trade, expand infrastructure investment, fine-
tune monetary policies and structurally reduce taxes may be
introduced, according to the commentary.  The People’s Bank of China may cut the reserve-requirement
ratio next month as funds are expected to remain tight even
after the 95 billion yuan ($14.9 billion) of reverse repos by
the central bank yesterday, the Shanghai Securities News
reported on its front page today. The ratio has been lowered
three times since November.  Oil Blocks  China Oilfield surged 6.1 percent to 16.28 yuan while
Offshore Oil jumped 7.6 percent to 5.97 yuan.  Cnooc, China’s largest offshore oil explorer, said in a
June 23 statement nine blocks in the  South China Sea , covering
an area of 160,124 square kilometers, are available for
exploration and development cooperation with foreign companies
this year.  The invitation for bids will benefit Chinese oilfield
companies by expanding their business prospects, Xu Ying, an
analyst at CSC International Holdings Ltd. in Shanghai, said by
phone today.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.1 percent, the most in
a week, to $32.19 yesterday.  “You’re going to see more monetary as well as fiscal
easing,” Joseph Tanious, who helps oversee $394 billion as a
market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York, said in a phone
interview. “There’s reason to be cautiously optimistic that
growth will pick up in the back half of this year, which should
translate into higher stock prices.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  