-- China’s Repo Rate Declines on Speculation Policies to Be Eased
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-06-27T09:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/china-s-repo-rate-declines-on-speculation-policies-to-be-eased.html
China ’s money-market rate declined
on speculation the central bank will loosen monetary policy to
ease a quarter-end cash shortage.  The People’s Bank of China sold 95 billion  yuan  ($15
billion) of 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements yesterday at a
yield of 4.2 percent, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority didn’t
gauge demand for bill or repurchase-contract sales tomorrow,
suggesting it won’t withdraw funds from the financial system,
another trader at a primary dealer said today.  “Without a reserve-requirement cut in the near term, the
improvement in banks’ funding is likely to be very gradual,”  Ju
Wang , a Barclays Capital strategist in Singapore, wrote in a
research note today. “In addition to the usual negative fiscal
impact at quarter-end, large banks’ dividend payments in early
July are also likely to add to pressure on liquidity.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, decreased five basis
points to 4.25 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
rate fell as much as 1.43 percentage points earlier, the most
since Feb. 24 last year.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. cut its second-quarter growth
forecast for China to 7.8 percent from 8.2 percent, which would
be the lowest since the first three months of 2009, and its 2012
growth estimate to 8.3 percent from 8.4 percent, analysts
Mingchun Sun and Chi Sun wrote in a research note today. The
economic data is scheduled to be released on July 13.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, decreased three basis points to 2.62
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
3.51 percent government bonds due February 2022 fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 3.32 percent, according to
the Interbank Funding Centre.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  