-- China to Strengthen Financial-Market Cooperation With Hong Kong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-27T05:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/china-to-strengthen-financial-market-cooperation-with-hong-kong.html
China  will seek to strengthen ties
with  Hong Kong  by promoting tie-ups between the two financial
markets and increasing cooperation in investments overseas and
infrastructure.  The Chinese government will encourage joint ventures
between the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock bourses and their Hong
Kong counterpart, and allow the listing of exchange-trade funds
in the city and the mainland, the official Xinhua News Agency
said today, citing a statement from the State Council. Foreign
investors will also be encouraged to use the  yuan  in trade
settlement and investments in Hong Kong.  China’s efforts to bolster ties come two days before
President  Hu Jintao  visits Hong Kong for the 15th anniversary of
the city’s return to Chinese rule on July 1. China has already
expanded its RQFII program, which allows the Hong Kong units of
financial companies to invest overseas yuan in the mainland, as
well as the sale of yuan bonds in the city.  “Some people are excited about the news of so-called gifts
from China for the 15th anniversary of the hand-over date but
those new policies aren’t really anything exciting,” said  Alex Au , managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd. in
Hong Kong, which oversees $250 million of assets. “Interests
from the mainland investors to invest in Hong Kong are not as
strong as before.”  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rallied 1.1 percent
at the trading break today, taking its gain this year to 4.1
percent. The gauge had rallied to a record high after regulators
unveiled in August 2007 a so-called “through-train” program
that allowed Chinese nationals to buy Hong Kong equities
directly. That plan was scrapped in January 2010.  Exchange-Traded Funds  “Some investors right now may think that the market may
repeat that kind of performance and are getting excited,” said
Au. “I think the market is overreacting.”  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  first announced in August that
China will start an ETF based on Hong Kong equities and a 50
billion yuan quota for Dim Sum sales by mainland-companies. He
also said Hong Kong units of financial institutions can raise 20
billion yuan for investment in Chinese  capital markets , a target
that was raised in April by 50 billion yuan.  China’s Ministry of Finance is also planning to sell 23
billion yuan ($3.6 billion) of bonds this month.  The southern province of Guangdong will be among those that
will increase cooperation with Hong Kong in trade, finance,
education, science and technology, and tourism, according to the
Xinhua report.  China’s government will also provide support to bolster
cooperation among port, airport and rail transportation in the
Pearl River Delta region, according to Xinhua.  -- Jing Jin in Shanghai, with assistance from Fion Li and Kana
Nishizawa in Hong Kong, Weiyi Lim in Singapore and. Editors:
Shiyin Chen, Tan Hwee Ann  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jing Jin in Shanghai at 
 jjin32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  