-- Christian Pregnancy Center Freed From Abortion Postings
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-27T18:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/christian-pregnancy-center-freed-from-abortion-postings.html
A Baltimore ordinance requiring a
Christian “pregnancy center” to post notices that it doesn’t
offer abortion referrals or  birth control  violates its free
speech rights, a federal appeals court in  Virginia  ruled.  In a 2-1 decision, the U.S. Appeals Court in Richmond today
upheld a lower court ruling that bars Baltimore from enforcing a
2009 law requiring “limited-service pregnancy centers” to
visibly disclose their stance on abortion and birth control.  Among those challenging the ordinance was the Pregnancy
Center, which operates two locations in the city promoting
abstinence, Bible studies and classes in prenatal development.
The Pregnancy Center said it doesn’t provide abortion referrals
due to its moral and religious beliefs.  “In compelling that speech, the Pregnancy Center is, in
this case, required to participate in the city’s effort to tell
pregnant women that abortions are available elsewhere as a
morally acceptable alternative, contrary to the moral and
religious beliefs of the Pregnancy Center,” according to the
majority ruling written by U.S. Circuit Judge Paul Niemeyer and
joined by Judge G. Steven Agee.  U.S. Circuit Judge Robert King, in a dissent, called the
majority’s decision “indefensible” and said “these
proceedings have thus followed a course more fitting a kangaroo
court than a court of the  United States .”  King said there was ample evidence that the centers engage
in “deceptive practices” that create health risks for the
women who seek help from them.  The case is Greater Baltimore Center for Pregnancy Concerns
Inc. v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, 11-1111,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 