-- Christie Weighs Cutting Spending From Democrats’ Budget
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-06-27T16:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/christie-weighs-cutting-spending-from-democrats-budget.html
Governor  Chris Christie  called a New
Jersey Senate Democrat an “arrogant S.O.B.” over the failure
to guarantee a tax cut in the Legislature’s $31.7 billion
spending plan, without saying whether he’ll veto it.  Christie’s comment referred to Senator Paul Sarlo, who
heads the budget panel. The Republican said he “got fooled” in
swapping his income-levy rollback for property-tax rebates,
citing a six-month delay and conditions set by lawmakers.  The budget that passed the Democratic-controlled
Legislature without a single Republican vote would set aside
money for the rebates while making the payments conditional on
revenue reaching targets set in Christie’s spending proposal.
State receipts for the fiscal year that begins next week have
been projected to fall short by as much as $1.3 billion.  “If you’ve been good according to  Paul Sarlo , maybe you
can have your tax cut,” Christie, 49, told a crowd of about 750
at a town-hall meeting in Brick Township yesterday. “But I
wouldn’t count on it.”  Having the governor call you names has become a “badge of
honor,” Sarlo, of Wood-Ridge, said in a statement after the
Brick meeting. “I will not resort to name-calling.”  ‘Winning’ Argument  “The governor’s words show that we’re winning the argument
of fiscal responsibility,” Sarlo said. The Democrats’ plan
would set aside $183 million for tax relief, while withholding
it until revenue collections are deemed adequate, he said.  Christie, in his first term, had prodded lawmakers to spend
the $183 million on the first phase of his 10 percent income- tax
cut  in fiscal 2013. In Brick, he said Democrats “lied to you,
they lied to me and I’m going to kick their rear ends all over
the state this summer” over the dispute.  “I’ll be as nice as I can be until you stick it to me,”
he said.  The Democrats’ budget is “larded up” with add-on
spending, Christie said today at a town-hall meeting in Mahwah.
Democrats show “no intention of giving you tax relief,” he
said, and offered to bet a member of the audience every dollar
in their pocket that lawmakers wouldn’t give the tax credits.  “You can’t trust Paul Sarlo,” Christie said.  ‘Risky’ Business  Christie, who faces re-election in 2013, is more likely to
remove individual spending items added by Democrats before
signing the budget, rather than vetoing it outright, said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New Jersey
Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.  Using a so-called line-item veto would let the governor put
the plan in place before a July 1 deadline and keep state
operations from closing, Dworkin said.  “Shutting down the government is always a risky
proposition,” Dworkin said by telephone. “He can cut the
amount of money he needs for the first year of his income-tax
cut and then go around the state telling everyone that the money
is there, it’s Democrats who haven’t decided to give it back to
you.”  The budget proposed by Christie in February projected a 7.3
percent revenue gain, the most since before the last recession
began in December 2007. The growth would let the state raise
spending while reducing income taxes by 10 percent over three
years, under Christie’s proposal.  ‘Red Pen’  State Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, a Christie
appointee, has since said revenue through June 2013 may be $700
million less than Christie’s target, while the Legislature’s
chief budget analyst has said the gap may be almost twice that.  Christie accused Democrats of holding “tax relief
hostage” in their budget, in a statement released after it
passed. He didn’t say what he’d do with the plan.  “It’s unrealistic for anyone to expect a government
shutdown in  New Jersey ,” Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a
Westfield Republican, said by telephone. “The governor’s going
to be true to his word. He’s going to take the red pen out and
he’s going to make reductions to the Democrats’ budget.”  Last year, Christie cut almost $1 billion in funding for
schools, police and tax credits for the working poor. Lawmakers
failed to garner enough votes to override his changes.  Democrats control the Assembly, 48-32, and the Senate,
24-16, short of the two-third majority needed to reverse a veto.  Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat from West
Deptford, said he doesn’t expect such drastic cuts this year.  “No one expects him to agree with our budget, so I assume
he’ll veto some of those things,” Sweeney said by telephone.
“He’s got the biggest vote because he has to sign it.”  A shutdown might not be “such a bad option” for Christie
because it would renew media attention on his fight for tax
cuts, said  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and politics at
 Montclair State University . More probable is that Christie will
strike specific provisions, she said.  “He has taken to the national stage in the past several
weeks talking about his ability to govern in a bipartisan
fashion,” Harrison said. “It would be difficult for him to
then stand up and act unilaterally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  