-- Christie May Veto Bill Curbing Tenure for School Teachers
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-27T19:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/christie-may-veto-bill-curbing-tenure-for-school-teachers.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
said he may veto a bill weakening teacher-tenure protections
that won unanimous approval in the Democratic-controlled
Legislature because it doesn’t go far enough.  The bill, sponsored by Senator Teresa Ruiz, a Democrat from
 Newark  who leads the education committee, would allow public
school districts to strip educators of tenure if they are deemed
ineffective in two consecutive performance reviews. It also
would lengthen to four years from three the time it would take
to earn tenure.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said he opposes a
provision in the  bill  that would preserve “last-in, first-
out,” a protection that requires districts firing multiple
teachers to base their selection on seniority, rather than on
performance.  “The question is whether there’s enough good things in
there for me to sign it,” Christie, 49, said yesterday during a
town-hall meeting in Brick. “I’ve got to make that decision, or
whether I’ll veto it. That’s the real question, either way,
whether I sign it or not.”  Christie has been pushing for an overhaul of public
education since January 2011. He had sought an end to seniority
in his plan, which also includes proposals to institute merit
pay and offer vouchers to students from poor families.  The governor has battled with the New Jersey Education
Association, the state’s largest teachers union, over his
proposals. The union supported the tenure legislation once an
end to the seniority rule was removed.  The bill “addresses the concerns of tenure critics while
maintaining fairness for teachers and protecting public
schools,” Barbara Keshishian, president of the union, said in a
 statement  on the union’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  