-- Citigroup Promotes Larsen Global Head of Retail Banking
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-06-27T04:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/citigroup-promotes-larsen-global-head-of-retail-banking.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, appointed Hong Kong-based Jonathan Larsen to  global
head  of retail banking as Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
pushes deeper into Asia for revenue growth.  Larsen will keep his position as head of consumer banking
for the Asia-Pacific region, according to an internal memo
obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. Jon Diat, a spokesman for
New York-based Citigroup, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Pandit, 55, and global consumer-banking chief Manuel Medina-Mora are seeking to boost profit by increasing loans in
Asia and Latin America. With Wall Street banks targeting
emerging markets for revenue growth, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
in April that its global head of  investment banking  would move
to  Hong Kong .  “Jonathan and the retail-banking business unit will work
to develop global platforms that enable effective, efficient and
universal execution” of the bank’s global strategy, Medina-Mora
said in the memo. “The success of our consumer and commercial
banking businesses will be based on our ability to execute on
our strategy to harness the power of one global business and
operating model.”  Citigroup plans to invest $3 billion to $4 billion in
consumer banking over the next two to three years, mainly in
 emerging markets , Medina-Mora said last year. About half of that
probably will go to Asia, a person with knowledge of the matter
said at the time.  Asia Management Appointments  Average loans to consumers outside the U.S. jumped 23
percent to $136 billion in the two years ended March 31, the
bank said in a  quarterly presentation  in April. First-quarter
profit at the Asian consumer bank unit climbed 11 percent to
$503 million from a year ago.  Larsen joined the company in 1998 and became head of Asia
Pacific consumer banking in 2009. The Financial Times reported
his appointment earlier.  JPMorgan in April said Jeff Urwin, global head of
investment banking, would move to Hong Kong to be Asia CEO while
keeping his global role. Goldman Sachs this month named  Mark Schwartz  to run its Asian business from Beijing, its first
regional chairman to be based in the capital city.  Citigroup has been bolstering its consumer business in Asia
to tap growing wealth in the region. The lender last year
introduced measures targeting what it called Asia’s “emerging
affluent” people -- those with net worth of $10,000 to
$100,000.  As part of the plan, it expanded branch hours, introduced
24-hour phone banking services and converted outlets to what it
calls “smart branches” featuring teleconferencing equipment
and staff using touch-screen tablet computers to display
Citigroup’s online services.  Citigroup has opened more than 100 smart branches in Asia,
where it operates about 700 outlets, according to  James Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  