-- College Football Playoff Wagering May Reach $6 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-27T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/college-football-playoff-wagering-may-reach-6-billion-worldwide.html
College football’s new playoff
system may generate almost $6 billion in betting worldwide, more
than triple the amount wagered on the current Bowl Championship
Series title game.  The semifinal games are each projected to generate as much
as the $1.8 billion bet on the current single-game BCS matchup,
according to RJ Bell, founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website Pregame.com. The championship game under the
new system may generate an additional $2.25 billion, Bell said
in an e-mail.  “Having three big games will drastically increase the
overall betting handle,” Bell said.  The National Football League’s annual  Super Bowl  is
estimated to generate $10 billion in betting worldwide,
according to Pregame.com.  “Any time you have a championship game, I don’t care if
it’s a Super Bowl, the NCAA final or a college football BCS
championship game, we’ve had terrific action on those games,”
Johnny Avello, director of race and sports operations at the
Wynn  Las Vegas , said in a telephone interview. “Now we’re
increasing that to three. I think those two playoff games are
going to be huge.”  Nevada’s Take  In  Nevada , the only U.S. state that allows casino gambling
statewide, the three playoff games are expected to generate $60
million in betting, Bell said.  A four-team, three-game playoff that incorporates the major
bowls in the semifinals was approved yesterday in  Washington  by
the 12-member BCS Presidential Oversight Committee. The proposal
was put forward by the commissioners of the 11 conferences at
the sport’s top level -- the Football Bowl Subdivision -- and
University of Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick.  The playoff, which has been in demand for years by many
fans, some lawmakers and even U.S. President  Barack Obama , will
start with the 2014 season. College football’s national champion
since 1998 has been crowned by the BCS, which uses a formula
that incorporates rankings and computer polls to decide the two
schools that play for the title.  The playoff format, which was approved under a 12-year deal,
provides that the two semifinal games rotate among six major
bowls, a group that probably includes the four current BCS games:
the Fiesta, Orange, Rose and Sugar bowls. The games would be
played on New Year’s Day or New Year’s Eve.  The national championship game would be played on a Monday
night, at least six days after the semifinals, and the neutral
site would be up for bid the same way the  National Football
League  rotates its Super Bowl among cities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  