-- Colorado Wildfire Forces 34,500 to Evacuate as Homes Burn
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m ,   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-28T11:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/colorado-wildfire-forces-32-000-to-evacuate-as-homes-burn.html
Dusty winds turned an erratic, out-
of-control fire back toward  Colorado Springs  yesterday,
destroying homes and forcing at least 34,500 people to evacuate.  Scattered thunderstorms over Colorado’s second-largest city
didn’t temper the ferocity of the Waldo Canyon fire, whose
flames have moved unpredictably, propelled by dry conditions and
winds gusting to near hurricane strength. The blaze continued to
burn out of control today.  “It’s been house to house, door to door, street to street
activity all night long and continued into today,” Rich Harvey,
the incident commander for the multi-agency group fighting the
blaze, told reporters late yesterday.  Record heat and drought are fueling wildfires across the
western U.S., including in  Idaho ,  Montana  and  New Mexico . In
Colorado, at least nine have burned over about 233 square miles
(600 square kilometers), according to the Incident Command
System. President  Barack Obama  will travel to Colorado Springs
tomorrow to “view the damage and thank the responders bravely
battling the fire,” according to a White House statement.  Officials haven’t given an assessment of the number of
burned homes and damaged neighborhoods. The U.S. Air Force
Academy and tourist sites have been closed.  “It was looking like the worst movie set you could
imagine,” Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, told
reporters after flying over the fire June 26. “It’s like
nothing I’ve seen.”  Under Investigation  The four-day-old Colorado Springs fire’s cause is under
investigation. White-orange smoke could be seen from Interstate
25, the main north-south highway, which was closed temporarily
as the fire blazed within miles of downtown.  Smoke blanketed the city of 416,000 at the foot of the
Rampart Range of the  Rocky Mountains , blocking the sun, giving
the sky an eerie glow and making breathing difficult. Officials
warned residents to stay indoors and to evacuate immediately if
notified to get out.  Charla Bertrand and her husband, Dick, fled their home in
the wooded Rockrimmon area, leaving with four cardboard boxes of
photo albums.  “The flames were coming all the way across the
foothills,” said Charla Bertrand, 67. “An hour later, I looked
outside and it was pea-soup smoke. You couldn’t see across the
street. It was very strange. The sun was shining and it had an
orange glow.”  Taking Shelter  The Bertrands sheltered in Cheyenne Mountain High School’s
gym, which housed 159 people by early yesterday. Catherine
Barde, an American Red Cross spokeswoman, said it can hold 750.  About 70 took refuge in the Southeast Family YMCA on the
city’s outskirts, said Keith Ives, a Red Cross shelter manager.  Melanie Turner, 35, at the shelter with her 9-year-old son,
said they had less than 10 minutes to leave their home. They
spent two hours in traffic trying to flee as ash fell from the
sky and fire crested the ridge.  “I’m just hoping that my house didn’t burn down,” she
said. “We don’t know anything yet.”  Officials are assessing how many homes have been destroyed,
Bret Waters,  Colorado  Springs’ emergency management director,
said at a briefing for reporters. The fire has consumed at least
18,500 acres.  Crews are working to protect structures and build
containment lines. The arrival of 200 federal firefighters from
outside the state June 26 brought to 1,000 the number battling
the blaze, which was 5 percent contained by late yesterday, said
Harvey, the multi-agency spokesman.  Aircraft, Bulldozers  Workers used bulldozers, helicopters and C-130 cargo
aircraft to fight the fire, Harvey said. Yesterday’s storms
brought hope and concern: Lightning and wind may worsen
conditions.  “This is a wind-driven fire,” Harvey said.
“Thunderstorms are a unique problem for us; wind can come from
any direction.” Gusts in the area reached speeds of as much as
65 miles (105 kilometers) an hour.  In western Colorado, three helicopters and 95 firefighters
were battling the 700-acre Pine Ridge fire 10 miles northeast of
 Grand Junction , the state’s Division of Emergency Management
said late yesterday on its  website . The blaze, started by
lightning strikes, is “growing rapidly” in difficult-to-access
terrain and hasn’t been contained, the agency said.  Boulder Blaze  Near Boulder, a smaller blaze was sparked by lightning in
mountains above the city, home to the  University of Colorado .
Called the Flagstaff fire, it was 30 percent contained after
consuming at least 280 acres by late yesterday, according to
Rick Brough, a Boulder County Sheriff’s Department commander.
Residents in 28 homes in the county were evacuated along with
the National Center for Atmospheric Research, near the fire
burning west of Bear Peak.  No structures or homes had been damaged, Brough told
reporters late yesterday. A pre-evacuation order for homes in
the southwest part of the city was lifted, according to Kim
Kobel, a Boulder Police Department spokeswoman at the briefing.  While lightning sparked several small fires, those were all
quickly put out yesterday, Brough said. Rain and increased
humidity in the area helped to contain the Flagstaff fire.  “Today was a good day,” Brough told reporters. While
crews will continue to fight the blaze, they don’t expect it to
spread overnight, he said.  The state’s firefighting resources are stretched so thin
that personnel from Denver’s suburbs were sent to help deal with
the fires near Boulder.  Harvey called it a “historically challenging day.”  Five Days  Fire conditions have been worsened by drought and heat,
including highs above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) for
the past five days, according to Jim Kalina, a meteorologist in
Boulder for the U.S. National Weather Service.  Colorado Springs residents said they were shocked that the
fire had come so close to downtown. Virginia Franklyn, 40, has
lived near the city center for 17 years and frequently hikes
Waldo Canyon trail, where the conflagration broke out.  “People are stunned and surprised,” she said as she
brought evacuees laptop computers from the Pikes Peak Library
District, where she works. “When we saw the fire, you didn’t
think it was going to go over the ridge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Colorado Springs at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Boulder, Colorado at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  