-- Colombia’s Banco Davivienda May Sell 10-Year Bonds This Week
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-27T20:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/colombia-s-banco-davivienda-may-sell-10-year-bonds-this-week-1-.html
Banco Davivienda SA (PFDAVVND) , Colombia’s
third-largest bank, plans to sell 10-year dollar bonds as soon
as this week, a person familiar with the transaction said.  The bank may sell the subordinated securities in a
benchmark offering, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. Credit
Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale,
the person said. A benchmark offering is typically at least $500
million.  The Bogota-based bank is taking advantage of falling
overseas financing costs to sell bonds for the first time in
international markets as investors buy higher-rated emerging-
market debt amid concern Europe’s sovereign crisis will derail
global growth. The bond issuance comes ahead of Davivienda’s
plans to sell American depositary receipts and after it agreed
this year to buy HSBC Holdings Plc’s operations in  Costa Rica ,
El Salvador and  Honduras  for $801 million.  “Its an ideal time to be selling bonds,” said Felipe
Campos, the head analyst at Alianza Valores brokerage in Bogota.
“There’s a lot of appetite for emerging-market bonds. It also
gives investors a chance to get to know Davivienda before it
offers ADRs.”  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings all  rate  Davivienda the lowest level of investment
grade. Fitch expects to rate the 10-year bonds BB+, or one level
below investment grade, it said in a statement today. Moody’s
rated the debt Ba1, also one level below investment grade,
according to a separate statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  