-- Colombian Swap Yields Hold at Lowest Level in Almost Five Months
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-27T19:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/colombian-swap-yields-hold-at-lowest-level-in-almost-five-months.html
Yields on Colombia’s  interest-rate
swaps  held at the lowest in almost five months after Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said it would be “reasonable”
to cut borrowing costs if global financial turmoil gets worse.  The yield on three-month interest-rate swaps remained at
4.96 percent, matching the lowest closing level since Jan. 30
reached yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The drop indicates traders expect policy makers to cut the
5.25 percent  overnight lending rate  within the next three
months. The central bank will leave the benchmark unchanged at
the June 29 meeting, according to all 27 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “A rate cut is definitely something that will begin to be
discussed” by the central bank’s board, said Felipe Campos, the
head analyst in Bogota at Alianza Valores, a brokerage.  At a meeting yesterday with the central bank’s board,
President  Juan Manuel Santos  discussed  interest rates  and asked
the policy makers to consider increasing dollar purchases to
make the country’s international reserves “more solid,”
Echeverry said in an  interview  today with W Radio.  “It would be reasonable to start thinking of lowering”
interest rates, Echeverry said. “When there are problems, it’s
a key tool. There could be a reduction in rates throughout the
year if that were necessary.”  The central bank has said it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2.  ‘Doing Well’  The Colombian economy is “doing well,” Echeverry told
reporters today during an event in Bogota. “Rates depend on the
international context.”  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 1,796.02 per dollar. It has
fallen 0.4 percent this quarter, paring this year’s rally to 7.9
percent, still the best performance among all of the world’s
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on  Colombia ’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 6.99 percent, according to the central bank. The price fell
0.096 centavo to 123.991 centavos per peso.  The country’s borrowing costs fell at an auction today of
fixed-rate securities. The government sold bonds due in August
2026 to yield 7.08 percent, down from 7.18 percent at the last
auction on June 13.  Colombia sold bonds due in May 2022 to yield 6.98 percent,
the first time in weekly debt auctions the government sold
fixed-rate securities with a yield below 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  