-- Colruyt Soars as Margin Recovery Drives Profit: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-06-27T08:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/colruyt-soars-as-margin-recovery-drives-profit-brussels-mover.html
Colruyt NV (COLR) ,  Belgium ’s biggest
discount food retailer, rose the most in 12 years in Brussels
trading after reporting a  surprise increase  in profit amid
heightened price awareness among Belgian consumers.  Colruyt gained as much as 10 percent on Euronext Brussels,
the biggest intraday advance since March 2000, and traded 2.88
euros higher at 32.78 euros by 9:56 a.m. local time. Profit in
the fiscal year that ended March 31 rose to 2.18 euros a share
from 2.14 euros. Analysts projected a decline to 2.09 euros,
according to the average of 21  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer lured more cash-strapped shoppers with its
discount format and promotions largely funded by suppliers.
Increased price awareness also boosted sales of the grocer’s
more profitable own-brand items and tight cost control in the
second half assisted Colruyt in halting an erosion of its
operating margin, which is the highest among European food
retailers, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Trading conditions are challenging,” Pascale Weber, an
analyst at KBC Securities NV in Brussels, wrote in a note to
clients. “Consumers have recently become even more focused on
lowest prices, promotions and private-label products.”  Revenue growth at the grocer’s Belgian flagship Colruyt
stores accelerated to 6.2 percent in the second half from 5.9
percent in the preceding period. That’s three times the growth
rate of  Delhaize Group SA (DELB) ’s Belgian business in the six months
through March.  Carrefour SA (CA)  reported a 1 percent increase in
Belgian sales in the same period.  ‘Challenging Year’  Colruyt’s gross margin, or the proportion of revenue left
after subtracting costs of goods sold, widened 109 basis points
to a  record 26.1 percent  in the second half from a year earlier.
It had shrunk 28 basis points to 25.1 percent in the fiscal
first half, which Colruyt attributed on Nov. 28 to bad summer
weather affecting sales of meat, fruit and vegetables.  Chairman Jef Colruyt will give a profit forecast for the
current fiscal year at the annual  shareholders’ meeting  on Sept.
26. Colruyt said yesterday that “the economic context and
weakening consumer climate suggest a challenging year ahead for
us, as for all retailers.”  The family-controlled company said it plans to raise its
 dividend  by 3 cents to 95 cents a share, beating the 91 cents
that was  projected  by Bloomberg research and analysis. Colruyt
already spent 82.6 million euros on share buybacks in the 12
months through March. Its cash and short-term investments
increased to 308.3 million euros at the end of the fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  