-- Comcast to Pay $800,000 and Keep Offer of Standalone Internet
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-27T21:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/comcast-to-pay-800-000-and-keep-offer-of-standalone-internet.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable company, agreed to keep offering reasonably priced stand-
alone high-speed  Internet service  and to pay $800,000 under an
order announced by the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission .  The action today extends by one year a three-year
requirement, set as part of Philadelphia-based Comcast’s
purchase of  NBC Universal  in 2011, to offer broadband at no more
than $49.95 monthly to customers not taking cable service, the
FCC said in an e-mailed news release.  “The remedies announced today will benefit consumers and
foster competition, including from online video and satellite
providers, by ensuring that standalone broadband is truly
available in Comcast’s service areas,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said, according to the news release.  Comcast began offering the required service, called
Performance Starter, a month after receiving permission to buy
NBC, the FCC said in an order released by e-mail. FCC officials
“received information raising potential concerns about the
extent of Comcast’s compliance” with the requirement to offer
the service, according to the order. It didn’t give details of
the information.  Comcast is to make an $800,000 voluntary payment to the
 U.S. Treasury  and to conduct a major advertising promotion in
2013 of standalone broadband, according to the order. The
offering remains a requirement until 2015.  “We are proud of our standalone broadband offering of
’Performance Starter’ service,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-
based Comcast spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
FCC had questions on how the service might have been rolled out
in a different or even better way.”  Comcast rose 1.5 percent to $31.04 at the close in  New
York . The shares have risen 31 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  