-- Rebranded NBC Sports Network Holds Key to Comcast’s Olympics
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-27T20:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/comcast-s-rebranded-nbc-sports-network-holds-key-to-olympian-bet.html
Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Brian Roberts  says he’s confident his $4.38 billion bet
on the Olympics will turn a profit. That’ll depend on how many
viewers the rebranded NBC Sports Network can attract.  The company’s NBC Universal is putting more than 293 hours
of the London Olympics on the pay-TV network, starting July 25.
That’s an average of 14 hours a day, in addition to coverage on
the free NBC network, Bravo, CNBC,  MSNBC  and Telemundo.  Bob Costas  will serve as lead anchor for the games and may appear on
the channel for extended interviews and live updates.  Comcast is using the Olympics to promote the network,
formerly Versus, as a national, 24-hour sports channel. The
games offer the NBC Sports Network a platform to build viewers
and advertising, now just a fraction of those at  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN. The channel plans to use the visibility to secure
more rights, possibly to Major League Baseball.  “This is a long-term project toward getting more
distribution and higher rates, because we will have the
programming people care about,” Mark Lazarus, NBC Sports
Group’s chairman, said in a phone interview. “This is going to
be a network that has events, news, documentaries, specials and
original programming.”  While NBC doesn’t expect a profit from this year’s games,
which are being carried under an older, expiring agreement, the
company will do “a lot better than people think,” said
Lazarus, who declined to give a specific number. NBC’s telecast
of the 2010 Vancouver Games lost $223 million.  Olympics Forecast  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York ,
predicts NBC will lose $100 million to $200 million on the
games, which run through Aug. 12. NBC says it paid $1.18 billion
for the rights, while Joyce estimates $100 million in production
costs.  The company projects revenue of $950 million “so far,”
about $100 million more than the 2008 Beijing Games, Seth Winter, a senior vice president of NBC Sports, said at a
briefing today in New York. The figure doesn’t include local ad
revenue, and NBC is holding back some airtime to profit from
events that may surge in popularity, he said.  Philadelphia-based Comcast, which acquired control of  NBC
Universal  for $13.8 billion in January 2011, rose 1.5 percent to
$31.04 at the close in New York. The TV, film and theme-park
unit contributed 37 percent of Comcast’s sales in the first
quarter and 18 percent of income, according to company reports.  Profit Goal  Roberts’s goal of profitability “over the term” of the
Olympics deal, covering games from 2014 to 2020, hinges on the
NBC Sports Network increasing subscribers, the fees cable and
satellite services pay to carry the channel, and advertising.  Olympics programming is a “must have,” said Lazarus. Fans
will see as many as 20 medal rounds and 22 different sports on
the NBC Sports Network this summer, including men’s and women’s
basketball, women’s soccer and field hockey.  ESPN charges pay-TV systems about $5.15 a month per
subscriber, more than any other national network, and is
expected to collect $6.19 billion from cable systems this year,
according to researcher SNL Kagan. The NBC Sports Network
charges 31 cents and is expected to pull in $297 million.  Prime Time  In prime time this year, Disney’s sports network has
averaged about 1.23 million viewers in the 18-to-49-year-old
demographic, the target group for marketers, according to
Nielsen data from Horizon Media Inc., a New York ad company.  The NBC Sports Network, helped by hockey playoffs, has
averaged 142,000 viewers, according to Nielsen data. The channel
is available in 80 million homes, compared with almost 100
million with ESPN, according to the companies.  To Lazarus, that gives the NBC Sports Network room to grow.  “There’s not going to be a single moment when you’ll be
able to say, ‘NBC Sports Network has arrived,’ but it’s all
about getting a scalable level of quality events and quality
original programming,” Lazarus said. “We will continue to
prove to the cable operators that we deserve higher rates.”  Today, ESPN has rights to Monday Night Football,  Major
League Baseball , the  National Basketball Association , NCAA
basketball and football, Nascar, all four of tennis’s major
championships and three of golf’s four majors.  Bull Riding  Beyond the Olympics, the NBC Sports Network’s rights
include the  National Hockey League ,  Major League Soccer , NCAA
hockey, IndyCar racing, the Tour de  France  and bull riding.  The network is interested in Major League Baseball “at the
right price,” Lazarus said. The league will seek offers later
this year.  NBC Sports Network also will develop morning, early evening
and nightly sports information programs to challenge
“SportsCenter” and other ESPN talk shows, such as “First
Take” and “Pardon the Interruption.” The “tone and voice”
of the shows will be distinct from ESPN, with less reliance on
anchor showmanship, Lazarus said.  ESPN isn’t the only obstacle. The NBC Sports Network faces
competition from the new CBS Sports Network and a potential
entrant from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, which is considering its own
national channel, people with knowledge of the situation said.  Comcast, CBS and News Corp. all want “something similar”
to ESPN, said Joyce.  In addition, many leagues already have their TV rights tied
up in multiyear contracts, and the cost of sports is
skyrocketing. Gaining rights without making fiscally
irresponsible decisions is the biggest challenge, Lazarus said.  ESPN agreed to pay the NFL almost $2 billion a year for
rights to Monday Night Football through 2021, a 73 percent
increase from the previous contract, the New York Times
reported. NBC has spent $15 billion on sports over the last 15
months, including the Olympics through 2020 and Sunday Night
Football through 2022, Lazarus said.  Tape Delays  Tape delays of the Olympics in the U.S. also present a
challenge, particularly in the Internet age, when results may be
known instantly and services like Twitter Inc. could erode
audiences, said  John Tinker , an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in
New York. For the London Games, the NBC broadcast network will
air events including swimming, track and field, and gymnastics
in prime time on delay.  “Live is hard to replicate,” said Tinker. “When America
beat  Russia  in hockey in 1980, you wanted to see that live.
That’s what you’re paying for. There will still be an audience,
but live sports are what people want to watch.”  Some events from the 2014 and 2018 winter games in Sochi,
Russia, and Pyeongchang,  South Korea , will be delayed for U.S.
viewers. The 2016  Summer Olympics  will be in  Rio de Janeiro , one
time zone later than New York.  Lazarus says he isn’t worried. Media buzz will make
Americans want to tune in even if they already know the result.  “The Olympics is the last bastion of communal viewing
where families gather in front of the TV,” Lazarus said. “It’s
less about the results and more about, ‘Boy, you’ve got to see
this.’ Knowing the stories and seeing the patriotism doesn’t get
diminished at all by someone knowing the results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  