-- Commerzbank U-Turn on Ship Finance Shows Crisis Escalation Fears
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-06-27T13:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/commerzbank-u-turn-on-ship-finance-shows-crisis-escalation-fears.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s about-face on plans
to form a new real estate and ship-finance unit turns the
spotlight on the German lender’s Spanish debt holdings as the
sovereign crisis escalates.  Commerzbank, which spent three years freeing itself from
 government aid  needed to survive the 2008 financial crisis,
yesterday announced plans to close the divisions, reversing a
March decision by the Frankfurt-based lender to continue scaled-
down activities in those fields. It’s also conducting a
“rigorous review” of all business areas, it said in a
statement yesterday.  European leaders are struggling to contain a debt crisis
that this week resulted in  Spain  becoming the fourth country to
request aid after  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . Commerzbank,
which wrote down its Greek debt portfolio in the first quarter,
had 2.9 billion euros ($3.6 billion) in Spanish holdings on its
books at the end of March, according to a May 9  presentation .  “By exiting the shipping and real estate business, the
bank wants to build a capital buffer as a shield against more
writedowns on their sovereign-debt portfolio,”  Konrad Becker , a
bank analyst with Merck Finck & Co. said by phone from Munich
today. “It’s a bad sign as it shows that Commerzbank is clearly
preparing for an escalation of the crisis, including further
writedowns on their debt holdings.”  Maritime Portfolio  Commerzbank became the world’s third-largest shipping
lender after acquiring Dresdner Bank AG in 2008, doubling the
size of its maritime-loan portfolio just before the industry
entered its biggest crisis since World War II. Its Eurohypo
unit, once Europe’s biggest state finance and real estate
lender, is being wound down to meet European Union conditions
for aid from the German government during the crisis that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  While exports to countries outside the euro area have
helped Germany to weather the crisis, recent data show growth is
weakening as austerity measures across the region curb demand. A
survey of  purchasing managers  published June 21 shows German
manufacturing is contracting at the fastest pace in three years.  German business confidence fell to the lowest in more than
two years in June as the worsening debt crisis clouded the
economic outlook, according to the Ifo economic institute.  European Union leaders will convene in Brussels on June 28
to June 29 for their 19th summit since the debt crisis broke out
in early 2010. Talks will focus on a 10-year road map released
yesterday by four officials led by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Banking Supervision  The plan centers on common banking supervision and deposit
insurance and a “criteria-based and phased” move toward joint
debt issuance. It also suggests the EU could impose upper limits
on annual budgets and debt levels of nations that use the euro.  “A swift end to the euro crisis is not in sight,”  Martin Blessing , Commerzbank’s chief executive officer, said in an
internal document sent to employees yesterday, a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News. “For this reason we have to
further reduce risks in a consistent manner and focus on the
business that is sustainably profitable.”  Commerzbank shares rose 0.5 percent to 1.34 euros as of
3:03 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The lender has a market capitalization
of 7.5 billion euros. That compares with the 25.8 billion-euro
valuation for Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest bank.  Bad Loans  Commerzbank surpassed the European Banking Authority’s
target of raising 5.3 billion euros, the biggest assigned to six
German lenders, by 1.1 billion euros at the end of March, ahead
of the EBA’s June 30 deadline by reducing risk-weighted assets,
retaining profits and selling assets.  The bank may need to raise more capital as bad loans
increase,  Switzerland ’s Independent Credit View said in a report
yesterday.  Commerzbank has the world’s third-largest shipping
portfolio, at $28 billion, after HSH Nordbank AG and  DNB ASA (DNB) ,
according to Athens-based vessel-finance consultant Petrofin SA.  The bank had begun to scale back its maritime lending amid
rising loan losses in the industry, and said on May 9 that it
“is continuing to rigorously manage down” its ship-finance
portfolio as well as its commercial real estate business.  Of the group’s total loan loss provisions of 212 million
euros in the first quarter, 179 million euros were booked at its
asset-based finance division, which includes shipping and
commercial real estate.  A “tighter risk situation in the shipping markets required
significant valuation allowances of 114 million euros in this
business area,” the bank said May 9, referring to its shipping
unit.  Many smaller and middle-sized shipping companies in
 Germany , home to the world’s third-largest water-transport
fleet, can’t service their debt and may face insolvency,
according to the VDR shipping association.  Container lines A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, CMA CGM SA and
Hapag-Lloyd AG all posted losses last year because of soaring
fuel costs and falling freight rates, mainly caused by an
oversupply of vessels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  