-- Corporate Tax-Cut Advocates Say Talks on Breaks Must Be Private
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-27T17:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/corporate-tax-cut-advocates-say-talks-on-breaks-must-be-private.html
A coalition of U.S. companies
seeking to lower the 35 percent corporate tax rate said it is
willing to trade away some existing breaks. They won’t say which
ones.  Elaine Kamarck, the Democratic chairwoman of the bipartisan
RATE Coalition, said today at a Bloomberg Government breakfast
in  Washington  that once public discussion of a tax overhaul gets
specific, the chances of agreement evaporate because of the
competing interests of different industries.  “Once that logrolling dynamic begins, you cannot get a
deal,” said Kamarck, whose 28-member coalition includes  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  “Engaging in a discussion about this
expenditure versus that one is politically really
counterproductive.”  Kamarck’s comments underscore the challenges facing
lawmakers and lobbyists seeking changes in the U.S. tax code.
Every alteration creates winners and losers. RATE wants to
broaden the base to pay for the rate cut, meaning some companies
outside the coalition would pay higher taxes even with a lower
statutory rate.  Tax executives from companies that are members of the
coalition, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Ford Motor Co., are
meeting with lawmakers, administration officials and
congressional aides today. The meetings are part of the
coalition’s efforts to emphasize revenue-neutral rate reduction
and minimize discussion of specific tax breaks.  Effective Rates  The companies in the coalition tend to have relatively high
effective tax rates and have most of their operations based in
the U.S., said Edward Kleinbard, a tax-law professor at the
University of  Southern California . Companies with lower
effective tax rates book their profits in low-tax countries and
defer U.S. taxes by keeping their earnings overseas.  Holding together the coalition of companies with relatively
high rates will be difficult, Kleinbard said, as each company
analyzes specific proposals coming from lawmakers.  “At the margin, there could be firms who start to feel
good long before 25 percent and firms who feel that it’s just
barely a good trade-off for them individually,” said Kleinbard,
former chief of staff at the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation. “It takes a lot of cajoling and leadership within the
coalition to keep something like this together.”  Kamarck, who led former Vice President  Al Gore ’s government
restructuring efforts, and her co-chairman, James Pinkerton,
said they see an opportunity for bipartisan agreement on
corporate rate reduction. They said a tax overhaul is one of the
few remaining policy options that could lead to job growth.  ’Shining Moment’  “Let’s have that great single shining moment at this
moment,” said Pinkerton, who worked on domestic policy for
Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush . “We think it’s
quite possible in this next year to have that happen.”  The U.S. marginal corporate tax rate is higher than that of
any other major industrialized country. An administration
analysis shows that the effective marginal corporate rate in the
U.S. is 29.2 percent, lower than in the rest of the G-7
countries.  Republicans, including House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  and presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , have endorsed a 25
percent corporate tax rate. They haven’t said what tax breaks
they would eliminate or what other changes they would make to
offset the effect on the U.S. budget.  ’Plain View’  “What we want to do in the Ways and Means Committee is
have hearings in plain view, in the public,” House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said June 8 on Bloomberg
Television’s ‘Political Capital with  Al Hunt .’ “And we will
basically say, we want to lower our tax rates. That means we’re
going to have to broaden the base. Let’s have public hearings
about which ones matter the most.”  The Obama administration released a business tax framework
in February that calls for eliminating most tax breaks and
dropping the corporate rate to 28 percent. Domestic
manufacturers and renewable-energy companies would have an
effective rate of 25 percent.  The members of the rate-focused group are willing to put
all of the tax breaks the companies receive on the table and
support a revenue-neutral approach, Kamarck said. She wouldn’t
talk about specific options, such as curtailing the
deductibility of interest and raising the tax rates on  capital
gains  and dividends.  Tax Overhaul  She pointed to the 1986 overhaul of the  tax code  and said
that effort came together only when Senator Bob Packwood, then
chairman of the Finance Committee, made the crucial decisions in
private about the core features of the bill.  “This is something that should not be engaged in public,”
Kamarck said. “Because once it’s engaged in public, you cannot
get a deal.”  The 1986 overhaul worked in part because each time
lawmakers suggested reinstating a tax break, staff members would
calculate the marginal rate increase needed to pay for it, said
Rudolph Penner, who was then director of the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Still, he said, debates over particular business tax breaks
divide companies.  “If you identify the losers more precisely,” said Penner,
now an institute fellow at the  Urban Institute  in Washington,
“that always makes  tax reform  more difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  