-- Cosco Singapore Is Lowest-Rated Asia Stock on Rig Push
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-06-27T10:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/cosco-singapore-is-lowest-rated-asia-stock-on-rig-push.html
Cosco Corp. Singapore Ltd. (COS) ’s
strategy of seeking orders to build oil rigs and offshore
accommodation units to offset slumping ship demand hasn’t
convinced investors.  The company, which operates  seven shipyards  in  China , has
 dropped  49 percent in the past year in  Singapore  trading. It
also has the lowest analyst ratings among major Asian stocks,
with 21 sell ratings, two holds and no buys, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the worst among MSCI AC Asia
Pacific Index members covered by at least three analysts.  The shipbuilder has set aside S$164 million ($128 million)
for cost overruns since the beginning of last year, or more than
its 2011 annual profit, as building drilling units and oil-rig
support vessels takes longer and costs more than expected. The
company has also offered lower prices and more generous payment
terms than Singapore-based market leaders  Keppel Corp. (KEP)  and
 Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)  as orders for dry-bulk ships wane.  “They are still facing a lot of issues with the learning
curve,” said Yeak Chee Keong, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng
Securities in Singapore, who recommends selling Cosco
Singapore’s stock. “If they really want to compete for orders,
one of the ways is through lower prices.”  Lower Prices  Cosco Singapore, which gets its name from the city where
it’s registered and listed, last month agreed to build a semi-
submersible accommodation vessel for Cotemar SA at a price at
least 30 percent cheaper than Keppel and Sembcorp Marine charged
for larger units. The facilities are used for workers on
offshore platforms.  The Chinese company will build a unit able to hold 750
people for a price of more than $200 million. Keppel signed a
letter of intent to build a 440-person facility for $315 million
in March. Both contracts had delivery schedules of about 2 1/2
years, even though Cosco Singapore hasn’t built such equipment
previously, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst Lisa Lee.  “It is unclear whether the shipyard will make a profit
from the building contract,” Singapore-based Lee said in a note
last month. She rates the stock sell.  The shipbuilder, which is controlled by state-owned China
Ocean Shipping Group Co., is also increasing its financing costs
by letting customers pay for work later.  Sevan Drilling AS (SEVDR)  will
pay for 90 percent of an on-order rig on completion, compared
with an original agreement for 80 percent, the Arendal, Norway-
based company  said  last month. Shipyards are usually paid in
installments as work progresses.  Cash Flow  The change and the possibility of other similar agreements
means Cosco Singapore’s credit, foreign exchange and  cash-flow 
risks may be higher than expected, Singapore-based Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. analysts Chia Jiunyang and Low Peihan said
in a note yesterday. They downgraded the company to sell from
hold and cut their fair-value price to 84 Singapore cents from
98 Singapore cents.  Li Jian Xiong, vice president at Cosco Singapore, didn’t
reply to an e-mail and phone call seeking comments.  “As a relatively new entrant, the company expects to incur
higher costs during the execution of offshore marine engineering
projects on new product types,” it said in a statement last
month. “Progressively, the company will gather expertise and
capabilities to reach out to a broader customer base, laying a
firmer foundation for long-term sustainable growth in offshore
and marine engineering.”  The shipbuilder closed unchanged at 97.5 Singapore cents on
the city-state’s stock exchange. The stock will drop to 80
Singapore cents within the next year, based on 13 analyst
estimates compiled in the past three months.  Profit Drop  The company’s  net income  fell 25 percent in the first
quarter to S$27.8 million, weighed down by S$13.8 million of
expected losses on construction contracts. Full-year earnings
will drop about 6 percent to S$131 million, according to the
average of 19  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
trades at 17 times expected earnings, the highest among the 12
companies in the  Bloomberg World Shipbuilding Index (BWSHIP) , which
trades at a ratio of 10. Only 11 of the index members have
earnings estimates.  Low Margins  “Cosco is trading at a premium relative to both the
shipbuilding and offshore engineering yards, which is not
justified given the company’s poor earnings outlook,” said
analyst Robert Bruce at CLSA Ltd., which rates the stock sell
and has a 65 Singapore cent target price. “The offshore
engineering business is likely to see low  margins  in the coming
years” as it’s taking on a wide range of new products that all
have “steep learning curves,” he said in a June 15 note.  This year through May 8, the shipbuilder has won contracts
for a wind-turbine installation vessel, two pipe-laying offshore
construction vessels, four platform supply vessels, a tender rig,
two tender barges, a semi-submersible accommodation vessel and
three bulk carriers. The orders are worth $1 billion, according
to the company.  In the first quarter, the shipbuilder delivered 12 dry-bulk
carriers, a drilling unit and a shuttle tanker. The drill unit
was the second of the four  ordered  by Sevan Drilling. The
Norwegian company has options for two more. Cosco Singapore
delivered the first rig in November 2009. Delivery was due about
a year earlier, according to the March 2007 order announcement.  Dry-Bulk Slump  Cosco Singapore’s dry-bulk ship operations have suffered
because global overcapacity and the  European debt crisis  caused
worldwide orders to fall 47 percent to 8.2 million tons in the
first five months, according to shipbroker  Clarkson Plc .  The company will work through most of its dry-bulk orders
by the end of June, increasing pressure to find new work, DBS
Vickers Securities analysts Janice Chua and Ho Pei Hwa said in a
note last month. Furthermore, at least some of the company’s 47
orders in hand may be at risk of cancellation if a slump in dry-
bulk rates continues, according to OCBC.  The slowdown has also prompted other Chinese shipbuilders
to target the offshore market.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  intends to win 40 percent of its orders from
the sector by 2015, it said last month. It had no such orders on
its books at the end of December after delivering a cable-laying
vessel in May last year.  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ) 
aims to win its first order for a jack-up rig this year after
the formation of a venture with Qatar Investment Corp.  “A lot of shipbuilders are vowing to expand into offshore,
but it’s easier said than done,” said Bao Zhangjing, deputy
director of the China Shipbuilding Industry Economic Research
Center. “The technical threshold for offshore is so much
higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  