-- Coutts’ Villamin Says EU Summit Must Address Banking Union Issue
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-06-27T10:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/coutts-villamin-says-eu-summit-must-address-banking-union-issue.html
Norman Villamin, chief investment
officer for Asia and  Europe  at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc ’s Coutts & Co. unit, comments on the need for a banking
union to precede a fiscal union and creation of euro bonds.  Villamin spoke in an interview in  Singapore  today.  On banking union:  “There are some big issues they need to address, the most
pressing being  Spain . That’s why we think what they need to come
out with at the EU summit this weekend is a banking union within
Europe that involves things like deposit guarantees, new capital
inter-bank and a pan-European regulator they’ve already been
talking about.”  On fiscal union:  “Banking union is important for a couple of things. One,
it addresses the immediate Spain issue and that’s obviously
quite pressing. Secondly, we think it is a small step toward
this political cooperation that Europeans demonstrate. Basically
countries giving up sovereignty over their banks to a pan-
European regulator, that’s the first step toward them giving up
sovereignty of their fiscal positions to a pan-European budget-
setting process.”  On euro bonds:  “Euro bonds are very important. Eventually they’ll get
there. But to get there, you have to get to this pan-European
fiscal agreement first. Do a banking union first and demonstrate
that that can work and that can work well, and then move towards
broader cooperation ultimately culminating in a pan-European
fiscal agreement.  Angela Merkel  has said ‘if you’re willing to
do that, I’m willing to do euro bonds.’”  On European Redemption Fund:  “There are some interim measures on euro bonds that could
be pursued. Something that’s been proposed by some people in
 Germany . It’s called the ERF. There’s an outside chance that
they discuss some of that on Friday when they make their final
announcement. That would probably be a positive surprise if they
did.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  