-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Decline on Home, Durable Goods Data
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-27T21:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-decline-on-home-durable-goods-data.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
debt risk fell after durable goods orders and pending home sales
in May increased more than forecast, building on earlier gains
tied to bets that China will pursue growth-boosting measures.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 117.7 basis points at 4:53
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and  Monsanto Co. (MON)  declined after
the companies reported quarterly profits that beat estimates.  Orders for goods meant to last at least three years rose
1.1 percent, the first increase in three months, data from the
Commerce Department showed today, while the number of Americans
signing contracts to buy previously owned homes surged 5.9
percent. The data signals a recovery in the U.S. manufacturing
and real estate industries as the debt crisis in  Europe  and an
economic slowdown in China raise concern about global growth.  “The pending home sales data was strong, and the recipe
for that is ultra-low  interest rates  and some sense among
homeowners that  house prices  have stopped falling,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “There’s been more
activity in that market. There’s just an increasing amount of
confidence coming back. The big question of course is whether
that confidence will last.”  Economic Data  Pending home sales  surged to a two-year high, beating the
1.5 percent gain forecast by 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, data from the National Association of Realtors showed
today in  Washington . The increase in durable goods orders also
beat estimates. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent gain
according to the median of 76 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Excluding the volatile transportation-equipment
category, bookings increased 0.4 percent.  Two separate reports in  China  indicated the country plans
to introduce stimulus measures. The China Securities Journal
said the nation may pursue “more proactive” growth policies,
while the Xinhua News Agency said China plans to boost ties
between  Hong Kong  and mainland financial markets.  “It used to be the case that investors would look forward
to stimulus because they would feel a greater conviction
regarding positive earnings numbers,” Wilkinson said. “We’re
getting to the point where we seem to be completely dependent on
stimulus to keep the economy moving, the global economy moving,
which in a sense is quite worrisome.”  Lennar CDS  Contracts tied to Miami-based Lennar fell 20.3 basis points
to a mid-price of 313 basis points at 4:57 p.m., Bloomberg
prices show. The third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue said
today that net income for the three months through May climbed
to $452.7 million, or $2.06 a share, from $13.8 million, or 7
cents, a year earlier. Excluding a $403 million gain from a
partial reversal of deferred tax assets, earnings were 21 cents
a share, beating by 5 cents the average estimate of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Monsanto,
the world’s largest seed company, fell 0.7 basis point to a mid-
price of 65.3 basis points after the St. Louis-based firm
reported a 35 percent surge in third-quarter net income to $937
million. Profit excluding a legacy tax matter was $1.63 a share,
besting the $1.60 average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  