-- Czechs Oppose EU Banking Union Plans as Risk to Local Banks
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-06-27T12:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/czechs-oppose-eu-banking-union-plans-as-risk-to-local-banks-1-.html
The  Czech Republic  opposes plans to
create a banking union in Europe as such steps would pose a
threat to the country’s financial industry, Prime Minister Petr
Necas said.  The government is also against a possible weakening of
regulatory powers held by the Czech central bank, Necas told
reporters today. Some of the proposals put forward by the
European Union present “substantial” risks to the Czech
financial stability, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer told
a conference today in Prague.  A 10-year road map, released yesterday by four officials
led by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , centered on common
banking supervision and deposit insurance and a “criteria-based
and phased” move toward joint debt issuance. It also suggests
that the EU could impose upper limits on annual budgets and debt
levels of nations that use the euro.  “My mandate, approved by the government, stipulates not to
accept those proposals that have been so far circulating in the
media,” Necas said. “We clearly stated that some parts, such
as a banking union, could be very damaging to the Czech economy,
where 95 percent of the banking market is operated by
subsidiaries of foreign institutions.”  EU Proposals  Proposals to reshape the crisis-struck euro area were
criticized by Germany for putting too much emphasis on debt
sharing and too little on controlling national budgets.
Germany’s opposition lessened the chances that a June 28-29
summit -- the 19th since the debt crisis broke out in early 2010
-- will point the way out of the turmoil that threatens to
splinter the euro currency.  Van Rompuy  collaborated on the proposals with European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  and Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who manages meetings of euro finance ministers.  The Czech Republic’s banking industry is controlled by
units of western institutions including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  KBC
Groep NV (KBC)  and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  It opposes efforts to transfer
banking supervisory powers to a multinational level.  “For this country, for its financial stability, some of
the things that have been proposed on the European level in the
past two weeks present a substantial medium-term risk for the
financial stability,” Singer said.  The Czechs didn’t have to bail any banks during the global
financial crisis as the amount of toxic assets accounted for
less than 1 percent of all assets, according to central bank
data. Deposits in the country’s banks exceed loans, protecting
them against a funding freeze from their western owners which
are selling assets and raising capital to meet more stringent
regulatory requirements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  