-- Czech Central Bank Will Probably Cut Main Rate to Record Low
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-06-28T08:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/czech-central-bank-will-probably-cut-main-rate-to-record-low.html
The Czech central bank will probably
cut  interest rates  for the first time in two years to support
the economy after faltering demand sparked a recession and the
government’s borrowing costs sank to the lowest ever.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka will drop the
benchmark two-week  repurchase rate  by a quarter-point to 0.5
percent at a meeting today, according to 20 of 24 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Such a reduction would deepen the discount to
the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark rate.  As the ECB lifted and then lowered its refinancing  rate  by
a half point to 1 percent last year, the Czechs held steady
because consumer spending wasn’t fueling inflation. Investors’
bets on lower interest rates pushed government bond yields to
record lows, and weakened the koruna, which headed for the
biggest quarterly decline since the last three months of 2009.  “The Czech National Bank has the comfort of focusing on a
disappointing growth performance against negligible core
inflation pressures,” Gillian Edgeworth, an analyst at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said in a June 25 note. Shrinking gross domestic
product, “particularly weak” retail sales data for April and
core inflation at 0.5 percent are among reasons for a quarter-
point rate cut, Edgeworth said.  Tax Increases  Forward-rate agreements fixing the three-month  interbank
rate  in three-months were quoted at 1 percent today, compared
with the Prague interbank offered rate, or Pribor, at 1.21
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
two-year  government bonds  was unchanged, after falling seven
basis points to 0.9 percent yesterday, the lowest since at least
1997. The koruna was little changed at 25.860 per euro as of
9:52 a.m. in Prague, holding near the weakest intraday level
since Nov. 28.  Czech rate setters are assessing the impact of the
government’s tax increases on shop prices and the effects of the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis on the economy. The bank’s
board split three ways over monetary-policy settings at the last
meeting on May 3. Governor Miroslav Singer and Vice-Governor
Vladimir Tomsik voted for a rate cut, while four members wanted
no change. One sought a quarter-point increase.  The Czech central bank chief differs in his assessment of
inflation trends from policy makers in  Poland , the EU’s largest
post-communist economy. The Narodowy Bank Polski was the only
bloc member to increase  borrowing costs  this year as inflation
exceeded the upper end of the target range since January 2011.
Singer is discounting a spike in Czech  inflation  above the
bank’s target in 2012, spurred by a tax increase and fuel costs.  Confidence Falls  The  inflation  rate dropped to 3.2 percent in May, the
lowest this year, from 3.5 percent in April. The reading was 0.2
percentage point lower than the central bank forecast. Inflation
relevant for monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted
for the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, eased to 2
percent in May, matching the bank’s target.  Consumer confidence  fell to the lowest in almost 13 years
in May, while  retail sales  declined 4.1 percent in April, the
largest drop in two years and compared with a 5.5 percent
increase in Poland.  “We are essentially stagnating because of, I believe, the
uncertainty of almost every player in this economy, and because
of fiscal measures that are necessary to keep our fiscal side
balanced,” Singer said at a conference in Prague yesterday.
“Inflation-wise, we are not in big trouble,” he said, adding
that the only sources fueling price growth are the sales-tax
increase and influences from outside the  Czech Republic .  Headline inflation may exceed the bank’s forecast of 1.5
percent in the second quarter of next year if the government
pushes through another set of measures aimed at boosting budget
revenue, including an additional increase in the sales levy and
a new income-tax rate for higher earners. A boost in taxes may
further curtail  consumer spending  and limit demand-driven
inflationary pressures, the bank said.  Weaker Koruna  Koruna developments may be key for central bank board
members when deciding on rates today as the currency has
weakened 3.4 percent to the euro since May 2, one day before the
previous policy meeting. The weaker koruna is easing monetary
conditions by making exports cheaper, while adding to
inflationary pressures as imports become more expensive.  “The only factor that could perhaps discourage central
bankers from lowering rates is the weak koruna,” Václav  France ,
an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “If there is a cut in rates, the koruna shouldn’t
react. If the rates stay unchanged, it will be a positive
impulse for the koruna.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  