-- MDA Has Record Increase After Buying Loral Satellite Unit
-- B y   J a m e s   L a n g f o r d
-- 2012-06-27T20:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mda-has-record-increase-after-buying-loral-satellite-unit.html
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. (MDA) , which made the robotic arm for  NASA ’s defunct space
shuttle, climbed the most ever after buying  Loral Space &
Communications Inc. (LORL) ’s commercial satellite unit to tap growing
demand for mobile entertainment and smartphones.  MacDonald Dettwiler  jumped  28 percent to C$57.25 at the
close in Toronto, the biggest increase since its initial public
offering in 2000. The company, which will pay Loral $875
million, said the deal will add to earnings immediately.  “Satellites enable the cost-efficient delivery of
television, radio, Internet, voice communications and
communications on the move,” MacDonald Dettwiler Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Friedmann said on a conference call
today. “Billions of people around the world depend on these
services. As demand for these services grows, the world needs
more and higher-powered satellites to support them.”  The combined companies will have revenue of C$1.9 billion
($1.85 billion) and a backlog of C$2.8 billion, MacDonald
Dettwiler projected. Before the deal, analysts had estimated the
company would post sales of C$729.6 million this year.  The acquisition will be funded with cash, a three-year $101
million note and about $500 million in debt under a  credit line 
from  RBC Capital Markets , Richmond, British Columbia-based
MacDonald Dettwiler said.  The deal, approved by the companies’ boards, is subject to
regulatory clearance and expected to close later this year,
MacDonald Dettwiler said.  Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. acted as
financial advisers to Loral, and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP
was legal counsel.  Bank of America and RBC Capital Markets provided financial
advice to MacDonald Dettwiler.  Loral climbed 13 percent to $65.49 in  New York , the largest
gain since November 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  