-- Dealmaking Rebound Falters as Crisis Threatens Confidence
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-28T13:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/dealmaking-rebound-falters-as-crisis-threatens-confidence.html
Dealmaking failed to make a comeback
in the second quarter as the  European debt crisis  and volatile
stock markets forced companies to delay big acquisitions.  Takeovers fell about 2 percent from the first three months
of the year to about $450 billion, the lowest level since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg through June 27.  Eaton
Corp. (ETN) ’s proposed purchase of  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  and  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s sale of its infant-nutrition unit were the only deals to
top $10 billion.  While many companies are weighing transactions, chief
executive officers for the most part refrained from pulling the
trigger on deals as Europe struggled to contain its debt crisis,
intensifying concern about the fallout on global economic
growth. Takeovers in Europe fell 20 percent in the quarter,
while Asia eked out a gain of around 3 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. North America was the best performing market,
with dealmaking rising 10 percent to almost $190 billion from
the previous quarter.  “The one factor which is restraining deals is euro-zone
risk,” said  Roger Altman , founder of the New York-based
advisory firm Evercore Partners Inc. “It affects all buyers,
financial and strategic. At the margin, it may affect strategic
buyers more because, for them, any acquisition generally
represents a bigger decision.”  ‘Normalized Levels’  The 17 members of the euro zone are fighting to maintain
their currency union and service debt that amounted to 8.2
trillion euros last year, according to Eurostat. Spain became
the biggest regional economy yet to seek a bailout in the
quarter, requesting as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion)
in aid for its banks, while Italian bond yields surged on
concern the crisis may spread into the core of the euro area.  Stock markets fluctuated in reaction, hampering dealmaking.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  posted  an average daily price
change of 0.76 percent in the 50 days through June 25, compared
with about 0.5 percent in the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bespoke Investment Group and Bloomberg. The  VStoxx
Index (V2X) , a gauge of European stocks’ volatility, has climbed about
50 percent from its March 19  low  this year. On June 4, the index
rose to a peak of 36 for the year.  “The impact of Europe has weighed more heavily on global
markets than previously forecast,” said David Killingback, head
of Asia-Pacific mergers and acquisitions at  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  “We expect M&A volume in general to remain muted, but do
expect to see activity in some areas such as Asia outbound for
resources and industrials to rebound to more normalized
levels.”  Strong Fundamentals  Many conditions for dealmaking are ripe, spurring some
chief executive officers to take the plunge.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the biggest U.S. drugstore chain, this month
agreed to pay $6.7 billion in stock and cash for 45 percent of
U.K. pharmacy chain Alliance Boots, its largest ever takeover.
Belgian brewer  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  is pushing to take full
control of Corona brewer  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  in a deal that could
be valued at as much as $20 billion, according to people
familiar with the process.  Petroliam Nasional Bhd, the Malaysian oil and natural-gas
company, said today it agreed to buy  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  for C$4.8 billion in cash ($4.7 billion).  The companies in the S&P 500 are holding about $2.92
trillion in cash and marketable securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Financing costs have also fallen. Average
yields on company bonds worldwide have dropped to 4.18 percent
as of June 26 from this year’s high of 4.82 percent on Jan. 3,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Corporate & High Yield index. That compares with an
average last year of 4.56 percent.  Attractive Valuations  “In many respects the fundamentals for M&A, in terms of
cash on balance sheets, financing costs, and valuations, have
never been better,” said Henrik Aslaksen, global head of M&A at
Deutsche Bank AG. “As soon as we see some stabilization,
activity should pick up.”  Some buyers are already seeking to take advantage of weak
valuations in Europe. Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America
Movil SAB took a 2.9 billion-euro stake in Dutch mobile operator
Royal KPN NV this month, following a similar investment in
Telekom Austria AG. Canada’s CGI Group Inc. agreed to buy U.K.
technology company Logica Plc in May for about 1.7 billion
pounds ($2.7 billion).  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  is trading for 5.3 times the
cash generated by its companies, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a ratio of 7.5 for the
S&P 500, the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities. On that basis,
European companies were as much as 29 percent cheaper than their
U.S. rivals earlier this month, the biggest discount since 2009,
the data show.  Goldman Leads  “Notwithstanding the challenging macro picture, there is
strategic interest from global acquirers in European
companies,” said Gregg Lemkau, the head of M&A for Europe, the
Middle East, Africa and Asia at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
“Valuations are down and there are a number of successful
businesses with strong existing franchises that are available at
what appears to be a discount.”  Goldman Sachs leads the global league tables for mergers so
far this year, advising on $221.8 billion in transactions,
followed by Morgan Stanley at $209.9 billion and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  at $186 billion.  Earnings Slump  Some companies are being pushed toward asset sales as
earnings slump. French media conglomerate  Vivendi SA (VIV)  is weighing
options including a sale of its Activision Blizzard video-game
unit, which is valued at $13 billion, according to people
familiar with its plans. Research In Motion Ltd., the Canadian
maker of the BlackBerry smartphone grappling with an exodus of
customers to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android
system, last month said it hired JPMorgan and RBC Capital
Markets to review its strategy. Finland’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , once the
world’s No. 1 mobile phone manufacturer, has said it may sell
assets as it seeks to stem losses.  Announced deals in North America included Energy Transfer
Partners LP’s $5.3 billion offer for Sunoco Inc. and Marubeni
Corp. of Japan’s $3.6 billion takeover of commodities trader
Gavilon Group. Asia deals topped $100 billion, including Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.’s agreement to repurchase a 20 percent stake
in itself from Yahoo! Inc. for about $7.1 billion.  “Our pipeline looks good,” said Piero Novelli, co-head of
global M&A at Nomura Holdings Inc., which advised Marubeni on
the Gavilon deal. “But it needs to be discounted by a lower
completion probability, due to challenging market conditions.”  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market dealmaking has also been uncertain.
Takeovers in  Latin America  slid 60 percent from a year earlier
to $20.3 billion. Asia-Pacific’s total, up 6 percent from the
first three months of the year, fell 22 percent from the same
period a year earlier.  The Chinese economy is cooling at the same time as
“significant political challenges in India,” said Vikas Seth,
co-head of both emerging-market M&A and Europe, Middle East and
Africa mergers at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  “And Brazil is
slowing as commodity prices moderate.”  Economists are paring forecasts for Chinese growth, with
Credit Suisse predicting a 7.7 percent expansion this year, the
slowest since 1999. India’s 5.3 percent growth in the first
quarter was the weakest in nine years and Brazil’s first-quarter
growth missed forecasts even as policymakers cut taxes and
interest rates to encourage consumer spending.  This year’s largest announced deal,  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN) ’s $25 billion takeover of copper- and coal-miner  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) , was thrown into doubt this week after Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund demanded a better offer. The Persian Gulf kingdom
owns about 11 percent of Xstrata, making its support essential
to a deal that can be blocked by just 16 percent of investors
under U.K. merger rules.  “We do think there will be a turning point at some stage,
and a long-run M&A cycle will follow,” said Antonio Weiss, the
head of investment banking at Lazard Ltd., the largest
independent merger adviser. “And it will be truly global. But
we’re not there yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  