-- Spain Beats Portugal in Shootout to Reach Euro 2012 Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-27T22:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/defending-champion-spain-beats-portugal-to-reach-euro-2012-final.html
Spain  defeated  Portugal  4-2 in a
penalty shootout to reach the European soccer championship final
and continue its bid to become the first team to successfully
defend the title.  Cesc Fabregas scored the winning penalty past midnight at
the Donbass Arena in Donetsk, Ukraine. The match finished 0-0
after regulation play and 30 minutes of extra time.  Spain will meet record three-time champion Germany or Italy
in the July 1 final. Those countries meet today in Warsaw.  “It was a very even match,” Spain coach Vicente del
Bosque said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “It
wasn’t easy to get through their defense. The players have
played so many matches and they have to show their best in one
more.”  Portugal, the runner-up to  Greece  in 2004, remains without
a major title.  “We feel a great sadness,” said Portugal forward Nelson
Oliveira, whose team didn’t have a shot on target after halftime.
“At the same time we can hold our heads high, because we’re
dignified in our defeat. We did everything we could to win.”  Each team’s first attempt in the shootout was saved.  Andres Iniesta ,  Gerard Pique  and  Sergio Ramos  then scored for Spain and
Pepe and Nani converted for Portugal.  Hit Crossbar  Bruno Alves hit the crossbar for Portugal and Fabregas sent
his kick in off the left post past Rui Patricio to make Spain,
which is also world champion, the first team since Germany in
the 1970s to reach three straight finals between the European
Championship and World Cup.  “Being in another final is a miracle,” Fabregas said.
“It’s very emotional.”  Del Bosque made a surprise change to his lineup with Alvaro
Negredo starting at striker. Del Bosque began two of the first
four games without a recognized forward, with  Fernando Torres 
getting the nod in the others.  Portugal opened on the offensive as Miguel Veloso’s corner
kick was tipped over the bar by Spanish goalkeeper Iker Casillas
in the second minute.  Spain’s Alvaro Arbeloa and Iniesta missed with shots, while
Casillas came off his line to beat Nani to a cross from
 Cristiano Ronaldo , who also shot over the goal.  Penalty Claim  After Portugal had a penalty claim for handball against
Ramos turned down in the 28th minute, Iniesta curled a shot over
the goal and Ronaldo sent the final chance of the half wide.  Del Bosque brought on Fabregas, who has two goals in the
tournament, in the 54th minute for Negredo. Portugal’s  Hugo Almeida  then shot over and sent another effort wide.  Spain finally put an attempt on target in the 68th minute
as  Xavi Hernandez ’s shot from outside the area went straight to
Patricio. Almeida then fired wide from an angle after being
released down the left.  Ronaldo sent a free kick over the crossbar and Fabregas did
the same with a shot from the edge of the area. Ronaldo had
another free kick from 25 yards (23 meters) out with six minutes
left, but once again put it over the goal.  Portugal broke out on a counter attack in the 90th minute
but Ronaldo shot well over from inside the area and the game
went to extra time.  Extra Time  Spain dominated possession in extra time and was twice
denied by Patricio, who stopped Iniesta’s shot from six yards
out in the 96th minute and dropped to save Jesus Navas’s shot
with nine minutes left.  Spain had a late chance as  Pedro Rodriguez  was sent free by
Fabregas, only to have defender Fabio Coentrao recover to clear
the ball away for a corner.  Xabi Alonso  and Joao Moutinho failed with the opening kicks
of the shootout before the next five were scored. Then Alves was
unable to convert and Fabregas held his nerve to put Spain into
the final.  “If I had to choose a way of losing I wouldn’t choose this
one,” Portugal coach Paulo Bento said. “Spain are a great
team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 