-- Diamond Foods Directors Sued Over Company Financial State
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-27T16:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/diamond-foods-directors-sued-over-company-financial-statements.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) ’s board was
accused in a retirement fund’s lawsuit of tarnishing the snack
and nut company’s reputation and causing it to misrepresent its
current and future financial condition.  The Hialeah, Florida, employees’ retirement system blamed
the directors for Diamond’s inability to file its financial
statements, resulting in an “expensive and time-consuming
internal investigation” at the company and derailing its
planned $2.4 billion acquisition of Procter & Gamble Co.’s
Pringles division in February.  Diamond plunged 81 percent from Sept. 20 to earlier today,
when shares touched a 52-week low of $17.55 before rising
3 cents to $17.58 at 12 noon in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Diamond’s directors “had actual or constructive knowledge
that they had caused the company to maintain ineffective
internal controls,” the retirement system said in the
complaint, filed today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  San Francisco-based Diamond, the maker of Kettle chips and
Emerald snack nuts, said June 11 it won’t file quarterly results
on time to meet an extension granted by Nasdaq.  Diamond Foods hasn’t yet filed its 10-Q reports for the
quarters ended Oct. 31 and Jan. 31 and will miss the deadline
for the quarter ended April 30, it said in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Walnut Growers  The company announced in February that it would restate
earnings for the past two years and replace its chief executive
officer and chief financial officer after an internal probe
found Diamond booked payments to walnut growers in the wrong
period.  “Diamond’s reputation and standing among walnut growers,
with whom it needs to continue to do business, is likely
inexorably tainted,” the retirement system said in the
complaint.  Paul Kranhold  and  John Christiansen , spokesmen for Diamond,
didn’t immediately reply to a phone call and e-mails seeking
comment on the complaint.  The case is Board of Trustees of City of Hialeah Employees’
Retirement System v. Mendes, CA7657, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 