-- Dinosaurs Not Cold-Blooded in Theory That Flips Old View
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-27T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/dinosaurs-not-cold-blooded-in-theory-that-flips-old-view.html
A closer look at modern-day mammals
has led scientists to conclude that dinosaurs were  warm-blooded ,
in a serendipitous finding that demolishes the main argument
that the creatures were giant cold-blooded reptiles.  In a study that started as a way of learning more about the
bones of mammals, researchers found that the same skeletal
markings seen on dinosaurs also appeared on large ruminant
animals, such as deer. Called lines of arrested growth or LAGs,
the markers indicate rain and supply of food and water, rather
than external temperature, according to the research published
today in the journal  Nature .  Some scientists theorized that dinosaurs didn’t generate
their own internal heat and pointed to LAGs in bones as
evidence, according to the study’s background information. This
latest research adds evidence that the giant creatures roaming
the earth millions of years ago weren’t cold-blooded, but rather
warm-blooded like birds or mammals.  “There’s never been any evidence at all that dinosaurs
were cold-blooded,” said  Kevin Padian , a professor of
integrative biology at the  University of California , Berkeley,
and author of an accompanying article, in a telephone interview.
“Birds evolved from reptiles and so at some point along the
way, warm-bloodedness evolved.”  Warm-bloodedness and cold-bloodedness are inexact ways of
thinking about  body heat , said Padian, who is also the curator
of paleontology at the  University of California Museum of
Paleontology . Endothermic animals like birds and mammals
generate their own heat while ectothermic animals like current
reptiles rely on the environment to generate heat, he said.
What’s more, some animals are better at maintaining a constant
internal body temperature, while others aren’t.  Previous Research  A study published in the journal Science last year
suggested that a  nearly intact heart  from a small plant-eating
dinosaur had a structure more similar to that of a mammal or
bird.  Once the researchers discovered the LAGs in mammals, they
published today’s paper because they realized it could have
important implications for dinosaurs, said study author Meike
Kohler, a researcher at the  Institut Catala de Paleontologia
Miquel Crusafont  at the Autonomous University of Barcelona,
 Spain .  Now that LAGs are known in mammals, scientists will be able
to use them the same way as  tree rings  or growth markers to
study the conditions under which the animals grew, Kohler said
in a telephone interview. Looking at how animals were influenced
by climate and extension events will help future research.
What’s more, they now provide a way to tell the longevity and
age of sexual maturity in samples, she said.  “This is an important set of demographic data,” Kohler
said in a telephone interview. “It will likely be valuable in
conservation biology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 