-- Do Republicans Really Want Universal Health Care?
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-06-27T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/do-republicans-really-want-universal-health-care-.html
In 2007, Republican Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina sent a  letter  to President  George W. Bush .  DeMint said he would like to work with Bush to pass
legislation that would “ensure that all Americans would have
affordable, quality, private health coverage, while protecting
current government programs. We believe the health care system
cannot be fixed without providing solutions for everyone.
Otherwise, the costs of those without insurance will continue to
be shifted to those who do have coverage.”  Read that closely. DeMint does not say he wants legislation
that would ensure all Americans have “access” to coverage -- the
standard rhetorical dodge of politicians who don’t want to
oppose universal coverage, but also don’t want to do what’s
necessary to achieve it. He says that he wants legislation that
ensures all American actually have coverage. He says that
without making sure every American has coverage, “the health
care system cannot be fixed.” For good measure, DeMint wants to
achieve this “while protecting current government programs.”  DeMint was not alone. Signatories to the letter included
Democratic Senators Maria Cantwell,  Kent Conrad ,  Herb Kohl ,  Ken Salazar  and  Ron Wyden , and Republican Senators Robert Bennett,
 Mike Crapo , Trent Lott and  John Thune . But it’s DeMint’s
involvement that seems, in retrospect, most remarkable.  Conservative Champion  DeMint is arguably the Senate’s most conservative member,
and he’s inarguably the chamber’s most aggressive champion of
the Tea Party. He’s the guy, in fact, who has been helping the
Tea Party knock off Republican incumbents for being
insufficiently conservative. Yet in the letter to Bush, DeMint
sounds like Barack Obama. That letter wasn’t an isolated
incident. DeMint also endorsed Mitt Romney for president in
2007,  telling  National Review that Romney “has demonstrated,
when he stepped into government in a very difficult state, that
he could work in a difficult partisan environment, take some
good conservative ideas, like private health insurance, and
apply them to the need to have everyone insured.”  Whatever the fallout from the Supreme Court decision on the
Affordable Care Act, the two parties have clearly laid out their
health-care platforms for 2012. The Democrats’ commitment is to
provide every American with health insurance. The  Republican
Party ’s commitment is to prevent any American from being forced
to have health insurance.  It wasn’t always this way. Democrats and Republicans used
to argue over how best to achieve universal coverage, but both
agreed on the goal. The first president to propose a serious
universal health-care plan was  Harry Truman , a Democrat. The
second was  Richard Nixon , a Republican. In the 1990s, when
President  Bill Clinton  was arguing for a national health-care
system based on an employer mandate, Republicans were arguing
for one based on an individual mandate.  In the 2000s, Romney used the individual mandate to make
Massachusetts the first state to actually achieve near-universal
coverage. On the national level, Republicans as diverse as  Newt Gingrich ,  Lamar Alexander  and Lott joined him. Republicans
sometimes like to present their support for the individual
mandate as a youthful indiscretion, but as late as June 2009,
 Charles Grassley , the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, was telling Fox News that “there is a bipartisan
consensus to have an individual mandate.”  Reduced Coverage  Today, Romney touts a health-care plan, to the extent he
has one, that would almost certainly lead to reduced insurance
coverage. He wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act, cutting
loose 31 million Americans who are expected to gain coverage
under the law. Then he wants to drastically cut Medicaid
spending by turning it over to the states and capping the growth
of federal contributions. The Urban Institute estimates that
such a policy would cause 14 million to 19 million Americans to
lose Medicaid coverage.  This, perhaps, is one of the clearest differences between
the Republicans and Democrats in this election: health insurance
for 45 million to 50 million people.  It’s still possible that Romney will devise additional
policies to offset, at least partially, the loss of coverage.
Right now, he promises to “end tax discrimination against the
individual purchase of insurance,” a pledge too vague to
analyze. By this time in 2008, presidential candidates Obama and
 John McCain  had both detailed health-care proposals loaded down
with specifics. Romney’s lack of detail, or even a general
outline, confirms how little pressure Republican primary voters
put on him to address the issue.  In part, this is because the Republican Party continues to
be in opposition mode. Having jettisoned their support for the
individual mandate in order to fight a Democratic bill with the
mandate at its core, Republicans simply have no policies that
could plausibly lead to universal coverage. Instead, they’ve
moved in the opposite direction, vowing to reduce spending on
government programs. One unfortunate consequence of cutting
spending that goes toward health insurance for poor people is
that fewer poor people have health insurance.  Indeed, influential conservatives have been turning on the
idea of universal coverage entirely. In June 2007, National
Review published an  editorial  arguing that Republicans should
reject “the goal of universal coverage. Deregulating health
insurance would make it more affordable, and thus increase the
number of Americans with coverage. But to achieve universal
coverage would require either having the government provide it
to everyone or forcing everyone to buy it.” Michael Cannon,
director of health-care policy at the libertarian  Cato
Institute , formed the “Anti-Universal Coverage Club,” whose
members “reject the idea that government should ensure that all
individuals have health insurance.” This attitude is now the
norm within the Republican Party, even if it is rarely
acknowledged so starkly.  The battle over the Affordable Care Act has largely
distracted voters from this tectonic shift in the Republican
Party. Yet unlike in past elections, in which even the most
conservative Republicans argued that we should “ensure that all
Americans would have affordable, quality, private health
coverage,” voters this year will choose between one party that
supports universal health care and one that doesn’t, with health
insurance for as many as 50 million voters hanging in the
balance.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Europe’s banking union  and
 restoring U.S. fisheries ;  Caroline Baum  on why  Washington can’t
fix the economy ; Amity Shlaes on  women who can have it all ;
 Brian Barry  on why  Romney shouldn’t avoid the inequality debate ;
Richard J. Carroll on why  some tax cuts work and others don’t ;
Jane S. Shaw on how Mitch Daniels can  shake up higher education .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 