-- Dolby to Purchase San Francisco Tower for $109.8 Million
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-06-27T00:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/dolby-to-purchase-san-francisco-tower-for-109-8-million.html
Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB) , the audio-
technology company whose products are used in cinemas, recording
studios and video games, agreed to buy a 16-story tower in the
 San Francisco  area that’s home to Twitter Inc., and will make
the building its new headquarters.  The price was about $109.8 million, Dolby said in a
regulatory filing. The company plans to fully occupy the tower
at 1275 Market St., according to a statement today from Dolby
and San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee. The building in the Mid-
Market neighborhood, where Twitter relocated this month, can
accommodate almost 1,000 employees.  “For more than 36 years, San Francisco has been a great
place for developing our innovations in cinema, home theater and
portable entertainment,” Dolby Chief Executive Officer Kevin Yeaman said in the statement. “Our new headquarters will allow
us to grow and advance the entertainment experience.”  A non-refundable deposit of about $5.5 million has been
placed in escrow, and the sale is expected to be completed on
July 10, Dolby said yesterday in the  filing . The building is
being sold by TMG Partners and DivcoWest Inc., both based in San
Francisco, according to Mike Covarrubias, TMG’s CEO.  The property, formerly home of the California State
Compensation Insurance Fund, isn’t within San Francisco’s
payroll-tax exclusion zone, according to the statement. Twitter
was lured to Mid-Market in part by the city’s offer to suspend
the business levy for six years.  Dolby’s current base is in San Francisco’s Potrero Hill
neighborhood. The company was chosen last month by Microsoft
Corp. to provide audio for its Windows 8 software when the
package is released later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  