-- Drought May Rival 1980s U.S. Scorcher That Cost $78 Billion
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-06-27T16:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/drought-seen-rivaling-1980s-u-s-scorcher-that-cost-78-billion.html
The drought in the U.S. Midwest that
has pushed up corn prices 28 percent since June 15 may
eventually rival a dry period in 1988 that cost agriculture  $78
billion , a government meteorologist said.  This year’s weather pattern, which settled into the Great
Plains and the Southwest last year and has spread into the Corn
Belt, resembles those of a quarter century ago,  Matthew
Rosencrans , a drought specialist with the  National Weather
Service , said today at a forum in Washington. Sparse rainfall
may drive crop costs up further, destroying livestock profits
and raising food prices, said  David Anderson , an agricultural
economist at  Texas A&M University .  “Everyone’s worried about this,” Anderson said in an
interview after speaking at the forum. Corn “stockpiles are
already low,” he said. “We thought this was the year we might
get some relief from that, and that may not happen. We’re going
to have highly volatile prices the rest of the summer.”  Areas of  Indiana , Illinois, eastern Iowa and Missouri have
had less than half of the normal rainfall in the past 30 days,
according to the National Weather Service. Parts of the Midwest
may see some significant showers by the middle of next week,
while the driest areas of the Midwest and the Mississippi Delta
region may see little precipitation, Telvent DTN Inc. said
yesterday.  Conditions Worsen  Fifty-six percent of the U.S. corn crop was in good-to-
excellent  condition  as of June 24, down from 63 percent a week
earlier and a 20-year low for this point in the season,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Futures of the
grain traded in  Chicago  touched a nine-month high earlier today.  Corn supplies in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter,
are declining at the fastest pace since 1996, according to USDA
data. Stockpiles were probably 3.168 billion bushels (80.47
million metric tons) on June 1, 47 percent less than on March 1,
the average of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.
The agency updates its inventory estimate on June 29 and its
production forecast two weeks later.  While the USDA’s prediction on June 12 was for a 20 percent
jump in U.S. output this year to a record 14.79 billion bushels,
the harvest is about two months away and dry weather across the
main growing region comes as plants begin to pollinate. That’s
the most vulnerable period in the growing cycle, so the next two
weeks are crucial,  Dennis Gartman , the author of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter, wrote yesterday.  The persistent heat and dryness isn’t expected to let up
during the U.S. summer, when corn and other crops need
sufficient moisture to grow, said Rosencrans, a contributor to
the government’s weekly drought monitor. The drought that ran
through 1987 and 1988 “will come up as one of the clearest
analogues to this year,” he said.  Today’s forum was sponsored by the  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based Farm Foundation. Other speakers included Jay Armstrong,
who grows corn, soybeans and wheat in Atchison County,  Kansas ,
and Kitty Smith, chief economist for American Farmland Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  