-- Durable Goods Orders May Point to U.S. Manufacturing Slowdown
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/durable-goods-orders-may-point-to-u-s-manufacturing-slowdown.html
Orders for durable goods in May
probably failed to make up for the worst four months since the
recession, indicating U.S. manufacturing will cool, economists
said before a report today.  The projected 0.5 percent gain in bookings for goods meant
to last at least three years would follow little change in
April, according to the median forecast of 76 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Orders fell 6.6 percent in the first
four months of the year, the weakest stretch since the same
period in 2009, during the last recession.  A slowdown in global growth emanating from  Europe  may harm
exports and prompt companies to curtail equipment spending,
hurting sales at manufacturers like  Joy Global Inc. (JOY)  Combined
with a slackening in demand from American households facing 8.2
percent unemployment, the cutbacks help explain why the  Federal
Reserve  extended a plan to keep borrowing costs low.  “We’re seeing signs of weakness in manufacturing,” said
 Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in
 New York . “There’s a lot of uncertainty about the nature of
demand, about the global outlook, about the U.S. outlook.”  The Commerce Department data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a
decline of 1.5 percent to an increase of 2 percent.  The report may also show that bookings  excluding
transportation  equipment may have climbed 0.7 percent, failing
to make up for the 0.9 percent drop the prior month, according
to the Bloomberg survey median.  Regional Slowdown  Some regional reports showed the slowdown has spilled over
into this month. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area shrank
in June at the fastest pace in almost a year, while New York-
region factories expanded at the slowest pace in seven months.  Joy Global , the maker of P&H and Joy mining equipment, cut
forecasts for full-year earnings and revenue as mining companies
ease capital expenditure amid concern over the slowdown in
 China . Its equipment orders fell 62 percent in the fiscal second
quarter from a year earlier primarily due to a weak U.S. coal
market, the Milwaukee-based company said.  “Even though there is upside to the current market
conditions, the continuing uncertainty will keep mining
companies cautious,” Mike Sutherlin, chief executive officer,
said in the May 31 statement.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) , which
includes companies like Deere & Co., has fallen 15 percent since
April 30, while the broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  gauge has declined 5.6
percent.  Consumer Spending  Consumers, whose spending accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, have trimmed purchases of expensive items like
automobiles as the labor market softens. Cars and light trucks
sold at a  13.7 million  annual rate in May, the weakest this year
and down from April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group
data showed.  Housing, a laggard in the economy, is showing signs of
healing. The number of Americans signing  contracts  to buy
previously owned homes grew 1.5 percent in May after falling 5.5
percent in April, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Pending home resales provide insight into actual contract
closings a month or two later. The National Association of
Realtors’ report is due at 10 a.m.  The Fed on June 20 pledged to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero until at least through late 2014. The central
bank announced it’ll expand the Operation Twist program to
extend the maturities of assets on its balance sheet, and said
it stands ready to take further action as needed.  “The Committee expects economic growth to remain moderate
over coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually,”
policy makers said in a statement. Fed officials also lowered
their outlook for growth and employment.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  