-- Teach an Industry How to Fish and Maybe It Will Survive
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-27T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/teach-an-industry-how-to-fish-and-maybe-it-will-survive.html
Most of the news about the world’s
oceans is a litany of gloom: rising water temperatures,
acidification, bleached coral reefs, tons of Japanese  tsunami 
trash drifting toward  North America ’s west coast. So it is worth
noting when something good is happening with the seas.  Last month, the U.S. government  reported  that six types of
fish, including Maine haddock, summer flounder in the mid-
Atlantic and Chinook salmon in northern  California , had fully
recovered in the past year from decades of overfishing. It was
the largest number in a single year. Much of the credit goes to
a program overseen by the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  that limits how many fish can be taken annually.  To date, 27 stocks of fish have been restored since 2000.
This suggests that, at least along U.S. shores, there are
responsible ways to harvest fish and ensure a reliable source of
food.  That is good because many U.S. fisheries remain shaky. Out
of 537 fisheries the government tracks, reliable data is
available for less than half. Of those that are monitored, 21
percent are subject to destructive fishing practices.
Sustainable catch rates for the rest are up in the air, though
NOAA is required by law to gather the missing data and set
annual  quotas  by year-end.  Reduced Harvests  The fish have help. The same can’t always be said of those
who catch them. Quotas mean the industry must live with reduced
harvests as populations rebuild. But quotas also tend to force
boat operators to haul in as many fish as possible before
someone else gets them.  Eight regional fisheries  management  councils, made up of
fleet operators, scientists and government officials, are
charged with managing the quotas. They have tried various
strategies such as seasonal closings and limits on fishing
permits. They often don’t work. The best alternative is a
program known as catch share, which allocates guaranteed fishing
rights, usually based on how much each boat or fleet caught in
the past.  These shares can be used to fish, or be sold or leased to
other boat operators -- a sort of cap-and-trade for fish. In
most areas where catch-share programs have been adopted since
2010, fleets no longer need to harvest as many fish in the
shortest time possible.  Putting catch share in place hasn’t been easy everywhere.
Opponents deny that fishing stocks are in trouble, or they
simply object to government interference with anyone’s divine
right to fish.  More troublesome is resistance in  New England , where shares
were assigned to sectors, or collectives of fishermen. The
Massachusetts cities of Gloucester and  New Bedford  have sued to
block the program, saying the regional council bypassed a
federal requirement that stakeholders vote on how each region
manages its quotas. Small-boat operators say the sector
allocation has made it uneconomical for them to survive, leading
to industry concentration.  Some consolidation was inevitable: Too many people have
chased too few fish for too long. But if catch-share proponents
want the program to survive legal attacks, fishing rights need
to be awarded equitably.  The New England experience also points to a flaw in how
NOAA evaluates the success of its policies by looking only at
the effects on fisheries. The agency should also assess the
economic impact on communities after catch-share programs are
adopted.  The  House of Representatives  last month voted to  cut off 
funding to expand catch-share programs off the East Coast and in
the  Gulf of Mexico . Although the Senate should reject this, NOAA
needs to work harder to gain maximum acceptance of catch share.
It can do that by ensuring that those with the most at stake --
people who fish for a living -- have a say in how the programs
are designed and carried out.  Catch share isn’t perfect, and it doesn’t promise that
fishing stocks can be restored. But it is better than anything
else fisheries managers have tried, and it can increase the odds
that we don’t end up with oceans stripped of fish.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 