-- Ecclestone ‘Co-Perpetrator’ in Bribery, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-06-27T10:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/ecclestone-co-perpetrator-in-bribery-scheme-prosecutor-says.html
Bernie Ecclestone  was a conspirator
in a bribery scheme that sent $44 million to a Bayerische
Landesbank executive to clear the 2005 sale of the lender’s
stake in Formula One racing, prosecutors said.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer Ecclestone, “hasn’t
been blackmailed, he is a co-perpetrator in a bribery case,”
public prosecutor Christoph Rodler said in closing arguments at
a Munich trial against former BayernLB Chief Risk Officer
Gerhard Gribkowsky.  The two men agreed they “would support a
sale of BayernLB’s Formula One stake to Ecclestone’s benefit.”  Ecclestone, who isn’t a defendant in the case and hasn’t
been charged with the crime, is planning an initial public
offering for Formula One in Singapore where shareholders intend
to raise as much as $3 billion. Gribkowsky, on trial for
accepting bribes, breach of trust and  tax evasion , confessed
last week to the charges and said Ecclestone bribed him during
the sale of the lender’s stake in the racing company to CVC
Capital Partners Ltd.  Gribkowsky told the court the indictment against him was
“in most parts” correct. In exchange for his confession, the
judges informally agreed Gribkowsky would get a prison term
ranging from 7 years and 10 months to 9 years.      Rodler sought
a longer sentence of 10 years and six months today.  “Gribkowsky’s confession came at a late stage on day 45 of
the trial, but at least it was made,” Rodler said referring to
payments made by Ecclestone to Gribkowsky. “Ecclestone doesn’t
give away money, he generates it; that’s why bribery remains as
the only explanation.”  Not Concerned  Ecclestone said June 21 he doesn’t expect to be charged and
that he was “not at all” concerned the case would disrupt
Formula One’s planned IPO in  Singapore .  Ecclestone, who is being investigated by Munich prosecutors
over the issue, told the court last year he was caught up in a
sophisticated shakedown and paid Gribkowsky because he feared
the banker might tell U.K. tax authorities about a family trust
controlled by his then wife.  Prosecutors charged Gribkowsky, who managed Munich-based
BayernLB’s interest in Formula One, with accepting bribes,
breach of trust and tax evasion. They claim he received $44
million to steer the sale of the bank’s 47 percent stake in the
racing circuit to CVC, a U.K.-based buyout firm, and also agreed
to a sham contract under whichEcclestone received a kickback.
Until last week, Gribkowsky denied the claims.  Vital Interest  “Ecclestone had a vital interest to get rid of the banks
as he feared for his life’s work,” Rodler said. “He massively
supported the sale with everything within his power.”  At the same time, “Gribkowsky was looking for an exit from
the dusty state-owned bank and the sale of the Formula One stake
was his last chance to play a role in the racing series,”
Rodler added.  BayernLB acquired the Formula One stake after the 2002
bankruptcy of  Leo Kirch ’s media group. Gribkowsky clashed with
Ecclestone and sued him in  London  over corporate-governance
rules changed to limit the lender’s influence. Ecclestone wanted
to push BayernLB out and saw a chance when CVC showed interest,
prosecutors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 