-- Teen Fights for Benefits as Medicaid Contractor Says No
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   F l a v e l l e   a n d   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/teen-fights-for-benefits-as-medicaid-contractor-says-no.html
Melody and Steve Lancaster’s 16-
year-old foster son, who’s paralyzed from the neck down, needed
a mechanized ceiling lift to help him get into the bathtub or
his favorite beanbag chair.  While  Texas  Medicaid officials had already paid as much as
$13,000 for similar devices for others, the company that the
state hired to look after the teenager’s health needs refused.
Superior Health, a unit of  Centene Corp. (CNC)  that covers about
800,000 Texas Medicaid recipients, also rejected at least two
other requests for lifts, state records show. The Lancasters’
foster son and another patient appealed, and won. The third case
is pending.  “Superior is more concerned with its bottom line than the
medical needs of these children,” said Peter Hofer, a lawyer
with the advocacy  group  Disability Rights Texas who represented
the teenager.  The October 2011 denial was based on Superior’s decision
that the lift was a home modification not covered by its plan --
a determination a state hearing officer overruled in April,
according to state records. Superior is committed to helping
patients and is working with officials “to adjust our policies
and procedures” on the lifts, said Sandy McBride, a Centene
spokeswoman.  The teen’s story shows how states may be limiting patients’
benefits by outsourcing Medicaid, the $460 billion public health
program for the poor and disabled, to for-profit companies with
“little or poor oversight” from authorities, Hofer said. Texas
policy prohibits releasing foster children’s names for
publication.  Poor Grades  Managed-care companies, including St. Louis-based Centene,
Tampa, Florida-based  WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG)  and Amerigroup
Corp. of  Virginia Beach ,  Virginia , cover almost half of U.S.
Medicaid recipients. While such plans help officials control
costs, they operate under loophole-ridden standards, some earn
poor grades on quality and many spend less of their revenue on
care than commercial insurers do, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Government from the five most populous states.  “I’m gravely concerned that accountability is severely
lacking,” said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican on
the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over
Medicaid. “It’s kind of like this money is in a black box.”  Medicaid, which is jointly financed by the federal and
state governments, had an average monthly enrollment of about 53
million people in 2010, 26 million of them in “risk-based”
managed care plans -- so named because companies can lose money
if they pay benefits exceeding their revenue from the state.  Care Standards  California ,  Florida ,  New York , Texas and other states have
pledged to put most beneficiaries in managed care by 2014. That
could be a boon for the companies, which were paid about $90
billion to run plans and pay benefits in 2011. It would also
expand an approach that hasn’t focused enough on meeting care
standards, according to Michael McCue, a professor of health
administration at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond.  “We’re just winking at the quality, saying, look at the
cost savings we can have here,” he said. “In the grand scheme
of things, we don’t care how you allocate those dollars, we just
want somebody to take these dollars and manage the population.”  Traditionally, Medicaid recipients have been covered under
a fee-for-service model, with states paying doctors, hospitals
and other providers at set rates. In managed care, states
typically agree to pay contractors set amounts per patient every
year. The system is designed to give plans an incentive to limit
spending; generally, they keep the difference between their
state revenue and what they spend on care.  Increased Scrutiny  Amerigroup and WellCare have settled civil fraud
allegations since 2008, paying more than $200 million each to
the U.S. and the states of  Illinois  and Florida, among others.
Neither company admitted wrongdoing.  Some states are increasing their scrutiny of the plans. In
 Minnesota , the administration of Governor  Mark Dayton , a
Democrat, capped managed-care companies’ profits at 1 percent of
revenue. Florida plans that don’t achieve the 40th percentile on
performance scores this year face fines of $10,000 to $60,000.  States have canceled some contracts over the years because
of poor performance. Texas last did so in 2009. In February, New
York officials put a plan operated by WellCare on probation
after it didn’t meet performance standards three years in a row.
“If we have not seen an improvement, we will terminate their
contract,” said Jason Helgerson, New York’s Medicaid director.  WellCare “recognizes that continued improvement is
needed,” Jack Maurer, a spokesman for the firm, said in a
statement. “The company has been working diligently to meet the
state’s performance standards” with good results, he said.  Connecticut’s Decision  Calling private Medicaid plans “overly profit-driven at
the expense of taxpayers,” Connecticut officials decided last
year to drop them, joining Alaska and  Wyoming  as the only states
without them.  In Illinois, Jim Parker, deputy administrator for
Illinois’s Medicaid program, said the performance of two of his
state’s risk-based managed-care plans, Harmony and Family Health
Networks, “can honestly only be described as abysmal.”  “There is a strong belief in some political quarters”
that the Medicaid program needs more managed care, Parker said.
“To get rid of them would have been sending the message we are
going the opposite direction.”  Illinois is trying to increase the number of Medicaid
beneficiaries in managed care from less than 10 percent to at
least half by 2015. Officials intend to improve the program by
threatening to withhold money for poor performance, and
contracting with more plans so the government can credibly
threaten to remove the worst, Parker said.  Avoiding Waste  Managed-care plans help states avoid wasting money on such
costly items as emergency-room visits by focusing on better
preventive care, said Thomas Johnson, president of Medicaid
Health Plans of America, a Washington-based trade group.  “In this model, plans have a financial incentive to keep
costs down, which they accomplish by providing innovative
preventative care services that keep people out of the hospital
and in better health,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Johnson said some of Bloomberg’s findings in New York,
California, Texas, Florida and Illinois don’t apply nationwide.  “State program characteristics and requirements vary
widely, and it would be a mistake to make broad, sweeping
assumptions that apply nationally based off information from a
few plans in five states,” Johnson said in a statement posted
to the group’s website.  Shrinking Savings  While the managed-care approach costs less per enrollee
than traditional Medicaid in all five of the largest states, the
advantage is shrinking in places, the data show. California in
2010 spent $2,222 on the average managed-care patient, compared
with $5,791 on the average fee-for-service patient. At the same
time, managed-care spending in California grew 10 times as fast
as traditional spending between 2002 and 2010.  “We were hoping for more savings than have been
demonstrated to date,” said David Sundwall, vice chairman of
the Medicaid and CHIP Payment Access Commission, or MACPAC,
which advises Congress.  Costs may increase as states move more disabled and elderly
people into managed care plans, because the services they
require are generally the most expensive. A pilot program in
Broward County, Florida, paid managed-care contractors $888 a
month for each disabled patient, almost seven times the $132 a
month for patients who aren’t disabled.  Emergency Rooms  One indication that managed care isn’t saving as much as it
could in Illinois is the rate of emergency-room visits.
Infrequent ER use is a “litmus test” for managed care, which
is designed to emphasize preventive medicine, said Jeffrey Gold,
vice president of the Healthcare Association of New York State,
a Rensselaer-based nonprofit that represents hospitals and
health-care networks.  Illinois’ managed-care beneficiaries were more likely to
visit hospital emergency rooms in 2009 and 2010 than were
Medicaid recipients in the traditional program, state figures
show. New York saw virtually no difference in ER visits between
the two groups in 2010. In California and Texas, managed-care
patients were less likely to visit emergency rooms -- though in
California, the difference is narrowing. Florida has only two
years of data, which show no clear trend.  Harmony, the largest managed care program serving Illinois
Medicaid recipients, ranked in the bottom 10th percentile of all
Medicaid plans nationally for delivering prenatal and postpartum
care to women in 2009, according to figures reported in October
2011 by  Health Services  Advisory Group Inc., a Phoenix-based
company that evaluates managed-care plans for states. Harmony is
operated by WellCare.  Fewer Mammograms  Throughout Illinois, 33.8 percent of eligible women
enrolled in Medicaid managed care got mammograms in 2009. The
median rate among women covered by U.S. commercial plans that
year was 71.3 percent, according to Health Services’ data.  Both Harmony and Family Health Network are attempting to
improve their performance, spokesmen told Bloomberg.  The 2010 health care overhaul that’s now before the U.S.
Supreme Court would bring 17 million new enrollees into the
Medicaid program by 2014. At the same time, the law might make
Medicaid’s managed-care component more lucrative than the
private commercial insurance market.  One provision of the law requires most large private health
plans to spend at least 85 percent of their premium revenue on
medical care -- a figure known as the “medical loss ratio.”
Medicaid plans are exempt from the requirement, and many fall
short of that target, according to state records.  Loss Ratios  In Texas,  Amerigroup (AGP)  spent 77.5 percent of premium revenue
on medical care in 2010, according to reports published by the
Texas Health and Human Services Commission. In Illinois,
WellCare spent 78.9 percent. In Florida, where the 2010 average
for plans was 89.6 percent,  Humana Inc. (HUM)  spent 77.4 percent.  Some of Amerigroup’s administrative spending in Texas was
aimed at improving medical results, yet couldn’t be included as
spending on care, said Maureen McDonnell, a company spokeswoman.  WellCare officials believe the company’s MLR should be
assessed companywide -- where it was 82.4 percent -- not at the
state level, said Maurer, the company’s spokesman. “Each
state’s programs have different quality assessment
methodologies, benefit coverage, member populations and
demographics,” he wrote in an e-mail.  Humana’s Florida plan later raised its 2010 spending on
care by reclassifying some administrative spending as medical
costs, said Jim Turner, a spokesman for the Louisville-based
company. Shelisha Coleman, a spokeswoman for Florida’s Medicaid
agency, disputed that, saying 77 percent was the company’s final
medical-loss ratio for the year.  Setting Minimums  At least 11 states have set minimum levels of medical
spending for their Medicaid managed care plans, according to a
2011 study by the  Kaiser Family Foundation . New York will
require its plans to spend 85 percent of revenue by April 2015.  Pretax earnings in 2010 equaled 5 percent or more of
premium revenue for several plans in the five largest states --
outstripping the average for commercial health plans, which was
3 percent, according to the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners .  In Florida, Humana had a 6.7 percent margin in 2010.
WellCare’s plan in Illinois, the state’s largest, had pre-tax
income of 5.2 percent. The latest figures for New York, from
2009, show that its largest for-profit plan, run by  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, posted pre-tax income of
5.3 percent. California refused a freedom-of-information request
for its plans’ financial records, citing a state law that
declares the information proprietary.  Texas’ Clawback  In Texas, officials claw back an increasing share of
Medicaid plans’ profits above 3 percent, leaving a total
possible profit of 7.2 percent. In 2010, plans serving its main
managed-care program returned $122 million to the state,
according to the Texas Health and Human Services Commission.  That year, Amerigroup insured 450,000 Medicaid enrollees in
five Texas counties, receiving $888 million in premium revenue.
Of that, $688 million went to medical expenses, and $104 million
to administrative costs, including salaries. That left pre-tax
income of $96 million, or 10.8 percent of revenue. Amerigroup
returned $44 million to the state, leaving pre-tax income of 5.9
percent -- almost twice the commercial plans’ average in 2010.  “Amerigroup Texas has an experienced, dedicated team that
implements very effective cost management programs for the state
and the members we serve,” said McDonnell, the company’s
spokeswoman. “Given our operational efficiency, it is not
unexpected that our margins are at or above average relative to
state or national benchmarks for certain measurement periods.”  In 2009, Centene insured more than 200,000 Texans at a
margin of 7.5 percent, or $38.6 million. It repaid the state
$13.9 million.  Some Unprofitable  Not every plan is profitable. In Texas, Centene spent more
than its revenue in 2010. In Florida, despite some plans’
success, overall costs exceeded revenue by 1.5 percent that
year. In New York, Amerigroup and WellCare had pre-tax income
below 1 percent of revenue.  Generally, the risk-based managed care model gives plans an
incentive to minimize health-care costs, said Julia Paradise, an
associate director of the  Kaiser Family Foundation ’s Commission
on Medicaid and the Uninsured. Officials have a duty to ensure
the plans aren’t limiting patients’ access to care, she said --
an obligation that isn’t always met.  “There are substantial gaps in oversight,” Paradise said.  Oversight includes annual reports that the federal
government requires states to publish, showing their plans’
quality of care. The federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services, or CMS, give states wide discretion in the
evaluations. Each state chooses from more than 150 standards to
measure, including childhood immunizations, breast cancer
screening, comprehensive diabetes care and annual dental visits.  Plans Pick  There’s no minimum number of measures states must use. Some
states let the managed-care companies pick the indicators, said
Alper Ozinal, a CMS spokesman. He declined to say which states.  States also have leeway in deciding how to present the
scores. In evaluations for California and Florida, HSAG scores
health plans with stars -- one star means below-average, two
means average and three above average. “Average” is broadly
defined -- anywhere between the 25th and 90th percentiles.  The system is designed to identify high or low performers,
“not those in the middle tier, or as a means to measure
contract compliance,” said Steve M. Wilson, an HSAG spokesman.  Other states alter the way they calculate the scores --
called Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or
HEDIS -- in a way that inflates them. Many of the quality
measures compiled by the  National Committee for Quality
Assurance , a non-profit group, gauge how often beneficiaries got
medical services from a certain kind of physician or provider.
For example, a prenatal visit only counts toward a plan’s
quality rating if that visit is with an obstetrician or midwife.  Any Visit  Texas counts any visit with a primary-care doctor or family
practitioner toward its prenatal-care scores.  “When we do our quality of care reports, we’re not really
worried about trying to make a lot of comparisons to other
states,” said Scott Schalchlin, the state’s director of program
management for Medicaid managed care. Federal CMS supervisors
“never raised any concerns” about Texas’ method, he said.  Sarah Thomas, vice president for public policy and
communications at the quality assurance committee, called such
adjusted HEDIS measures “shmedis.”  “Texas is definitely not the only one,” Thomas said. “If
they wanted to do the benchmark and really go for the
transparency approach, they should go for the standard
measures.”  No Report  Last year, Texas failed to publish its annual quality
report. It was eventually released a year late. “We got behind
on reviewing those,” said Stephanie Goodman, a spokeswoman for
the state’s Medicaid agency.  David Sundwall, the MACPAC vice chairman, expressed concern
that federal officials didn’t impose any consequences on Texas.  “If they skip the annual reporting plan, that doesn’t
surprise me,” Sundwall said. “What should be surprising is
that nobody holds them accountable for that.”  Ozinal, the CMS spokesman, said oversight of managed care
plan outcomes and finances “are among our highest priorities.”  Meaningful data about how managed-contractors treat
Medicaid patients is “quite spotty at the state level,”
Richard Kronick, deputy assistant secretary for health policy at
the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, told a
Congressional advisory panel in April. Medicaid data is so poor
that many fraud audits are ineffective, the General Accounting
Office reported this month.  In Azle, Texas, Melody Lancaster’s foster son, who was
paralyzed after he was hit by a car three years ago, got “total
freedom” to move around after he received his new lift, she
said. She and her husband have been foster parents for 25 years,
and they’re now seeing more Medicaid benefits denied, she said.  “These kids are vulnerable,” she said. “They’re not
standing in a welfare line waiting for a handout. They were
dealt a bad hand to begin with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Flavelle in Washington at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net 
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  