-- Egypt’s Mursi to Name Deputies Including Woman, Christian
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-27T15:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/egypt-s-mursi-to-name-deputies-including-woman-christian.html
Egypt ’s Islamist president-elect
plans to name a woman and a Christian among his deputies, as he
seeks to form an administration to heal the rifts that polarized
the country after last year’s revolt.  Mohamed Mursi, who won a presidential runoff vote on June
24, will appoint as many as five vice presidents “including a
Copt, a woman and a member of the youth” activists, his
spokesman, Yasser Ali, said by phone today.  The Muslim Brotherhood candidate, a U.S.-trained engineer,
narrowly defeated Ahmed Shafik, who served as premier under
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . He now faces the challenge of
reviving an economy that has struggled to recover amid political
tensions, and appeasing a population weary of the collapse in
security since Mubarak’s fall in February last year.  Mursi, 60, is holding talks today with youth groups and
party leaders, and has met with members of the Christian
minority and the families of those killed in the uprising. He is
seeking to broaden support before a handover of power by the
ruling generals, due by June 30.  The man elected as Egypt’s first civilian president faces
likely opposition from some political groups that cast the
presidential election as a battle between political Islam and
secularism, said Yasser el-Shimy, Mideast analyst for the
International Crisis Group consultancy.  National Unity  Groups such as the Free Egyptians and the Tagammu are
“dead-set against helping a Muslim Brotherhood president
succeed,” el-Shimy, a former diplomat, said by phone, adding
that it could affect his chances of pulling together a national
unity government.  “Not only does he have to worry about those secular
parties, but he also has to worry about a rather hostile media
and a rather uncooperative military,” he said. “He may also
have to worry about a security establishment that has an
interest in seeing him fail. Unfortunately, in the next few
months, we’re going to see a game of spoilers from many
different actors.”  Egyptian newspapers have printed the names of several
potential deputies and prime ministers, including Nobel laureate
Mohamed ElBaradei, the former head of the United Nations nuclear
watchdog agency, and Hazem el-Beblawi, a former deputy prime
minister and finance minister. Ali said Mursi has yet to decide
on the presidential team or the government, and said the names
being discussed in the media were “speculation.”  Powers Curbed  Mursi will take office with his authority curtailed after
the ruling generals issued constitutional addendums hours after
the polls closed on June 17 that gave them broader powers at the
expense of the presidency.  The decrees, coming after the constitutional court on June
14 ordered the Islamist-dominated parliament dissolved, sparked
fears the military council wasn’t as committed to the transition
to democracy as it had claimed.  “Mursi’s victory does not mean that democracy has
triumphed in Egypt,”  Marina Ottaway , a senior associate in the
Carnegie Middle East Program, wrote in a June 25 note. “This is
just one episode in a battle for change that will unfold for
years and will undeniably continue to be difficult.”  The military suffered a setback yesterday when the Supreme
Administrative Court, traditionally more independent than other
courts in Egypt, overturned a decree by the justice minister
awarding the military the right to arrest civilians.  Mass Rally  While Mursi has struck a more conciliatory tone with the
military, repeatedly praising them and the security forces as
pillars of Egypt, the Brotherhood has kept on the pressure.  The group said today it would participate in another mass
rally on June 29 for “handing over power.” It has continued a
rolling protest in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  for more than a week to
pressure the ruling generals to give back the powers they took
from the presidency and to reinstitute the parliament.  The legislature’s fate remains uncertain as the court
adjourned until July 9 a hearing in a case challenging Field
Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi’s right to disband the
legislature. Preserving the legislature, dominated by the
Brotherhood and other Islamists, would bolster Mursi’s position.  The delay also left it unclear where the president-elect
will take the oath of office. Mursi’s campaign has said he wants
to swear the oath in the parliament, as his predecessors have
done, rather than before the court that ordered the parliament’s
dissolution.  Inauguration  Ali said a decision on the venue will be announced
tomorrow, though a date for the inauguration has yet to be set.  Looking to distance himself from his predecessor, Mursi has
tried to discourage the sort of cult of personality that was
endemic under Mubarak. He asked that money that would be spent
on ads congratulating him be routed to other causes and for his
picture not be put up in government offices and buildings, the
official Middle East  News Agency  reported yesterday.  Television footage of Mursi’s meeting with the families of
casualties from the uprising showed him kissing the foreheads of
some people and pledging to bring to justice those who had
participated in the killings.  Mubarak was sentenced to life in prison for failing to stop
the attacks on protesters, though six top security officials
were acquitted in the June 2 ruling. Activists and the
Brotherhood saw the acquittals as opening the door for Mubarak’s
verdict to be overturned on appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  