-- Eike Batista Drops From World’s 20 Richest as OGX Plunges
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-06-27T22:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/eike-batista-drops-from-world-s-20-richest-as-ogx-plunges.html
Eike Batista  is farther from his
goal of overtaking  Carlos Slim  as the world’s richest man after
a plunge in the shares of his commodity empire wiped $2.4
billion from his fortune.  The Brazilian tycoon’s estimated net worth of $21.1 billion
places him 21st among the wealthiest individuals on the planet,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He fell seven
places on the ranking today after his  oil company , OGX Petroleo
& Gas Participacoes SA, cut its production targets by as much as
75 percent. The announcement sent OGX shares down 25 percent.  OGX is the largest of several interlinking natural-resource
startups that Batista says will make him the richest person in
the world by 2015. After telling Bloomberg News in March that he
“absolutely” maintains his vow to take the top spot, the 55-
year-old now faces a gap of $49.4 billion with Mexican investor
Slim, 72.  “His expectations are probably way too high,” said  Ed Kuczma , a New York-based investment analyst at Van Eck
Associates Corp., which oversees $31 billion in assets. “It’s a
very uncertain world right now, and people put a higher value on
certainty.”  OGX, which pumped its first barrel of crude in January,
said late yesterday that it’s aiming for production of 5,000
barrels a day at each of its first two wells at the Tubarao Azul
field in the Campos basin. The Rio de Janeiro-based company had
planned to extract as much as 20,000 barrels a day per well.  Enough Cash  In an e-mailed statement, EBX responded to questions on the
outlook for Batista’s empire by saying its companies have enough
cash to continue fulfilling their business plans.  Batista rose as high as eighth place on the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  in the final week of March, after he sold a
5.63 percent stake in his EBX Group Co. holding company to Abu
Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. for $2 billion. The deal valued
EBX -- which also includes closely held ventures such as gold
unit AUX -- at $35.5 billion.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York  and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  