-- Emerging Stocks Climb on China Speculation, Durable Goods
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-27T21:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/emerging-stocks-climb-most-in-week-on-china-policy-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in a week on speculation  China  will take further steps to
bolster economic growth and as U.S. durable goods order and
pending home sales beat economists’ estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.7 percent to 913.31
at the close of trading in  New York , its steepest gain since
June 19. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index posted the
longest winning streak in three weeks. OAO MRSK Holding, a
Russian electricity distribution company, soared in Moscow to
lead the advance in the  Micex Index. (INDEXCF)   OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA  slumped in Sao Paulo after the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  cut production targets.  China may introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure
stable economic growth, the China Securities Journal said today.
Orders for durable goods rose 1.1 percent in the U.S., a
Commerce Department report showed. The median forecast of 76
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an 0.5 percent
gain. Separate data showed more Americans than forecast signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes last month. European
leaders meet tomorrow to find a solution to the debt crisis.  “Any bit of positive noise processes into stronger
reactions in the market right now,” Simon Quijano-Evans, the
head of emerging-market research for Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa at ING Groep NV, said by phone from London today.
“There’s expectation that China will act on some more impulses,
that maybe we’ll see a better backdrop in the  euro zone  and the
U.S. not coming in as negative as expected -- it’s a mixture of
things giving some positive sentiment.”  Pre-Summit  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has slumped 12 percent this
quarter on concern Europe’s debt crisis is escalating. The gauge
trades at 10 times estimated earnings, compared with a 12
multiple for the MSCI World Index of developed nations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
rose 0.6 percent to $37.65.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 2.7 percent to 28.42.  The Micex Index added 1.7 percent in Moscow. OAO Mechel,
the country’s largest coking-coal producer, gained 1.6 percent,
rising for a second day. OAO MRSK surged 10 percent, the most
since August 2009.  OGX Petroleo  Brazil’s Bovespa declined 1.4 percent in Sao Paulo. OGX
Petroleo plunged 25 percent, the most on record. The shares fell
after the Brazilian company cut production targets by as much as
75 percent at its first oil project.  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the biggest Czech producer of
coking coal, gained 0.5 percent, snapping four days of losses,
as the price of coal rose.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 1.8 percent in  Turkey  as
 Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  rallied for a second day.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced the most
since June 18. China’s government will announce plans to set up
 exchange traded funds  in  Hong Kong  and the mainland, Xinhua
reported, citing a statement from the State Council.  China will also promote joint ventures among  stock
exchanges  in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hong Kong, the newspaper
said. Cooperation over port, airport and rail transportation in
the Pearl River Delta region will also receive support,
according to the report.  Philippines, Indonesia  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 1.2 percent.
The gauge is less than 1 percent short of its record close of
5,300.41 reached on May 3. Thailand’s SET Index jumped 1.3
percent and the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  added 1.4 percent.  The Kospi Index closed little changed after a report showed
confidence among South Korean manufacturers fell to the lowest
level in four months.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest automaker, fell
3.1 percent. Its affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  slipped 3.3 percent
to its lowest level in five weeks in Seoul trading on concern
protracted pay negotiations with the labor union will affect
production.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 387 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  