-- Lennon’s Love Ladder, Macy Gray: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/lennon-s-love-ladder-macy-gray-london-weekend.html
Macy Gray  and  Linton Kwesi Johnson 
are the opening acts in a weekend-long celebration of African
music and culture.  R&B star Gray performs songs from her new CD “Covered,”
while Johnson reprises dub poetry such as “Making History” in
the  Back2Black  festival, imported from  Rio de Janeiro .  Hosted by former Brazilian Culture Minister Gilberto Gil,
the jamboree also features  Roots Manuva  and  Hugh Masekela  on
Saturday and Amadou & Mariam on Sunday.  Old Billingsgate, EC3R 6DX. Information: +44-20-7638-8891
or  http://www.barbican.org.uk/music/event-detail.asp?ID=13328   Iberica, close to Billingsgate, is known for the quality of
its contemporary Spanish cuisine. It’s fine for a meal, or just
some tapas and a glass of wine. There’s also a delicatessen.
Information:  http://bit.ly/LMGKN6  or +44-20-7636-8650.  Also on Friday, Van Morrison brings his increasingly gruff
fusion of blues and folk to Hammersmith Apollo. He’s part of the
Blues Fest, which also features Nick Lowe and Southside Johnny.  Information:  http://www.bluesfest.co.uk , +44-844-844-0444.  Saturday  The step ladder that is said to have sparked  John Lennon ’s
love for Yoko Ono is on temporary display in Hyde Park.  It’s in the  Serpentine Gallery’s  well-curated show of Ono
works, past and present. On this evidence, the conceptual artist
was at her best some four decades ago. Her videos -- of a fly
exploring a nude woman, of dozens of naked bottoms -- look very
up-to-date. Framed texts recalling the men in her life,
including her abortion doctor, seem forebodings of Tracey Emin’s
subsequent oeuvre.  You can interact with the peacenik artist in a myriad ways:
smile on camera for an ongoing slide show, hang a wish on a
tree, play on an outdoor chessboard with all-white pegs (i.e. no
winners or losers). You can also tiptoe, in bare feet, through a
Perspex maze. Tread carefully or you’ll bang into the see-
through walls -- as I did, to the guard’s amusement.  “ Yoko Ono : To the Light” ends Sept. 9. Information:
 http://www.serpentinegallery.org . or +44-20-7402-6075.  Saturday Night  A drag queen gets jilted, changes partners, and hones his
parenting skills.  “Torch Song Trilogy,” the three-part 1981 play by Harvey
Fierstein, is getting a deft revival at the  Menier Chocolate
Factory . Talented David Bedella -- from “Jerry Springer: The
Opera” -- plays over-the-top Arnold: sequin-clad drag queen by
night, love-starved guy by day, with a bisexual boyfriend who
can’t quite step out of the closet.  Though “Torch Song Trilogy” sometimes feels dated,
director  Douglas Hodge  and designer Soutra Gilmour deploy some
bold stage gimmicks. Windows double as dressing-room mirrors, or
as peepholes into a gay-bar backroom. Part II is set in a giant
bed, with the four actors emerging -- in different combinations
-- from under a giant duvet.  Sara Kestelman is fabulous as the domineering mother.
Through Aug. 12 at the cozy Menier Chocolate Factory, Southwark
Street,  London  SE1 1RU:  http://www.menierchocolatefactory.com  or
+44-20-7378-1713.  The Menier Chocolate Factory is near  Borough Market , where
you can take your pick of good things to eat. One of the best
dining places is Wright Brothers, an unfussy establishment
serving some of the finest oysters and seafood in London.
Information:  http://bit.ly/MWAotF  or +44-20-7403-9554.  Sunday  Any interest in owning  Princess Diana ’s childhood sofa?  The settee was once at her family residence in Althorp and
is now on sale at  Masterpiece  London, the luxury art and
antiques fair.  The price is 550,000 pounds ($855,000) from  Apter-
Fredericks , specialists in 18th- and 19th-century antique
furniture.  The fair, which runs through July 4, is on the South
Grounds of the Royal Hospital Chelsea, London SW3 4SR.
Information:  http://www.masterpiecefair.com .  Since her death in 2009, choreographer  Pina Bausch  has
become even more of a global superstar, thanks to Wim Wenders’s
3-D documentary “Pina” released last year.  You can try for tickets to two of her city-specific shows
this weekend, part of the monthlong Bausch festival: “Palermo
Palermo” at Sadler’s Wells on Sunday, and “Agua” (inspired by
 Sao Paulo ) at the  Barbican Centre  on Friday.  Information:  http://www.sadlerswells.com/show/Pina-Bausch -
World-Cities-2012.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 