-- Entergy Reactor Less Harmful to Hudson Than Expected
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-06-27T21:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/entergy-reactor-less-harmful-to-hudson-than-expected-1-.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s  Indian Point 
nuclear-power plant near  New York  City poses less harm to the
 Hudson River  than an earlier study indicated, the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission said.  New data provided provided by New Orleans-based Entergy
shows that the plume of heated water discharged by Indian Point
into the river has a “small” impact and that the number of
fish caught in the plant’s water intake system had been over
estimated by a factor of 1,000, the atomic regulator said in a
draft report posted on the NRC website today.  Environmental groups oppose Entergy’s bid to renew the
plant’s license, which expires next year, citing the harmful
effects of radiation leaked by Indian Point into the Hudson and
the intake of river water to cool its 2,045-megawatt generators.  “It is a well-established fact that Indian Point’s intake
of 2.5 billion gallons of Hudson River a day kills over a
billion fish and other aquatic life forms every year,” Phillip
Musegaas, Hudson River program director for Riverkeeper, a
conservation group based in Ossining, New York, said in an e-
mail.  Commission staff changed some of the findings from a 2010
report into the environmental impact of the twin-reactor plant
located 24 miles (37 kilometers) north of  New York City , after
Entergy performed a new study showing the plant’s thermal plume
and “heat shock” to the lower Hudson would be small and in
keeping with New York state’s water standards.  Entergy hasn’t had a chance to review the NRC’s findings,
James Steets, a spokesman, said in an e-mail. The 2010 study
“effectively stated there would be no environmental impacts
precluding Indian Point license renewal,” Steets said.  The commission will accept comments on the supplemental
study through Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  