-- Tepco Plans Restart of World’s Biggest Nuclear Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-06-28T04:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/tepco-s-new-chief-sees-no-plan-b-to-revive-profitability.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , owner of
the crippled Fukushima reactors, is committed to restarting
another nuclear plant next year that is the world’s largest and
itself was damaged in a 2007 earthquake.  Bringing the Kashiwazaki Kariwa power station online, even
though it sets up the state-controlled utility for further
conflicts with a nuclear-weary public, is part of “Plan A,”
President Naomi Hirose, 59, said in an interview. The plan
refers to a 10-year business reconstruction that handed control
of the power company known as Tepco to Japan’s government.  “We have no choice right now but to do our best to carry
out Plan A,” Hirose said on June 18. “We don’t have a Plan
B.”  Tepco’s decision runs counter to polls showing the majority
of Japanese want less reliance on atomic power after meltdowns
at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactors last year. The radiation
release and cost to the public of as much as $138 billion
sparked anti-nuclear sentiment across the world.  Germany  decided
to shut all its plants,  Italy  scrapped a plan to build reactors,
and  China , with the largest atomic-building program, imposed a
temporary halt on approving projects while it reviewed safety.  In Japan, all 50 reactors, including the seven at
Kashiwazaki Kariwa, have been required to pass so-called stress
tests introduced to improve safety after the Fukushima disaster.
Only two near the western city of  Osaka  have won permission to
resume operations, leaving 48 offline.  “Tepco’s plan is only wishful thinking” because no more
reactors are likely to be approved this year, said Tomoko Murakami, a Tokyo-based nuclear analyst at the Institute of
Energy Economics, Japan. “Without the restart, there is not
much hope to revive the company.”  Price Increase  Restarting the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant and raising
power prices are the key planks of the plan that includes a 1
trillion yen ($12.6 billion) bailout. Delaying the restart or
power price increases by more than a year may force the
government to increase the bailout, Hirofumi Kawachi, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.  “We have to steadily carry out the first steps of the
business plan,” said Hirose, who was officially approved
yesterday as the utility’s new president by shareholders and the
board of directors.  Those first steps are unlikely to be as steady as Hirose
hopes for.  Hirohiko Izumida, governor of  Niigata prefecture , where the
Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant is located, has said the Fukushima
nuclear accident should be fully investigated before approving
the restart of the world’s biggest atomic station. Tepco said
restarting one of the reactors at Kashiwazaki Kariwa will save
it about 78 billion yen a year.  Public Objections  Seventy-one percent of respondents to a Mainichi newspaper
poll published on June 4 objected to a speedy restart of  Kansai
Electric  Power Co.’s reactors at Ohi. The restart was approved
on June 18. In a separate poll released June 5 by the Pew
Research Center, 70 percent of Japanese said the country should
reduce its reliance on atomic energy and 52 percent feared they
or their families may have been exposed to radiation.  “It is, and should be, possible for electricity utilities
not to rely on nuclear power in the long term, 30 or 40 years
later,” Kazuhiko Shimokobe, Tepco’s new chairman, told
reporters in Tokyo today. “But it’s difficult to think of Tepco
and other utilities without nuclear power in the time span of
five or 10 years while maintaining stable electricity supply.”  Abandoning Nuclear  Shareholders of  Japan ’s utilities including Tepco and
Kansai Electric rejected proposals to abandon or reduce their
dependence on nuclear power generation at annual general
meetings held across Japan yesterday. Nuclear power provided
about 30 percent of Japan’s electricity prior to the Fukushima
disaster.  The utility may be forced to scale down and delay power
rate increases due to criticism by a government panel assessing
Tepco’s request to raise tariffs by 10.28 percent from July 1,
the Nikkei newspaper reported on June 21.  To gain public support, the turnaround plan calls for
cutting costs by 3.65 trillion yen over 10 years. Tepco also
pledged to reduce fuel costs as Japan increasingly relies on
thermal power generation with reactors offline.  “As we want to buy fuels at a low price even more than our
customers do, every measure to lower our fuel costs should be
taken. Shale gas is one possibility,” Hirose said. “But shale
gas won’t solve everything.”  Fundraising Challenge  Efforts to join Japanese companies in buying natural gas
assets overseas, including shale gas in the U.S. and  Canada , may
be hindered by a lack of funds, Hirose said. Tepco’s bailout
included a 1 trillion yen loan.  “One of our strong points used to be fundraising
capacity,” Hirose said. “It will be critically challenging.”
One option may be to acquire upstream assets with other Japanese
companies and seek state financing, he said.  Tepco, state-owned Japan Oil, Gas & Metals National Corp.
and their partners on June 18 agreed to jointly buy 10 percent
of  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Wheatstone field licenses and 8 percent in
the processing facilities near Onslow in Western Australia
state. In a preliminary agreement signed in December 2009, Tepco
said it would acquire 15 percent of the licenses and 11.25
percent of the plants.  Buying upstream assets “is certainly an effective option.
I have no doubt that it is one of the solutions” to lower fuel
costs, Hirose said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  