-- Tepco Shareholders Approve Government Bailout, Directors
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-06-27T08:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/tepco-shareholders-approve-government-bailout-directors-2-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  won
approval from shareholders to give the government control of the
company, once the world’s biggest private electricity utility.  Shareholders of the company known as Tepco approved
proposals to allow the government to get more than 50 percent of
 voting rights  in return for 1 trillion yen ($12.6 billion) in
capital infusion. The appointment of 11 directors, including
turnaround lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe, who will be the next
chairman, was also approved.  The March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami that caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station forced the utility to seek a government bailout
to help meet costs for compensation and damages. Tepco, which
had a 782 billion yen loss last fiscal year, expects to return
to profit in two years if the government approves an increase in
electricity rates and the restart of the Kashiwazaki Kariwa
nuclear station.  “The Japanese people have lost a lot of their trust in
Tepco,” Naoki Inose, vice governor of the  Tokyo  Metropolitan
Government, which is the utility’s largest shareholder, said
today at the meeting. “It’s not easy to restore trust once
lost. Tepco must work on reforming itself.”  Lower Costs  The Tokyo city government demanded in its proposals that
Tepco increase its transparency by allowing a third party to
examine the utility’s costs. Its other proposals called for
Tepco to lower its costs and seek cooperation with other
companies to replace the utility’s aging thermal power plants.  A group of 402 Tepco shareholders asked the utility to end
its use of atomic power and to sell its transmission and
distribution assets to accelerate compensation payments to those
affected by the catastrophe.  All of the proposals by the Tokyo government and individual
shareholders were rejected at the general meeting today.  Tepco said 4,471 shareholders attended the meeting, which
lasted for 5 hours and 31 minutes, today at the Yoyogi National
Gymnasium in Tokyo. There were 9,309 attendees at the utility’s
meeting last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in 東京 at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  