-- Merkel’s Government Wins Deal on Solar Subsidies, Carbon Capture
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-27T22:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/merkel-s-government-wins-deal-on-solar-subsidies-carbon-capture.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government won agreement on cuts to solar-power subsidies and
plans to store  greenhouse gases  underground, breaking a deadlock
that threatened to hold up the country’s energy transition.  Under the deal reached with  Germany ’s 16 states in a panel
of arbitration, the government will maintain a solar “growth
corridor” of 2,500-3,500 megawatts a year, Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier told reporters in Berlin late yesterday. There
will be a cap on subsidies at 52 gigawatts, at which point a new
formula will be found, he said.  A new category will subsidize mid-size roof systems of 10-
40 kilowatts at 18.5 euro cents ($0.23) per kilowatt/hour,
higher than planned, the upper house of parliament, where the
states are represented, said in a separate statement after the
panel met. Otherwise, new installations will be subject to
subsidy cuts from April 1 as envisaged, it said.  “We’ve confirmed the expansion of solar energy, while
taking care that excessive growth is avoided,” Altmaier said.
Growth in installations “will be kept at a calculable level.”  The breakthrough will help spur Merkel’s plans to speed the
transition to renewable sources of energy driving  Europe ’s
biggest economy while closing Germany’s nine remaining nuclear
stations by 2022. The solar accord will probably be addressed by
both house of parliament this week, the Bundesrat said.  ‘Here to Stay’  The solar compromise involves the annual growth corridor
being “maintained at 2.5-3.5 gigawatts and not lowered and
capped as previously discussed,” Jefferies clean energy analyst
 Jesse Pichel  said yesterday in a note released before the
announcement. “While no cap is a positive, large rate cuts are
here to stay and monthly cuts haven’t been ruled out.”  The two sides also reached a deal on government plans to
create a legal framework for  carbon capture  and storage, known
as CCS, a technology that is intended to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions from coal and gas stations. That was blocked in the
Bundesrat in September last year after utilities and energy
analysts said the legislation as proposed would fail to promote
the technology.  Merkel’s government is pushing to reduce the pace of annual
installations in the world’s largest photovoltaic market after
7.5 gigawatts were built last year, compared to a target of 2.5-
3.5 gigawatts. A plan to lower subsidies by as much as 29
percent from April 1 was blocked in the upper house in May, and
an attempt at mediation failed last month.  State leaders had opposed Merkel’s planned subsidy cuts
because of concerns the legislation would cost jobs by hurting
domestic manufacturers including  Solarworld AG (SWV)  that are already
suffering from Chinese competition. Pressure to reach a deal
came as installations of panels through April more than tripled.  Altmaier, a Merkel ally, was appointed to the post on May
22 vowing to break the impasse over the level of subsidy cuts by
parliament’s summer recess on July 6, saying that solar-industry
jobs “can’t be saved by subsidies alone.”  -- With assistance from Stefan Nicola and Naomi Kresge in Berlin
and Marc Roca in  London  and Will Wade in  New York . Editors: Alan Crawford, James Hertling  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  