-- Merkel Rebuffs Rajoy Plea, Shuts Door to Euro Area Bonds
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-27T18:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/merkel-rebuffs-rajoy-plea-shuts-door-to-euro-area-bonds.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut
the door to joint euro-area bonds as a means of lowering Spain’s
borrowing costs, saying they are the “wrong way” to achieve
the greater European integration needed to stem the debt crisis.  Speaking three hours after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  made a plea for help from tomorrow’s European summit,
Merkel said that euro bonds, euro bills and debt redemption
funds are unconstitutional in Germany and economically “wrong
and counterproductive.”  “I fear that at the summit there will be much too much
talk about mutual liability and far too little about improved
oversight and structural measures,” Merkel told lower-house
lawmakers in Berlin today. “Oversight and liability have to go
hand in hand. There can only be joint liability when adequate
oversight is ensured.”  Merkel is under growing pressure from her European and
global counterparts to soften her opposition to debt sharing in
the euro area and do more to cut borrowing costs for  Spain  and
 Italy . Rajoy, outlining his goals for the two-day European Union
summit beginning in Brussels tomorrow, said that Spain can’t go
on financing itself at current borrowing rates for long.  “The most important thing today is being able to finance
ourselves in the markets, that’s the main issue,” Rajoy said in
Parliament in  Madrid . “And on that point Spain, Italy and other
countries are going to push for reasonable decisions to be
made,” using the “available instruments.”  Spanish Bonds  Spanish 10-year bond yields were little changed at 6.86
percent after jumping 24 basis points yesterday, nudging the 7
percent level that forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to call
for sovereign bailouts. Equivalent German bonds yielded about
1.54 percent.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , speaking at a
separate event in Berlin, said his country’s borrowing costs are
“unnaturally” low and shouldn’t continue. “It’s more an
expression of anxiety than stability” in financial markets, he
told reporters.  EU leaders meeting in Brussels are due to discuss a plan
for closer European integration spearheaded by EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  that centers on common banking supervision and
deposit insurance, along with a “criteria-based and phased”
move toward joint debt issuance. The blueprint also suggests
that the EU could impose upper limits on annual budgets and debt
levels of nations that use the euro.  Report ‘Presumption’  While Merkel said that she welcomed the Van Rompuy
proposals and agreed with his four building blocks toward
integration, she rebuffed any notion Germany shoulder the cost.  “I decisively reject the presumption in this report that
the principle of collectivization takes priority,” she said.
Rather, individual countries must “keep to agreed rules” and
raise their competitiveness through structural reforms, using
the best in  Europe  as the standard “rather than mediocrity.”  “The sovereign debt crisis shows us daily that
deficiencies in one euro-zone country can cause difficulties in
the entire euro zone,” Merkel told lawmakers. “It also shows
us that national answers aren’t enough to secure the euro area’s
stability.”  Merkel is increasingly isolated as Rajoy, French President
 Francois Hollande  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  unite
to push for quicker action to ease the crisis that emerged in
Greece in late 2009. The three leaders back the creation of euro
bonds and are pushing for measures to spur growth.  Paris Meeting  Merkel is meeting in Paris today with Hollande, and will
travel to  Rome  to meet with Monti on July 4.  “The situation is serious and we have an obligation to
build a strong and stable Europe for the future,” Merkel said
as she arrived for a dinner with Hollande. “We need more
Europe, a Europe that functions, a Europe where members help
each other.”  Hollande said the euro zone “must go as far on integration
as necessary and as far on solidarity as possible.”  Both said they expected a package of growth measures, many
of which such as greater use of structural funds and lending for
infrastructure projects were first suggested last year, to be
approved tomorrow.  “The key negotiators, including the German chancellor, do
not really understand the timeframe we’re working under,”  Niall Ferguson , a professor of economic history at  Harvard University ,
said at a conference in  London . “The timeframe for financial
crises is days. The timeframe for structural reforms is years.”  Spain Request  Spain formally requested a European bailout for its banks
on June 25 and discussions continue as to what conditions
lenders will have to meet and whether the loan of as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) would take precedence over other
debts in the event of default.  Rajoy said he will fight so that rescue loans “aren’t
superior to the rights of other creditors of public debt.”
Germany,  Finland  and the Netherlands want official loans to
Spain to be repaid first in the event of default, undermining
the interests of existing bondholders, two European officials
said this week.  Rajoy also backs a so-called banking union, which he says
includes joint deposit-guarantee funds and would allow Europe’s
rescue funds to recapitalize banks directly without going via
the government. German officials have rejected those proposals.  “It all hinges on her,” said Ferguson of Merkel. “She
has to realize the cost of disintegration to  Germany  would be
mind-blowing.” Whatever happens, “Germany pays,” he said.
“Do they pay through massive defaults or fiscal transfers?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  