-- Tesco to Triple U.K. Grocery Collection Points Amid Online Boom
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-27T13:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/tesco-to-triple-u-k-grocery-collection-points-amid-online-boom.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the biggest U.K. grocer,
plans to triple the number of drive-through grocery collection
points this year to win shoppers who prefer the convenience of
picking up online orders to waiting at home for a delivery.  The retailer is “fast accelerating” its Click & Collect
service and will have 150 of the drive-through pods in parking
lots by the end of the year, Ken Towle, Tesco’s director of
Internet retailing, said in an interview. The number of
collection points for non-food goods will also increase, rising
to 1,000 by the end of the summer from 774 in April, he said.  “We’ve got something customers really like with Click &
Collect,” Towle said. “It’s super-easy for customers, they
just drive up, open their boot, put it in and away they go,” he
said, using the British word for car trunk.  Tesco  has vowed to spend 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
bolstering its online business, adding staff, and refreshing its
stores and products to arrest declines in its domestic market.
Online sales are the fastest-growing U.K. grocery channel, with
sales expected to reach 9.9 billion pounds by 2015, 68 percent
more than now, the  Institute of Grocery Distribution  says.  Grocery collection points have been more difficult to roll
out because orders are typically for 60 to 75 items that need
different temperature zones to account for frozen and chilled
items, Towle said. Non-food collection points are for one or two
smaller items such as a DVD or an item from the F&F clothing
line, he said.  The service costs 2 pounds for a 2-hour time slot and is
available seven days a week.  Central Europe  Tesco’s U.K. sales declined for a fourth straight quarter
in the most recent period as Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  struggled to win back shoppers. Online sales rose 10
percent in the U.K. last year and 40 percent internationally.  The retailer plans to open web sites and online grocery
delivery in the  Czech Republic  and  Poland  this year, where its
Click & Collect service will also be trialed, Towle said.  “It’s something customers will enjoy,” the executive
said. “Many of the markets that we’re going to be introducing
this into are very much less mature than Tesco, so in many
markets we will be pioneering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  