-- Yankees Lose Pettitte in Victory; Mets Score Season-High 17 Runs
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mets-score-season-high-17-runs-in-victory-over-cubs-at-wrigley.html
The New York Yankees lost pitcher
 Andy Pettitte  to a broken ankle during a 5-4 win over the
Cleveland Indians, while the New York Mets scored a season-high
17 runs against the  Chicago Cubs .  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  called yesterday “a bad day
for left-handers” after Pettitte, 40, was ruled out for at
least six weeks and the team’s No. 1 starter, CC Sabathia, was
placed on the disabled list with a strained groin.  “Until the All-Star break, there’s going to be four starts
where guys have to fill in,” Girardi said. “If we have to
score more runs, we’ll score more runs.”  Pettitte was injured in the fifth inning when a ball hit by
Casey Kotchman struck his ankle. He landed gingerly while making
the next pitch before limping off the field.  “That first pitch I threw, I pushed off and there was a
lot of pain shooting straight down through my foot,” Pettitte
said. “I knew I wasn’t going to be able to throw another
pitch.”  Adam Warren will start in place of Sabathia on June 29 in a
home game against the  Chicago White Sox , while  Freddy Garcia 
will begin for the Yankees on July 2 at the Tampa Bay Rays.  New York relievers Cody Eppley, Clay Rapada, Garcia,  David Robertson  and  Rafael Soriano  combined to allow two runs over the
final four innings following Pettitte’s departure last night.
Soriano loaded the bases in the ninth inning and walked in a run
before getting a fly out to secure his 17th save of the season.  Robinson Cano had three hits, including a go-ahead two-run
home run in the sixth inning, as the Yankees won their fifth
straight game.  Eric Chavez  had two hits and drove in three runs
at Yankee Stadium.  New York is 46-28, in first place in the American League
East division.  17 Runs  At Wrigley Field, Daniel Murphy hit his first two home runs
of the season in the fourth and fifth innings as the Mets
recorded a 17-1 victory against the Chicago Cubs.  David Wright  added five runs batted in and Ike Davis and
 Scott Hairston  also hit home runs in the victory, which ended a
four-game losing streak. Hairston’s homer in the sixth was a
grand slam.  Chicago starting pitcher Jeff Samardzija allowed nine runs
in 4 1/3 innings before being replaced by Casey Coleman, who
allowed seven runs over the next 1 2/3 innings. New York batted
around in both the fifth and sixth innings.  The Mets have scored at least 17 runs in a game 11 times in
their history, five times against the Cubs. The team’s largest
margin of victory was 18 runs in a 19-1 victory against Chicago
in 1964.  Mets starting pitcher Jonathon Niese allowed eight hits and
one run in seven innings for his sixth victory of the year.
Ramon Ramirez pitched two scoreless innings to end the game.  The Mets, who lost the first two games of the series, are
40-36. The team’s previous season high for runs scored came in
an 11-2 victory against the Tampa Bay Rays earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  