-- Letting Firefighters Raze House Isn’t Charity, Court Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-27T21:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/letting-firefighters-raze-house-isn-t-charity-court-says.html
A Virginia couple who donated their
house to local firefighters for a training exercise can’t deduct
the property’s value from their federal income taxes, a divided
U.S. Tax Court ruled today.  Upen and Avanti Patel gave a house they bought and planned
to demolish to the Fairfax County Fire and Rescue Department.
The firefighters destroyed it, and the Patels deducted $92,865
from their 2006 taxes.  The  Internal Revenue Service  challenged the deduction and
the Tax Court sided with the government, deciding that the
Patels hadn’t donated their full interest in the property.  “The fire department does not acquire the right to eject
the landowner from the building and cannot force the landowner
to allow the destruction of the building should he change his
mind before the house has been destroyed,” Judge Howard Dawson
wrote. “The fire department has acquired a mere revocable
license that does not vest any property interest in the fire
department.”  Seven other judges agreed with Dawson’s opinion and one
other concurred in the result. Eight judges dissented.  “The writing’s on the wall that these are not favored,”
said Robert Wood, a tax lawyer at Wood LLP in  San Francisco .  Court Split  Paul Caron, a law professor at the University of
Cincinnati, said in an e-mail that the split on the Tax Court
indicates that the issue “still burns brightly.”  Caron added that the details of the decision, which turned
on aspects of Virginia property law, may make it difficult to
predict how courts will consider similar cases in other states.  In the dissent, Judge Joseph Gale argued that the Patels’
interests in the house were destroyed in the fire.  “All substantial property interests of an owner in his
structure are eliminated when the structure is demolished,” he
wrote.  Instead, he wrote, the value of the contribution should be
determined by looking at the value of the property compared to
the benefit the Patels received because they didn’t pay for
demolition.  The Tax Court in  Washington  hears disputes from taxpayers
about IRS findings.  The case is Upen G. Patel and Avanti D. Patel v.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 11694-09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  