-- Leung Faces Record Hong Kong Wealth Gap as City’s New Leader
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-28T09:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/leung-faces-record-hong-kong-wealth-gap-as-city-s-new-leader.html
Leung Chun-ying, the property
surveyor who was a surprise choice to be  Hong Kong ’s new leader,
takes office July 1 facing immediate demands to narrow a record
wealth gap and come up with plans for universal suffrage.  Leung, 57, has pledged to raise the income of the poorest
and boost Hong Kong’s housing supply. City officials said this
month that its wealth gap, the biggest in  Asia , widened to the
worst since records started being kept in 1971.  Public discontent in Hong Kong may draw as many as 100,000
protesters at the start of Leung’s term to push the government
to address rising living costs and hold  China  to its promise to
allow direct leadership elections in Hong Kong by 2017. Leung
will need to address that pressure from below while meeting
China’s demand for stability as it goes through its own once-a-
decade leadership transition later this year.  “He’s going to make a number of changes in livelihood
issues,” said  Martin Lee , the founding chairman of Hong Kong’s
 Democratic Party , which is questioning the legitimacy of Leung’s
election victory. “He will do it right away because he wants to
endear himself to the Hong Kong people. These are the things
that would make Hong Kong people less afraid of Communist
rule.”  The Democratic Party’s challenge to Leung poses his first
real crisis. Party Chairman Albert Ho said in an interview
yesterday that Leung misled the public about illegal structures
built at his home, and is seeking to overturn the vote.  Leung Disappointed  Leung, who founded his own property assessing company, said
on June 25 he was “disappointed in himself” over the
structures, which include a metal gate and a basement, and
didn’t know they were illegal.  The latest allegations may make it more difficult for Leung
to restore the public’s trust in the city’s leadership after his
predecessor,  Donald Tsang , acknowledged taking trips on yachts
and planes owned by billionaire businessmen. He must also win
over tycoons including  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man and
founder of  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , who had supported a rival
for the chief executive position.  “He certainly has fences to mend on the business side, and
he has to appeal to the public,” said  Michael DeGolyer , a
professor of political science at the Hong Kong Baptist
University. “We may see a stronger attempt to get business and
the public on the same side in terms of, for example, better
integrating our economy with the rest of China.”  Hu’s Visit  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  will visit Hong Kong for the
swearing-in ceremony, and will announce measures boosting the
city’s economy. Hong Kong may cut its 1 percent-to-3 percent
 growth forecast  for the year should the euro-zone economy
deteriorate, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said June 4.  China will strengthen ties with Hong Kong by promoting tie-
ups between the two financial markets, the Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. today said
it agreed to a joint venture with the Shanghai and Shenzhen
bourses to develop index-linked and equity derivative products.  The visit will be a stark contrast to Hu’s trip in 2007 to
preside over Tsang’s swearing in, when the city was on the way
to 6.4 percent economic growth and the benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
would rise 39 percent for the year. The index is up 4 percent so
far in 2012.  “In the next five years, we’ll make prudent adjustments,
and seek changes while maintaining stability,” Leung said today
at a press conference. “We will safeguard the core values that
we’ve treasured for years, resolve deep-seated conflicts,
improve the livelihood of our people, and work towards the
harmony and stability of our society.”  Wooing Business  Since winning the election in March, Leung has sought to
woo the business community, said  James Tien , the chairman of the
 Liberal Party , which supported former Chief Secretary  Henry Tang 
for the top job.  “He said his aim is not to bring down the rich, but to
help the poor,” said Tien. “As a supporter of Henry Tang, even
I feel he’s been proactively tackling the issues that matter.
Everyone seems to think that his actions so far have been very
down to earth.”  Leung retained John Tsang as financial secretary, and
appointed Carrie Lam as chief secretary, the second-most
important job in the city, the government said today. Tsang has
been in his position since 2007, and Lam is now in charge of
land policy. Anthony Cheung, a government adviser who chairs a
committee on subsidized homes, will take over from Lam.  Leung has set up a poverty task force and pledged in a  blog
post  in May to solve the housing problem through better planning
and more supply. “Inaction and procrastination will only make
people suffer,” he wrote.  Surveying Company  “He really understands the problems faced by ordinary
people in Hong Kong,” said  Barry Cheung , the chairman of the
Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange who ran Leung’s election campaign.
“His heart is in the right place.”  Leung, a graduate of the Hong Kong Polytechnic, founded his
own surveying company in 1993. He became Asia chairman and a
director for London-based DTZ Holdings Ltd. in 2006 following a
merger between the two companies. He resigned last year.  While Leung was elected by a 1,193-member panel comprised
of billionaires, lawmakers and professionals, he campaigned on a
promise to deliver change for regular people. During a debate,
he questioned why the poor were reduced to fighting over pieces
of cardboard scrap to sell, striking a chord with workers
including Yuen Mei-wan, 56, a night security guard.  “It’s hard to describe the scenes of people looking
through trash unless you’re here to see for yourself,” Yuen
said. “There are a lot more of them now. I have very high
expectations for Leung. I just want a change.”  Average Income  Hong Kong’s  Gini coefficient , which measures  income
inequality , has gained from 0.43 in 1971 to 0.537 in 2011,
according to government statistics. A reading of zero means
income equality and one complete inequality.  The average gross household income of the poorest 10
percent of Hong Kong’s population fell to HK$2,170 ($280) in
2011 from HK$2,590 in 2001, according to a June 18 report from
the Census and Statistics Department. The comparable income for
the richest 10 percent advanced to HK$137,480 a month from
HK$122,740.  Property prices have advanced more than 80 percent since
the start of 2009, according to data compiled by Centaline
Property Agency, making Hong Kong the world’s most expensive
place to own a home.  About 100,000 people are expected to turn out for the July
1 protests, according to James Sung, a political scientist at
the  City University  of Hong Kong.  ‘Tricky Situation’  “C.Y. is facing a tricky situation right now,” said
Bernard Chan, president of Hong Kong-based insurance provider
Asia Financial Holdings Ltd., who previously served as a
government adviser with Leung. “On one hand, you have people
who complain they can’t buy anything, while the ones who own
properties won’t want prices to go down.”  Leung also faces lawmakers asking him on his plans to help
Hong Kong achieve universal suffrage in 2017, which China has
promised.  For Hong Kong’s working class, Leung’s economic policies
matter most, said Cheng Ji-jun, a housekeeper in a hotel whose
rent takes up more than half his monthly income.  “My salary is low, the burden on my family is heavy,”
said Cheng, who doesn’t plan to join the July 1 protests because
he’ll be working at the time. “When you need to do so much to
maintain your family finances, you don’t have time to think
about other things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  