-- Euro Remains Lower Before Italy’s Debt Sales
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-06-28T01:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/euro-remains-lower-before-italy-s-debt-sales-confidence-report.html
The euro was set for the biggest
quarterly drop versus the yen since September amid concern the
region’s debt crisis is spreading to bigger economies.  The 17-nation currency remained lower against the dollar
following a three-day decline before an Italian debt auction
today and data forecast to show economic confidence in the euro
bloc deteriorated. At a summit starting in Brussels today,
European Union leaders will convene for the first time since
pro-bailout parties won at Greek parliamentary elections on June
17. The dollar slid versus most major counterparts as gains in
stocks supported demand for higher-yielding assets.  “People are looking for further weakness in the euro,”
said Alex Sinton, director for institutional foreign exchange in
Auckland at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “Growth
there is waning.”  The euro slid 0.1 percent to 99.29 yen as of 10:02 a.m. in
Tokyo from the close in  New York  yesterday. It rallied 0.2
percent to $1.2491 after losing 0.8 percent over the past three
days. The dollar slid 0.3 percent to 79.50 yen.  Since the end of March,  Europe ’s shared currency has fallen
10 percent versus the yen and 6.4 percent against the dollar. As
the first half of the year nears its close, the dollar is up 3.4
percent in 2012 against the yen.  Italy is scheduled to sell 2.5 billion euros ($3.1 billion)
of five-year notes and 3 billion euros of 10-year debt today,
following two auctions this week that saw borrowing costs
increase. The 185-day bills sold yesterday got a  rate  of 2.957
percent, while the zero-coupon, two-year notes offered on June
26  yielded  4.712 percent. Both were the highest this year.  The nation’s  10-year yields  climbed to a five-month high of
6.34 percent on June 14, nearing the 7 percent level that
spurred  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  European Confidence  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area probably fell to 89.6 this month, the lowest since October
2009 and down from 90.6 in May, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The European
Commission will release the figure today.  EU leaders meeting today and tomorrow are due to discuss a
plan seen playing out over more than a decade for closer
European integration. The blueprint, written by EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , centers on common banking supervision and
deposit insurance, along with a “criteria-based and phased”
move toward joint debt issuance.  The blueprint also suggests the EU could impose upper
limits on budgets and debt levels of nations that use the euro.  “Until it begins, we don’t know what will come out of the
summit,” said Kazuo Shirai, a trader at Union Bank NA in  Los
Angeles . “We can’t rule out the possibility that something
substantial will emerge.”  The dollar slid against 15 of its 16 major counterparts as
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.9 percent, rising a second
day. The Australian dollar jumped 0.3 percent to $1.0114.  “The markets are leaning toward risk-on as you see stocks
trading higher,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in  Tokyo  at
IG Markets Securities Ltd. “That’s leading to dollar weakness
across the board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 