-- European Leaders Seek to Overcome Divisions at Summit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-28T10:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/european-leaders-seek-to-overcome-divisions-at-summit.html
Europe ’s leaders today cap their
latest effort to check the financial crisis that claimed Cyprus
this week as its fifth victim.  Euro-area finance ministers set the stage for today’s
gathering in Brussels of the European Union’s 27 chiefs,
approving Cyprus’s bailout and detailing how they would aid
Spanish banks. Consensus breaks down on safeguarding governments
in  Spain  and  Italy , with German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
rejecting calls to do more to cut their borrowing costs.  “People have been imagining too many moments of truth over
the past few years, and Europe has been able to continue kicking
the can,” said Sebastian Paris-Horvitz, chief market strategist
at HSBC Private Bank Suisse in Paris. “The issue today is that
indeed the problem has become much bigger. We are not talking
about tiny  Greece  but big Spain and even bigger Italy.”  Merkel is increasingly isolated as French President
 Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and
Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  unite to push for quicker action
to ease the crisis that emerged in Greece in late 2009. The
three leaders back the creation of euro bonds and are pushing
for measures to spur growth. Merkel met Hollande last night in
Paris and will travel to  Rome  to meet Monti on July 4.  Crisis Timeframe  “The key negotiators, including the German chancellor, do
not really understand the timeframe we’re working under,”  Niall Ferguson , a professor of economic history at  Harvard University ,
said at a conference yesterday in  London . “The timeframe for
financial crises is days. The timeframe for structural reforms
is years.”  Stocks and the euro dropped before the summit. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index retreated 1 percent to 243.5 as of noon in
Brussels. The euro fell 0.35 percent to $1.2425.  Italy today paid a yield of 6.19 percent in an auction of
10-year debt, the most since December. The Treasury also sold a
five-year bond to yield 5.84 percent, compared with 5.66 percent
last month.  The EU leaders are due to discuss a plan seen playing out
over more than a decade for closer European integration. The
blueprint, written by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , centers on
common banking supervision and deposit insurance, along with a
“criteria-based and phased” move toward joint debt issuance.
The blueprint also suggests that the EU could impose upper
limits on annual budgets and debt levels of nations that use the
euro.  Merkel’s Doubts  Merkel, also the focus of pressure at the Group of 20
nations summit 10 days ago, yesterday shut the door to joint
euro-area bonds as a means of lowering Spain and Italy’s
borrowing costs, saying they are the “wrong way” to achieve
the greater European integration needed to stem the debt crisis.  Speaking three hours after Rajoy made a plea for help for
Spain at the summit, Merkel said that euro bonds, euro bills and
debt redemption funds are unconstitutional in  Germany  and
economically “wrong and counterproductive.”  “I fear that at the summit there will be much too much
talk about mutual liability and far too little about improved
oversight and structural measures,” Merkel told lower-house
lawmakers in Berlin yesterday. “Oversight and liability have to
go hand in hand. There can only be joint liability when adequate
oversight is ensured.”  ‘New Structures’  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said “new structures”
are needed in the euro area to combat the sovereign-debt crisis.  “We have to be open minded when looking at the future of
the euro area and the future of the EU but it doesn’t mean that
we should mutualize liabilities,” Katainen told reporters today
in Brussels, adding “We don’t like euro bonds.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to 6.97 percent, nudging
the 7 percent level that forced Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to
call for sovereign bailouts. Equivalent German bonds yield about
1.5 percent.  A German government official shrugged off those rising
borrowing costs, telling reporters in Berlin today that bond
yields go up and down. Italy and Spain have financed much of
their needs for the year so there is no need for excessive
panic, the official said on condition of anonymity because the
summit negotiations will be private.  ‘Not Enough’  “It is not enough that we paint the future differently but
we need to make the decisions that we need right now,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in
Brussels late yesterday.  Merkel doesn’t plan to extend her stay at the summit
through this weekend, the German official said. Merkel is due to
return to Berlin tomorrow and doesn’t expect to change her
plans, the official said.  Cyprus, which may need as much as 10 billion euros due to
the damage to its banking system from losses on Greek bonds,
won’t withdraw its bailout request, a possibility that had been
reported in local media, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said.  While pursuing EU aid, Cypriot officials have investigated
the prospect of a loan from Russia or  China . Shiarly said this
search will continue.  While Merkel said that she welcomed the Van Rompuy
proposals and agreed with his four building blocks toward
integration, she rebuffed any notion Germany shoulder the cost.  ‘Decisively Reject’  “I decisively reject the presumption in this report that
the principle of collectivization takes priority,” she said.
Rather, individual countries must “keep to agreed rules” and
raise their competitiveness through structural reforms, using
the best in Europe as the standard “rather than mediocrity.”  Spain formally requested a European bailout for its banks
on June 25, gaining a credit line of as much as 100 billion
euros ($125 billion). The finance ministers yesterday estimated
the need at as much as 62 billion euros, which could be provided
by the temporary bailout fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, until the permanent European Stability Mechanism is up
and running. The bailout program would then be transferred to
the ESM.  Whether the aid would take precedence over other debts in
the event of default may have to be settled by the government
chiefs as finance ministers from Germany,  Finland  and the
Netherlands resisted pressure to drop that condition.  Juncker, who chairs the group of the 17 euro finance
chiefs, signaled a possible agreement. “I expect that we can
calm markets on this point in the coming days,” he said.  Rajoy said he will fight so that rescue loans “aren’t
superior to the rights of other creditors of public debt.”  The Spaniard also backs a so-called banking union, which he
says includes joint deposit-guarantee funds and would allow
Europe’s rescue funds to recapitalize banks directly without
going via the government. German officials have rejected those
proposals.  “It all hinges on her,” said Ferguson of Merkel. “She
has to realize the cost of disintegration to Germany would be
mindblowing.” Whatever happens, “Germany pays,” he said. “Do
they pay through massive defaults or fiscal transfers?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  