-- European Stocks Rise on China Stimulus Optimism, US Data
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-06-27T15:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/european-stock-futures-rise-on-china-stimulus-speculation.html
European stocks  rose the most in a
week after reports on U.S durable-goods orders and pending home
sales beat estimates and speculation mounted that  China  will
introduce additional economic stimulus.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Barclays Plc followed bank
shares higher.  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  climbed 3.1 percent
after announcing a 200 million-euro ($250 million) share
buyback.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  fell after target  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) ’s second-largest shareholder asked for a higher bid.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 1.4 percent to 245.87 at
the close in  London , snapping four days of losses. The gauge has
climbed 5.1 percent from its 2012 low on June 4 as  Greece  formed
a coalition government after its second election. The volume of
shares traded on the measure was 17 percent below the average of
the last 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Today’s move all boils down to the news related to the
world’s two largest economies” said  Keith Bowman , an equity
analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London.
“Positive economic data from the U.S. and rumors of further
stimulus from Chinese authorities is enough to lift the markets
out of the doldrums that we have seen in recent days.”  Stocks climbed after a U.S report showed orders for durable
goods climbed more than forecast in May, easing concern that
U.S. manufacturing is faltering. Separate data showed more
Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy previously owned
homes last month.  Chinese Stimulus  In China, a commentary in the China Securities Journal said
the country may introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure
stable growth in the world’s second-largest economy. The
policies may include stabilizing foreign trade, expanding
infrastructure investment and reducing tax.  The newspaper today reported that a reverse repurchase
operation yesterday by the People’s Bank of China has led to
speculation that the central bank will cut the reserve
requirement ratio for the third time this year.  National benchmark indexes advanced in all 18 western
European markets before the European Union summit beginning
tomorrow in Brussels. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 1.3 percent,
France’s CAC 40 rose 1.4 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index gained
1.3 percent.  Crisis Response  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces demands from other
euro-area nations for more drastic measures to fight the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis, as EU leaders prepare for the
two-day summit. One such proposal calls for collective debt
sales through euro bonds.  “There’s a lot riding on the outcome of the EU summit, and
investors sense there’s a more determined spirit to push through
tangible measures,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at
Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in London.  A gauge of European bank shares rose 2.5 percent for the
largest contribution to the  Stoxx 600’s advance . Lloyds gained
3.5 percent to 31.16 pence after the Financial Times reported
the lender may sell 630 branches to Co-Operative Group Ltd. as
early as today.  Barclays Plc added 1.9 percent to 196.05 pence. The lender
has agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($452 million) in penalties
to settle U.S. and U.K. investigations into whether it sought to
rig the London and euro interbank offered rates. Chief Executive
Officer  Bob Diamond  and other executives will forgo their annual
bonuses this year, the bank said.  Portugal Telecom advanced 3.1 percent to 3.42 euros after
the country’s biggest telecommunications company announced a 200
million-euro plan to buy back shares for the fiscal years 2012
to 2014. The company said it will pay an annual cash dividend of
32.5 euro cents a share for those years.  K+S, Colruyt  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s biggest potash producer, jumped 6.9
percent to 34.92 euros after analysts raised their ratings on
the stock. Bank of America Corp. upgraded the stock to buy from
underperform, while BHF-Bank raised its recommendation to
overweight from market weight.  Colruyt NV surged 12 percent to 33.61 euros, the biggest
jump since March 2000, as  Belgium ’s biggest discount food
retailer late yesterday reported a surprise increase in full-
year profit to 2.18 euros a share. That beat analysts’ estimate
of 2.09 euros per share.  Glencore fell 1.5 percent to 298.3 pence, the lowest since
it sold its shares to the public in May 2011, after Qatar
Holding LLC demanded Glencore’s 6.9 billion-pound bid for
Xstrata be increased by 16 percent. Qatar, which owns a 10.36
percent stake in the target company, wants the bid raised to
3.25 Glencore shares for each of Xstrata’s, according to a
statement yesterday.  Xstrata gained 1.4 percent to 796.6 pence, after earlier
dropping as much as 2.3 percent. The company said it anticipates
the merger to be completed by early October.  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  tumbled 4.9 percent to 32.50 euros, the
lowest since September 2005, after saying its steel unit may not
break even this year, citing “notably negative” impact on
demand for rolled steel. The company said on May 15 it saw
positive 2012 pretax earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  