-- European Bank Union ‘Premature’
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/european-bank-union-premature-.html
A European banking union is no fix
for the region’s lenders, trading at a fraction of the book
value of their assets, without closer fiscal integration and a
solution to the sovereign debt crisis, investors say.  Policy makers will discuss ways to coordinate bank
oversight, bring together national deposit guarantees and
combine crisis management powers at a summit in Brussels today
and tomorrow in an effort to bolster confidence in the region’s
lenders. For a banking union to succeed, investors say, Europe
must achieve for lenders what it’s failed to accomplish for
governments: shared liabilities.  “Talk about a banking union is too premature,” said Guy de Blonay, a London-based  fund manager  at Jupiter Fund
Management Plc, which oversees about $37.5 billion. “Europe
hasn’t taken steps to restoring an orderly sovereign  debt
market . You need economies to borrow at a decent rate.”  Lenders in Europe, burdened by $1.2 trillion of holdings in
Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and Irish government bonds, face
rising bad loans as the single-currency region teeters on the
brink of recession. Governments’ struggles to repay their debt
as economies contract is adding to skepticism they can support
ailing lenders.  Germany ’s opposition to sharing government and
bank liabilities is raising concern a banking union will become
another blunt tool in efforts to tame the crisis.  Bank Shares  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index ,
which tracks 43 of the region’s lenders, has dropped 20 percent
since March 19, its high for the year. Banks most exposed to the
sovereign debt crisis, such as Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , trade at no more than 0.3 times their book values,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, indicating investors are
pricing in their failures.  Italian banks boosted holdings of the nation’s government
bonds by about 85 billion euros ($106 billion) this year to 295
billion euros, or about 18 percent of the country’s outstanding
bills and bonds.  Michel Barnier , the 27-nation bloc’s financial-services
chief, has proposed setting up a network of national bank-
financed funds to stabilize lenders. They would also be expected
to pool funds to tackle the failure of a large cross-border
bank. Barnier also wants national deposit guarantee programs
merged into a pan-European fund to stem deposit outflows.  Deposit Flight  Policy makers want to prevent the deposit flight that hit
Greek banks from spreading. Greek deposits fell 30 percent since
the nation triggered the region-wide sovereign debt crisis in
2009, central bank data show, leaving lenders reliant on
European Central Bank lending to fund themselves.  The goal of a European deposit guarantee program would be
to convince savers their money is safe regardless of the
solvency of their domestic government. That would, in turn, help
secure banks’ access to one of the cheapest sources of long-term
funding and prevent bank runs across the periphery.  Still, while individual banks, central banks and
governments could be called on to fund a joint guarantee plan,
only a “full back-up from the ECB would make a EU insurance
scheme credible,”  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  analysts Antonio Guglielmi and
Alain Tchibozo wrote in a note to clients on June 25.  “The question around a banking union is are the funds
there to make good on the promises?” said Daniel Zuberbuehler,
former vice chairman of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority and now a financial-services consultant at  KPMG  LLP in
Zurich. “It’s an issue of credibility. Who pays and is the
system capable of footing the bill?”  ECB’s Role  A banking union “only makes sense if you have a paymaster
agreement,” Zuberbuehler said. “Only after you have a fiscal
union and more harmonization in Europe does it work.”  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  has proposed
that coordinated banking supervisory powers could be taken on by
the Frankfurt-based ECB. The central bank could be given the
powers under existing treaties and may serve as an umbrella over
national regulators, he said.  Policy makers would need to decide which banks would fall
under the central regulator’s remit, a decision that may
determine its success, say investors. Restricting supervision to
the largest, systemically important banks would ignore the
threat posed by smaller lenders.  “As the recent troubles in Spain and Ireland have
demonstrated, smaller or medium-sized banks can be the driver of
a lot of problems,” Ronit Ghose, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in
 London , wrote in a June 15 note.  U.K. Objections  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told BBC
Radio 4 on June 7 that Britain won’t be part of any banking
union in the euro area and that he will seek safeguards that
ensure the single market operates throughout the European Union.  “From a global perspective, if a banking union were to be
limited to the  euro zone , without the U.K., it would be a
parochial aspiration,” said KPMG’s Zuberbuehler.  Today’s summit, the 19th since  Greece ’s financial meltdown
rattled the euro, is trying to resolve competing visions over
how to reshape the 17-nation economy, with Germany and its
fiscally disciplined neighbors unwilling to burden their
taxpayers.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on June 25 hardened her
resistance to euro-area debt sharing, including  deposit
insurance , to resolve the region’s crisis. Merkel dismissed
“euro bonds, euro bills and European deposit insurance with
joint liability and much more” as “economically wrong and
counterproductive,” saying that they ran against the German
constitution. She told German lawmakers in Berlin on June 26 she
expects there to be no shared debt liability in her lifetime.  ‘Financial Protectionism’  Without a simultaneous fiscal union, any banking union may
not be enough to stem the “balkanization of banking markets”
arising from funding stress and “financial protectionism,” Huw Van Steenis, a Morgan Stanley analyst, wrote in a note to
clients June 26.  “Setting up a banking union will take time as it requires
a lot of rule changing, new laws and the hiring of people where
the regulator would sit,” said Patrick Lemmens, who helps
oversee about 13 billion euros at Robeco Groep NV in Rotterdam.
“But the plan to have such a banking union, together with a
plan for more united  Europe  with clear fiscal discipline and
ultimately the issuance of euro bonds would be steps which need
to be announced in the short term.”  What’s more, the banking proposals don’t address the
immediate crisis in Europe, which has pushed Spanish bond yields
to record highs and left the region’s banks on life support from
the ECB, said Philippe Bodereau, London-based head of European
credit research at Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s largest bond investor.  Spain, Italy  “For banks in  France  and periphery Europe to become
investable again requires a solution to the sovereign debt
crisis,” Bodereau said in a telephone interview. “It would be
nice to have better regulated, better capitalized banks, but
ultimately you need to stabilize the government bond markets of
Spain and  Italy .”  That solution must involve the ECB reinstating sovereign
bond purchases on a large enough scale to immediately contain
government borrowing costs, he said.  “Temporarily, a banking union plan might be good news for
lenders,” said Paul Vrouwes, who helps oversee about 3.3
billion euros in global financial stocks at ING Investment
Management in  The Hague . “But I worry about debt levels and
decreasing economic growth. Central supervision doesn’t bring
light at the end of the tunnel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  