-- Evans Says Fed Needs to Do More Than Operation Twist
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-27T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/evans-says-fed-needs-to-do-more-than-operation-twist.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago 
President  Charles Evans  said the U.S. central bank didn’t
provide enough stimulus last week and called for new easing
including more asset purchases to spur economic growth.  “We should be doing more accommodation than what was
adopted under the Twist,” he said in Chicago today, referring
to the Fed’s June 20 decision to expand its Operation Twist
program extending the maturity of bonds on its balance sheet.
While the move “has small effects,” Evans said, “its larger
effect is that it indicates the Fed is continuing to think more
accommodation is important and worthwhile.”  Faced with slower job growth and a deepening debt crisis in
Europe, the  Federal Open Market Committee  expanded its maturity-
extension program by $267 billion through the end of the year.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press conference the Fed is
prepared to do more without gains in employment.  “Right off the bat, I’d be willing to do more on the basis
of the current data,” Evans, 54, said to reporters at the
Chicago Fed. He doesn’t vote on policy this year.  The Chicago Fed president has been among the most vocal
advocates for additional easing among central bank officials.
Last year he was the only member of the FOMC to dissent in favor
of increasing stimulus.  Evans today reiterated his call for policy makers to commit
to holding the main  interest rate  near zero until the
 unemployment rate  falls below 7 percent or inflation rises above
3 percent. He said this would be his first priority, adding that
“in the current environment, any amount of additional
accommodation is welcome.”  Forecast Growth  Fed officials lowered their forecast for growth and
employment after meeting on June 19-20, projecting a jobless
rate of at least 7.5 percent by the end of 2013. The central
bank is ready to do more to bolster growth and promote
“sustained gains in labor market conditions,” the FOMC said.  Bernanke said after the meeting that additional asset
purchases are among the steps the Fed would consider. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said on June 22 that another round
of quantitative easing would face a “pretty high hurdle.”  “I’d be willing to support more asset purchases, MBS, in
order to provide more accommodation,” Evans said, referring to
mortgage-backed securities. “The labor market situation has
been completely unsatisfactory.”  The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing aimed at reducing
borrowing costs, spurring economic growth and reviving the job
market.  Mixed Outlook  Reports since the Fed meeting have painted a mixed outlook
for the economy, with the Philadelphia Fed’s  manufacturing index 
for June tumbling to the lowest level since August. Still,
orders for durable goods in May rose for the first time since
February and pending home sales rebounded, data showed today.  Stocks rose today as the housing and durable goods data
alleviated concerns of a weakening U.S. expansion. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index increased 1 percent to 1,333.04 as of 12:55
p.m. in  New York .  Concern over financial turmoil in Europe is weighing on the
economic outlook as Cyprus this week became the fifth euro
member state to request a bailout. European Union leaders are
meeting in a two-day summit that begins tomorrow.  “Given the downside risks that we’re facing, if there were
any substantial downside shocks that we’re hit with over the
next six to 12 months, the economy’s not in the best place” to
weather those shocks, Evans said. He said he expects annual
economic growth of 2 percent to 2.5 percent during the next two
years, compared with an earlier forecast of 2.5 percent to 3
percent growth.  Evans has been the district bank’s president since 2007. He
represents a region that includes  Iowa  and most of  Illinois ,
 Indiana , Michigan and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  