-- Facebook’s E-Mail Switch Merits FTC Review, Group Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-27T19:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/facebook-s-e-mail-switch-merits-ftc-review-group-says.html
The Washington-based advocacy group
that triggered U.S. scrutiny of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s privacy
practices asked the Federal Trade Commission to review the
company’s shift to displaying default e-mail addresses for its
users.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center wrote the FTC
today urging the agency to investigate  Facebook ’s decision to
display @facebook.com e-mail addresses under the ‘Contacts Info’
section of users’ profiles.  “Not only did the company falsely represent to users that
they would be able to choose whether to adopt the @facebook.com
e-mail address as their default address, by substituting the
company’s own e-mail service for the e-mail service preferred by
the user,” the company has placed users’ e-mail on its own
servers, giving it control over and access to the private
communications of Facebook users, the privacy group said in its
letter to the commissioners  “People are upset about this,”  Marc Rotenberg , executive
director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said in
an interview. “There is a big problem with users being forced
to default to Facebook’s e-mail.”  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, said the company
has been “updating addresses on Facebook to make them
consistent across our site.”  “In addition to everyone receiving an address, we’re also
rolling out a new setting that gives people the choice to decide
which addresses they want to show on their timelines,” Noyes
said in an e-mailed statement, referring to a feature for
sharing information introduced in September 2011.  Default E-Mail  Facebook announced it planned to implement the default e-
mail addresses in an April 12  blogpost .  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, said no one at the
agency had received the letter.  The FTC could include the e-mail issue in its pending
settlement order with Facebook over changes to its privacy
settings that stemmed from a 2009 complaint filed by the group,
Rotenberg said.  The agency could also initiate a separate investigation
using its authority to proceed against “unfair and deceptive”
practices, he added.  Facebook and the FTC announced a consent decree in November
to settle the agency’s complaints that the social network had
failed to protect users’ privacy or disclose how their data
could be used.  The proposed 20-year agreement, which is awaiting final
approval by the commission, would require Facebook to get clear
consent from users before sharing material posted under earlier,
more restrictive terms, the FTC said at the time. It would also
compel independent reviews of Facebook’s privacy practices.  The FTC is stepping up enforcement of privacy requirements
at Internet companies and last year also settled complaints with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 