-- Facebook Analysts See Shares Staying Less Than $38 IPO Price
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-06-27T20:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/facebook-analysts-see-shares-climbing-10-cents-above-ipo-price.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  analysts including
those at lead underwriter  Morgan Stanley (MS)  say the social-network
operator is worth no more than its debut price of $38.  At least 17 securities firms began coverage of the company
today, bringing the average analyst share-price estimate to
$37.95, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Morgan Stanley gave
Facebook the equivalent of a buy rating, as did  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and five other firms. There were
eight holds and one sell, the  data  show.  Facebook, its bankers and listing exchange Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. faced criticism after the shares fell below the initial
public offering price of $38 on the second day of trading and
extended declines to 32 percent on June 5. Underwriters sold
stock at a higher valuation than every Standard & Poor’s 500
Index company except two.  “Investors probably have a right to be a little bit
upset,” John Kattar, chief investment officer at Eastern Bank
Wealth Management in  Boston , which manages $1.7 billion, said in
a telephone interview. His firm doesn’t own Facebook stock.
“The underwriters got a lot of pressure from the company to
price it as high as possible. They were getting a lot of
pressure from Facebook to try to extract the maximum pricing.”  The stock opened at $42 on Nasdaq on May 18, hours after
underwriters sold shares for $38 each from investors and
insiders including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg . They finished the day at $38.23, then tumbled 11
percent to $34.03 on May 21 and closed at $25.87 on June 5. The
stock rebounded to $33.10 as of yesterday’s close.  15% Advance  Thanks to the decline since the IPO, the average share-
price estimate from firms tracked by Bloomberg implies a 15
percent gain during the next year from yesterday. The compares
with the 22 percent average predicted advance for S&P 500
companies, the data show. Facebook fell 2.6 percent to $32.23
today.  “Facebook is uniquely positioned to leverage its large and
highly-engaged user base to monetize the mobile Internet,” said
 Scott Devitt , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, in a research report
initiating coverage today. He set a price estimate of $38 and
rates the shares overweight.  Firms from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  gave  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook
the equivalent of a hold rating today.  ‘Significant’ Prospects  Citigroup’s  Mark Mahaney , in a report titled “Easy to
‘Like,’ Hard to Love,” said Facebook’s “significant” long-
term prospects are offset by the stock’s valuation and slowing
growth in users. He said the company trades for 50 times his
estimate of 2013 earnings. The average analyst estimate for
profit excluding some items next year is 64 cents, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Super-high multiples and decelerating growth don’t mix
well,” Mahaney said.  Before the IPO, on May 9, the company amended its IPO
filing to say growth in advertising had failed to keep up with
user gains. It then contacted more than 20 analysts, including
those at underwriters Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and
JPMorgan, to guide them toward the lower end of its second-
quarter sales estimate, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter.  A day after that filing, the analysts called up some
investor clients to communicate their revised estimates for
sales and profit, said people with knowledge of the process. The
company didn’t give the analysts any materially different
information than the updated prospectus, said a person close to
the situation.  IPO Price  On the eve of the first day of trading, May 17, Facebook
and lead underwriters including Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs
and JPMorgan Chase met to determine the IPO price, according to
people familiar with the matter.  On the conference call, joined by Morgan Stanley Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  and Facebook Chief Financial
Officer  David Ebersman , the company and its lead bankers
discussed an IPO price range of $36 to $41 a share, people with
knowledge of the matter said. Ebersman’s aim was to maximize the
company’s IPO proceeds and to cap the first-day increase at 10
percent, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks were private.  JPMorgan bankers indicated they had significant client
demand at a price above $38, one person said. The group quickly
reached consensus at $38 and discussions were not drawn out, the
people said. The shares rose 0.6 percent on the first day of
trading.  Daniel Salmon, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets Corp. in
 New York , initiated coverage with a price target of $25 today
and rated Facebook underperform, an equivalent to sell.
Facebook’s user growth will slow to 16 percent in 2014 from 22
percent next year, he said.  “With user growth decelerating, pricing power will be
required to support the valuation, and we believe this will be a
challenge in light of industry-wide declines,” Salmon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  