-- Fake Sheikh May Have Fooled Spanish Soccer Team, Police Say
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-27T14:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/fake-sheikh-may-have-fooled-spanish-soccer-team-police-say.html
The owner of  Getafe , a first-
division Spanish soccer club, may have been fooled into a
business deal with a gang who dressed up a Brazilian waiter to
look like an Arab sheikh, Spanish police said.  The gang promised funds for Getafe’s Angel Torres and other
Spanish business owners in return for fees of as much as 20,000
euros ($25,000), a spokeswoman for the Barcelona-based police
force Mossos d’Esquadra said by telephone. She didn’t have
details of how much, if anything, Torres paid in fees.  Seven members of the gang were arrested, according to a
 statement by the Barcelona police . A judge in Sabadell, near
Barcelona, will decide whether there is enough evidence to
charge them, the spokeswoman said.  On its website, police posted a picture of a  white robe and
red-and-white headdress  and expensive-looking watches that they
seized in the operation. The gang aimed to give an image of
“solvency and confidence” to the victims, the police said.  Torres, 60, was on vacation today and the club has no
comment about the police investigation, Getafe spokesman Luz
Monzon said by telephone. Madrid-based Getafe finished 11th in
the  20-team La Liga  last season.  At a ceremony at a hotel in Dubai in April last year,
Torres said he agreed to sell Getafe to Royal Emirates Group of
Companies, led by Sheikh Butti Bin Suhail Al Maktoum. On April
20 this year, Torres said he’d had no recent contact from the
group and the terms of the deal would expire if it didn’t meet a
payment deadline in May. Royal Emirates said today it still
expects the deal to go ahead.  ‘Deadlock’  Kaiser Rafiq, managing director of Royal Emirates, said by
telephone the alleged fake-sheikh scam has “nothing to do”
with the group.  “I don’t know why they’ve put our pictures in the
newspaper” relating to the police investigation, Rafiq said,
referring to reports in  Spain . He said he was trying to contact
Spanish authorities.  On its  website , Royal Emirates describes itself as “an
emerging leading group with diverse business interests in the
local and international markets.”  Rafiq said while there was a “deadlock” with Torres over
the accord to buy the club, he expects it to go ahead. The
impasse is over issues including securing a guarantee of
ownership, Rafiq said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  