-- FalconStor to Pay $5.8 Million Over JPMorgan Bribe Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-06-27T22:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/falconstor-to-pay-5-8-million-over-jpmorgan-bribe-claims.html
FalconStor Software Inc. agreed to
pay $5.8 million to settle U.S. claims that it bribed executives
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Federal officials accused the Melville, New York-based data
storage company of paying more than $300,000 in bribes to the
bank’s executives in an effort to win $12 million in contracts.
The company also falsified its books to cover up the scheme,
according to a statement from the Justice Department.  FalconStor entered into a deferred prosecution agreement as
part of its arrangement with the U.S. Attorney. A civil suit was
also filed against the company over the allegations by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. That action was also
settled.  JPMorgan wasn’t accused of wrongdoing in either case.
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to
comment on the settlements.  “This has obviously been a very large distraction for the
company and we’re pleased that we’re able to reach a settlement
and move forward and conduct our business right,” FalconStor
President and Chief Executive Officer Jim McNiel said in a phone
interview.  From October 2007 to September 2010, FalconStor offered
several JPMorgan technology executives bribes that included
FalconStor stock, gift cards, golf memberships and gambling
vouchers, according to a criminal complaint filed in  Brooklyn 
federal court.  Licensing Contracts  In exchange for the bribes, JPMorgan entered into at least
three licensing contracts for FalconStor software and related
services, according to the complaint.  FalconStor was accused of violating the Travel Act, which
bars interstate and foreign travel or transportation to aid
racketeering enterprises, as well as the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.  The data storage company’s employees and officers who were
involved in the scheme have either resigned or were terminated,
according to a  Justice Department  statement.  JPMorgan has also fired employees implicated in the scheme,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Sinclair said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. FalconStor Software Inc.,
1:12-mj-00615, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn). The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission
v. FalconStor Software Inc., 1:12-cv-03200, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 