-- Falcone Sued by SEC on Personal Loan, Market Manipulation
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-06-27T19:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/falcone-sued-by-sec-over-personal-loan-and-market-manipulation.html
Philip Falcone , the founder of hedge
fund Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, was sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, a move that could end his
plan to run a Berkshire Hathaway Inc.-style holding company if
the regulator wins the case.  Falcone misappropriated client assets, favored selected
investors and manipulated bond prices, the SEC said in its
lawsuit.  “Today’s charges read like the final exam in a graduate
course in how to operate a hedge fund unlawfully,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s enforcement director in  Washington , said in a
statement. “Clients and market participants alike were
victimized as Falcone unscrupulously used fund assets to pay his
personal taxes, manipulated the market for certain bonds,
favored some clients at the expense of others and violated
trading rules intended to prohibit manipulative short sales.”  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten gains,
unspecified financial penalties and a bar prohibiting Falcone,
49, from serving as an officer or director of any public
company, according to a statement by the agency.  Lew Phelps, a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger, said
he had no immediate comment. Matthew Dontzin, an attorney for
Falcone, said this week that Falcone would contest an SEC
lawsuit involving the allegations.  Goldman Treatment  The SEC action is the second blow in less than two months
for Falcone, a former Harvard hockey center who built a $26
billion hedge fund by 2008 with a successful bet against
subprime mortgages. Having suffered $23 billion in losses and
withdrawals from the peak, Falcone is now fighting to keep
control of his empire. LightSquared Inc., Harbinger Capital’s
biggest investment, filed for bankruptcy in May.  Falcone in 2009 took out a $113 million loan from his
Special Situations fund to pay personal taxes. The loan was
disclosed in the fund’s annual financial statement the following
March. At the time he borrowed the money, clients were barred
from pulling money from the fund. Falcone subsequently repaid
the loan with interest.  That same year, with client capital locked up, Harbinger
allowed Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which at the end of 2008 had
$1 billion invested in two Harbinger funds, to redeem some money
from the firm, said a person familiar with situation.  In April 2011, Harbinger told clients that the government
was looking into whether it had engaged in market manipulation
in its trading of the debt securities of an undisclosed company
from 2006 to 2008. The company whose debt Harbinger traded was
MAAX Holdings, a Canadian maker of bathroom fixtures, said the
person.  Tough Spot  “He’s in a very tough spot,” said Ronen Schwartzman,
founder of Ten Capital Advisors LLC, a New York-based firm that
advises clients on investing in hedge funds. “It’s going to be
difficult for him to raise money from investors ever again.”  Falcone grew up in Chisholm,  Minnesota , the youngest of
nine children. His mother worked in a shirt factory, and his
father never made more than $14,000 a year as a superintendent
at a local utility. He headed east to  Harvard University  in
1980, and after graduation joined a professional hockey team in
Malmo,  Sweden , where he played until he was sidelined by a leg
injury. He ended up on  Wall Street  in the mid-1980s, trading
high-yield debt at Kidder, Peabody & Co. in  New York .  Harbert Settles  In 2001, Harbert Management Corp., a Birmingham, Alabama-
based money-management company, was looking for someone to start
a fund to trade distressed debt and came across a PowerPoint
presentation from Falcone. Harbert hired him to start what
became Harbinger, giving him $25 million to get the fund going.  Separately, the SEC said today it settled with
Harbert,which served as the managing members of two Harbinger-
related entities. The SEC said that Harbert and two of its
units, HMC-New York Inc., and HMC Investors LLC, failed to take
appropriate steps to address Falcone’s trade in MAAX bonds. The
company agreed to pay $1 million, without admitting or denying
wrongdoing.  In 2006, he put on the trade that would make his name.
Falcone bought credit-default swaps, contracts that rose in
value as the price of interest-paying securities constructed
from individual home mortgages lost value. When the housing
market collapsed in 2007 and defaults soared, Falcone got rich.  Manhattan Mansion  With the proceeds of that wager he spent $49 million on a
27-room mansion near Central Park in  Manhattan  once owned by
Penthouse publisher Bob Guccione. He and his wife Lisa became
benefactors of New York’s High Line elevated park and the  New
York City Ballet . Lisa, who was raised in Spanish Harlem by a
single mother on welfare, became a film producer and was often
photographed in society pages in designer outfits.  After the successful housing wager, Falcone tied his
fortune as hedge-fund manager, and about $3 billion of investor
assets, to LightSquared, which accounted for about 40 percent of
the firm’s main fund as of April. Most hedge-fund managers have
shunned illiquid holdings since the 2008 financial crisis, when
they were forced to block client redemptions to avoid a fire
sale, and investors have complained about the level of
concentration in Falcone’s funds.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy after the Federal
Communications Commission said it would withdraw preliminary
approval to build out a nationwide high-speed wireless network
because it interfered with GPS devices. Last week, an affiliate
of the company filed court papers seeking to borrow as much as
$30 million to keep operating while under court protection from
bankruptcy.  Buffett’s Example  In an interview in April, Falcone made it clear he wasn’t
giving up. He said he was considering a legal fight against the
government, which had previously granted him permission to start
building out the network.  He also said he was seeking to move away from hedge funds
and building a public holding company, much like  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway, that would be better suited for
long-term investments.  To help secure more permanent capital for investments,
Falcone’s funds in 2009 bought Zapata Corp., a onetime oil
driller, and turned it into Harbinger Group, a holding company
that can raise capital for long-term investments. Falcone plans
to use Harbinger Group to finance investments in six industries,
including consumer products, financial products and natural
resources, according to a 2010 regulatory filing.  Legal Opinion  Harbinger Group last year agreed to buy Old Mutual U.S.
Life Holdings Inc., a provider of fixed-annuity and life
insurance, for $350 million. Harbinger Group also owns a
majority stake in Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc., a Madison,
Wisconsin-based maker of pet food and batteries.  The company said in May 2011 that it was raising $280
million from a group led by Fortress Investment Group LLC.
Harbinger Group has a market capitalization of $971 million.  Falcone stopped investor withdrawals from his hedge fund
for a second time in December, after the fund told investors it
had received a Wells Notice from the SEC, an indication that the
regulator was contemplating a lawsuit.  Falcone previously said he received an opinion letter from
outside counsel over the $113 million loan.  “It’s highly uncommon for a manager or sponsor of the fund
to borrow money from the fund,” said Ron Geffner, a partner at
Sadis & Goldberg LLP in New York that represents  hedge funds . It
“is wrought with conflicts of interest.”  Falcone has said in the past that allegations of
preferential treatment of some clients were “completely and
utterly untrue.” Harbinger’s offering documents allow it to
give certain investors different terms than other clients,
according to a person who has seen the documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  