-- FAO and OIE Cooperate to Control Foot-And-Mouth Disease
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-27T12:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/fao-and-oie-cooperate-to-control-foot-and-mouth-disease.html
The  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization and the World Organisation for  Animal
Health , or OIE, announced a joint plan to control foot-and-mouth
disease across the world.  The ultimate goal is a disease-free status globally, which
will require building up veterinary services responsible for
controlling animal illness, the Paris-based OIE wrote in an e-
mailed statement today.  Foot-and-mouth disease, which doesn’t directly affect human
health, can cause high mortality in young animals, reduce milk
yields and lower fertility, according to the OIE. The disease
costs an estimated $5 billion annually due to lost production
and vaccination efforts, the group said.  “Recent FMD outbreaks around the globe demonstrate that
animal diseases have no boundaries, can have a devastating
impact and require a global response,”  Hiroyuki Konuma , the
FAO’s regional representative for  Asia  and the Pacific, was
cited as saying in the statement.  World meat output is expected to climb 76 percent by 2050
from 2007, and containing foot-and-mouth disease will help boost
livestock production and lift demand for feed grains, the FAO
representative said in an interview in Bangkok.  A seven-week outbreak in  Japan  in 2009 cost about $300
million, said Juan Lubroth, the FAO’s chief veterinary officer.
The direct and indirect costs of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease in the U.K. in 2001 are estimated at as much as $30
billion, the OIE wrote.  For poor farmers, foot-and-mouth disease can cause hunger
and “economic ruin” as it cuts their supply of income and food
from meat and milk, according to the OIE.  The FAO developed a step-by-step guide for countries to
manage the risk of foot-and-mouth disease, starting from
surveillance of what types of virus strains circulate to
disease-free status, according to the statement. The OIE
developed a performance evaluation to bring national veterinary
services in line with its international quality standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  