-- Fed Audit Legislation Passed by House Oversight Committee
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-27T15:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/fed-audit-legislation-passed-by-house-oversight-committee.html
A U.S. House committee approved
legislation introduced by Representative  Ron Paul  that would
subject the  Federal Reserve  to an audit of its activities,
including monetary policy decisions.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee in
Washington approved the bill today in a voice vote. The bill now
advances to consideration in the full House.  Paul, a Republican from Texas and author of the book “End
the Fed” calling for the abolition of the  central bank , seeks
through the bill to require an audit by the Government
Accountability Office of the Fed’s board of governors and 12
regional banks.  “The Federal Reserve is an independent central bank and
that independence is critical to its ability to conduct monetary
policy,” said Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, the
senior Democrat on the committee. Passage of the audit
legislation would mean “members of Congress could seek to
influence the Federal Reserve’s deliberations.”  The bill is “anticipated to be voted on by the full House
of Representatives” before lawmakers recess in August, Jeffrey
Solsby, a spokesman for Representative  Darrell Issa , a
Republican from California and the committee chairman, said in a
statement.  Paul’s audit bill passed the House in 2010 as part of an
overhaul of U.S. financial regulation before being rejected by
the Senate and by a committee of lawmakers negotiating details
of the Dodd-Frank Act. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  opposed the
legislation, saying it would compromise the central bank’s
independence in setting  interest rates .  Emergency Aid  While rejecting Paul’s bill, Congress directed the GAO to
audit the Fed’s emergency-aid programs during the financial
crisis and review the system of directors of regional Fed banks
for possible conflicts of interest. The Fed was also required to
identify borrowers involved in its crisis-lending programs.  Since the Dodd-Frank law passed, Republicans won control of
the House and narrowed Democrats’ majority in the Senate. Paul
announced on May 14 that he would no longer spend money to
compete in the Republican presidential primaries.  After passing committee, Paul’s legislation needs approval
from both chambers of Congress and the president before becoming
law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  