-- Federated Buys $903 Million in Fund Assets From Trustmark
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-06-27T21:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/federated-buys-903-million-in-fund-assets-from-trustmark.html
Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-
largest U.S. provider of money funds, has acquired $903 million
in stock, bond and money-market assets from  Trustmark Corp. (TRMK) 
Terms weren’t disclosed.  Trustmark’s Performance Funds Trust will be reorganized
into Federated funds with similar investment objectives, the
companies said today in a joint statement. Pittsburgh-based
Federated will take over $571 million in money-market mutual
fund assets, and the remainder in equities and  fixed income .  The purchase comes as the money fund business faces
proposed new rules that Federated Chief Executive Officer J.
Christopher Donahue has said would kill the $2.5 trillion
industry. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  delivered to fellow commissioners on June 25 a plan
that would force money funds to choose between floating their
traditional $1 share price or adopting capital reserves and
redemption restrictions. Schapiro has yet to secure enough votes
to approve the plan.  “We remain very interested in additional similar
transactions,” Donahue said in the statement.  The companies plan to ask Jackson, Mississippi-based
Trustmark’s fund shareholders to approve the reorganizations in
September, the firms said in the statement. Trustmark is a
publicly traded company that provides banking and other
financial services through offices in Florida, Mississippi,
Tennessee and Texas.  Federated manages about $364 billion, including $231
billion in money market mutual funds, according to data from the
company and research firm Crane Data LLC in Westborough,
 Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  