-- Fertility Therapy Improves With Repeat Tries, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/fertility-therapy-improves-with-repeat-tries-study-finds.html
Women may need more than two cycles
of fertility treatments to get pregnant and older women may need
to use donor eggs to achieve success, a study found.  Women younger than 31 gave birth to a child 63 percent to
75 percent of the time with a third cycle of  in vitro
fertilization , while women ages 40 to 42 had a 19 percent to 28
percent success rate and those 43 and older had a 7 percent to
11 percent success rate, according to a study in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . When using donor eggs, the likelihood of
delivering a child was 60 percent to 80 percent for all ages,
the research showed.  Fertility  treatments are expensive and many insurance
companies only cover a portion of the expenses for two to three
cycles, the researchers said. Women tend to get discouraged when
they don’t get pregnant after the first treatment and abandon
the effort, the study said. The study found that the more
fertility treatments a woman undergoes, the better her chance of
getting pregnant, said Barbara Luke, the lead author.  “For patients perhaps it’s saying to look at treatment
over a series of cycles rather than just one cycle,”  Luke , a
professor in the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and
Reproductive Biology at  Michigan State University  in East
Lansing, said in a June 25 telephone interview. “What this data
shows is the live birth rate continues to increase with
continued therapy.  ‘‘For insurers, this actually shows it continues to climb
past three cycles. Two to three cycles are often covered by
insurance. These findings may help insurance companies rethink
their policy,’’ she said.  Birth Rates  The study released yesterday is the first national analysis
linking fertility cycles with  live birth rates  in the U.S., she
said.  In the general population, the natural fertility rate for
healthy women is about 20 percent a month, the authors wrote.
The chance of conceiving spontaneously is 45 percent after three
months of trying, 65 percent after six months and 85 percent
after 12 months, the paper said.  A couple is considered infertile after trying to get
pregnant for one year without success or six months if the woman
is older than 35, according to  RESOLVE: The National Fertility
Association , a nonprofit support and education group. About 12
percent of women of childbearing age, or one in eight couples,
are affected by infertility, the group said on its website.  Also, only 15 U.S. states  mandate  that health insurance
include some infertility coverage but the policies vary,
according to the association.  Study Data  Researchers in the study used data from the Society for
Assisted Reproductive Technology Clinic Outcome Reporting System
database from 2004 through 2009 to estimate live-birth rates.
They then calculated an estimate assuming that women who didn’t
return to treatment wouldn’t have a live birth, and an optimal
estimate that those women would have live-birth rates similar to
those continuing treatment.  The study included 246,740 women who underwent a combined
471,208  cycles  of fertility treatments and had 140,859 live
births. In the study, 57 percent of the women had a live birth
and a live birth occurred in 30 percent of the cycles.  The researchers found that the two major factors that
affect the success rate of fertility are the woman’s age and
quality of the embryos. For older women, switching to donor eggs
rather than using their own improved their chance of conceiving,
Luke said.  About 25 percent of women quit after one cycle and 33
percent after two cycles, Luke said.  Encouraging Information  ‘‘This study provides patients with important and
encouraging information,”  Glenn Schattman , a study author and
president of the  Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology ,
said in a statement. “While tracking outcomes by cycle started
or single embryo transfer is a valuable method for assessing
quality, having cumulative data linked to individual patients
better estimates the prospect for success when they start a
treatment cycle.”  The study also showed that by the second cycle of in vitro,
women younger than 31 had a 57 percent to 62 percent chance of
delivering a live child, while those 41 to 42 years had a 16
percent to 20 percent chance and those 43 and older had a six
percent to eight percent success rate, Luke said. By the fourth
cycle, women younger than 31 had a 66 percent to 83 percent
success rate, while those ages 41 to 42 had a 19 percent to 33
percent chance and those 43 and older had a 7 percent to 15
percent chance, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  