-- Fiscal Cliff Puts 2013 Tax Filing At Risk, Advocate Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-27T15:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/fiscal-cliff-puts-2013-tax-filing-at-risk-advocate-says.html
Potential late action this year by
Congress on expired tax provisions might mean significant delays
and complications for taxpayers filing returns in early 2013,
National Taxpayer Advocate  Nina Olson  wrote in a  report  released
today.  Dozens of tax provisions that affect individuals expired at
the end of 2011 and haven’t been renewed. These include the
deduction for state and local sales taxes, the deduction for
teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses and a so-called patch that
prevents the  alternative minimum tax  from hitting an additional
26.6 million households.  After Congress acts, the  Internal Revenue Service  must
create tax forms, work with private tax-preparation  software 
developers and write internal computer code that allows the
agency to accept tax returns, which it typically begins doing in
mid-January.  “Because of the magnitude of these challenges, and the
uncertainty about such a large number of important provisions,
the 2013 filing season is already at risk,” wrote Olson, who is
an independent voice for taxpayers within the IRS.  In addition to the already-expired provisions, tax rates on
income,  capital gains , dividends and estates will increase in
January. Those changes would affect paycheck withholding in
January and not the returns being filed for 2012.  All of the expired and expiring tax provisions are part of
the $607 billion fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases
facing the  U.S. Congress .  After Election  Lawmakers in both parties have said they don’t expect
Congress to act until after the Nov. 6 election on most or all
of the tax-and-spending issues that comprise the fiscal cliff.  Members of the tax-writing committees have been discussing
the expired provisions, which include corporate tax breaks such
as the research and development tax credit. Neither the House
nor Senate has advanced a bill.  Late or retroactive tax changes make it difficult for
taxpayers to plan for tax incentives or have the correct amount
of money withheld from their paychecks, Olson wrote.  “The burdens associated with late-year changes could
reduce tax compliance, as some taxpayers ’give up’ when faced
with the extra complication,” she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  