-- Five German States Say Inflation Slowed in June on Energy
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-27T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/five-german-states-say-inflation-slowed-in-june-on-energy-2-.html
Five German states said inflation
eased in June as energy prices fell.  In Bavaria, the inflation rate dropped to 2.2 percent from
2.3 percent in May, the state’s statistics office in Munich said
in an e-mailed statement today. Brandenburg, Hesse, Saxony and
North Rhine-Westphalia also reported declines.  Economists forecast that  German inflation , calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, will weaken to 2.1 percent
from 2.2 percent, the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey  shows. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will
release that report, based on data from six states, later today.  Oil prices  have dropped 13 percent from a year ago and the
sovereign debt crisis is damping economic growth across the 17-
nation euro area, fueling speculation that the  European Central
Bank  may cut  interest rates  as soon as next week. At the same
time, German unemployment is at a two-decade low and workers are
winning bigger pay increases, creating price pressure in
 Europe ’s largest economy.  “Slowing German inflation rates can principally be
attributed to the decrease in energy prices,” said  Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “Europe’s economic
weakness also prevented recent wage gains in  Germany  from
sparking a wage-price spiral. With price pressures receding in
Europe, the ECB has enough room to cut interest rates.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on June 15 that there are
“no inflation risks in any euro-area country.”  The ECB Governing Council discussed earlier this month
whether to lower its benchmark rate from 1 percent to support
Europe’s weakening economy. The next rate-setting meeting of the
Frankfurt-based institution is on July 5.  The ECB expects euro-area inflation to drop below its 2
percent price-stability threshold early next year, Draghi said
on June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  