-- Flirty $22,000 Fiat 500 Abarth Restores ’La Dolce Vita’
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/flirty-22-000-fiat-500-abarth-restores-la-dolce-vita-.html
It’s been a long time since you
could buy an affordable Italian car in the U.S. The dashing Alfa
Romeo disappeared in the 1990s when its stylish appeal was
overcome by miserable mechanics.  Now we are getting a second chance to lay our hands on
something reasonably priced: the modern Fiat 500, known as the
Cinquecento in  Italy .  Just the right side of cute with a good dose of
practicality, this two-door hatchback makes for a great city
car. The  cheapest 500  starts at $15,500.  Still, you wouldn’t call it sporty. To get your adrenaline
into the act, opt for the 500 Abarth model, for about $22,000.  You’ll be forgiven if you are unfamiliar with the Abarth
name. It’s Fiat’s in-house tuning division that has had a hand
in a number of rally cars and racier road cars over the years.  Abarth’s distinctive logo, a large-pincered scorpion on a
yellow and red badge affixed to the Fiat 500 Abarth pretty much
says it all. A small package best handled with care.  Eye Candy  My test car, costing $26,050, turns heads and elicits
comment, like a piece of movable  pop art . Painted the color of
red jawbreaker candy, it’s just as hot.  A white stripe runs down the side (a $350 option), making
the red look even redder. It’s like a fashion accessory,
especially with the aluminum wheels painted white.  “That’s a very stylish little car,” says a woman at a
grocery store. “What country makes it?”  When told it’s Italian, she nods her head. “It had to
be,” she says softly, covetously.  I turn the key (and I’m very happy to have an actual key
and not a “stop/start” button) and the 1.4-liter four-cylinder
engine burbles into extremely animated life. The noise from the
tailpipe is tuned to a motorcycle-esque buzz.  The regular 500 has just 101 horsepower and 98 pound-feet
of torque. The  Abarth  is supplemented by a turbo charger,
boosting power significantly to 160 hp and 170 lb-ft of torque.  I put the five-speed manual into first gear, and rip away.
No automatic transmission is available either, another old-
school detail I love.  Even during hard starts, there’s no torque steer, the
bothersome effect of the front wheels wrenching to the side
common with powerful front-wheel-drive cars. It’s a sign that
Fiat engineers were paying attention to this car’s sporty
suspension.  Mini Cooper  Though the Abarth’s suspension is firm, it doesn’t beat you
up, and feels comfortable even on big bumps or choppy pavement.
Especially nice when you compare it to the overly-rigid ride of
the  Mini Cooper John Cooper Works , another small-city car that
gets the peppier treatment and is an obvious competitor.  The Mini has more than 200 hp and handles better. Too bad
I’m utterly bored with it -- inside and out.  The 500 Abarth is just the right size for jamming between
other vehicles in busy traffic. You’ll surge ahead of other cars
as traffic lights change to green.  Parking is a cinch as the big front windows make it easy to
see just how much space you have on either fender.  I like the action of the clutch and the manual
transmission, which is almost effortless even in stalled
traffic. The Fiat handles corners ably, is stable and sure at
highway speeds and very confident at making lane changes.  It’s not cramped either, with a tall roof that gives a
sense of airiness. As for storage, the two rear seats fold down,
though they do not sit flush with the floor.  Bad Back  I had two issues with the Abarth. My car had optional,
$1,000 high-back sports seats, which were manually operated and
almost unbearably uncomfortable. I’m not sure who has a back
shaped to those contours, but I bet he or she has a
chiropractor.  The other issue was subtler, but irritating: In the
driver’s side floorboard, the three foot pedals are
significantly offset to the right. There’s plenty of excess room
to rest your left foot on the dead pedal, but to operate the gas
I had to twist slightly in my seat. Odd.  I recently got the chance to drive a vintage Fiat 500 from
the early 1970s. The 500 L had a 499 cc engine with 17 hp --
many riding lawn mowers have more power. It didn’t have a
sequential transmission, which meant having to double clutch to
get it into first gear, and I floored the accelerator almost
constantly.  Still, the car was so simple, so cute and so much fun that
I was utterly won over.  It felt more like piloting an enclosed motorcycle than a
real car. I flitted through traffic with impunity, a smile glued
to my face.  The Abarth retains a healthy dose of that old-time purity,
without too many driver aids or fussy electronics. It’s the
sports car for those with modest means, but with Italian ride
ambitions.  The 2012 Fiat 500 Abarth at a Glance  Engine: 1.4-liter four-cylinder with 160 horsepower and 170  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed manual transmission.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 7.9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 28 city, 34 highway.  Price as tested: $26,050.  Best features: Forgiving ride in zippy package.  Worst feature: Those seats.  Target buyer: The driver who always wanted an Italian car.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Other Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 