-- Florida Judge Rejects U.S. Bid to Block Voter-Roll Purge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-28T19:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/florida-s-scott-says-u-s-voter-purge-challenge-rejected.html
The U.S. government’s effort to
block a  Florida  measure that seeks to remove non-citizens from
voter rolls was rejected by a federal judge who found the state
has already abandoned the program.  U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle in Tallahassee, the state
capital, wrote in his ruling that there were “major flaws” in
Florida’s program. The judge rejected one argument the U.S.
made, contending the program violated a provision of the 1993
National Voter Registration Act, while agreeing that Florida
Secretary of State Ken Detzner “probably ran afoul” of another
provision of the act.  “In this circuit a government entity that has discontinued
a challenged conduct enjoys a rebuttable presumption that the
conduct will not recur,” Hinkle wrote. “If the secretary or
the supervisors of elections go forward with the program the
secretary says he has abandoned, the issue can be revisited.”  On June 11, Florida sued the U.S. Homeland Security
Department to gain access to a database that it said will allow
the state to verify the citizenship and immigration status of
individuals to purge non-citizens from voter rolls.  Hinkle’s ruling “puts the burden on the federal government
to provide Florida with access to the Department of Homeland
Security’s citizenship database,” Florida Governor Rick Scott,
a Republican, said yesterday in a statement.  Scott’s spokesman, Lane Wright, and Chris Cate, a spokesman
for Detzner, didn’t immediately return calls and e-mails asking
whether the state had abandoned the program.  Warning Letter  The U.S. filed its suit June 13 after warning Florida in a
letter that its program to identify ineligible voters may
violate federal law, including the law requiring a review of
changes to voting practices in states with a history of racial
discrimination.  Scott has defended the purge as a means of fighting voter
fraud. Florida Democrats have assailed it as an effort to give
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  an
advantage over President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, in a swing
state four months before the general election.  Nanda Chitre, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
said yesterday that the government will review the written
decision when it’s issued, and declined to comment further.  The case is U.S. v.  State of Florida , 12-cv-00285, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Florida (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  