-- Fortress Said to Target $1 Billion for Japan Property Fund
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-06-27T03:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/fortress-said-to-target-1-billion-for-japan-property-fund-1-.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
 investment company  overseeing $46.4 billion, wants to raise $1
billion for a Japanese property fund by the end of the year, two
people familiar with the plan said.  The company’s second Japan Opportunity Fund, which invests
in assets including real estate debt, is in the process of
buying $200 million of debt from Japanese and foreign banks with
a total principal balance of $1.3 billion, said the people, who
requested anonymity because the information is private. Todd Ladda, New York-based managing director and head of capital
formation for credit at Fortress, declined to comment.  Fortress is seeking bargains in Japan’s property market
following a record amount of defaulted debt from lending
extended prior to the 2008 global financial crisis. Lenders and
holders of commercial mortgage backed securities, who have been
stuck with loans that no longer reflect their initial values,
are seeking exits amid declines in real estate prices.  “Fortress is betting on the future recovery of property
prices,” said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Tokyo. “Acquiring good properties in Tokyo can be difficult
because that can be very competitive. Buying real estate loans
is a way to gain control of properties.”  Investor Demand  Japanese institutional investors such as pensions and
insurance companies account for 40 percent of investments in
Fortress’s new fund, while those from the U.S. and  Europe  make
up the rest, the people said. The fund, which will stop
accepting new investment after December, has a targeted return
of more than 20 percent, they said.  The fund, with a three-year investment period, started in
December and raised $650 million as of March, according to the
New York-based company’s earnings statement.  Fortress’s previous fund, the  Japan  Opportunity Domestic
Fund, which raised 75 billion yen of capital in June 2010,
generated 46.1 billion yen of returns as of the end of 2011, the
company said March 14. In 2010, the fund bought loans made to
Tokyo-based K.K. DaVinci Holdings, which ran Japan’s biggest
private real estate fund.  Bonds backed by commercial mortgages linked to everything
from shopping malls to office towers were used to finance $66
billion of property acquisitions in Japan in the three years to
2007, according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank. The annual
volume dropped about 70 percent in 2008 after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy and investors shunned
securities that bundled property debt.  CMBS Default  As much as 700 billion yen of defaulted CMBS debt is set to
be redeemed in the next two years, according to an estimate by
Koji Kumamaru, managing director in the structured finance group
at Moody’s Investors Service, based on the CMBS it had rated.  Office property prices in Tokyo, which have declined about
40 percent from their peak in 2007, have been little changed
this year, signaling the market is stabilizing, according to an
estimate by Andy Hurfurt, an  executive director  at CBRE Group
Inc. in Tokyo.  The building transaction volume fell 45 percent in the
first three months of this year from a year earlier, indicating
a lack of supply for sale, said Kayoko Hirao, the head of Japan
research at DTZ Research in Tokyo.  “The market is approaching the bottom now in Japan,” said
Hirao. “ There is a lot of potential to invest here now.”  The capitalization rate measuring investment yield for
Japanese office buildings worth more than $10 million has
declined to 5.57 percent in the first three months this year,
down from an average of 5.74 percent in the past 12 months,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. A drop in the cap rate,
which is a property’s net income divided by the purchase price,
usually signals an increase in real estate prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  