-- Funds for Lockheed-Led Missile Defense Urged by Panetta
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-27T18:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/funds-for-lockheed-led-missile-defense-urged-by-panetta.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
urged a Senate committee chairman to support $400 million for a
Lockheed Martin Corp.-led international mobile missile defense
program that three other defense panels have rejected.  Failure to provide one more year of funding for the Medium
Extended Air Defense System, or Meads, would “be viewed by our
allies as reneging on our promises,” Panetta said in his letter
yesterday to Senator Daniel Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Appropriations committee and its defense
panel.  Congressional critics say the system, designed to intercept
medium-range ballistic missiles, cruise missiles and drones, has
been plagued by cost overruns and performance failures. The
House and Senate Armed Services committees and the House
Appropriations Committee proposed canceling the final $400
million in their versions of the fiscal 2013 defense bill.  Rob Blumenthal, a spokesman for Inouye, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Inouye’s panel represents the final opportunity to preserve
the funding, as it did last year when the program was singled
out for termination by its House counterpart.  The Pentagon “must fulfill its contractual obligations”
and the Army may harvest some technology from the project, the
Senate panel said in its fiscal 2012 report.  Still, Inouye’s panel said it was concerned about “the
historical management of the program and that it has taken the
Department three years to conclude the program was simply
unaffordable.”  Joint Funding  The Pentagon has jointly funded the missile defense system
with  Italy  and  Germany . The Pentagon’s fiscal 2013 request for
$400.9 million was to be the last year of U.S. funding for the
development effort. The U.S. contributes 58 percent to the
program that has been in development since the 1990s.  The Pentagon said last year it would quit the Meads program
after the “proof of concept” phase ends in 2013, citing “a
number of technical and management challenges” over 20 years
“which significantly delayed contract performance and increased
expected costs.”  Finishing the phase would let the Army reap the benefits of
a 360-degree long-range surveillance radar that would improve
missile defense systems, Army Chief of Staff General  Ray Odierno 
said in June 11 letters to lawmakers, including Inouye.  Orlando Management  Meads development is managed from  Orlando ,  Florida , by
Meads International Inc., a joint venture of Lockheed Martin,
Lfk-Lenkflugkoerpersysteme GmbH based in Schrobenhausen,
Germany, and MBDA. MBDA is jointly owned by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,
 European Aeronautic Defence and Space  Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   Asked what the Lockheed Martin Meads unit is doing to
influence the Senate panel, spokeswoman Cheryl Amerine said in
an e-mail, “We are focusing on the things within our control
and that is to execute on the Meads contract, which we have done
flawlessly since 2007.”  Panetta recounted in his letter an agreement at last
month’s NATO summit in  Chicago  on the need for alliance missile
defense programs co-funded by each country.  “A decision by Congress to prohibit any additional funding
for Meads at this late date would diminish the consensus reached
in Chicago,” Panetta said.  “Failure to meet our funding obligations could negatively
affect allied willingness to join future cooperative endeavors”
and “would likely lead to a dispute withe Germany and Italy,”
Panetta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  