-- Gene Therapy Against Nicotine May Someday Help Smokers Quit
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-27T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/gene-therapy-against-nicotine-may-someday-help-smokers-quit.html
An experimental vaccine against 
nicotine , delivered using gene therapy, prevents the substance
from reaching the brain and may make quitting easier for
smokers, a study using mice indicates.  A single dose of vaccine allowed the liver to produce
antibodies that stopped most of the nicotine from getting to the
brain, according to a study in the journal  Science Translational
Medicine.  The concentration of nicotine in the brains of treated
mice was just 15 percent of that in untreated ones.  Of the more than 4,000 chemicals in cigarette smoke, it is
nicotine that leads to addiction, the researchers wrote. Keeping
the substance away from the brain might stymie nicotine’s
addictive power by preventing smokers from enjoying their
cigarettes, giving them no incentive to relapse, said  Ronald
Crystal , one of the study’s researchers.  “This looks really terrific if you’re a mouse, but the
caveat is that they aren’t small humans,” said Crystal, the
chairman of genetic medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College in
 New York , in a telephone interview.  The  gene therapy  delivers the vaccine to the liver using a
virus engineered not to be harmful. The gene sequence for the
antibodies is inserted into liver cells, which then begin to
create antibodies to nicotine.  “The antibody is floating around like Pac-Man in the
blood,” Crystal said. “If you give the nicotine and the anti-
nicotine gobbles it up, it doesn’t reach the brain.”  Relapse Rate  The idea of vaccines against nicotine has emerged before,
in the form of injections used to trigger an immune response.
Those methods proved ineffective, according to the researchers.
They turned to gene therapy to trigger production of antibodies.  About 20 percent of U.S. adults are smokers, and most
relapse shortly after quitting.  “We don’t have very effective therapies,” Crystal said.
“The problem is even with the drugs we have now, 70 percent of
people go back to smoking within 6 months of trying to quit.”  The virus vector has been previously given to children with
a different disease and appears to be safe, he said.  His group plans to continue studying the vaccine in rats
and non-human primates, and has talked to pharmaceutical
companies about testing, he said. The gene-therapy vaccine
method may work in other addictions as well, Crystal said.  The study was funded by the  National Institutes of Health ,
the National Foundation for  Cancer Research  and the Malcolm
Hewitt Wiener Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 