-- Genworth Reviewed for Cut by Moody’s as Insurer Seeks CEO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-27T20:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/genworth-reviewed-for-cut-by-moody-s-as-insurer-seeks-new-ceo.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the life
insurer and mortgage guarantor, is being reviewed for a possible
downgrade to junk by Moody’s Investors Service as the company
seeks a new chief executive officer. The cost to protect against
losses on the insurer’s debt climbed.  Genworth’s  rating  could be lowered from Baa3, the lowest
investment-grade level, if it fails “to take capital actions
that enhance holding company financial flexibility without
hurting long-term earnings power,” the ratings firm said today
in a statement on the Richmond, Virginia-based insurer.  The insurer is seeking to regain investor confidence and
limit losses from backing home loans after the 2008 financial
crisis and U.S. housing slump pushed Genworth into  aggregate
losses  of more than $700 million in the four years ended Dec.
31. Michael Fraizer resigned in May as CEO after shelving a plan
in April for an initial public offering of its Australia
mortgage-insurance unit.  Genworth is working “on plans to strengthen our  capital
structure  and realign our business portfolio,” acting CEO
Martin Klein wrote in a letter to shareholders today. “We
continue to take steps to improve the performance of our
businesses, generate and manage capital, and meet the needs of
our policyholders, while working to build value for our
shareholders.”  The insurer is seeking a permanent CEO as it reviews its
business portfolio, Chairman James Riepe said in in May. Klein,
the chief financial officer, took the CEO post on an interim
basis.  Long-Term Care  Moody’s reduced the financial-strength rating of Genworth’s
life-insurance operation to A3 from A2, citing “a weaker credit
profile” and the concentrated position in long-term care.
MetLife Inc. and Prudential Financial Inc., the two-largest U.S.
life insurers, are both retreating from the long-term care
market after  interest rates  declined.  The U.S. mortgage-guaranty business was also placed on
review for a cut. Mortgage insurers pay lenders when borrowers
default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  Contracts protecting Genworth’s debt against default for
five years increased 1.9 percentage points to 11 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $1.1 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Genworth’s debt.  A year ago, investors would have paid $367,000 a year to
guard against losses on $10 million of Genworth’s debt,
according to CMA.  Genworth slipped 3 cents to $4.91 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The stock has plunged 51 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  