-- Spanish Notes Fall for Third Day as Merkel Rejects Common Bonds
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-27T15:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/german-bunds-fall-before-italian-bill-sale-debt-crisis-summit.html
Spanish notes dropped for a third
day as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected common euro
bonds, fueling concern European leaders will fail to bridge
their differences over the debt crisis at a summit this week.  Spain ’s  two-year yields  approached the highest since
November as Merkel said euro bonds, euro bills and debt
redemption funds were unconstitutional in Germany and
“counterproductive.” Spanish and Italian bonds rose earlier
after Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would call
for more urgency from leaders at the two-day meeting starting
tomorrow in Brussels. German bunds declined for a second day.  “There’re still too many divisions among the key players,
and I don’t think we are going to get that much traction” at
the summit, said Philip Tyson, a strategist at ICAP Plc in
 London , speaking on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” in an
interview with  Guy Johnson . “That will leave Italian, Spanish
and other peripheral bonds highly vulnerable.”  Spain’s  two-year yield  increased 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 5.40 percent at 4:17 p.m. London time after
rising to 5.59 percent on June 18, the highest since Nov. 30.
The 3.4 percent note due in April 2014 declined 0.28, or 2.80
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,247) face amount, to 96.60.  The 10-year yield climbed five basis points to 6.92 percent
after jumping 49 basis points over the previous two days.  ‘Adequate Oversight’  “Oversight and liability have to go hand in hand,” Merkel
told lower-house lawmakers in Berlin, three hours after Rajoy
made his plea for help from the European summit. “There can
only be joint liability when adequate oversight is ensured.”  The summit will grapple with “developing a vision for the
economic and monetary union to ensure stability and sustained
prosperity,” according to a paper released yesterday by four
officials led by European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Italian two-year notes advanced after the nation raised its
maximum amount at a bill auction.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 185-day bills at a yield of
2.957 percent, up from 2.104 percent on May 29. Investors bid
for 1.62 times the amount offered, versus 1.61 times last month.  Italy plans to sell as much as 2.5 billion euros of five-
year notes, and up to 3 billion euros of 10-year bonds tomorrow.  Italy’s  two-year yield  dropped seven basis points to 4.60
percent. The 10-year rate was little changed at 6.20 percent.  Bunds Fall  German bunds dropped after Egan Jones Ratings Co. cut the
nation’s credit ranking to A+ from AA- yesterday, saying Merkel
had caused tension among European Union members by resisting
calls for joint euro bonds.  “Bunds are coming under pressure as there is a realization
that in the end  Germany  may have to absorb a bigger burden than
previously envisaged as the crisis deepens,” said Charles Berry, a bond trader at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart. “That doesn’t look good for the credit outlook.”  The 10-year bund yield climbed six basis points to 1.57
percent after dropping to a record 1.127 percent on June 1.  German inflation, calculated using a harmonized EU method,
slowed to 2 percent in June from 2.2 percent the previous month,
the Federal Statistics Office said today in Wiesbaden.  The German five-year  break-even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from yield difference between regular and
index-linked bonds has fallen to 0.66 percentage point from 1.75
percentage points at the end of March.  Spanish bonds handed investors a loss of 6.5 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German debt
rose 2.6 percent, and Italian securities gained 5.7 percent.  Volatility on Dutch government debt was the highest in
euro-area markets today followed by Spain and  Finland , according
to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-
year securities, and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  