-- Gevo Declines on Plans to Raise Up to $100 Million
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-06-27T20:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/gevo-declines-on-plans-to-raise-up-to-100-million.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , the U.S. biotechnology
company backed by the French oil company  Total SA (FP)  and the
specialty chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , fell the most on record
after announcing plans to raise more capital to retrofit a plant
in South Dakota.  Gevo fell 22 percent to $6.80 at the close in New York, the
most since going public in February 2011.  The company plans to raise about $90 million to $100
million through a secondary offering of shares and with
convertible senior notes due in 2022, Chief Operating Officer
Christopher Ryan said in an e-mail today.  Gevo, based in Englewood, Colorado, will use the proceeds
to partially fund the retrofit of a Redfield Energy LLC plant in
 South Dakota , repay debt and pay for its Luverne, Minn., plant,
according to a statement today. The number of shares offered
will depend on demand.  Investors may be selling after the shares rose 48 percent
in the last week through yesterday, Pavel Molchanov, an analyst
at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said in an
interview today.  “It’s been up so much in the last six or seven trading
sessions that on this kind of news there’s going to be profit
taking,” Molchanov said.  Gevo gained 31 percent on June 20 after a federal judge
ruled it probably didn’t infringe on a patent held by Butamax
Advanced Biofuels LLC, a joint venture of DuPont Co. and  BP Plc. (BP/)   The company announced plans to “access the capital markets
in the near future” during its May 1 earnings conference call,
Molchanov said. “I’m surprised it’s down as much as it is.”  Gevo makes isobutanol from corn and non-food crops.
Isobutanol may be blended with gasoline or refined into  jet
fuel , specialty chemicals or other products that are typically
derived from petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  