-- Giant Jumps as Stimulus Bets Trigger ADR Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-27T20:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/giant-jumps-as-stimulus-bets-trigger-adr-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in New York
rose for a second day, as  Giant Interactive Group Inc. (GA)  surged
the most since April, on prospects the government will take
steps to shore up flagging growth in Asia’s largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York added 1.1 percent to 89.95 at the
close of trading in New York. Online game developer Giant
Interactive advanced 6 percent and software developer  VanceInfo
Technologies Inc. (VIT)  climbed the most since February.  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  rose for the first time in three days after
the Philippines’  Belle (BEL)  Corp. said it’s in talks with the Macau
casino operator to set up a gambling complex in Manila.  China may introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure
stable growth, the state-owned China Securities Journal said in
a commentary published yesterday. Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
and HSBC Holdings Plc cut their annual growth outlooks as
manufacturing may have contracted for an eighth month. Companies
on the Bloomberg China-US Index that reported earnings from Feb.
15 to May 16 missed analysts’ estimates by 19 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The biggest negative right now for Chinese stocks is that
earnings are being cut,”  Steven Bell , who manages $600 million
in assets as principal portfolio manager at the GLC Ltd., a
London-based hedge fund, said by phone yesterday. “So a mild
broad-based stimulus is likely and it’s a reason investors may
get in there.”  China ETF Climbs  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.4 percent in its
second day of gains to $32.63. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of
mainland stocks slid 0.2 percent to 2,216.93, extending a six-
day slump. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares
climbed 0.9 percent to 1,331.85.  Shanghai-based Giant Interactive jumped the most since
April 2 to $4.79 while VanceInfo, which counts  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest computer-services
provider, among its  customers , surged 9.2 percent, the most
since Feb. 1, to $9.69.  Melco Crown gained for the first time this week, adding 2.6
percent to $11.29 as Belle, which is controlled by companies
belonging to Philippine billionaire  Henry Sy , said it is in
talks with the Macau casino operator to set up a gambling
complex in Manila. Melco is the casino joint venture of
Australian billionaire  James Packer  and a son of Hong Kong
tycoon  Stanley Ho .  Chinese monetary authorities may introduce policies to
stabilize foreign trade, expand infrastructure investment, fine-
tune monetary policies and structurally reduce taxes, according
to commentary yesterday by the China Securities Journal.  Reserve-Requirement Ratio  The Shanghai Securities News reported on its front page
yesterday that the People’s Bank of China may cut the reserve-
requirement ratio next month as funds are expected to remain
tight even after the 95 billion yuan ($14.9 billion) of reverse
repos by the central bank on June 26. The ratio has been lowered
three times since November.  Daiwa,  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage, cut its second-
quarter growth forecast for China to 7.8 percent from 8.2
percent and its 2012 growth estimate to 8.3 percent from 8.4
percent, analysts Mingchun Sun and Chi Sun wrote in a note
today.  Second-quarter growth of 7.8 percent would be the lowest
since the global financial crisis in the first quarter of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The economic data is
scheduled to be released on July 13.  HSBC, Citigroup  HSBC on June 26 cut its 2012 estimate for China to 8.4
percent from 8.6 percent, while Citigroup Inc. lowered its
forecast on June 25 to reflect “anemic” domestic activity in
the second quarter and further weakening of European demand.  China’s economy  will probably stay in the “doldrums” in
coming months, preventing a second-half rally for the nation’s
equities, according to Shenzhen-based Yu Guang of Invesco Great
Wall Fund Management Co., the country’s best-performing fund
manager. Property, auto and household-appliance stocks may
 outperform  even as the overall market stalls, said Yu in an e-
mailed interview on June 21.  Yu’s Core Competitiveness Fund has returned 25 percent this
year, ranking it first among 714 China-based mutual funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of June 25.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of solar
wafers, fell after Roth Capital  cut  its 12-month price target to
$1.70 from $3.50. LDK Solar’s American depositary receipts lost
4.2 percent to $1.82, a two-week low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net , and
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  