-- Gillard Says 123 People Rescued From Asylum Seeker Boat
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-06-27T04:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/gillard-says-123-people-rescued-from-asylum-seeker-boat-1-.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said 123 people have been rescued after a boat carrying
suspected asylum seekers capsized in Indonesian waters and
called on parliament to legislate against people smuggling.  The boat was carrying as many as 133 people and a major
search and rescue operation involving Australian navy vessels
and aircraft is underway, she told parliament.  “We have seen too much tragedy,” Gillard told lawmakers
in the capital, Canberra. “I believe the time for the party
divide on this issue is at an end.”  There have been at least four fatal incidents since 2010,
most recently last week, as refugees pay people smugglers in
Indonesia thousands of dollars to ferry them in overcrowded
boats to  Australia . The so-called boat people issue is hurting
Gillard, whose Labor government is in a political stalemate with
 Tony Abbott ’s opposition over where to base offshore refugee
processing centers.  A group of backbench lawmakers, including independent
members of parliament that support the minority government, are
pressuring Gillard and Abbott to reach a compromise and devise a
policy that will discourage people smuggling.  Oakeshott Bill  Gillard called on the  House of Representatives  to
immediately consider and approve legislation proposed by
independent lawmaker  Rob Oakeshott  on the issue.  Oakeshott’s bill proposes processing of refugees on
Australian soil and in centers in countries such as Malaysia and
Nauru, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  Maritime officials are coordinating the rescue effort after
receiving a distress call at about 6 a.m. Sydney time today from
a boat that capsized about 200 kilometers (124 miles) north of
 Christmas Island , Jo Meehan, a spokeswoman for the Australian
Maritime Safety Authority, said earlier by telephone.  About 90 people may have died after a similar incident on
June 21 also near Christmas Island, an Australian territory
about 2,600 kilometers northwest of Perth that is used as an
immigration detention center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  