-- Gillard Aims to Break Asylum-Seeker Deadlock After Boat Sinks
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-27T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/gillard-aims-to-break-asylum-seeker-deadlock-after-boat-sinks.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will try to push legislation against people smuggling
through the upper house today after a boat carrying asylum
seekers fleeing to her nation sank in Indonesian waters.  Laws proposed by independent legislator  Rob Oakeshott  and
backed by Gillard’s Labor party to allow the processing of
refugees on Australian soil as well as in countries including
 Malaysia  and Nauru passed the lower house yesterday. The
legislation now goes to the Senate, where the Greens hold the
balance of power and have said they will oppose it.  Gillard’s minority Labor government is trying to resolve a
political stalemate over where to base offshore processing
centers for refugees who pay smugglers in Indonesia thousands of
dollars to ferry them in overcrowded boats to  Australia . The
nation’s first female prime minister, trailing in opinion polls,
has lacked support in parliament to amend laws on the issue
ahead of elections due by November 2013.  “Resolving this would help show she’s a strong leader and
help her be seen as the one who’s setting the agenda, and that’s
what she really needs to do to gain momentum before the next
election,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing
research at the  Australian National University  in Canberra.
“The voters are sick of the issue and want a clear policy from
the government to fix it.”  Too Much Tragedy  The boat that capsized yesterday was carrying as many as
150 people with 130 rescued and one dead, according to the
government. There have been at least four fatal incidents of
human trafficking since 2010, most recently on June 21 when
about 90 people may have died when a boat sank near Christmas
Island, an Australian territory used as an immigration detention
center.  “We have seen too much tragedy,” Gillard told lawmakers
in the capital of Canberra. “The time for the party divide on
this issue is at an end.” She told reporters after the
legislation passed the lower house that it was now up to
senators to make it law.  While both Gillard’s Labor and  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-
National coalition have supported offshore processing centers
for people fleeing war-torn nations, they have failed to agree
on where they should be based.  Abbott’s Opposition  Gillard is looking to push the legislation through both
houses of parliament before it starts a six-week hiatus today.
The laws passed the lower house with a so-called sunset clause,
an amendment that will allow for them to be reviewed after a
year of operation.  The bill won’t pass the Senate due to opposition from the
Greens, who oppose all offshore processing of refugees, Abbott
said yesterday. The opposition refused to support Oakeshott’s
legislation because it included the option of creating a
processing center in Malaysia, which isn’t a signatory to the  UN
Refugee Convention , Abbott said.  A group of lawmakers, including independent members who
support the minority government, pressured party leaders
yesterday to reach a compromise. The refugees are often from
war-torn nations in the  Middle East  and  South Asia .  Abbott’s coalition wants a processing center re-established
in Nauru, an island nation in the South Pacific with about
10,000 residents that received aid in return for processing
refugees bound for Australia under former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called Pacific Solution. He said yesterday turning
back boats from entering Australian waters was acceptable in
some circumstances.  Gillard had proposed an arrangement with Malaysia under
which Australia would send about 800 asylum seekers to the
nation in return for accepting 4,000 people verified as
legitimate refugees by the  United Nations . That plan failed in
parliament in October, after the  High Court  in August declared
it illegal.  Safeguards Urged  “UNHCR calls on Australia and countries in the region to
redouble their efforts to provide safer and more secure options
for people to find protection other than through these dangerous
and exploitative boat journeys,” the  UN Refugee Agency  said in
a June 22 statement.  Two years after ousting her predecessor  Kevin Rudd , the
party of Australia’s first female prime minister is slipping
further behind the Liberal-National opposition in opinion polls.  Labor’s primary vote fell 1 percentage point to 30 percent,
while support for the coalition increased 2 points to 46
percent, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper June 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  