-- Glaxo CEO Says Europe Market ‘Much’ Worse Than Expected
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-27T17:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/glaxo-ceo-says-europe-market-much-worse-than-expected-earlier.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is having a
tougher time than expected generating sales in  Europe  as the
credit crisis leads governments to cut prices, Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Witty  said.  “What we’ve seen in the last three, four months is a much
higher level of price pressure than we had anticipated, which is
of course making short-term trading more challenging than
expected,” Witty said in an interview in Brussels today.
“Nothing has improved since the first quarter,” when Glaxo’s
European sales dropped 6 percent from the previous year.  The sovereign-debt crisis may trim industrywide drug prices
by as much as 6 percent this year, Witty said. European
governments are more critically reviewing new medicines and
rejecting those that don’t meet stringent cost-benefit criteria,
potentially leading to a “health crisis” where new treatments
aren’t being developed, the CEO said.  Glaxo shares  fell 0.2 percent to close at 1,470 pence in
 London , where the company is based. The benchmark FTSE 100
Index, which includes Glaxo, rose 1.4 percent.  Delayed introduction of new drugs and so-called parallel
trading, or exporting drugs from low-price countries to nations
where they can be sold for more, are also contributing to the
pricing impact, Witty said.  “It feels that we’re not halfway through” the crisis,
Witty said. “Six months ago, I thought we had plateaued, but
it’s gotten worse.”  Pricing Concerns  Witty was in the Belgian capital for the annual meeting of
the  European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations , of which he is president.  Glaxo is not alone in voicing its concerns. Because some
governments set drug prices based on levels in neighboring
nations, the pressures are spreading, said Ruud Dobber, vice
president of Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  at  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,
in a statement.  “European governments should not use price changes we have
accepted in countries with specific financial issues to drive
down their short-term health-care bills through reference
pricing,” he said. “This would dramatically reduce our ability
to get medicines to patients in the long-term.”  To cope with the crisis, Witty will implement plans to make
Glaxo’s manufacturing processes more efficient and improve
capacity utilization over the next two to three years and also
cut administrative costs, he said. The company has already
reduced its European sales force by about half over the last
four or five years, so “it’s more or less the right size.”  Given the difficulty in meeting conditions for
reimbursement for new drugs, Glaxo is likely to prioritize
certain European countries when introducing them, Witty said.
Over the long term, governments will need to raise drug budgets
by cutting spending elsewhere, he said.  “What are they saying, that they don’t want any new drugs
ever? The drug budget will have to be expanded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  