-- Glencore Courts Qatar as Xstrata Tweaks Merger Pay
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-06-28T16:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/glencore-courts-qatar-as-xstrata-tweaks-merger-pay-commodities.html
Glencore International Plc and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , seeking to salvage the year’s biggest takeover,
moved to appease dissident investors who have threatened to
derail the 16 billion-pound ($25 billion) deal.  Glencore yesterday met with Xstrata’s second-largest
 shareholder , Qatar Holding LLC, over the sovereign wealth fund’s
call for a 16 percent increase in the commodity trader’s bid,
people familiar with the London talks said. Xstrata revised
payments for executives intended to keep them at the combined
company by adding a link to performance and made all bonuses
payable in shares after some holders attacked them as excessive.  Qatar, which spent more than $4 billion amassing an 11
percent Xstrata stake, surprised investors and analysts two days
ago with its criticism of the price. It asked  Glencore (GLEN)  to raise
its February offer of 2.8 of its shares for each of Xstrata’s to
3.25. Disquiet among some shareholders over the merger terms
intensified after Xstrata revealed May 31 it planned to pay top
executives 172.8 million pounds in bonuses for their loyalty.  “We believe this deal is important for Glencore,” UBS AG
analysts Myles Allsop, Ben Davis and Danielle Chigumira said in
a note today. “But we do not expect an increase to 3.25 times
in the current macro and commodity environment. A bump to 3
times is possible.”  The ratio between the two companies’ stocks has traded at
2.58 this week, the lowest relative to Xstrata shares since the
bid was announced. It yesterday narrowed to 2.67, reflecting a
lower risk of the deal collapsing. Given Glencore’s dominant
shareholding of 34 percent of Xstrata, the likelihood of a rival
bid is remote. Today’s reading was 2.7.  ‘Some Compromise’  “Since Qatar put a lot of money to work in Xstrata,
they’ll have downside risk if they allow the deal to fail,”
 James Bevan , chief investment officer at CCLA Investment
Management Ltd., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“Glencore has already got a very significant position in
Xstrata so it doesn’t want the deal to fail. There will be some
maneuvering, there will be some compromise.”  Both companies yesterday said they would set new dates for
shareholder votes on the transaction originally scheduled for
July 11 and 12. Xstrata said it expects the deal to be complete
in early October. The companies had originally targeted the
third quarter.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR)  are among Xstrata
investors to have called for the February offer to be improved.
Glencore, led by Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, may
need to increase its offer, analysts including Fat Prophets’
Rupert Nathan, have said.  ‘Walk Away’  “If they want the asset, yes, they’re simply going to have
to pay up,” Nathan said. “It’s going to be a binary outcome,
they either pay up or walk away. I think on balance they’ll end
up paying up.”  Liberum Capital Ltd. expects Glencore to offer a “token
increase,” while Jefferies Group Inc. analysts said the
commodities trader may need to offer 3 of its shares to win
Qatar’s support. Bank of America Corp. said a higher offer is a
“real possibility.” Still, the deal may fail given Qatar’s
rejection, UBS AG said yesterday.  Xstrata declined 0.4 percent to 793.5 pence at the close in
 London . Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, fell 1.6 percent to 293.55 pence. Charles Watenphul, a
spokesman for Glencore, declined to comment on the discussions
with Qatar Holding.  Glencore is seeking to add the Swiss company’s copper, coal
and zinc operations to its trading business. The takeover is the
largest announced deal so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wealth Fund  Qatar’s opposition takes those dissatisfied with the terms
to about 14 percent of Xstrata shareholders. That’s close to the
16.48 percent threshold that would block the so-called merger of
equals because U.K. takeover rules prevent Baar, Switzerland-
based Glencore from voting its own shares in Xstrata.  The Qatari sovereign wealth fund has bought 311 million
shares in Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata, with derivatives and
options taking its total stake to 10.98 percent, a June 14
filing shows.  Xstrata is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc
as financial advisers, while Glencore has tapped Citigroup Inc.
and Morgan Stanley. The trader is paying as much as $80 million
in fees, and Xstrata as much as $116 million, a document on the
merger published by the two shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  