-- Glencore Said to Meet Qatar for Talks on Xstrata Purchase
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-06-27T20:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/glencore-said-to-meet-qatar-for-talks-on-xstrata-bid-opposition.html
Glencore International Plc met with
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund in  London  today to try to revive a
16 billion-pound ($25 billion) takeover of Xstrata Plc, three
people with knowledge of the situation said.  Qatar Holding LLC late yesterday surprised global markets
by objecting to the proposed deal, which would create the
fourth-biggest mining company, because the price was too low.
The fund has spent more than $4 billion amassing an 11 percent
Xstrata stake this year. Its stance adds to investor opposition
to the transaction and raises concern the deal will fail.  “This is a seismic development that has almost certainly
caught Glencore off guard,” Liberum Capital Ltd. analysts wrote
in a note today, referring to Qatar’s stand. “We firmly expect
 Glencore (GLEN) ’s response will be that the economics don’t support a
merger at 3.25 and that it is opposed to sweetening its offer.”  Qatar wants the offer of 2.8 Glencore shares for each of
Xstrata’s raised to 3.25, it said in a statement yesterday.  Xstrata today announced changes to payments for executives
intended to keep them at the merged company after investors also
criticized the bonuses. They will be linked to performance under
revised proposals agreed with Glencore, it said in a statement.  Xstrata also said it expects the merger to be completed in
early October, subject to approvals from necessary parties.
Glencore said it delayed its shareholder vote, earlier planned
for July 11, on the merger, partly because of Xstrata’s changes.  Deal Revision  Qatar, advised by Lazard Ltd., joins investors including
 Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR)  in calling for the February
offer to be improved. Glencore, led by Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Glasenberg, may need to boost its bid, some analysts said.  “This could be a bit too close to call and we think that
Glencore will have to consider Qatar’s comments carefully,”
Jason Fairclough and Daniel Lian, analysts at Bank of America
Corp., said today in a note to clients. “We now see an increase
in the terms of the deal as a real possibility.”  Xstrata rose 1.4 percent to close at 796.6 pence in London.
Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodities supplier, slid
1.5 percent to 298.3 pence. Glencore spokesman Charles Watenphul
declined to comment on its discussions with Qatar Holding.  The sovereign wealth fund has bought 311 million shares in
Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata (XTA) , with derivatives and options
taking its total stake to 10.98 percent, a June 14 filing shows.  ‘Material Risks’  Qatar’s opposition takes those dissatisfied with the terms
to about 14 percent of Xstrata shareholders. That’s close to the
16.48 percent threshold that would block the so-called merger of
equals because U.K. takeover rules prevent Baar, Switzerland-
based Glencore from voting its own shares in Xstrata. UBS AG
said the deal may fail given Qatar’s rejection of the plans.  “There is now a material risk that the merger could fail,
with both management teams adamant that the current terms are
fair and had only been agreed after extensive negotiations,”
UBS’s Myles Allsop, Ben Davis and Danielle Chigumira said today.  Liberum expects Glencore to offer a “token increase” in
its bid, while Jefferies Group Inc. analysts said Glencore may
need to offer 3 of its shares, from 2.8, to win Qatar’s support.  Glencore, owner of about 34 percent of Xstrata, is seeking
to add the Swiss company’s copper, coal and zinc operations to
its trading business. The takeover is the largest announced M&A
deal so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Largest Takeover  Shareholders also criticized the terms of 172.8 million
pounds of retention awards earlier proposed for Chief Executive
Officer  Mick Davis  and 72 other executives. The payments were
called excessive by investors including Standard Life and
Fidelity Worldwide Investment and last week attracted a so-
called red-top rating, the most serious corporate governance
warning from the  Association of British Insurers , whose members
represent about 17 percent of the U.K. stock market.  “These are likely not insurmountable hurdles to the
proposed Glencore-Xstrata merger,” Jefferies analysts
 Christopher LaFemina  and Seth Rosenfeld said in a report
yesterday. “A bump from Glencore and a revision to the
management retention awards should be the logical next steps. We
continue to expect this proposed merger to happen.”  Xstrata today said payments to the most senior executives
will be tied to meeting cost savings targets and all will be
made in stock instead of cash as it moved to allay concerns.  The mining company is working with Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc as financial advisers, while Glencore has
tapped Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. The trader is paying
as much as $80 million in fees, and Xstrata as much as $116
million, a document on the merger published by the two shows.  “The key question the market will now focus on is whether
Ivan Glasenberg will accede to sweetened offer demands, or
whether he will walk away,” the Liberum analysts said. “We
continue to believe the risk of a deal break remains low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  