-- Golfing Glitterati to Help Lift Northern Ireland Economic Gloom
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/golfing-glitterati-to-help-lift-northern-ireland-economic-gloom.html
Alice Rohdich’s family have
struggled to sell jewelry and souvenirs in Portrush, a seaside
town in Northern Ireland, for the past four years as the global
economic crisis dashed a revival in the region better known for
sectarian violence.  She’s banking on the success of the nation’s three golf
stars Rory McIlroy, Graeme McDowell and  Darren Clarke  to draw
visitors when the  Irish Open  starts today.  “It’s been hard going this past few years,” says Rohdich,
as she arranges a window display of golf memorabilia. “But this
has created a buzz, we’re hoping it will help the entire town.”  Portrush , a town of 6,400, has been hit by a decline in
visitor numbers, rising unemployment and a property crash that
began in 2008, leaving dozens of empty properties. Its fortunes
echo that of Northern Ireland, where  house prices  doubled
between 2005 and 2007 before tumbling by 50 percent after the
bubble burst a year later. Unemployment in the province has
doubled in the past four years.  Since March the government and local business have spent
about 650,000 pounds ($1 million) renovating the town. Derelict
buildings abandoned by developers have been freshly painted,
building sites are shrouded in hoardings and shop-fronts have
had a face lift.  “It’s been a big effort from the local community,” said
Christine Alexander, a lawmaker at local municipality Coleraine
Borough Council. “People and businesses donated time and money.
People were out with paintbrushes pitching in. We’ve been trying
to spruce it up ahead of the golf.”  Three Majors  Alexander said that during the property boom, developers
bought sites in a “frenzy” only to abandon them when the
global financial crisis began in 2008.  Northern Ireland , with 97 golf courses and a population of
1.75 million, has produced three out of the last nine  winners  of
the so-called Majors in the past two seasons, with McDowell,
McIlroy and Clarke winning one each. The U.S. with a population
of 314 million and 18,000 courses has also had three winners in
that period.  McIlroy, 23, and ranked second in the world, is the
region’s biggest golfing success. Last year he won the  U.S. Open 
with a record score, following on from McDowell’s success in the
same tournament the year before. Clarke won the Open
Championship last year.  McIlroy, McDowell and Clarke are among 156 golfers
competing in the three day Open, which is expected to bring more
than 100,0000 spectators to Portrush.  Colin Montgomerie , Keegan Bradley and  Padraig Harrington  are also competing. The
tournament is being held on the 18-hole Dunluce course of the
 Royal Portrush Golf Club , which last hosted the Irish Open in
1947. The last time the event was held in Northern Ireland was
at south Belfast’s Belvoir Park Golf Club in 1953.  Real Lift  “My brother is a professional golfer,” said Elizabeth
Dykes, 64, who has lived in Portrush all her life. “He’s coming
back for the Open. It’s going to be a real lift for the town, it
will put us on the map. At least that’s what we are hoping.”  Northern Ireland’s power-sharing  assembly  was revived in
2007, ending a three decade-long  conflict  that claimed 3,500
lives before largely petering out with a peace deal in 1998. A
peace dividend of jobs and prosperity was halted by the global
financial crisis.  “It’s good that they have done something to improve the
town,” said Manus Brolly, an unemployed 32 year-old who lost
his job as a chef when a local restaurant closed last year.
“But I wonder if they are just painting over the cracks?”  Queen Visits  Northern Ireland’s Deputy First Minister  Martin McGuinness , a former Irish Republican Army leader, met and shook
hands with  Queen Elizabeth II  yesterday, in a further step in
the region’s peace process.  McGuinness became the first  Sinn Fein  leader to meet a
British monarch when the pair attended an event in Belfast as
 Queen Elizabeth  continues a tour of the U.K. as part of her
Jubilee celebrations.  Sinn Fein boycotted the queen’s visit to the  Republic of
Ireland  last year, the first trip of its kind since the state
gained independence from Britain in 1921. The party said the
visit was “premature.” McGuinness said this week he’ll meet
the monarch this time as an “act of reconciliation” toward
unionists in Northern Ireland.  “I think the whole country has had it rough this past
while,” said Rohdich. “This is a piece of good news for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  