-- Goodhart Says a U.K. Home Is a Good Buy If You Can Afford It
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-06-28T06:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/goodhart-says-a-u-k-home-is-a-good-buy-if-you-can-afford-it-now.html
Former Bank of  England  policy maker
 Charles Goodhart  said now is an “excellent time” to buy a home
in Britain if you can afford it because the nation’s housing
shortage will keep pushing up prices.  “If you can get hold of the money, I think it’s already a
very good buy,” Goodhart said in an interview yesterday in
 London . “If you can get the down payment together,” then the
“affordability of housing and its likely future price increase
is such that now would be an excellent time to buy.”  Goodhart’s remarks underline the affordability divide in
the U.K.’s property market, where a lack of homebuilding has
combined with household growth to support values at a time when
inflation, anemic wage increases and lending curbs have
undermined buying power.  Nationwide Building Society  said today
that house prices fell in June from the previous month.  “With the downturn in the number of housing starts in the
last few years, the balance between the demand for housing and
housing supply means that there is going to be a great
overbalance of demand relative to supply,” Goodhart said. “So
when it gets easier for people to finance down payments, housing
prices are likely to start rising then at rather an
uncomfortably fast rate.”  Prices Decline  Housing starts fell 11 percent to 24,140 in the first
quarter from the previous three months, the government said last
month. Seasonally adjusted housing starts were 50 percent below
their peak in the fourth quarter of 2005.  House prices  dropped 0.6 percent from May, when they rose
0.2 percent, Swindon, England-based Nationwide said in an e-
mailed report today. From a year ago, prices fell 1.5 percent in
June to an average 165,738 pounds ($258,000). That’s the biggest
annual drop since August 2009.  Data suggest a squeeze on lending by banks and caution
among Britons as  Europe ’s debt crisis persists. Consumers repaid
more mortgage debt than they borrowed in May for the first time
in at least 15 years, the British Bankers’ Association said
yesterday. Mortgage approvals fell to the lowest in more than a
year, it said.  “The ongoing shortage of accessible mortgages and the fall
in wages in real terms has created difficulties for first-time
buyers,” property website Zoopla.co.uk said this week. This has
created a situation where the cost of servicing a mortgage is
less than paying rent in 42 of Britain’s biggest 50 cities.  ‘Adventurous’  Goodhart, who served as a founding member of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee from 1997 to 2000, said he
shares the downbeat outlook of the euro-area debt crisis
expressed by Governor  Mervyn King , who has announced new
measures to push banks to increase lending. He was a speaker at
a conference organized by Demos Finance in partnership with the
Financial Times and CASS Business School.  “I’ve always tended to be rather pessimistic and I think I
would agree with the governor in this respect,” he said. “I’m
very glad to see the Bank of England being somewhat more
adventurous than they were in the past.”  Goodhart predicted that the central bank will  add stimulus 
in July. King and three policy makers pushed for an expansion of
quantitative easing this month, though a majority of officials
overruled them.  “It’s fairly odds on that they will do something,”
Goodhart said. “The new measures and what they do at the next
Monetary Policy Committee meeting are likely to be
complementary. They can certainly do the ‘funding for lending’
and QE at the same time.”  Asked about the next  Bank of England  governor, Goodhart
said the successor to King, who will leave in a year, needs
“sheer energy and physical fitness.”  “I hope that those who will appoint them will take account
some account of their energy level and their ability to hold
down what will undoubtedly be a very demanding job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  