-- Google Unveils $199 Tablet in Bid to Vie With Apple, Amazon
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-27T22:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/google-unveils-199-tablet-in-bid-to-vie-with-apple-amazon.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , trying to match its
success in smartphones, stepped up its challenge to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and Amazon.com Inc. in the $66.4 billion tablet market with the
Nexus 7, a $199 device that sports a slim 7-inch screen.  The tablet will feature the latest version of the Android
operating system, called Jelly Bean, the company said at its
 Google I/O  developers conference today in San Francisco. Google
also showed a spherical $299 home-entertainment device called
Nexus Q, which lets users stream music and video.  Google is on the hunt for ways to fuel sales of tablets, a
fast-growing market that may almost double this year to 118.9
million units, according to Gartner Inc. Though Google has used
Android to take the lead in smartphones, tablets based on the
software have amassed less than half the share of Apple’s iPad
-- and it will soon confront added pressure from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , which unveiled its own tablet last week.  “The tablet market is a major challenge for Google at this
point,” said  Clayton Moran , a  Delray Beach , Florida-based
analyst at Benchmark Co. “They need to have a competitive
product with the iPad.’  Shares of Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California ,
gained less than 1 percent to $569.30 at the close in  New York .
The stock has fallen 12 percent this year.  Asus Partnership  The Nexus 7 tablet, to be available in July, is being made
in partnership with  Taiwan ’s  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  It has a
front-facing camera and runs on a Tegra 3 processor from  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) , Google said today. The Jelly Bean version of Android
provides faster speeds and other advances, including
improvements to voice-based search.  “It’s a beautiful 7-inch tablet,” Hugo Barra, Google’s
director of  product management , said at the event. “It’s super-
thin, light and portable -- and yet we’ve managed to pack a lot
into this device.”  Google Play, the company’s marketplace for Android
applications and games, will add tools to enable users to buy
movies, TV shows and magazines, the company said. Nexus 7 is
available for preorder today on Google Play in the U.S.,  Canada ,
the U.K. and  Australia .  The worldwide tablet market is estimated to reach $66.4
billion this year, up from $44.9 billion in 2011, according to
research firm DisplaySearch.  Google’s Brand  Google -- the world’s largest Internet-search company -- is
working to capitalize on its own brand name. It’s seeking to woo
consumers with a slimmer device that features the latest
software yet carries a lower price than the larger iPad, the
newest versions of which start at $499.  “When you look at the tablet market, you have iPad -- and
others,” said Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at industry
researcher IHS ISuppli. “Everybody is trying to figure out how
to compete against the iPad. And I just see it as just one more
experiment going down that road.”  Android tablets are already available from companies such
as Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., which Google  acquired  last month for $12.5
billion. Amazon.com’s 7-inch-display Kindle Fire tablet also
runs on Google’s operating system while featuring many of its
own services, music and book sales.  The Nexus tablet should help Google compete with the Kindle
Fire, given its price and size, said Michael Gartenberg, an
analyst at Gartner Inc.  “They’ve definitely upped the game,” he said. “Google
felt they needed to build a device to show how Android should be
delivered on the tablet.”  IPad’s Lead  This will be the first tablet to get Google’s Nexus
designation. Google has worked with manufacturers such as
Samsung in the past for Nexus smartphones to highlight the best
features of Android software.  Gartner  expects the iPad to remain the global tablet leader
through at least 2016, even as it loses some market share. The
iPad will account for an  estimated  46 percent of shipments in
2016, down from a projected 61 percent this year. Android may
have 37 percent by 2016, a gain from 32 percent.  Microsoft, which had zero percent of the tablet market last
year, is expected to nab 12 percent by 2016. That number may
increase, because the Gartner report was issued before Microsoft
unveiled its Windows-based Surface tablet, which is likely to be
released by the end of the year.  App Developers  Sales of Android-based tablets have been held back by a
lack of developers for the platform. Apple’s App Store has more
than 650,000 downloadable applications that include games, news
and travel tools for the iPhone and iPad. Though Google Play has
more than 600,000 for Android devices, Apple’s success with the
iPad has given it a greater lead in apps designed specifically
for tablets, said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at Gartner.  “At the moment, we don’t see the ecosystem being strong
enough to compete,” Milanesi said. “There’s just not enough
apps that give you a rich experience on the tablet as you have
at the moment with Apple.”  Creating applications for Android can take more time
because the software runs on many different devices, unlike
Apple’s platform, which works only on its own phones and
tablets.  Indeed, just three of the 20 most popular Android devices
held individual market share of greater than 6 percent last
month, according to research from  Flurry , a provider of app-
analytics software that tracks use of more than 100 million
devices globally. Only one phone, the Samsung Galaxy S II,
commands a double-digit market share among Android products.  Motorola Questions  While the tablet made with Asus may help Google with
developers, there’s still the question of what the company will
do with Motorola Mobility. Though Google has insisted that it
will continue to treat all partners fairly, the company can now
use the device maker to experiment and test what a tablet could
do with Android, Benchmark’s Moran said.  “The stock market investors have realized that Motorola is
a key part of their mobile strategy,” he said.  Google’s other major product unveiling today, the Nexus Q
media player, is a small orb that plugs into speakers and
televisions. Music and videos are managed via Google Play
through the device, which also enables access from friends’
devices.  While the Nexus Q has some similarities to the Apple TV
home-entertainment device, it could be challenging to sell
Google’s offering at a price that’s about three times as high as
its rival’s product, Gartenberg said.  Google+, Glasses  In addition to touting Android at the I/O event this week,
Google is using the conference to show off other products and
services. They include its  social network , Google+, which was
rolled out last year, along with the Chrome Web browser. The
event, running at Moscone Center through June 29, typically
draws thousands of developers.  Google+ now has more than 250 million users, the company
said today. It also unveiled Google+ applications for the iPad
and Android tablets.  Near the end of the event, co-Founder  Sergey Brin  led a
demonstration of Google’s Project Glass, eyeglasses that feature
software and cameras to give the wearer quick access to
information in a display above the eyes. The demonstration
included skydivers making a jump while wearing the glasses,
which sent live video to a broadcast at the event.  The glasses will be offered for $1,500 to developers at the
I/O event and will ship in early 2013, Brin said. The company
has a small team working on the project.  “We’ve just found it incredibly compelling,” Brin said.
“We’re trying to get that out to people as early as we can so
we can get that feedback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  