-- Gorman Says Wall Street Banks Don’t Need to Be Broken Up
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-06-27T17:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/gorman-says-wall-street-firms-don-t-need-to-be-broken-up.html
Morgan Stanley and the biggest U.S.
banks should remain intact, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 James Gorman  said, rejecting his predecessor’s assertion that
the firm would be worth more broken up.  “This is a knee-jerk discussion that’s been going on,”
Gorman, 53, said today in an interview with Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg’s “Market Makers” television program. “We need to
just calm down, let this play out with the new regulation, the
new capital rules, and at that point then figure out which
businesses to accelerate, and which businesses to slow down.”  Former Morgan Stanley CEO Philip J. Purcell wrote in an
opinion piece in yesterday’s Wall Street Journal that breaking
up the banks would be better for shareholders. The stocks of
five of the six biggest U.S. lenders -- JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Morgan Stanley -- are languishing at or below tangible book
value.  That means the pieces are worth more than the whole, said
Michael F. Price, who runs MFP Investors LLC in  New York . The
2008 financial crisis and subsequent performance of the
companies have called into question the universal bank model, in
which lenders offer customers everything from checking accounts
to derivatives trading.  Purcell led Dean Witter, Discover & Co. when it acquired
Morgan Stanley in 1997 and ran the combined company, then the
biggest U.S. securities firm, until 2005.  ‘Ironic Conclusion’  “The market is now discounting the stock prices of
financial institutions with investment banking and trading,”
Purcell wrote. “Breaking these companies into separate
businesses would double to triple the shareholder value of each
institution.”  Gorman, who said he hadn’t read Purcell’s column, called it
an “ironic conclusion,” given Purcell’s role in constructing
Morgan Stanley. The size of the large banks is driven by client
demands for global service, Gorman said.  Wells Fargo & Co .,
which is trading above book value, focuses on retail banking in
the U.S. and is less reliant than its rivals on trading.  Marc Lasry , the billionaire co-founder of Avenue Capital
Group LLC, said on Bloomberg Television that banks will have a
difficult time making money in coming years and weak stock
performance could lead boards to make changes. Davide Serra, the
former head of European bank research at Morgan Stanley who is
now managing partner at Algebris Investments, said on television
that the universal bank model “has through time been the
winning one.”  Weaker Trading  Morgan Stanley may earn 5 cents a share this quarter
excluding accounting adjustments tied to debt as it faces
“weaker trading volumes and significant client risk aversion,”
Ed Najarian, an analyst at International Strategy & Investment
Group Inc., said in a note yesterday. That’s down from 71 cents
in the first quarter. Najarian rates Morgan Stanley hold.  Europe  will progress toward solving its debt crisis and the
 U.S. economy  will show more signs of growth before its
presidential election in November, Gorman said. Employment in
the U.S. will improve once companies gain more certainty about
Europe, he said.  The Greek elections, support for Spanish banks and fiscal
restructuring in other European nations show that the region is
working “constructively” toward a solution, Gorman said. He
disagreed with billionaire investor  George Soros , who said June
24 that a failure by leaders meeting this week to produce
drastic measures could destroy the currency.  ‘Lehman Weekend’  “Working their way towards sharing that fiscal regime and
at the same time necessarily giving up part of their sovereignty
is an enormously taxing task,” Gorman said. “We shouldn’t
presume it can be done over a Lehman weekend, which is what our
sort of time frame is, and I just don’t think it’s helpful to
use that kind of extravagant language.”  A trigger event similar to the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. would be damaging and wouldn’t aid the
political process of fixing Europe’s problems, Gorman said.
Goldman Sachs President Gary D. Cohn said last week that
European policy makers need a Lehman-like moment to spur action.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s shares and debt rallied last week after
its long-term senior unsecured  credit rating  was reduced two
grades to Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, less than a
threatened three-level cut.  Morgan Stanley avoided the biggest potential downgrade
because of possible support from  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , its largest shareholder, according to Moody’s. Gorman
cited  capital ratios  in meetings with Moody’s to convince the
ratings company that a three-level cut wasn’t deserved.  Mitsubishi UFJ invested about $9 billion in Morgan Stanley
in 2008. The Japanese bank now owns 22 percent of the company,
valued at about $5.9 billion, and about $500 million of
preferred shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  