-- Greenberg, Paul Weiss, Wachtell, Crowell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/greenberg-paul-weiss-wachtell-crowell-business-of-law.html
SBA Communications Corp. (SBAC)  agreed to
buy 3,252 towers from TowerCo for $1.45 billion, its second
acquisition of wireless-network antennas this year as mobile
device carriers try to woo subscribers with faster connections.  Greenberg Traurig LLP provided legal counsel for SBA while
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP acted as legal
adviser to TowerCo.  The Greenberg team was led by Kara MacCullough, a Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, mergers and acquisitions and corporate
partner. Corporate partners Jennifer Westerlund and Kelly
Terribile assisted along with tax partner Harry Friedman; labor
and employment partner Todd Wozniak and employee benefits
partner Mindy Leathe.  Paul Weiss  corporate partner Bruce Gutenplan and real
estate partner Mitchell Berg worked on the deal.  SBA will pay $1.2 billion in cash and 4.6 million shares
for towers in 47 U.S. states and Puerto Rico, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. The transaction is expected to be
completed in the fourth quarter and the assets will produce as
much as $95 million in tower cash flow in 2013 for SBA.  The deal is Boca Raton, Florida-based SBA’s largest in at
least 13 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moves  Greenhill Hires Wachtell’s Gavin Solotar as General Counsel  Gavin Solotar, a partner at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz,
was hired as general counsel at Greenhill & Co., the advisory
firm founded by Robert Greenhill.  Solotar, 48, who will be a managing director in  New York ,
was a partner focused on mergers and acquisitions, corporate
governance and  securities law  at Wachtell Lipton, New York-based
Greenhill said yesterday in a statement. Solotar, who was at
Wachtell Lipton for 20 years, also will help develop client
relationships and advise on deals, according to the statement.  The investment bank is adding managing directors amid what
Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok, 53, has called a surge in
recruiting opportunities.  Solotar, who will begin work after Labor Day, “has a broad
range of relationships, both in the corporate world and the
legal community, as well as deep experience in structuring and
negotiating complex transactions,” Bok said in the statement.  Solotar advised America Movil SAB, the wireless carrier
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , on an agreement to boost
its stake in Telekom Austria AG, as well as Lazard Ltd.’s
reorganization and 2005 initial public offering,  Jeffrey Taufield , a Greenhill spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Crowell Hires Sommer to Chair Public Policy Group in Washington  Judah C. “Jud” Sommer, who most recently served as senior
vice president of government affairs for UnitedHealth Group,
joins Crowell & Moring LLP as senior counsel, where he will be
chairman of the firm’s public policy group.  Sommer has more than four decades of senior public policy
experience on  Capitol Hill  and in the private sector. At Crowell
& Moring, he will counsel clients on public policy matters with
a particular focus on financial services, health care,
environment, energy and general business issues.  Before working at UnitedHealth Group, Sommer was managing
director of Goldman Sachs & Co., where he created, oversaw, and
led the corporate government affairs functions for the
organization, the firm said. He was also formerly a partner at
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan.  “Jud’s substantial experience enables him to provide
clients a unique understanding of how to navigate the full range
of policy challenges in the rulemaking and legislative processes
on both sides of the aisle,” said Ellen M. Dwyer, managing
partner of Crowell & Moring.  Crowell & Moring has about 500 lawyers with offices in
 Washington , New York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco , Orange County,
 London , Brussels and Anchorage,  Alaska .  Winston & Strawn Hires Transactional Team in Shanghai  Winston & Strawn LLP said Brinton M. Scott joined its
Shanghai office as a partner along with two associates. They
were previously at Clyde & Co., the firm said.  Scott will focus on corporate, intellectual property and
employment law matters, including mergers and acquisitions,
joint ventures and foreign direct investments.  Scott, who is fluent in Mandarin, has worked in China for
almost 16 years. He has experience advising corporations on
acquisitions, buyouts, greenfields and foreign direct
investment.  “We are delighted to have this experienced transactional
team led by such a prominent practitioner as Brinton join us,”
David Hall-Jones, managing partner of the firm’s Asian offices,
said in a statement.  “Brinton, Jerry and Sabrina bring outstanding capabilities
that perfectly complement Winston’s preeminent corporate
practices and its maturing Asian footprint.”  Winston & Strawn has almosdt 1,000 lawyers at 15 offices in
 North America ,  Asia  and  Europe .  King & Spalding Hires New York Partners in Disputes Practice  King & Spalding LLP expanded its global disputes practice
by adding partners Henry G. “Harry” Burnett and James E.
Berger in its New York office.  Burnett joins from Crowell & Moring LLP, where he was head
of the international dispute resolution group and Latin America
practice, King & Spalding said. His practice covers
international arbitration, as well as business litigation in
federal and state courts.  Berger joins from Paul Hastings LLP, where he served as
counsel in the litigation department, focusing on complex cross-
border litigation, including enforcement proceedings and court
actions in international arbitration.  Edward G. Kehoe, co-head of King & Spalding’s international
arbitration practice, said in a statement that the two hires
“follow six other top global disputes partners that the firm
has added over approximately the past two years.”  King & Spalding has about 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the
U.S., Europe,  Middle East  and Asia.  Firm News  Seyfarth Shaw Establishes New Fraud & Abuse, False Claims Team  Seyfarth Shaw LLP started a fraud and abuse, false claims
and internal investigations team to provide clients with advice
on fraud and abuse, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and False
Claims Act investigations, and litigation.  The team, led by Frank Burke and Don Featherstun, comprises
35 attorneys who will represent clients such as health-care and
government contractors that face audits, investigations and
litigation, the firm said in a statement. They have regulatory
analysis, false claims, white collar crime, corporate internal
investigations and trials experience.  “By leveraging our decades of experience successfully
defending clients in these types of complex civil and criminal
proceedings, our team is uniquely positioned to serve clients,”
Featherstun said in a statement.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys in 10 offices
throughout the U.S., as well as in London.  Litigation  Vivendi to Appeal $956 Million Verdict to Liberty Media  Vivendi SA (VIV)  said it will appeal a $956 million verdict in a
lawsuit over its 2001 purchase from  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  of its
stake in USA Networks Inc.  A jury in Manhattan federal court agreed June 25 with
Liberty Media’s claim, filed in 2003, that Paris-based Vivendi
misled it about a liquidity crisis at the company, artificially
inflating the value of its shares, which it used to make the
purchase. The verdict is the largest in the U.S. this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The damage award is very gratifying,” said R. Stan Mortenson, a Baker Botts LLP lawyer representing Liberty Media.
“More importantly, Vivendi was told that it had done wrong.”  In December 2001, Vivendi agreed to buy the entertainment
business of  Barry Diller ’s USA Networks for $10.3 billion. As
part of the transaction, Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Media
received 37.6 million Vivendi shares for its stake in USA
Networks and a European television production company.  The jury of 12 delivered its verdict, in a trial that began
May 29, after two partial days of deliberations, according to
Mortenson. The verdict was denominated in euros, Mortenson said.
Jurors found Vivendi liable for fraud and breach of contract,
Liberty Media said in a statement.  Vivendi, the owner of the world’s largest music and video-
game companies as well as telecommunications assets, said in a
statement June 25 that it will appeal the verdict.  “Although Liberty expects the defendants to ask the court
to set aside the verdict during this process, Liberty is
confident that the court will deny that request and that the
jury’s decision will stand,” the U.S. company said.  “Vivendi believes that there are many grounds for appeal
and continues to believe strongly that it did nothing wrong and
will continue to vigorously defend itself in any subsequent
appellant proceedings,” the French company said.  Liberty Media intends to seek prejudgment interest, which
could almost double the award, according to Mortenson. Liberty
Media owns stakes in businesses ranging from cable programmer
Starz Media LLC to the Atlanta Braves baseball team.  The case is Liberty Media Corp. v. Vivendi Universal SA,
03-cv-02175, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 