-- Gunmen Attack Syrian State-Run TV Station, Killing Three
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-06-27T14:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/gunmen-attack-syrian-state-run-tv-station-killing-three.html
Gunmen attacked  Syria ’s pro-
government Ikhbariya television station, killing seven employees
a day after President Bashar al-Assad said the country is in a
state of war.  Three journalists and four guards at the channel’s
headquarters in Drousha, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) south of
Damascus, were tied up and shot dead, the Information Ministry
said in a statement on state-run Syrian TV. The attackers
ransacked and destroyed the studios, including the newsroom, and
planted explosives, the official SANA news agency said. The
channel continued to broadcast after the attack, it said.  Syria’s government is fighting a growing insurrection in
which more than 10,000 people have died, according to United
Nations estimates. At least 135 people were killed yesterday,
the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on its Facebook
page, and a further 35 today, according to the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria. Authorities have portrayed the
unrest as a conspiracy and the protesters as radical Islamists.  Kofi Annan , the UN special envoy on Syria, is convening a
conference of foreign ministers to discuss the situation on June
30 in Geneva, an event endorsed by U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  as a potential “turning point.”  The foreign ministers of the five permanent members of the
UN Security Council --  Russia , China,  France , Britain and the
U.S. -- and the head of the  Arab League  were invited, according
to an e-mailed statement from Annan’s spokesman today.  Iran  and
 Saudi Arabia  were not invited.  Monitoring Suspended  Annan proposed the conference after a UN monitoring mission
overseeing the two-month old cease-fire was suspended in the
face of continued fighting. That has put at risk the future of
the mission, which is up for renewal July 20.  The Independent International Commission of Inquiry on
Syria said in a report presented today to the UN  Human Rights 
Council in Geneva that the human-rights situation in Syria has
“deteriorated rapidly” since March. It said at least 435
people died in “increasingly militarized fighting” between
Feb. 22 and June 15.  Syria’s UN representative in Geneva, Faisal al-Hamawi, said
Syria may “be pushed to seriously think about stopping all
kinds of cooperation” with rights groups if they remain biased
and unable to offer constructive solutions to the conflict,
according to SANA.  Studio Debris  The television station attack “won’t go unpunished,”
Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said, according to SANA. He
blamed those who “instigate against Syria and escalate
terrorism against its people,” naming the European Union and
Arab and international organizations.  Footage of the studios broadcast on Syrian TV showed debris
covering the floor, with a small fire burning in the background.  The assault came a day after Assad, presiding over the
first session of a new Cabinet, told ministers that the country
is in “a state of real war.” He said that “all our policies,
directives and all sectors will be directed in order to gain
victory in this war.”  UN peacekeeping chief  Herve Ladsous , speaking to reporters
on June 13, described the conflict in Syria as a civil war.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  warned
yesterday that Syrian military units approaching his country’s
border would be attacked if they are deemed a threat. The
statement came after Syria shot down a Turkish warplane on June
22. Syrian authorities say it was flying over the country’s
territorial waters at the time, while Turkey says it was in
international airspace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  