-- Iceland’s Grimsson Sees Conflict as Record Re-Election Nears
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-06-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iceland-s-grimsson-sees-conflict-as-record-re-election-nears.html
Iceland  President Olafur R. Grimsson
predicted he’s the best person to steer the island nation
through more turmoil and controversy as he closes in on being
re-elected for a record fifth four-year term.  The 69-year-old, first elected in 1996, leads in the
opinion polls with 45 percent backing ahead of the June 30
election, according to the average of three surveys released
this month. Thora Arnorsdottir, a 37-year-old journalist and
television presenter, polls second of a total of six candidates,
garnering support of 37.7 percent, on average.  Grimsson in March unexpectedly announced he would run for a
fifth term, responding to a petition signed by almost 10 percent
of Iceland’s 320,000 people. The political science professor,
former party leader and finance minister is the only top
official to hold on to his position after a 2008 banking
collapse triggered the worst recession in six decades.  “Under normal circumstances I would have come to a
different conclusion, but more than 30,000 Icelanders, which is
a significant part of all the voters in Iceland, requested that
I continue,” he said in a June 21 interview in  Selfoss ,
southern Iceland. “Many significant matters that are likely to
lead to conflict and confrontations are going to be on the
agenda in the coming years.”  The island’s three-largest banks defaulted on $85 billion
in 2008 after an expansion abroad, plunging Iceland’s $13
billion economy into its worst recession since gaining
independence from  Denmark  in 1944. The government escaped
bankruptcy by refusing to back the banks, which allowed it to
speed up its recovery and emerge from a 33-month International
Monetary Fund rescue program in August.  Veto Powers  In a rare display of public outrage in the closely knit,
homogenous nation, Icelanders amassed at parliament with rocks
in 2009 to demand answers and accountability from the
government. Protests escalated into rock throwing, forcing
police to use teargas to disperse crowds at the legislature and
the offices of Prime Minister Geir Haarde, who was forced to
resign. A new coalition, led by Social Democrat Prime Minister
Johanna Sigurdardottir, was voted into office in early 2009.  Grimsson, who had promoted the Icelandic banks before the
crash, has also played an active role in its aftermath, tapping
into public resentment by using the rarely activated veto powers
of the largely ceremonial presidential post. He twice blocked a
parliamentary accord that sought to repay British and Dutch
depositors who had so-called Icesave accounts with failed lender
 Landsbanki Islands hf . Voters then rejected the agreement in a
referendum and Iceland is now being sued by the European Free
Trade Association for failing to honor depositors’ guarantees.  ‘Theatrical Play’  Grimsson has said his pre-crisis support for the banks was
based on assessments by Iceland’s Financial Supervisory
Authority, an agency that was later criticized for its failure
to supervise the industry.  Iceland’s  Special Investigative Commission , in a 3,000 page
report on the crisis published in April 2010, said Grimsson
bears “moral responsibility for the theatrical play.”  He “forcefully drew a beautified, arrogant and
nationalistic picture of the superiority of Icelanders, based on
old heritage,” according the report. “It’s noteworthy that
some of the qualities that the President thought were admirable
were exactly the characteristics that eventually led to their
and the nation’s demise.”  Political Arguments  To his main opponent, Grimsson has overplayed the power of
the presidency. Arnorsdottir, a mother of three young children
who gave birth to her youngest daughter on May 18, said she’s
running to rein in the power of position.  “I believe that the president shouldn’t be a politician
and that he shouldn’t participate in daily political
arguments,” she said in a telephone interview. “Those are
roles that should be carried out by the political parties and
the lawmakers in the legislature. The presidency needs to be
moved further away from the daily political discussions.”  Grimsson said he has  responded  to the call of the people to
provide stability. “Numerous polls have shown that over 90
percent of the Icelandic population doesn’t trust”  parliament ,
he said. “Under those circumstances, voters have called for a
president in Bessastadir that possesses both experience and is
reliable.”  Bessastadir  is the formal residence of the president.  The four remaining candidates, Ari Trausti Gudmundsson,
Herdis Thorgeirsdottir, Hannes Bjarnason and Andrea Johanna
Olafsdottir all average less than 10 percent of the vote in the
latest three polls.  Not Forget  The country is now in the midst of negotiating membership
with the  European Union , which is opposed by a majority, and is
also struggling to unwind  capital controls  in place to protect
the krona since 2008. At the same time, parliament is debating
changes to the constitution that would increase the powers of
the President and give voters greater opportunities to demand
referendums on debated subject matters.  The country’s economy will expand 3 percent this year and
3.9 percent in 2013, according to Icelandic lender  Arion Bank
hf . The output of the 17 countries sharing the euro will
contract 0.3 percent in 2012, before growing 1 percent in 2013,
the  European Commission  said on May 11.  “Let’s not forget that there’s an economic crisis still
engulfing some of the countries around us and there are
turbulent times ahead in Icelandic politics,” he said. “Among
them are the revision of the constitution of Iceland and the
European Union membership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  