-- Iceland Inflation Holds at 5.4% in June as Interest Rates Rise
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-06-27T09:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iceland-inflation-holds-at-5-4-in-june-as-interest-rates-rise.html
Iceland’s annual inflation rate was
unchanged this month after the island’s central bank raised
 interest rates .  Inflation was 5.4 percent in June, Reykjavik-based
 Statistics Iceland  said today on its website. Consumer prices
rose 0.5 percent in the month, the office said.  The central bank this month raised its benchmark rate by
quarter of a percentage point to 5.75 percent, the fifth
increase since August to steer Iceland’s recovery and ensure a
stable krona as capital controls are unwound. The bank targets
2.5 percent inflation.  “Raising interest rates in May and again now, in June, has
withdrawn some of that accommodation, as is appropriate in view
of the recovery of the real economy and the deteriorating
inflation outlook,” the  central bank  said in a June 13
statement. “As the recovery continues and spare capacity
disappears, it is necessary that the monetary policy slack
should disappear as well.”  The currency has slipped about 3 percent against the dollar
this year and strengthened 0.8 percent against the euro. It
plummeted as much as 80 percent in the offshore market against
the single currency following the island’s economic collapse in
2008.  The government in March closed a loophole in the island’s
 capital controls  it said had allowed short-term investors to
speculate on the krona. Iceland’s $13 billion economy will
expand 3.1 percent this year, the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said May 22.  “We anticipate that inflation will continue to subside in
the near term, assuming, of course, that the krona doesn’t
depreciate,” Ingolfur Bender, head of research at Islandsbanki
hf, said in a note prior to the release. “Our forecast is based
on the assumption that the krona will continue its seasonal
fluctuation pattern but will appreciate overall in coming
quarters. If it fluctuates in line with the conventional
pattern, it will appreciate until the fall, with the impact
making itself felt through the winter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 