-- Micex Rises Second Day on China Stimulus Bets, EU Debt Su
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-27T15:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/micex-rises-second-day-on-china-stimulus-bets-eu-debt-su.html
Russian stocks rose for a second day
as  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the nation’s credit rating, citing
low government debt levels.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 1.7 percent to 1,365.93 by the close
in Moscow, paring its first quarterly loss in three to 10
percent.  Power stocks  climbed, with Federal Grid Co. and OAO
MRSK Holding advancing on speculation the appointment of MRSK’s
deputy general director as deputy energy minister will spur
power-industry reforms. OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-largest oil
producer, gained after Interfax reported shareholders approved
interim dividend payments.  S&P affirmed its BBB long-term foreign debt rating for
Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, according to a
statement from the company today. China may introduce “more
proactive” policies to stoke growth in the world’s second-
largest economy, the  China  Securities Journal said.  Emerging-
market stocks  rose for a second day on expectations European
leaders will take action to tame the region’s debt crisis at a
meeting that starts tomorrow.  “In the absence of other positive factors, S&P’s rating
confirmation is causing a short-term surge,” Sergey Ezimov, a
portfolio manager at Wermuth Asset Management, which manages
$270 million in assets, said by phone.  Crude oil reversed losses in  New York , rising 1.1 percent.
Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state
revenue.  Worst Performers  MRSK, the country’s largest electricity distribution
company, jumped 10 percent to 1.750 rubles, the biggest gain on
the Micex and the biggest jump since August 2009. Federal Grid,
the high-voltage transmission monopoly, jumped 5.5 percent to
19.28 kopeks, the most on an intraday basis since June 6.  Federal Grid has lost 39 percent this quarter and MRSK has
fallen 47 percent, the worst quarterly performers on the
benchmark gauge.  Former MRSK deputy director Mikhail Kurbatov said his new
role in the energy ministry will make him “useful” for the
industry, according to an interview with RBC Daily published
today.  The Micex extended gains amid better-than-estimated U.S.
data on housing and durable-goods orders.  Russian stocks trade at 5 times  estimated earnings , having
retreated 2.6 percent this year. That compares with a 0.3
percent drop for MSCI’s emerging-market gauge which trades at
9.4 times projected earnings.  “The two-day EU summit opening tomorrow is without doubt
the most critical event in June,” VTB Capital analysts led by
Alexei Zabotkin, said in an e-mailed note. “The markets are
likely to remain in a holding pattern until word on the
agreements, or lack thereof, emerges from Brussels.”  The  Russian Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  jumped 1.5 percent to
1,481.26. The dollar-denominated RTS Index gained 1.4 percent to
1,306.82.  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  