-- Microsoft Challenge to EU’s 899 Million-Euro Fine Rejected
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-27T12:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/microsoft-challenge-to-eu-s-899-million-euro-fine-rejected-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  lost a European
Union challenge to an 899 million-euro ($1.1 billion) antitrust
fine, with a court saying it “essentially” upheld the penalty.  The EU General Court cut the fine by 39 million euros, or
4.3 percent, to 860 million euros in a ruling today. The
Luxembourg-based tribunal rejected all of Microsoft’s arguments
over the fine levied by the European Commission for the
company’s failure to obey an order to share data with rivals.  The fine was on top of Microsoft’s earlier penalties
of 497 million euros and 280.5 million euros in the antitrust
case and surpassed only by a 1.06 billion-euro levy against
 Intel Corp . during a period of EU scrutiny of U.S. technology
companies.  The court’s endorsement of the fines “is likely to
embolden the commission in pursuing procedural violations,”
said Suzanne Rab, a lawyer at King & Spalding LLP, Rab worked on
assignment at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in 2008 on matters
unrelated to its work monitoring Microsoft’s compliance with the
EU order, she said.  Microsoft’s Windows software powered 95 percent of
personal-computers in 2004, when EU regulators fined the company
a record 497 million euros and ordered it to offer a version of
the software without a music and video player. Now, amid a
global slump in PC sales, Microsoft is preparing to manufacture
its first tablet to challenge Apple Inc.’s iPad.  Fines Paid  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said while it was
disappointed, it paid the fine several years ago. The world’s
largest software company can challenge today’s decision at the
EU’s highest court, the  European Court  of Justice. Microsoft
didn’t appeal a court ruling it lost in 2007 that sought to
overturn the 2004 order, unaware that judges were split 7-6.  Today’s ruling backed the EU’s so-called  periodic penalty 
calculated because Microsoft was in breach of the EU order for
488 days, regulators said in 2008. The court cut the fine to
take into account a letter from the commission in 2005 that
accepted limits on Microsoft’s supply of information to open-
source software developers.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust chief, said the
judgment “fully vindicates the enforcement action that the
commission took to ensure Microsoft’s compliance with its
obligations,” paving the way for “a range of innovative
products that would otherwise not have seen the light of day.”  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy penalized for failing to comply with an
order. The company reached a settlement in 2009, which allowed
today’s appeal, in a bid to repair the company’s relationship
with the European Commission.  Microsoft is now on the other side of the fence, filing
complaints against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and what is now its Motorola
Mobility unit.  The case is T-167/08, Microsoft v. European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  