-- U.S. Highway Deal Nears as Keystone, Coal Ash Dropped
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-27T19:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/highway-deal-may-compromise-on-environment-as-deadline-nears.html
U.S. House and Senate negotiators on
highway construction legislation dropped provisions on the
Keystone XL pipeline and coal-ash regulation, removing two of
the most divisive elements preventing a deal.  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , the senior Senate Republican on
the conference committee negotiating the highway package, said
the provisions wouldn’t be in the final legislation, which he
said would be filed tonight.  “There are a few more things we need to do and then we’ll
be ready very soon,” Inhofe told reporters.  The  Highway Trust Fund , which enables the federal
government to pay for state road, bridge and mass-transit
projects, may run out of money if Congress can’t agree on long-
term legislation and resorts, as it has nine times already, to a
temporary extension of current law.  Without a long-term bill or extension, U.S. authority to
collect the 18.4-cents-a-gallon gasoline tax and spend on
highways and transit will run out June 30, cutting off money to
states for programs funded by the Highway Trust Fund such as
safety and repairs. Thousands of construction and government
workers would probably be idled.  Inhofe said he didn’t anticipate that the absence of
Keystone and coal ash provisions would threaten Republican
support for the bill in the Senate.  ‘One-Shot Deals’  “Keystone and coal ash are really sort of one-shot
deals,” he told reporters.  Florida Republican  John Mica , chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said the elements
under his panel’s jurisdiction are settled, including the
streamlining of environmental reviews of highway and bridge
projects.  “Loose ends are being tied together,” he said.  Kate Gilman, a spokeswoman for the Democratic-led Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee, didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  House and Senate negotiators have compromised on ways to
speed up the approval of federally funded projects,
Representative James Lankford said.  “Now it’s a matter of figuring out if that’s going to
work,” Lankford told reporters after members of the House-
Senate conference committee on highways briefed House Republican
leaders on their talks yesterday, four days before current
highway legislation expires. “All of us made concessions.”  Sticking Points  The goal of speeding environmental reviews has been one of
the main sticking points in talks between the House and Senate.
 House Republicans , including many of the 84 in their first
terms, have focused on cutting the length of time it takes to
complete highways and bridges built with U.S. funds, estimated
at an average of 13 years, according to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.  “That’s a really big deal for us,” Lankford, a first-term
Oklahoma Republican. He said five groups worked yesterday to
resolve House-Senate differences over parts of the
transportation measure. House Republicans also had objected to
U.S. policy that sets aside between 1 percent and 2 percent of
gasoline-tax revenues for non-road projects such as pedestrian
walkways and bike paths.  The highway measure will reduce the number of projects
funded and “streamline the regulatory process,” House Speaker
 John Boehner  told reporters this morning. He said the measure
allows “us to focus our highway dollars on fixing America’s
highways, not planting more flowers around the country.”  Student Loans  House Republican leaders plan to combine a multiyear
highway bill with a one-year freeze for government subsidized
student loan rates, Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said.  “We are moving, I think, towards an agreement on a
transportation bill that will also include a one-year fix on the
student loan rate” that otherwise would double to 6.8 percent
on July 1, he said.  Republicans and Democrats want to freeze student-loan
 interest rates  for a year. The question has been how to cover
the $5.9 billion cost. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, said yesterday that a tentative agreement had
been reached on that front.  Average Savings  A deal could save 7.4 million students an average of
$1,000, and President  Barack Obama  has made this a priority
since his  State of the Union  address, White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said in a statement.  “We hope that Congress will complete the legislative
process and send a bill to the president as soon as possible,”
Carney said.  On highway spending, lawmakers were pushing for a measure
that extends funding through September 2013, said Representative
Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican. That’s about the time
frame of a $109 billion measure the Senate passed on a
bipartisan 74-22 vote March 14. After efforts to approve its own
long-term bill fell apart, the House passed an extension of
current law April 18 to push discussions to a conference
committee.  “We’ve got to wait and see what the money is,” Shuster
said as talks continued. “The money is going to be the thing
that drives that.”  The goal is to finish by today with a final vote by June
29, the day before the funding authorization expires, he said.  Environmental groups and transportation advocates said
they’re concerned  Senate Democrats  may have made too many
concessions on such projects, said Kevin Mills, vice president
of policy and trail development at the Washington-based Rails-
to-Trails Conservancy.  “They’ve been tremendously cost-effective,” Mills said.
“We’re concerned there not be backtracking on these vital
programs.”  Still, dropping the Keystone and coal ash provisions gave a
victory to environmental groups and Democrats who had said the
proposals threatened the environment and public health.  Republicans said the Keystone project, which would carry
crude from  Alberta ’s oil sands to Gulf Coast refiners, would
create thousands of jobs and lower U.S. dependence on foreign
oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  