-- Iguatemi Bets Demand Backs More Malls: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-06-27T21:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iguatemi-bets-buyer-demand-backs-more-malls-corporate-brazil.html
Iguatemi Empresa de Shopping Centers
SA (IGTA3) , the third-largest mall operator in  Brazil , says growing
demand from consumers will help it weather a slowdown in retail
sales growth to a six-month  low .  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Jereissati is moving ahead
with investment plans and aims to open or expand eight malls by
2015. Retailers are struggling to meet current demand from
consumers in  Latin America ’s largest economy, justifying the
construction even if growth slows in the future, he said.  “We have in mind a Brazil that already grew, already
changed,” Jereissati, 40, said in a June 22 interview in  Sao
Paulo . “The Brazilian consumer is now closer to the world. He
travels more, knows more.”  Iguatemi’s 21 percent gain this year has outpaced the
Bovespa stock index as retail sales remained robust through the
first quarter. The company, whose price-to-earnings  ratio   makes
it the second-most expensive mall operator in Brazil, is little
changed since April as retail sales rose 6 percent that month
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since October.  “Although economic growth is decelerating, it’s still
growing,” Sandra Peres, a Coinvalores Corretora de Valores
analyst who has a hold  rating  on the stock, said in a telephone
interview. “The market can still handle more shopping
centers.”  New Malls  Iguatemi opened its 322.3 million-real ($154.8 million) JK
Iguatemi luxury mall in Sao Paulo on June 22, two months later
than expected after it couldn’t get the permits to build access
roads capable of handling the expected 20,000 daily shoppers on
time.  The Sao Paulo-based company is building malls in Ribeirao
Preto, Sorocaba, Jundiai and Sao Jose do Rio Preto and expanding
two shopping centers in  Porto Alegre , and two others in
Campinas. Iguatemi’s investment plan calls for 1.41 billion
reais of spending on new malls and 472 million reais for
renovations and expansions between 2011 and 2015.  Iguatemi expects net sales to rise 25 percent to 30 percent
in 2012, while the margin on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- a measure of profitability --
will reach about 70 percent by the end of the year, according to
its  first-quarter  earnings report on May 3. Iguatemi is
scheduled to release second-quarter results on Aug. 2.  Brazil’s retail sales rose 0.8 percent in April, after a
revised 0.3 percent growth in March, the national statistics
agency IBGE said on June 14. The gain was less than the 1.4
percent forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rival Operators  The Brazilian Association of Shopping Centers, known as
 Abrasce , expects 36 new centers to open this year, up from 22
last year, according to its website.  BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3) ,
Brazil’s largest operator by market capitalization, will open
three malls and expand two others by the end of the year, while
No. 2 operator  Multiplan Empreendimentos Imobiliarios SA (MULT3)  will
build four new malls as part of its 1 billion-real investment
plan, according to the companies’ first-quarter earnings
statements.  Iguatemi  rose  2.9 percent to 41.97 reais in Sao Paulo
trading. BR Malls increased 2 percent to 23.47 reais, while
Multiplan climbed 2 percent to 49.75 reais. For the year to
date, BR Malls and Multiplan are up 30 percent each, compared
with a 6.4 percent decline for the Bovespa index.  Iguatemi has a price-to-earnings ratio of 21.11, compared
with 24.69 for Multiplan and 20.04 for BR Malls.  Although economic expansion is slowing in the short term,
Iguatemi is betting that  consumer spending  in Brazil will
continue to grow in the middle term, Jereissati said.  “Our projects were designed thinking of an economy that
will grow in 2014, 2015,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  