-- IMF to Start Hungary Aid Talks After Central Bank Amendment
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-27T16:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/imf-gives-go-ahead-for-hungary-aid-talks-once-bank-law-modified.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
ready to start talks with  Hungary  on an aid package as soon as
legislators approve proposed changes to a disputed central bank
law, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “The proposed amendments and commitments address our key
concerns,” Lagarde said in a June 25 letter to the Hungarian
government and central bank, distributed to reporters in
Budapest today. “Once the proposed amendments are adopted, the
Fund will be ready to enter into negotiations on a joint IMF/EU
program together with our European partners.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is seeking to start official
negotiations on an IMF-led  credit line  following the breakdown
of preliminary talks in December after Hungary passed a central
bank law that the lender and the European Union said may curb
monetary-policy independence. Orban requested the aid in
November as the country’s credit grade was cut to junk and the
forint fell to a record low against the euro.  The forint, which fell as much as 0.8 percent today against
the euro, pared its loss to 0.2 percent and traded at 286.66 per
euro by 5:09 p.m. in Budapest. It has gained 9.9 percent against
the euro this year, the best performance in the world behind the
Colombian peso.  The benchmark three-year government bond advanced, cutting
yields 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.773
percent. The yield rose as high as 7.81 percent earlier today.  Law Changes  The government submitted amendments to the law on June 21.
The proposed changes affect the handling of information on
foreign-currency reserves, the powers of the rate-setting
Monetary Council, the number of policy makers, the dismissal of
MPC members and the governor of the central bank, according to
the amendments.  Orban also pledged not to enlarge the rate-setting Monetary
Council and to refrain from naming a third vice president to the
 Magyar Nemzeti Bank  before the end of President Andras Simor’s
term in March.  Lawmakers will vote on the amendments by July 12, opening
the way for aid talks from the middle of next month,  Mihaly Varga , Hungary’s chief negotiator for an aid deal, told
reporters in Budapest today. The government is waiting for the
opinion of the  European Central Bank  before approving the
amendments, Varga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  