-- India Rupee Drops a 2nd Day on Concern Europe Crisis Will Worsen
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-27T12:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/india-rupee-drops-a-2nd-day-on-concern-europe-crisis-will-worsen.html
India ’s rupee weakened for a second
day on concern  Europe ’s policy makers will be unable to prevent
their region’s debt crisis from worsening.  European leaders meet for two days in Brussels from
tomorrow and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said the talks
will be “very difficult.” German Chancellor Angela Merkel
yesterday repeated her opposition to common euro-area bonds. The
Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six major
trading partners, rose around 1 percent in the past week as
investors sought the perceived safety of the U.S. currency over
emerging-market assets.  “The global  currency markets  will be watching for cues
from the European Union summit, which will throw up some
statements in the next 48 hours,” analysts at Edelweiss
Financial Advisors Ltd., including Mumbai-based head of research
Vinay Khattar, wrote in a report today. Merkel “has already
pointed out that the summit will be a damp squib,” he wrote.  The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 57.1350 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
57.3275 on June 22, the weakest level on record. The currency
has dropped 11 percent this quarter, the worst performance since
the three months ended September 1991, and has weakened 7
percent this year. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 25 basis
points, or 0.25 basis points, to 12.1 percent.  Merkel told lawmakers in her ruling coalition that she
“doesn’t see” shared debt happening in the euro area, Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman, said in a text message yesterday.  India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  will head the  finance
ministry  until a successor to  Pranab Mukherjee  is appointed,
Pankaj Pachauri, communications adviser to the prime minister’s
office, said yesterday. Mukherjee resigned as finance minister
to vie for the nation’s presidency.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 58.23 per
dollar, compared with 58.06 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 58.29 from 58.21. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  