-- Indian Stock Rise on Optimism Government to Support Rupee
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-06-27T10:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/indian-stock-rise-on-optimism-government-to-support-rupee.html
Indian stocks advanced for a second
day on optimism Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  will take steps to
stem the rupee’s slide and revive a faltering economy after he
took charge today of the government’s finance portfolio,.  Infosys Ltd., the second largest software exporter, rose
the most in two weeks.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the second-biggest lender
by market value, climbed to a two-week high.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , the
largest tobacco company, gained for the first time in four days.
The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 0.3 percent to 16,959.05,
according to preliminary closing prices in  Mumbai . The gauge is
bound for its first quarterly loss since the three-month period
ended in December.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  resigned from his post
yesterday to contest presidential polls, leaving Singh with an
economy hobbled by slowing growth, elevated trade and budget
deficits and in-fighting that has stymied efforts to attract
investments. Mukherjee’s attempts this week to halt a slump in
the rupee by allowing foreign funds to buy more bonds fizzled,
leaving the currency close to its record low.  Singh will head the  finance ministry  until Mukherjee’s
successor is named, Pankaj Pachauri, communications adviser to
the prime minister’s office, said yesterday. Singh was finance
minister in the 1990s, sparking an economic turnaround that now
faces one of its sternest tests.  Overseas  funds  sold a net $33.8 million of domestic stocks
on June 25, paring their investment this year to $8.6 billion
rupees, data from the market regulator show. They cut holdings
by $273 million in May, a second month of net sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  