-- Minera IRL Says Argentine Restrictions Won’t Hurt Gold Project
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2012-06-27T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/minera-irl-says-argentine-restrictions-won-t-hurt-gold-project.html
Minera IRL Ltd. (MIRL) , a U.K. gold
producer with operations in  South America , won’t be affected by
Argentine government restrictions on imports of mining
equipment, President Diego Benavides said.  IRL’s South American unit, based in  Lima , will be allowed
to import any machinery not produced locally for its $60 million
Don Nicolas gold project in Argentina’s Santa Cruz province, he
said.  Coeur d’Alene Mines Corp.  said yesterday it will reduce
activity at its Martha gold mine in southern Argentina because
of rising operational costs.  “We won’t have any restrictions,” Benavides said
yesterday in a phone interview in Lima. “We have an agreement
with the authorities.”  IRL dropped the most since Dec. 14 in Lima trading
yesterday on investor concern over Argentine import restrictions
and speculation protests may resume in  Peru ’s southern highlands
where the company is developing its  Ollaechea  gold project, said
Carlos Rojas, a trader at Andino Asset Management SAC.  IRL shares plunged 10 percent to 70 cents. The stock has
slumped 39 percent this quarter.  “Any noise about mining will hit this project,” Rojas
said in an interview yesterday from Lima. “IRL’s Corihuarmi
mine only has another five years of production left, so the
company’s counting on the Ollaechea deposit.”  IRL produced 33,255 ounces of gold last year at its
Peruvian Corihuarmi mine.  Protests  Walter Aduviri, who headed demonstrations that forced the
government to suspend  Bear Creek Mining Corp. (BCM) ’s Santa Ana silver
project in the southern Andean Puno region last year, may resume
protests, Lima-based daily La Republica reported yesterday.
IRL’s $170 million Ollaechea deposit is located in the same
area.  Community protests in Peru have suspended projects operated
by  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , undermining a
government drive to attract $50 billion of mining investments
over the next decade.  IRL isn’t aware of any specific factors causing the stock’s
decline, Benavides said.  The company’s Ollaechea operation wasn’t affected by last
year’s protests, which occurred in a different part of the Puno
region, Benavides said. The company, which signed a 30-year
surface rights agreement for the project with villagers on June
7, enjoys good community relations, he said.  “I never shut my operations,” Benavides said. The
community protected the company when there were strikes in
surrounding areas, he said.  The company plans to have financing in place within six
months to develop the mines in  Argentina  and Peru, Benavides
said in a May 15 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  