-- Iniesta Rejects Ronaldo Rivalry to Focus on Euro Title Repeat
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-27T03:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iniesta-rejects-ronaldo-rivalry-to-focus-on-euro-title-repeat.html
Andres Iniesta  is rejecting personal
plaudits as his  Spain  team prepares to meet Cristiano Ronaldo’s
 Portugal  today for a place in the European Championship final.  Iniesta squirmed in his seat at the Donbass Arena in
Donetsk, Ukraine, yesterday as two of his teammates, Alvaro Arbeloa and Alvaro Negredo, were asked to describe the qualities
that have put the Barcelona midfielder in contention for the
best player award at the continental soccer championship.  “I don’t really wish personally for any such award,”
Iniesta, 28, told reporters. “The truth is the only thing I’m
thinking about right now is for Spain to go through to the final
and for Spain to lift the trophy again. That’s my only
preoccupation. Everything else is not important.”  Iniesta, who scored the winning goal that gave Spain its
first  World Cup  title in 2010, was the man of the match in two
of his team’s four games in Poland and Ukraine as it seeks to
become the first nation to repeat as European champion.  Following his extra-time goal at Johannesburg’s Soccer City
stadium two years ago in the World Cup final, the 5-foot-7 (1.7
meter) Iniesta described his contribution as “small.”  While Iniesta said he regards himself as another cog in a
team that hasn’t been eliminated from a European Championship or
World Cup tournament since a round of 16 loss to  France  in 2006,
opponents view him differently.  Iniesta’s Influence  France coach Laurent Blanc overhauled his team to counter
Iniesta’s combination play with left-back Jordi Alba in the June
23 quarterfinal. Blanc’s tactic of playing two right-sided
defenders in Anthony Reveillere and Mathieu Debuchy unraveled
within 19 minutes.  Iniesta wriggled past both players, forcing one to slip
over, before freeing Alba to cross for  Xabi Alonso  to head the
opening goal in a 2-0 victory.  The previous match, with a place in the last eight not
guaranteed and Group C rival Croatia threatening an upset,
Iniesta surged into the penalty area and passed for substitute
Jesus Navas to score the winning goal with two minutes left.  “We all know he’s a player with great qualities,” striker
Negredo said when asked to evaluate Iniesta. “When he has the
ball it is the decisive factor and that’s what makes the
difference on the pitch.”  Ronaldo, who had scored three goals for Portugal in its
past three tournaments, has also been influential at Euro 2012,
where’s he’s doubled that tally.  Three Goals  The world’s most expensive player scored twice in a 2-1
victory over the Netherlands that set up a meeting with the
 Czech Republic  in the quarterfinals, where he got the only goal
to move into a  four-way tie  atop the scoring list.  According to Spain coach Vicente  del Bosque , Spain must try
to “deactivate” Ronaldo, who is  ranked No. 1  on an index that
tracks player performances at the 16-team event.  “It’s logical there’s been so much talk about Ronaldo,”
Del Bosque said at a news conference. “We have to take notice
because he’s been an excellent player.”  Iniesta, who is ranked No. 5 on the tournament’s official
 Castrol EDGE Index , said he’d be happy for Ronaldo to leave with
the best player accolade as long as Spain returns home with the
championship trophy.  “It doesn’t matter who of the individual players wins
what,” Iniesta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Donetsk, Ukraine, via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  