-- Intel Is Among Tech Giants Opposing Kodak Technology Sale
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-06-27T12:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/intel-is-among-tech-giants-opposing-kodak-technology-sale.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Ricoh Co. (7752) ,  Nikon Corp. (7731) ,
 Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are among the high-
technology companies opposing Eastman Kodak Co.’s plan to sell
digital-imaging technology at an auction tentatively scheduled
for August.  Kodak filed court papers this month to set up procedures
for what it calls a “flexible, competitive sale process”
culminating in an auction. The technology companies filed papers
on June 25 objecting to key aspects of the proposed sale. The
 bankruptcy court  in  Delaware  will hold a hearing on July 2 to
decide if sale procedures pass muster.  The companies object to selling the technology if the
bankruptcy court simultaneously extinguishes licenses they
signed with Kodak for the use of patents. Generally, they take
issue with the proposition that the sale can eradicate their
rights and defenses with regard to the technology.  Motorola, like Intel, argues that the bankruptcy court
shouldn’t allow the technology to be sold with the proceeds
placed in escrow, for later allocation among those claiming an
interest. Motorola said it “cannot be compelled to accept money
satisfaction” in place of rights under patent licenses.  Intel and others said that selling free and clear, with
proceeds placed in escrow, “is simply not feasible.” The
companies contend that the bankruptcy judge can’t summarily rule
on their interests in technology through approval of a sale.  Instead, they say the extent and nature of their interests
can only be decided through a lawsuit, like the one Kodak filed
last week in bankruptcy court against Apple. In turn, Apple is
attempting to remove the suit from bankruptcy court, saying only
a federal district judge has the right to rule on patent
disputes.  Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due
2017 traded yesterday for 15.5 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit.  Other liabilities include $750 million in second-lien
notes, $406.1 million in convertible notes, and $252.4 million
in senior unsecured notes. Trade debt was $425 million.  Kodak’s case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Updates  Madoff Customers Raise New Defenses to Lawsuits  Customers of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
filed a 50-page brief raising new arguments and asking U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff to reverse an opinion he issued in
late April when he sided with the trustee and ruled that
fictional profits in an account statement can’t be used to
offset the trustee’s fraudulent transfer claims.  The brief was filed on behalf of customers in about 300
lawsuits that Rakoff is handling together. The trustee will be
filing his brief on July 25. The customers will file reply
papers on Aug. 8 in anticipation of oral argument in Rakoff’s
courtroom on Aug. 20.  Rakoff’s April 30 opinion denied customers’ defenses in 84
cases based on the notion that securities laws gave them the
right to rely on account statements although no securities in
reality were ever purchased.  Rakoff told customers’ lawyers in the 300 cases to raise
new theories not addressed in the April 30 opinion. The
customers responded with several arguments they contend are
“issues of first impression” giving them the ability to fend
off fraudulent transfer suits for taking out more principal than
they invested.  Among other arguments, the customers contend they have the
right to use claims for interest, consequential damages, and
lost opportunity costs to offset the trustee’s fraudulent
transfer claims. To read about Rakoff’s April 30 opinion, click
here for the May 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Rakoff has ruled through a series of opinions that
customers in substance don’t have defenses when sued for
fictional profits received within two years of bankruptcy. In
the process, Rakoff precluded trustee  Irving Picard  from suing
to recover profits going back six years from bankruptcy. The
issue of whether Rakoff was wrong in limiting suits to two years
is going up on appeal to the  U.S. Court of Appeals .  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The mass cases are being handled by Rakoff in Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 12-mc-00115, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation in
bankruptcy court is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AMR Would Have Been Break-Even Absent Bankruptcy Cost  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the parent of  American Airlines  Inc., would have
been roughly break-even in May were it not for expenses
associated with Chapter 11 reorganization.  The airline reported a $132 million net loss for May on
operating revenue of $2.17 billion, according to an operating
report filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.  Operating income of $55 million in the month turned into a
net loss as the result of $55 million in interest expense and
$134 million in reorganization costs.  The Chapter 11 costs were composed of $23 million in
professional fees and $111 million from renegotiation and
rejection of leases and financings for aircraft and facilities.  June 29 is the current deadline for the airline to reach
agreements with unions on new contracts. Absent a consensus on
concessions, the bankruptcy judge must rule on whether AMR can
modify existing contracts with unions for pilots, flight
attendants and mechanics. Negotiations are complicated because
the unions have a stated preference for merging with  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)   AMR, based at the airport midway between  Dallas  and Fort
Worth,  Texas , listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  LightSquared’s ‘LP’ Lenders Object to Cost Allocations  Some secured lenders to LightSquared Inc. are questioning
how the expenses of the Chapter 11 case should be allocated
between the company and affiliate LightSquared LP.  Some of the so-called LP lenders disagree with the idea of
charging 80 percent of costs to LP under the proposed financing
agreement. They are owed $1.7 billion from a secured borrowing
in October 2010 by LightSquared LP.  The LP lenders noted in their court filing that the company
says LP is “wildly solvent.” Consequently, they contend
expenses should be charged to LightSquared Inc. or its
shareholders.  There will be a hearing tomorrow in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan for interim approval of a $30 million credit to
help finance the Chapter 11 effort. The LP lenders aren’t
opposing interim approval of financing. The new facility is
being provided by the so-called Inc. lenders owed $322.3
million.  LightSquared already has approval to use incoming cash
representing collateral for both the Inc. lenders and the LP
lenders.  LightSquared is developing a wireless communications
systems using earth-based and satellite technology. It filed in
Chapter 11 on May 14 after the Federal Communications Commission
denied permission to build out the system on concern it would
interfere with reception by global positioning devices.  Assets were listed for $4.48 billion, with liabilities
totaling $2.29 billion. The company says it spent $4 billion
developing the satellite system.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC acquired LightSquared in March 2010 for
$1.05 billion in cash.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Colgan Air Crash Victims Seeking Punitive Damages  Three years before  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ)  filed for
Chapter 11 protection, its Colgan Air Inc. flight 3407 crashed
near Clarence Center, New York, on Feb. 12, 2009 during an ice
storm. The crash has been blamed on crew fatigue, pilot error,
inclement weather and inadequate training.  Ensuing lawsuits were halted by Pinnacle’s filing for
bankruptcy reorganization. Pinnacle and the victims’ families
are now fighting over whether the lawsuits can continue and on
what terms.  Colgan offered to allow the suits to go forward seeking
punitive damages, so long as the plaintiffs would collect only
from insurance. The plaintiffs refused the offer, seeking to
have punitive damages assessed against the bankrupt company in
the event insurance was exhausted or not available.  The airline is in bankruptcy court today opposing the
plaintiffs’ request for modification of the so-called automatic
stay allowing the suits to go ahead seeking punitive damages.
Colgan is opposing, saying that punitive damage awards could be
“among the largest unsecured claims in these cases” if not
payable by insurance companies.  The plaintiffs also want the judge to require Colgan to
turn the insurance policies over to them. Colgan allowed some
suits to go ahead and settle when the plaintiffs agreed to
collect only from insurance.  Pinnacle, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , began a Chapter 11
reorganization on April 1 in Manhattan, listing assets of $1.54
billion against debt totaling $1.43 billion. At the time,
Pinnacle was providing service as Delta Connection, United
Express and US Airways Express.  In addition to $74.3 million in financing for the
bankruptcy provided by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , secured debt
includes $690 million owing to Export Development Canada and $34
million on a revised loan with an affiliate of  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)   For the nine months ended Sept. 30, there was an $8.8
million net loss on $938.1 million in operating revenue.
Operating income in the period was $23.1 million. Net income was
$12.8 million in 2010 on operating revenue of $1.02 billion.  The case is In re Pinnacle Airlines Corp., 12-11343, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Yucaipa’s Two AFA Plants Sold for $11.6 Million  AFA Foods Inc. , a ground-beef processor controlled by
Yucaipa Cos., received authority from the bankruptcy judge at a
hearing yesterday to sell two plants for a combined
$11.6 million.  Tri West Investments LLC, having submitted the only bid, is
buying the plant in  Los Angeles  for $4.4 million. FPL Food LLC,
in an auction with another bidder, came out on top with an offer
of $7.2 million for the Georgia plant.  AFA was one of the largest ground-beef producers in the
U.S. It filed for Chapter 11 protection on April 2 in Delaware
after publicity about so-called pink slime “dramatically
reduced the demand for all ground beef products,” the company
said.  The Chapter 11 case is being financed with a loan of about
$60 million provided by existing lenders General Electric
Capital Corp. and  Bank of America Corp.   AFA said that assets are on the books for $219 million,
with debt totaling $197 million. Liabilities at the outset
included $11.5 million on a  term loan  and $47.9 million on a
revolving credit owed to first-lien lenders GECC and Bank of
America.  A Yucaipa affiliate has a $75.6 million second lien. There
was $60 million owing to trade suppliers, according to court
filing.  Pink slime is the name commonly given to what AFA calls
boneless lean beef trimmings, a beef-based additive that serves
as filler for ground beef. The product was made by rendering
trimmings at low temperature and using ammonium hydroxide to
kill bacteria.  AFA’s products were sold under brand names Moran’s, Stone
River Ranch and Miller Quality Meats. Yucaipa created the
company through several acquisitions since 2008. Los Angeles-
based Yucaipa owns 92 percent of the common stock and all of the
preferred stock, in addition to the second-lien debt. Revenue in
2011 was $958 million.  The case is In re AFA Investment Inc., 12-11127, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Ritz Camera Has Interim Approval for $3 Million Loan  Ritz Camera & Image LLC , the operator of 265 camera stores
and an Internet business, filed for Chapter 11 reorganization
for a second time on June 22 and was given approval three days
later for an interim $3 million loan.  At a final financing hearing on July 17, the financing will
increase to a $15.6 million revolving credit and a
$4.9 million term loan.  Ritz, based in Beltsville,  Maryland , calls itself the
largest camera-store chain in the U.S., with net sales of
$254 million for the year ended in April. Stores will be shed
during Chapter 11, the company said.  Pre-bankruptcy debt includes $16.3 million owing to Crystal
Financial LLC, a secured lender with liens on all assets.  The camera stores and the Internet business were both in
bankruptcy before. The stores currently operate under names
including Ritz Camera, Wolf Camera and The Camera Shop.  The new case is Ritz Camera & Image LLC, 12-11868, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  The prior case for the camera stores was In re RCC
Liquidating Corp., 09-10617, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  The prior case for the websites was In re Ritz Interactive
Inc., 11-21690, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District
California (Santa Ana).  4Kids Sale Approved with Excess for Shareholders  4Kids Entertainment Inc. (KIDEQ) , a producer of children’s
entertainment and a licensor of merchandising rights, received
approval yesterday from the bankruptcy court in New York to sell
the business for $15 million to two buyers.  The price will pay creditors in full, with a
“substantial” amount left over for owners, the company said in
a court filing.  An affiliate of Tokyo-based  Konami Corp. (9766)  is purchasing the
licenses for the Yu-Gi-Oh! animated television programs. Kidsco
Media Venture LLC, affiliated with Saban Capital Group Inc., is
buying the programming agreement with the CW Network LLC.  The eventual sale represented a $3.2 million improvement
over the $11.8 million bid Saban made for all the assets at
auction. After the auction, 4Kids worked out a joint offer that
improved the effective net sale price.  Konami develops video-game software and arcade games.  4Kids previously generated $9 million from a settlement
with the owner of the licenses for Yu-Gi-Oh!. The settlement
followed a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman
in Manhattan concluding that the license wasn’t terminated
before bankruptcy.  4Kids filed for Chapter 11 protection in April 2011 to
prevent the termination of the licenses. 4Kids produced
programming shown on the five-hour Saturday morning program
block on stations affiliated with the CW Network.  The Chapter 11 petition listed assets for $23.4 million and
debt of $16.5 million. The company reported a $27.2 million net
loss in 2010 on revenue of $14.5 million. The operating loss for
the year was $20.4 million. Selling, general and administrative
expenses were about twice revenue.  The Chapter 11 case is In re 4Kids Entertainment Inc.,
11-11607, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Hawker Beechcraft Reports $89.7 Million Loss in May  Aircraft manufacturer Hawker Beechcraft Inc. reported a net
loss of $89.7 million in May on sales of $144.8 million.  The cost of sales exceeded revenue by $3.3 million,
according to the operating report filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan. The net loss stemmed mostly from a $33
million operating loss and $43.8 million in interest expense.
Reorganization costs were another $4.8 million.  The Wichita, Kansas-based designer and manufacturer of
light and medium-sized jet, turboprop and piston aircraft filed
for Chapter 11 reorganization on April 3 after negotiating a
plan to be filed by June 30. The plan will be designed for the
conversion of all secured and unsecured debt into equity. For
details on the plan, click here for the May 8 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Revenue was $2.34 billion in 2011. Total debt for borrowed
money is $2.38 billion, according to a court filing. Other
claims include pensions underfunded by $493 million.  The $183 million in 8.5 percent senior unsecured notes due
in 2015 traded on June 22 for 19.3 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The $302 million in 8.875 percent senior unsecured notes
due in 2015 traded on June 5 for 15.5 cents, Trace said. The
$145 million in 9.75 percent senior subordinated notes traded on
May 18 for 3.05 cents on the dollar, according to Trace.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Paulson, Winthrop Resorts Report $9.8 Million Loss  The resorts owned by Paulson & Co. and  Winthrop Realty
Trust (FUR)  reported a net loss of $9.8 million in May on revenue of
$35.2 million.  The operating report filed with the bankruptcy court in New
York shows an $8 million loss from continuing operations. The
month’s loss stemmed largely from $7 million in interest expense
and $5.5 million in charges for depreciation and amortization.  The  Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Miami  was sold to  Donald Trump , reducing mortgage debt by at least $140 million, the
resort operators said. The remaining resorts are the Grand
Wailea Resort Hotel and Spa in Hawaii; the La Quinta Resort and
Club and the PGA West golf course in La Quinta, California; the
 Arizona  Biltmore Resort and Spa in Phoenix; and the Claremont
Resort & Spa in Berkeley, California.  After foreclosing last year, Paulson and Winthrop put all
five resorts into bankruptcy in February 2011 to prevent
foreclosure of $1 billion in mortgages and $525 million in
maturing mezzanine debt.  The properties listed assets of $2.2 billion and
liabilities of $1.9 billion. An affiliate of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
purchased the five resorts in 2007 for $4 billion. Revenue in
2010 was $465 million.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Filing  Colorado’s Cordillera Golf Club Files in Delaware  The owner of the four-course golf club at the  Cordillera 
resort community in Edwards,  Colorado , filed for Chapter 11
protection yesterday in Delaware as the result of what the club
called a “mass exodus of members.”  The club is located at the 7,000-acre Cordillera
development, which has 1,087 residential lots. Non-equity club
membership is open to community residents. The club has three
golf courses, one short course, five swimming pools and tennis
facilities.  Debt includes $12.7 million owing to senior lender Alpine
Bank. Owner David Wilhelm is owed $7.5 million, according to
court papers. Assets and debt both exceed $10 million, according
to the petition.  The club blames bankruptcy on a “small but vocal minority
of current and former club members” who undertook a campaign
intended to force a sale at a below-market price, according to
court papers. Litigation is outstanding between the club and
members who resigned “in substantial numbers” and boycotted
the facilities, court filing states.  The club intends to use Chapter 11 to sell one of the
courses. Only portions of the facilities are currently
operating, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Cordillera Golf Club LLC, 12-11893, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Watch List  Stockton, California, Votes to File Bankruptcy  Stockton, California, will be filing for Chapter 9
municipal bankruptcy after the city council voted 6-1 yesterday
to adopt a budget for operating in bankruptcy.  The filing may be made today.  The budget calls for defaulting on $10.2 million in debt
payments and cutting $11.2 million in employee pay and benefits
under union contracts. For the Bloomberg story, click here.  Stockton will be the largest U.S. city to file bankruptcy.  The city council previously voted to authorize the city
manager to file for Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy absent
concessions from creditors.  The state-mandated period for mediation ended June 25.  Downgrade  Satellite Photographer GeoEye Downgraded to B- by S&P  GeoEye Inc. (GEOY) , a provider of high-resolution satellite
photographs, said on June 25 that it may lose a significant
chunk of government business and as a result received a two-
notch downgrade yesterday from  Standard & Poor’s .  The new corporate rating is B-.  There is a “heightened risk” of lower revenue from the
government later this year or next, S&P said. The government
program being cut provided 41 percent of revenue. Government
contracts produced 64 percent of a year’s revenue, S&P said.  Based in Herndon, Virginia, GeoEye reported $13.2 million
of net income in the first quarter on revenue of $89.3 million.
For 2011, revenue of $356.4 million generated net income of
$46.9 million.  GeoEye rose 1.9 percent yesterday to $14.51 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The stock dropped 22 percent the previous day,
following the announcement.  Statistics  Junk Defaults to Remain Benign, Moody’s Predicts  The decline in the stock market since early May and the
turmoil in Europe aren’t reflected in statistics predicting
bankruptcy among junk-rated companies.  The list of non-financial companies with junk ratings of B3
or below and with negative outlooks includes 166 names, compared
with 176 three months ago and 174 a year ago, according to a
June 25 report from Moody’s Investors Service. There are 1,250
companies with junk ratings from Moody’s.  The current default rate is 11.7 percent for companies with
B3 negative or lower ratings. During the height of the
recession, in 2009, the comparable default rate was 47 percent
and 300 companies were on the list of lowest-rated junk
companies.  Moody’s continues predicting that the default rate will
remain benign for junk-rated companies. Currently at 3.1
percent, the junk default rate will rise to 4 percent in October
before declining to 3 percent a year from now, Moody’s predicts.  The average junk default rate since 1992 is 4.6 percent,
Moody’s said.  Daily Podcast  Houghton Mifflin Venue, Hostess Union Opinion: Bankruptcy Audio  Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co., the educational
publisher, shouldn’t have filed its prepackaged bankruptcy
reorganization in New York, according to the opinion discussed
on the podcast with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg
News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle. The ruling may have
significance as a precedent for future cases, although the
practical importance for Houghton is limited because the judge
also approved the Chapter 11 plan. Analyzing a decision by
another bankruptcy judge in New York, Rochelle uses the
reorganization of Hostess Brands Inc. to explain why a
bankruptcy court can’t modify a union contract that expired by
its terms. The podcast wraps up by discussing a case in
Chattanooga, Tennessee, where a lender was bound by
representations its lawyer made in court even though the Chapter
11 plan was to the contrary. To listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 