-- Intuit Aims to Add $1.7 Billion in Sales of Simpler Software
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-27T14:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/intuit-seeks-to-add-1-7-billion-in-sales-with-simpler-software.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU) , the 30-year-old maker
of tax and accounting software, is embarking on a customer-
acquisition blitz to add $1.7 billion in sales in three years.  The company is simplifying questionnaires on tax-
preparation software so that it demands less data up front,
Chief Executive Officer  Brad Smith  said yesterday in an
interview. It’s using plainer language to keep potential
customers from dropping off before they file their returns and
pay Intuit, he said.  Smith wants to increase the percentage of repeat users of
 products  such as TurboTax or the Quicken personal-finance tool.
The aim is to boost the return rate to 8 percent from 2 percent
on the low end, add as many as 5 million customers and boost
annual revenue by $1.7 billion over three years, Smith said.  “People coming in and filing their taxes want to first
test-drive it and see that it’s easy,” Smith said. “We used to
ask for things that were almost like asking for a pre-nup during
the first date at a bar.”  Sales in the year that begins Aug. 1 may increase 10
percent to $4.63 billion, according to analysts’ predictions
compiled by Bloomberg.  Aaron Patzer, the founder of Mint.com, which Intuit bought
for $170 million in 2009, is coaching other managers on making
their online software more user-friendly as well, Smith said.  Smith is keen to improve the company’s financial
performance. Intuit’s fourth-quarter forecast missed analysts’
estimates.  Intuit ‘Disappointed’  Revenue of $1.95 billion in the fiscal third quarter,
typically the company’s largest for sales and profit, came in at
the low end of its forecasts. Revenue in the current fiscal year
will rise 9.4 percent to $4.21 billion, analysts predict.  “I love working for a company that is seriously
dissatisfied with revenue growth in the 9 to 10 percent range,”
Chief Financial Officer Neil Williams said in a separate
interview. “Most people are disappointed with where the year
ended up.”  Intuit isn’t taking sufficient advantage of its ability to
sell tax and accounting software customers other products from
its broad lineup, said  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen &
Co. in  San Francisco .  Smith is also using  acquisitions  to move the  Mountain View ,
California-based company beyond its roots in financial
management and tax software, which account for about 70 percent
of revenue. It’s bought seven companies in the past three years
to diversify into mobile apps, Web banking and other areas.  Using Mint  Intuit spent $20 million in April for AisleBuyer LLC, a
Boston-based  software developer  whose iPhone app lets shoppers
scan bar codes on store shelves, then pay without waiting at the
register. A month later it paid $423.5 million for Demandforce,
an e-mail  marketing company  that lets dental offices, auto shops
and spas book appointments and talk with customers through
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc.  The company is also using acquisitions like Mint to enliven
older franchises. This year, Intuit plans to introduce a
redesigned version of Quicken that includes technology from Mint
for tapping into the personal finance software from mobile
devices.  “The world has shifted to the palm of our hand, or a
tablet,” Smith said. “We hadn’t been investing in Quicken that
way.” Intuit is also testing a version of Mint for small-
business accounting and considering a version for banks that the
 software company  could charge for, Smith said.  Acquiring Growth  The company,  founded in 1983  to harness emergent personal
computers as a replacement for checkbook ledgers, grew largely
through acquisitions. Its TurboTax business, which accounts for
about a third of sales, resulted from a 1993 purchase of tax-
prep software maker Chipsoft. Five years later Intuit bought
Lacerte Software, a maker of tax programs for accountants.  “There’s a DNA part of Intuit over the years that grows
through acquisitions,” said Williams. “It’s part of who we
are.”  Not every deal has worked out. The company took a writedown
on Medfusion, a maker of medical-office software bought for $91
million in 2010, after misreading the regulatory and competitive
landscape, Smith said.  “That’s been a disappointment,” he said.  Smith has overseen a period of rising  market value  since
taking the reins at the beginning of 2008. Shares of Intuit have
climbed 57 percent in the past two years through yesterday. The
stock 1.3 percent to $57.74 at 10:16 a.m. in  New York .  To keep investors satisfied and eclipse Wall Street’s
expectations for 9 percent to 10 percent growth in coming years,
Intuit will need to turn more people who peruse its websites
into paying customers and avoid acquisition missteps.  “At the end of the day, we have higher aspirations for how
far up the double-digit chain we can go than what’s in the
Street model,” said Smith. “But we have to deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  