-- IPhone 5 Bar Raised by Samsung’s S III: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-06-27T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iphone-5-bar-raised-by-samsung-s-s-iii-rich-jaroslovsky.html
For five years, every new smartphone
has faced the same simple question: Is it better than an iPhone?  For a long time the answer was an automatic no. But the
newest generation of devices running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system is making it a closer call.  HTC (2498) ’s standout One X landed on U.S. shores earlier this
month. Now two more contenders seek to raise the stakes for the
iPhone upgrade  Apple (AAPL)  is expected to unveil this fall: Samsung’s
new flagship, the Galaxy S III, and the Xperia Ion, the first
phone to appear solely under the Sony name.  Of the two, the Samsung is the more ambitious and more
successful. In a break from the company’s usual strategy of
creating multiple, slightly different models under different
names, it’s launching the Galaxy S III on all four major U.S.
carriers:  AT&T (T) ,  Verizon Wireless ,  Sprint (S)  and  T-Mobile. (DTE)   The versions are identical save for some under-the-hood
variations to allow them to run on the different networks. Both
the AT&T and  Verizon (VZ)  versions run on those carriers’ LTE
networks, which means they’re considerably faster than the
iPhone at accessing the Web. On the other hand, the iPhone has
better battery life.  Comfortably Thin  The Galaxy S III, which runs the latest “Ice Cream
Sandwich” version of Android, is a big phone that somehow
manages not to feel big. Its screen measures a relatively
gigantic 4.8 inches -- the iPhone is only 3.5 inches -- but it’s
so thin (.34 of an inch) and light (4.7 ounces) that it still
feels comfortable.  Typical for a  Samsung (005930)  device, the image quality is
dazzling. The company’s Super AMOLED technology may not quite
match the specs of Apple’s Retina Display, but to this naked eye
seemed every bit its equal.  I was similarly impressed with the eight-megapixel camera,
particularly its “Burst” mode. Hold the shutter button down,
and the S III will snap up to 20 photos at a rate of almost
three per second. A best-picture mode will analyze similar
photos and recommend the one most worth keeping.  The Galaxy S III bristles with features designed to stamp it
as cutting-edge. A number of them, though, are more impressive
in concept than execution.  For instance, “S Beam” lets you instantly share photos,
videos and other files merely by tapping the back of your phone
to the back of a friend’s. Sounds neat -- but it’s hard to set
up and, oh yeah, it only works if your friend happens to have an
S III too.  Challenging Siri  Then there’s S Voice, Samsung’s answer to Siri, the
personal assistant on the iPhone 4S. Here’s one typical exchange
I had with it:  Me: “Hi, Galaxy.” (This is S Voice’s wake-up phrase.)  S Voice: “Nice to meet you.”  Me: “Where can I find a good burger around here?”  S Voice: “I’m sorry, I don’t have the answer. Would you
like to search the Web?”  Me: “Yes.”  S Voice: “That’s good to know.”  Nothing happens, and the screen goes dark.  Me: “Hi, Galaxy.”  S Voice: “Nice to meet you.”  Siri, on the other hand, immediately replied with a list of
15 nearby restaurants, sorted by customer ratings.  The Galaxy S III starts at $200 for a model with 16
gigabytes of storage on a two-year data contract. Pricing and
configurations will vary depending on the carrier.  Sony Xperia  Sony (6758) ’s Xperia Ion is available in the U.S. only on AT&T.
It’s Sony’s first phone since the company’s breakup with
 Sweden ’s  Ericsson (ERICB) , and you can tell it was designed to make a
splash.  For one thing, it runs over the LTE network, so you can
expect excellent web speeds as long as you’re in an area with
coverage.  For another, it’s the handsomest Xperia I’ve seen, a smooth
black surface whose sharp corners are set off by a gently curved
back. The screen measures 4.6 inches, less than the Samsung but
still generous, and the device weighs 4.9 ounces, about the same
as an iPhone.  But there are compromises. To get that sleek profile,
Sony’s designers hid the USB charging and high-definition video
ports behind a flimsy, hard-to-open flap. It also comes with an
outdated version of Android -- Sony says it will eventually get
an update -- and, though the phone is touted as compatible with
games for Sony’s handheld Playstation devices, none is available
yet.  The Xperia Ion does have some other things going for it: a
12-megapixel camera, for one. And then there’s price: A 16-
gigabyte model on a two-year contract costs only $100, or $50 on
special offers from Sony and  Best Buy. (BBY)   With its vast universe of high-quality apps and unmatched
ease of use, the iPhone is still the benchmark against which
every other phone is measured. But as we wait to see what Apple
has in store, for now the margin has narrowed.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  reviews and art  auctions .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 