-- Iraq’s Maliki May Call for Early Elections If Dialogue Fails
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l   A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-06-27T13:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iraq-s-maliki-may-call-for-early-elections-if-dialogue-fails.html
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki
will call for early elections if dialogue fails to resolve a
political crisis, his media adviser Ali al-Moussawi said.  Moussawi was clarifying a statement on Maliki’s website
that said “the prime minister has found himself forced to call
for early elections” in accordance with the constitution.  “He wanted to say that if you don’t accept dialogue, then
we will go to early election because problems won’t be resolved
this way,” Moussawi said in a telephone interview in  Baghdad 
today. “He has said this in previous statements.”  Violence and political clashes in Iraq have increased since
the end of December when the U.S. pulled out its remaining
troops from the country. The Sunni Muslim-backed al-Iraqiya
coalition has boycotted parliament and Cabinet sessions for
weeks to press demands for more power-sharing with the Shiite
Muslim prime minister’s alliance.  Prominent political blocs have started a procedure to
question Maliki in parliament on charges of abuse of power, and
the prime minister’s coalition responded by threatening to hold
a vote of no-confidence in Parliament Speaker Usama al-Nujaifi,
who is a member of the al-Iraqiya bloc. A planned national
meeting to resolve political disputes was postponed
indefinitely, al-Nujaifi said on April 4.  Iraq  is seeking investment and expertise to develop the
world’s fifth-largest crude oil reserves. The central government
and the semi-autonomous Kurdistan authority are also locked in a
dispute over oil revenue that prompted the Kurds to halt
shipments of their crude through the country’s main export
pipeline on April 1. The two sides have also traded accusations
about suspected crude oil smuggling to neighboring  Iran .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad, Iraq, through the Dubai newsroom at
   kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  