-- Iron-Ore Price Forecast Lowered by Australia as China Cools
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-06-27T11:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/iron-ore-price-forecast-lowered-by-australia-as-china-cools-1-.html
Australia, the world’s biggest  iron
ore  exporter, cut its price forecast and said rates may decline
11 percent from last year as slowing growth in  China , the
largest buyer, curbs demand.  The steelmaking raw-material will average $136 a metric ton
in 2012, the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said in a
 report  today. That compares with $140 estimated by the Canberra-
based bureau in March and an average of $153 last year.
Shipments from the country may total 479 million tons, down from
the 493 million tons predicted in March, it said.  Prices dropped 2.2 percent this year as the Chinese economy
expands at the slowest pace since 2009 and  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens global growth.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the top miner, said
June 6 the debt crisis and spreading economic uncertainty will
affect demand for commodities in the short term. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the
largest steelmaker, said June 19 demand for steel won’t recover
soon to levels before the financial crisis.  “There has been a slowdown and prices have come back with
that change in momentum,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst
at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “The outlook for China is slowing
but they still do require significant iron ore.”  China may expand 8.2 percent in 2012, compared with 9.2
percent last year, according to the median forecast of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month. The nation’s gross
domestic product growth slowed for a fifth quarter to 8.1
percent in the first three months, government data showed.  Import Demand  The forecast for lower prices stems from increasing supply
from  Australia  and  Brazil  and moderating growth in imports, the
 report  said. China’s steel consumption may total 648 million
tons this year, from 657 million tons forecast in March, because
of the slowing economy, the bureau said.  HSBC Holdings Plc lowered this week its  growth  estimate for
China this year to 8.4 percent from 8.6 percent. That followed a
cut by Citigroup Inc., which expects expansion of 7.8 percent,
reflecting “anemic” domestic activity in the second quarter
and a further weakening of European demand.
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. puts growth at 8.3 percent.  The world’s second-biggest economy signaled a more-
aggressive approach to sustaining expansion last month when
Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for more efforts toward stabilizing
growth. The central bank cut  interest rates  on June 7 for the
first time since 2008 and the economic planning agency is
stepping up approvals of investment projects.  Short-Term Outlook  “Recent data that indicate a lower-than-expected rate of
growth in China are key concerns for the short-term outlook,”
the bureau said today. China’s economic growth may be 7.9
percent in 2012 from 8.2 percent estimated in March, it said.  Chinese manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in
June, according to data from HSBC and Markit Economics, and home
values dropped in a record number of cities during May.  Imports of iron ore by China will grow 8 percent this year,
slowing from 10 percent in 2011, according to London-based
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker. Shipments totaled
63.8 million tons in May, the first increase in three months,
customs data show. The country’s mills produced 61.2 million
tons of steel last month, 1.1 percent more than in April,
according to the World Steel Association.  Steel output this year in China, which produces almost half
of the world’s total, will be 700 million tons, the China Iron
and Steel Association said June 16. That would be a 2.5 percent
increase from 2011, the smallest annual rise since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News using figures from
the steel association.  Prices of hot-rolled coil, a benchmark product, have fallen
for 10 weeks to 4,146  yuan  as of yesterday, according to
researcher Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  The bureau’s forecast referred to iron ore with 62 percent
content free-on-board Australia. The same grade of ore delivered
to the Chinese port of Tianjin fell 1.2 percent to $135.40 a dry
ton yesterday, according to an index compiled by The Steel Index
Ltd. Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin port moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of the ore’s weight.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  