-- Israel Existential Crisis Creates Haredi Breadwomen as Men Study
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-06-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/israel-existential-crisis-creates-haredi-breadwomen-as-men-study.html
Ahuva Mori, nine months pregnant and
the mother of two toddlers, wakes up at 5:45 a.m. to get to
work, making it possible for her husband to spend his days
studying Jewish religious texts.  Mori, one of about 800 ultra-orthodox Israeli women
employed by a  Matrix IT Ltd. (MTRX)  unit in Modiin Illit, outside Tel 
Aviv, says she wouldn’t have it any other way.  “This is my choice,” said Mori, 24, a  software developer 
for Matrix Global since 2007. “I see Torah study as the supreme
value. I would only want him to work as a last resort.”  Ultra-orthodox, or haredi, women are joining the Israeli
labor force in increasing numbers and many are choosing to work
in technology, attracted in part by the industry’s willingness
to accommodate their religious lifestyle. While that has helped
keep jobs that might otherwise have gone offshore, their
husbands’ joblessness is a drag on economic growth, according to
the Bank of  Israel  and the  International Monetary Fund .  “A continued increase in the share of the population which
does not participate in the workforce cannot continue forever,
and so will have to stop,” Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said earlier this year. The imbalance has to be
corrected for the health of the economy, he added. The central
bank predicts growth will slow to 3.1 percent this year from 4.8
percent in 2010 and 2011.  While the ultra-Orthodox make up about 8 percent to 10
percent of the population, they will represent 17 percent of
working-age Israelis in 20 years because of their high birth
rate, according to the bank. By the late 2050s they will account
for a quarter of the population, a March 9 IMF report found.  ‘Losing Patience’  The ultra-orthodox, along with Arab-Israelis, have the
lowest labor participation and highest poverty rates in Israel.  “The haredi and Arab participation problem has already
caused poverty,” according to the IMF report. “If not
addressed, this will also cause growth to slow sharply.”  The ultra-orthodox are increasing the most, based on
information available on fertility minus mortality, according to
Jon Anson, a sociologist at  Ben Gurion University of the Negev .  “This is a community that is large and growing quickly and
the broader public is losing patience,” said Omer Moav, a
professor of economics at the University of Warwick in Coventry,
U.K., and at  Hebrew University  in  Jerusalem .  Dedication to Torah study isn’t what keeps all ultra-
orthodox men from taking jobs, he said. They don’t receive an
education to prepare them for the  labor force , and many choose
to let their wives earn paychecks because Israel requires men to
serve in the military when they turn 18, before taking full-time
 jobs , Moav said. By Israeli law, yeshiva students are exempt
from the mandatory draft as long as they remain in seminary.  Segregated Communities  “We should simply allow the ultra-orthodox to work,” he
said.  The haredim, as they’re called in Hebrew, often live in
segregated communities and maintain strict separation of the
sexes outside the home. Men dress in white shirts, black
trousers, black coats and black hats, while women are modestly
clothed in long-sleeve dresses or skirts that fall well below
the knee. Married women cover their hair with wigs or scarves.  In a twist on the American term “breadwomen,” who support
their families while their husbands stay home, haredi women are
educated in religious schools with an eye toward the job market.  Girls have 12 years of religious and secular education, and
then two years of job training at seminaries that began about
eight years ago adding classes in software engineering, graphics
and architecture. Boys aren’t offered secular courses after
primary levels, the IMF said in its March 9 report.  Yeshiva Students  Most male students between the ages of 17 and 20 don’t see
a future in the work force and plan to continue full-time
religious studies, according to a survey released May 14 by
Israel’s Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. The majority
spend as many as 10 hours a day in seminaries known as yeshivas.  “We believe that God said that if we don’t study Torah we
have no reason to exist,” said Yerach Tucker, a spokesman for
Knesset Finance Committee Chairman Moshe Gafni, a member of
parliament from the United Torah Judaism party. “You can laugh
at it or not, but this is our belief.”  Tucker said seminary students get monthly stipends from the
government of about 800 shekels ($200) in addition to as much as
1,200 shekels a month distributed by seminaries to married
students from money raised through donations. The families also
benefit from government child subsidies of as much as 300
shekels per child.  “They make do with very little,” Tucker said.  Poor Women  About 61 percent of haredi women work compared with 45
percent of the  community ’s men, according to the  Bank of Israel .
Among other Jews, the proportion of men in labor force is about
80 percent, with more males employed than women. In the case of
Arab-Israelis, men also are more likely to work than women.  In 2009, only 25 percent of Arab-Israeli women of working
age were employed, compared with 71 percent of the men in the
community, according to a report by the Myers-JDC-Brookdale
Institute in Jerusalem.  While more haredi women are working, many have part-time
jobs because they’re in charge of raising children and generally
have large families, said Ruben Gorbatt, director of programs
for haredi employment at  JDC Israel-Tevet . “I’m not saying it’s
not good,” Gorbatt said. “It is appropriate to their way of
life. What is unfortunate is that it raises the chance that a
working haredi woman will still be poor.”  Employment Subsidies  The government has set a goal of bringing employment rates
for both haredi men and women to about 63 percent by 2020; the
rate among the general Jewish population is 78 percent.
Employers get state subsidies for each haredi employee for as
many as five years. The government also subsidizes courses from
on-the-job training to academic studies, and is creating ultra-
orthodox employment centers.  The IMF called on the government in February to tie
benefits such as child care to employment, saying the country’s
long-term stability will “remain in question” unless more
haredi men and Arab-Israeli women work.  There are costs to women carrying the burden of supporting
the family, said Menachem Friedman, a professor of sociology at
 Bar-Ilan University  outside  Tel Aviv .  “It disturbs the bonds between husband and wife in the
family and creates a lot of problems,” he said, citing a rise
in ultra-orthodox divorce rates. Where divorce used to be
“really very rare,” it is now “more frequent,” while lower
than in the general population, he said.  More Divorces  “Women have more power in the family and that power speaks
for itself,” Friedman said. “It is significant that there are
more divorces.”  In Matrix’s Modiin Illit, an ultra-orthodox enclave in the 
 West Bank  built to provide low-cost housing for those who 
couldn’t afford apartments in Tel Aviv or Jerusalem, about 70 
percent of the population was unemployed when Yaakov Guterman, 
the bearded mayor, took office 12 years ago.  “I saw young women sitting in the sun with their baby
carriages,” he said. “They built housing for them here, but no
one had thought about what they would do.”  Guterman successfully lobbied the government to subsidize
haredi employment, as well as daycare for their children. He
obtained government funding for as many as 200 daycare centers
and courted investors and companies with promises of recruitment
aid and savings in the form of the state subsidies.  Separate Kitchenettes  Matrix Global, a  software company , opened an office in
2005, with separate kitchenettes and eating areas for men and
women. While male clients can meet one-on-one with female
employees, office doors are fitted with large clear glass
panels. A rabbi is available to answer religious questions from
both staff and management.  The workday is eight hours instead of the standard nine for
Israeli technology companies, allowing women to get home in time
for daycare pickup. Employees may get transportation to and from
work if they don’t own a car or don’t know how to drive.  Even with the costs associated with the arrangements,
Matrix Global is profitable, according to Ram Yonish, vice-
president for marketing and business development.  “Haredi women in high tech has caught on so well that lots
of companies want to try to do it too,” said Yonish.  Ultra-orthodox female technology experts are willing to
work for less pay than the average employee in exchange for more
flexible hours and what they consider an appropriate workplace,
said Libi Affen, chief operating officer of Matrix Global and an
ultra-orthodox mother of six.  Little Attrition  The company benefits as the attrition rate is very low and
the women are the “cream of the crop” in terms of intelligence
and motivation, she said.  At least 2,000 ultra-orthodox women work in technology
companies in Israel and the numbers are increasing, said Shaindy
Babad, director of  Temech , a Jerusalem-based nonprofit that
promotes their employment. She said the technology industry
views the ultra-orthodox as chief “talent pools” that can be
tapped to fill the shortage of engineers in the country.  Some ultra-Orthodox women have gone as far as to start
their own company. Racheli Ganot, 35, a haredi mother of three,
is the founder and chief executive officer of Rachip Ltd., which
provides design and software services for the semiconductor
industry. Customers include  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)   Located in Bnei Brak, near Tel Aviv, Rachip has a workforce
of 70 software designers, all of them haredi women. Most of her
employees’ husbands study Torah fulltime, she said.  “It was an opportunity to create more jobs for the haredi
world, keep design from going offshore -- it was good for
everyone,” Ganot said. Employees with two or three years of
experience earn about 12,000 shekels a month, she said, compared
with the average Israeli salary of 9,121 shekels.  The positive experience for ultra-orthodox women in the
workforce may also affect the community’s men, Affen said: “The
whole family unit is being much more exposed to the general
culture and understanding that you can get out and work and
still continue with your beliefs.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  