-- Mississippi’s Last Abortion Clinic Sues to Block Shutdown
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-06-27T23:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mississippi-s-last-abortion-clinic-sues-to-block-shutdown.html
Mississippi ’s sole remaining
abortion clinic sued state officials over regulations it claims
will force it to shut down and “effectively ban abortion” in
the state.  The Jackson Women’s Health Organization, the state’s only
 clinic  providing elective abortions, filed a lawsuit today in
U.S. District Court in Jackson, Mississippi, seeking to block
the state health department from enforcing requirements set to
take effect July 1. The clinic said in its complaint that the
regulations violate women’s constitutional right to an abortion.  “The department’s actions jeopardize patient health,
because they will effectively ban abortion in the state of
Mississippi, leaving women with nowhere to turn in
Mississippi,” the clinic said.  Mississippi would become the first U.S. state without a
dedicated abortion clinic if the Jackson facility closes its
doors. That would mark the most visible victory for the anti-
abortion movement, which has fought to abolish the procedure in
the face of the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade decision
guaranteeing a woman’s right to have one.  Hospital Privileges  Beginning July 1, all abortion-clinic physicians must have
admitting privileges at a local hospital under a law passed by
the Republican-led Legislature and signed by Republican Governor
Phil Bryant in April. The three physicians who perform the
procedure at the Jackson clinic are still pursuing those
privileges.  The clinic is seeking a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction from U.S. District Judge Daniel Jordan
III, an appointee of President  George W. Bush , arguing that
enforcement of the requirements will cause irreparable harm.  Liz Sharlot, a Mississippi Health Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. She said the department
plans to survey the clinic on July 2, the first business day
after the law takes effect.  If it’s found to be out of compliance, the clinic will have
10 days to notify the department of how it plans to remedy the
situation. The clinic may also appeal for an administrative
hearing within 30 days.  “We will certainly ensure that the law is enforced in the
same manner as we enforce all state and federal statutes and
regulations for all health-care facilities in the state,”
Sharlot said in a telephone interview. “What that means is this
facility will get due process.”  Diane Derzis, owner of the Jackson clinic, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail request for comment on the
lawsuit.  Activists’ Target  Mississippi is among five states, each with a single
abortion clinic, that have been targeted by anti-abortion
activists, including Operation Save America, a Dallas-based
group that has protested in front of the Jackson clinic,
according to a posting on its website.  The clinic claims the law imposes “medically unjustified
requirements” to achieve a policy goal.  “The Legislature took steps to end abortion in Mississippi
by requiring doctors performing abortion to have admitting
privileges at a local hospital,” Lieutenant Governor Tate Reeves says on his website recapping accomplishments from the
legislative session that ended last month. “This measure not
only protects the health of the mother but should close the only
abortion clinic in Mississippi.”  When Bryant anounced he would sign the legislation, he said
he would “continue to work to make Mississippi abortion-free,”
according the complaint.  Voters in the state last year rejected a constitutional
amendment that could have banned the procedure even in cases of
rape, incest or life endangerment. The so-called “personhood”
measure stated that life begins at conception.  Suit’s Defendants  The lawsuit names Mary Currier, Mississippi Department of
Health’s state health officer, and Robert Shuler Smith,  district
attorney  for Hinds County, Mississippi, as defendants.  Smith didn’t immediately return a telephone message seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The clinic performed about 2,000 abortions in 2011 and
about 1,100 this year, according to a declaration by Shannon
Brewer-Anderson, the clinic’s director, submitted to the court.
The department in a June 18 inspection, found the clinic to be
in compliance with all state regulations.  “Since the most recent owner took over in 2010, the clinic
has had no major incidents, nor has a single patient required
admittance to the emergency room after receiving an abortion
procedure at the clinic,” she said in the declaration.  Of the 2,297 abortions performed in the state in 2010, the
majority were given to women who were nonwhite, unmarried, had a
high-school diploma or less and already had children, according
to health department statistics. Most of those were performed at
the Jackson clinic.  Abortion Facility  None of the 120 hospitals in Mississippi is licensed as an
abortion facility -- meaning they provide fewer than 10
abortions per month or 100 per year, if at all, according to
Sharlot.  Nationally, abortion clinics provide 70 percent of
abortions, and hospitals perform 4 percent, according to the New
York-based Guttmacher Institute, which compiles reproductive-
health data.  It’s difficult for abortion doctors to obtain privileges at
local hospitals, Stanley Henshaw, a medical consultant and
abortion researcher, said by e-mail.  To grant privileges, many hospitals require physicians to
live within a short distance of the hospital and to admit a
minimum number of patients a year, often 10 or more, he said. A
typical abortion provider would rarely admit more than one
patient a year for abortion complications and in many years
would have no complications requiring hospitalization, he said.  The case is Jackson Women’s Health Organization v. Currier,
12-00436, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Mississippi
(Jackson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 