-- Mission Serves Free Beer, Spicy Pork, Good Will: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mission-serves-free-beer-spicy-pork-good-will-review.html
At Mission Chinese Food on the Lower
East Side, which donates 75 cents from the purchase of each
entree to the  Food Bank of New York , guests get a charitable
nod, too: free beer.  Rightly so. You’ve spent $15 on a cab to Orchard Street for
an $11 plate of kung pao pastrami. The applewood-smoked meat is
an oddly delicious mash-up of Midwest barbecue, Jewish tradition
and mouth-tingling Sichuan spice.  Too bad the host tells you it’ll be an hour (“maybe
longer”) before you sit. Will you end up shelling out $30 for
cocktails at a nearby bar while you wait and your stomach
grumbles?  Maybe not. Something unexpected happens at this civilized
frat-party of a restaurant: Pointing to a metal keg and a stack
of plastic cups, the host says, “Help yourself.”  The brew is Budweiser, so thumbs up to  Mission  for offering
the American lager, which tastes so much better when you’re not
paying for it. (Once you’re seated, it’s no longer free.)  Beer is a natural fire extinguisher when you’ve just taken
a forkful of catfish floating in crimson-red oil, and your mouth
explodes with a searing blast.  Coddling Customers  Mission Chinese is proof that an excellent restaurant can
keep things affordable even while coddling the customer a bit.
It offers those once familiar vestiges of a bygone era: Bar
stools with lumbar support, superb service, the Smashing
Pumpkins playing at reasonable levels and the acceptance of
plastic, including the American Express card.  There’s even air conditioning. Mission keeps you cool while
pickled carrots scorch your interior.  The chef is a philanthropic kind of guy. Born in  South
Korea  and adopted by Oklahomans, Danny Bowien opened his first
Mission Chinese in  San Francisco  in 2010, where he’s raised more
than $124,000 for that city’s Food Bank.  Now he’s brought the Mission to New York in a room
illuminated by a giant dragon lamp. The eerie red glow evokes a
Macanese brothel, albeit one run by a pretty good chef.  Mission’s cuisine, per its kung-fu decorated  website , is
“Americanized Oriental Food,” which might not be politically
correct but does describe triple-cooked bacon (poached, steamed,
fried), a brash act of one-upmanship against everyone’s beloved
double-sauteed pork.  Triple Bacon  The bacon is a pan-Chinese dish of sorts, with sweet yuba
as a hat tip to  Taiwan , chewy rice cakes as a nod to  Shanghai 
and Benton’s pork as a curtsy to Hunan (by way of  Tennessee ).  You notice a tickle on your tongue that lasts for 30
seconds. That’s because Bowien seasons the rice cakes with
Sichuan peppercorns, famous for their numbing properties. Maybe
you’ve experienced such a sensation at fine venues like  Legend 
or Cafe China? At Mission, you get a cleaner, longer high.  Bowien grinds the peppercorns into a powder, tosses them
with sugar and sprinkles the powder over hot, hot chicken wings
with fried beef tripe. The sweet-salty-savory combination is
dangerously addictive.  Beware the nuclear-powered tofu ($12.50). Bowien tosses the
edible silk into a porcine Bolognese. The palate is bombarded by
the perfume of cilantro, the musk of pork and the sucker punch
of chile. Feels like a Novocaine injection and lasts almost as
long.  Cantaloupe Juice  The appropriate drinking antidote is the T-1000, a blend of
Korean sochu, cantaloupe juice and warming black pepper. It
brings you down slowly. This is the methadone of cocktails.
Tamer types can drink Gotham Projects Riesling Chardonnay blend
on tap for a little acid balance.  Tone down further with monkfish liver sashimi ($13). The
maritime foie dissolves on the tongue in a silky, briny bliss,
with notes of mint from shiso and shocks of salt from ramp
shoyu. Cod fried rice, with sweet lap cheong sausage and a
mountain of cilantro, costs $11 and feeds three. Beef and
broccoli ($15), the bane of Cantonese-American cuisine, is
interpreted by Mission as braised brisket with smoked oyster
sauce, a perfectly traif Sunday dinner.  Sorry, no dessert. So finish off with salmon roe-topped egg
custard. No cordials either; better tap that keg again on the
way out. I hear Mission has updated the selection to Miller High
Life, the “ Champagne of Beers .” I dig it.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: All dishes $15 or under.  Sound Level: Around 75 decibels, reasonable.  Date Place: Yes, though the spices, ahem, carry over.  Inside Tip: Avoid the fatty jowl and lamb breast.  Special Feature: Limited reservations available via email.  Back on My Own Dime: You bet.  Mission Chinese Food is at 154 Orchard St. Information: +1-
212-529-8800;  http://www.missionchinesefood.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on books and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 