-- Italian Parliament Passes Monti’s Labor Law Ahead of EU Summit
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-27T16:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/italian-parliament-passes-monti-s-labor-law-ahead-of-eu-summit.html
The Italian parliament gave final
approval to Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s labor-market overhaul
that makes it easier to hire and fire workers, allowing the
premier to make the case at a European Union summit that his
revamp of the Italian economy is on track.  Lawmakers in the lower house of Parliament, or Chamber of
Deputies, in  Rome  voted today 393 to 74 in favor of the bill.
Before the final vote, Monti carried four confidence motions on
the law by a margin of more than 300 votes. The Senate passed
the reform on May 31.  The overhaul aims to boost hiring amid  Italy ’s fourth
recession since 2001. Joblessness has climbed to the highest in
more than a decade. The legislation introduces a new system of
 unemployment benefits  that expand coverage to a broader pool of
workers than under current rules.  Monti had pushed lawmakers to approve the plan before the
start of a two-day summit tomorrow in Brussels, where European
leaders will trying to engineer a plan to contain the spread of
the euro region’s debt crisis. Monti has proposed that leaders
agree to allow the bailout funds more flexibility to help bring
down borrowing costs in countries that are sticking to fiscal
goals and economic reforms such as Italy.  Firing Rules  The plan gives companies facing economic difficulties more
flexibility in firing workers.  The conditions for dismissals were the most contentious in
the government’s negotiations with unions and employers earlier
this year and in Parliament after the government passed the
revamp on April 4.  Monti had initially proposed changing Article 18 of the
labor law, which allows judges to order the reinstatement of a
worker fired for economic reasons if the court ruled the
employee was unfairly dismissed. Under pressure from unions and
the  Democratic Party , which backs the government, Monti agreed
to water down the change and the current version still allows
for reinstatement if the motives for dismissal are deemed
groundless.  Employers say the threat of reinstatement has a chilling
effect on firing even when companies are in trouble, while
unions say that without the protection, companies would be able
to use the excuse of economic hardship to freely fire workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 