-- Italy’s Chiellini Ready to Upset German Juggernaut in Euro Match
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-27T22:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/italy-s-chiellini-ready-to-upset-german-juggernaut-in-euro-match.html
An opponent boasting 15 straight
wins in competitive games would worry some teams.  Italy  defender
Giorgio Chiellini is unfazed, saying Germany is the ideal
challenge in tonight’s Euro 2012 semifinal.  After a quarterfinal win over  England , rated six places
above Italy by soccer governing body FIFA, the Azzurri face the
world No. 3. The Germans are a strong favorite to win at the
National Stadium in Warsaw.  Italy’s semifinal spot seemed unlikely in the run-up to the
tournament. It lost three straight games, including a 3-0
thrashing by  Russia  days before an opening 1-1 draw against
defending champion  Spain . Italy lost a one-goal lead in that
game, then did the same in tying with  Croatia  before reaching
the knockout stage with a 2-0 win over Ireland.  “I don’t know why, but in friendly matches Italy never
plays well, perhaps we need to have something at stake,”
Chiellini, who won Italy’s Serie A after an unbeaten league
season with Juventus, said in an interview in Kiev. “Only in
matches against top teams do we play well, like against  Germany 
or against Spain. Not the middle-level friendly matches.”  Italy has never lost to Germany in a World Cup or European
Championship game, winning three and drawing four. Even so,
three-time European champion Germany is rated the 2-5 favorite
to advance by U.K. bookmakers Ladbrokes Plc and William Hill
Plc, meaning a successful $5 bet would bring profit of $2 plus
the original stake. Italy, winner of the tournament on home soil
in 1968 and currently ranked world No. 12, is 7-4.  Penalty Kicks  Italy beat world and European champion Spain 2-1 in an
exhibition game last August, six months after holding Germany 1-
1. Italy also defeated host Germany at the 2006  World Cup  to
move into the final where it claimed its fourth title by beating
 France  on penalty kicks.  Still, the mood among Italian fans wasn’t buoyant before
Euro 2012. Few have traveled to  Poland  and Ukraine to watch
coach Cesare Prandelli’s team in action after defeats to Uruguay
and the U.S. preceded the loss to Russia during a training camp
in  Switzerland .  “It’s normal they feel that, because we lose the last
matches before the finals,” Chiellini, 27, said. “But from the
first game we played very well and our people are with us now.”  Chiellini missed the England game with a hamstring injury
although he expects to have recovered in time to meet Germany,
the only team that’s won all its matches in this year’s
competition. The 4-2 quarterfinal victory over  Greece  set an
international record for consecutive competitive victories. Its
last tournament defeat was in the 2010 World Cup semifinal to
Spain, which also beat Germany in the Euro 2008 final.  More Rest  For the Greece game, German manager  Joachim Loew  was able
to start without his entire front three, including striker  Mario
Gomez , who has three goals in three tournament matches. His team
has been able to rest two days longer than the Italians, who had
to play extra time against England.  Italy required penalties to go through after being unable
to turn its superiority into goals. After 120 scoreless minutes,
and 35 shots to its opponent’s nine, Alessandro Diamanti hit the
decisive penalty in a 4-2 shootout.  The Italians also did it the hard way in the 2006 World Cup
win over Germany. That match also looked destined for penalties
before they struck twice in the final minutes of extra time
through Fabio Grosso and Alessandro Del Piero.  “In the semifinals all the teams are very strong but we’ll
play with our quality,” Chiellini said. “We know that Germany
is good with good players, but I’m sure we are a very good team
and we’ll get to the final.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Kiev via the London
newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  