-- Italy Sells 9 Billion Euros of Bills as Rates Rise on Contagion
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-27T09:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/italy-sells-9-billion-euros-of-bills-as-rates-rise-on-contagion.html
Italy  sold 9 billion euros ($11.2
billion) of Treasury bills at the highest rate since December
amid concerns a European Union summit this week will fail to
solve the sovereign-debt crisis.  The Rome-based Treasury sold the 185-day bills at 2.957
percent, up from 2.104 percent at the last sale of similar-
maturity debt on May 29. Investors bid for 1.62 times the amount
offered, similar to the 1.61 times last month.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 5 basis points to
6.14 percent at 11:07 a.m. in Rome, leaving the difference with
German bunds to 460 basis points. A bigger test for the Italian
treasury comes tomorrow when Italy sells as much as 5.5 billion
euros of longer-maturity debt.  The two-day EU summit in Brussels starting tomorrow is the
first meeting of European leaders since Greek parliamentary
elections on June 17 that saw victories for pro-bailout parties.
France and Italy are urging  Germany  to take decisive action to
end the debt crisis, including collectively selling debt to
bring down borrowing costs. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
doused expectations of an agreement yesterday, when she said
there would be no so-called euro bonds in her lifetime.  The meeting comes after Spain formally requested a bailout
for its banks on June 25 and Cyprus also sought a financial
lifeline from the euro area’s bailout funds, becoming the fourth
and fifth of the currency union’s 17 member states to require
external aid after Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  The summit will be “very difficult,” Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  told lawmakers in Rome yesterday. “I am
ready to stay beyond the expected end of the meeting and to work
until Sunday night, if needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  