-- Mitch Daniels Can Help Shake Up Higher Education
-- B y   J a n e   S .   S h a w
-- 2012-06-27T22:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mitch-daniels-can-help-shake-up-higher-education.html
As Republican governor of  Indiana ,
 Mitch Daniels  has been an efficiency maven, and his scalpel has
gone after higher education along with everything else. He has
also introduced price competition by welcoming Western Governors
University Indiana, a low-cost online college that, among other
heresies, gives credit for experience.  The announcement that Daniels  will become  president of
 Purdue University , leaving one political battlefield for
another, led to speculation that he is eager to make a mark in
the roiling universe of higher education.  Certainly, the nation’s colleges require much greater
fiscal discipline, and Daniels, a former executive at  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY)  and former director of the White House Office of
Management and Budget, will provide some of that.  But he wouldn’t have taken the job if it was just about
cost-cutting. The recent tumult at the  University of Virginia ,
where the president was pushed out, then reinstated two weeks
later, is a microcosm of a  broader conflict : the staid, slow-
moving university pitted against the business exigencies of a
competitive future. The  Virginia  faculty  rallied  to the defense
of  Teresa Sullivan , the president, spurring a protest of 2,000
people on campus and condemnation of the board of trustees for
its secretive tactics.  The professors won this round. But the
debate in Virginia was not over whether the university has to
change, but how fast. Such conflicts are likely to proliferate.  Tuition Bubble  Public universities nationwide are under the gun, as they
keep raising tuition to make up for falling state subsidies.
They are competing both with private colleges with much bigger
endowments, and with  low-cost alternatives  to the traditional
college experience.  All of U.S. higher education is facing fundamental change.
A little like the Catholic Church before the Reformation, it is
experiencing heresies and pockets of resistance to its reigning
idea: that young people should march in lockstep through four
years of college, and pay plenty for the privilege.  If more students decide not to buy into this model, and
balk at paying bloated costs, how do public universities, even
presumably well-run ones such as Purdue, adapt?  Consider the rising competition:  -- Anyone can take online courses from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  and  Stanford University  free of charge.
Thousands have done so. And at MIT you can even get a credential
for successful course completion. While these and other efforts
to offer top-quality free or low-cost classes are widely  talked
about , the fallout has not been fully fathomed.  -- Cheaper courses abound. The average degree at  Western
Governors University  costs about $15,000 total. StraighterLine
offers courses approved by the venerable  American Council on
Education  for $99 a month plus $39 for each course taken.  -- Short-term certificates, awarded by for-profit and
community colleges, are a growing option. According to the
 Georgetown Center  for Education and the Workforce, 1 million
certificates were awarded in 2010, a year when 1.6 million
bachelor’s degrees were given.  -- For-profit colleges already enroll more than 10 percent
of all students. While these schools are expensive and suffer
from a bad reputation, only partly deserved, for  recruiting too
many students  and relying almost entirely on federal student
aid, some are flexible enough to cut costs if the market demands
it. That is not true of traditional schools, where tuition in
real dollars has tripled over the past 20 years.  -- Even high-income parents are increasingly sending their
children to lower-cost community colleges -- 22 percent of those
families did so in 2010, according to a  survey  by  Sallie Mae .  Devalued Diplomas  These  alternatives  will only become more popular as
doubts grow about the value of a diploma. While the recession
may explain why almost half the class of 2012 was unemployed or
“underemployed” after graduation, a  new report  from the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce cites “growing skepticism about whether
those lucky enough to graduate have acquired the skills and
knowledge necessary for success in the 21st century economy.”  Colleges are responding not by controlling costs but with
faculty intransigence and with grandiose plans to make online
education a source of revenue that can subsidize on-campus
operations. This revenue is likely to be elusive, especially if
reformers succeed in breaking up the cartel that controls the
granting of college credits.  Public universities have been too comfortable for decades.
As academic quality began to slip, the costs kept going up ---
faster than for health care. Yes, there were recessions, and the
states cut appropriations. But the universities responded by
raising tuition, and when the states prospered again, the
tuition never went down.  Rising tuition has meant increasing debt. More than two-
thirds of all students borrow money to go to college -- 42
percent of the students at Purdue, for example, which  is
charging  more than $20,000 a year even for in-state students for
tuition as well as room and board.  The only way a college president can control costs is to
make changes that the faculty -- the most powerful group in
almost every university -- is likely to oppose. Presidents who
try to do such things, such as  Lawrence Summers  at Harvard,
don’t necessarily succeed. And because Daniels is a politician
and businessman rather than an academic, the faculty will cut
him no slack.  You can expect to hear charges of “corporatization” when he
steps forward with proposals to consolidate departments or
increase teaching loads. Daniels has no doubt watched the
experience of his Republican neighbor in  Ohio , Governor  John Kasich . Even though Kasich maintained funding for the state
universities (they loved that), he ran into opposition when he
tried to increase faculty workloads and institute a three-year
degree.  Research Costs  Purdue, with almost  40,000 students  and more than 15,000
faculty and staff members, may be a good place to test changes
in higher education. The school has a plan to “take its place
among the premier research universities of the 21st century,”
says a university report. But building the research side --
something that Sullivan has been hoping to do at Virginia as
well -- is going to take a toll on undergraduate education, and
that’s where a collision is coming. Why continue to tolerate
giant lecture classes, courses taught by graduate students, and
a growing number of nomadic adjuncts -- all so a top-flight
faculty can write papers that build their reputations among
their peers?  When his Purdue appointment was announced, Daniels said he
would no longer take part in “partisan political activities or
commentary” as he finished his term as governor. His challenge
is to show that higher education can withstand the tsunami that
is coming. He will find that his career in a different political
arena has just begun.  (Jane S. Shaw is the president of the John W. Pope Center
for Higher Education Policy in Raleigh,  North Carolina . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Europe’s banking union  and
 restoring U.S. fisheries ;  Caroline Baum  on why  Washington can’t
fix the economy ;  Ezra Klein  on the tectonic shift in the
 Republican approach to health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on  women who
can have it all ;  Brian Barry  on why  Romney shouldn’t avoid the
inequality debate ; Richard J. Carroll on why  some tax cuts work
and others don’t .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jane S. Shaw at  shaw@popecenter.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net  