-- Jakks Triples Forecast for Sales of ‘Brave’ Merchandise
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-06-27T14:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/jakks-triples-forecast-for-sales-of-brave-merchandise.html
Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK)  tripled its
forecast for sales of merchandise from the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  film
“Brave” based on purchases over the past two weeks and said
some items will be sold out in about a month.  The company may double the number of “Brave” products it
offers by the time the DVD is released for Christmas, according
to Anne-Marie Feliciano, a spokeswoman, who declined to provide
specific numbers.  Sean McGowan , an Needham & Co. analyst, said
“Brave” will generate $10 million in sales for Jakks, which
had revenue of $678 million in 2011.  Sales at the Malibu, California-based  toymaker  have fallen
for three years as consumers cut spending on the traditional
children’s toys Jakks offers. The company recently ended talks
on a confidentiality and standstill accord with Oaktree Capital
Management LP, which  held  5.1 percent of the stock as of March
and bid $20 a share for Jakks last year.  “Merida is showing fantastic sales right out of the
gate,” John Blaney, an executive vice president at Jakks, said
in an interview, referring to the film’s heroine. “She’s a very
aspirational princess and an exciting one for girls.”  Jakks, which also makes toys based on the Hello Kitty and
Pokemon brands, rose 0.6 percent to $18.12 at 10:19 a.m.  New
York  time. A self-tender offer for 4 million shares at $20 each
expires today. The stock had gained 28 percent this year through
yesterday.  The company makes a velour and satin Merida “adventure
dress,” which retails for $19.99, and a bow set with glow-in-
the-dark arrows that sells for $17.99, among other products.
Both are aimed at girls ages 3 to 6 years old.  Girl Power  “Brave,” which opened June 22, was the top-grossing U.S.
film last weekend, taking in $66.3 million. The computer
animated movie, centered around a rebellious Scottish princess,
is the first from Disney’s Pixar to feature a female heroine.  “It will be a surprisingly good movie for selling
merchandise,” McGowan, who is based in New York, said in an e-
mail. “Not because sales will be so big, but because
expectations were so modest.”  McGowan forecasts $50 million in sales for  Mattel Inc. (MAT) ,
which makes dolls based on the film.  Jim Silver, editor of Time to Play magazine, a toy
reviewer, said “Brave” constitutes “counter-programming” for
Disney’s film and consumer products divisions because other
summer films such as the Batman feature “The Dark Knight
Rises,” “The Amazing Spider-Man,” and Disney’s own “Marvel’s
The Avengers” skew toward boys.  “There is nothing else for girls out there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  