-- Japan Sales Tax Risks Growth Grinding to Halt in 2014: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-06-27T06:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/japan-sales-tax-risks-growth-grinding-to-halt-in-2014-economy.html
Japan ’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  risks stalling the economy by pushing through a higher
 sales tax  that may damp consumption even as it aids efforts to
tame the world’s largest debt burden.  The nation’s recovery after last year’s earthquake and
tsunami could grind to a halt in 2014 when the first increase
will take effect, according to UBS AG and  Itochu Corp. (8001)   Parliament’s lower house yesterday approved the bill to
raise the tax to 8 percent and then 10 percent in 2015 from 5
percent now. A slump would be a repeat of 1997, when an increase
in the levy contributed to pushing the economy into a 20-month
recession, costing then Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his
job.  “If there are no economic stimulus measures along with a
 consumption tax  hike we can see around zero percent growth in
fiscal 2014,” said  Takuji Aida , a Tokyo-based economist at UBS,
who raised his growth forecast for the year ending March 2014 to
2.9 percent from 2.2 percent because he sees a 4 trillion yen
($50.4 billion) rise in consumption and investment ahead of the
tax increase.  A 1 percentage point increase in the tax would cut growth
in real gross domestic product by 0.32 percentage point in the
year after implementation, according to the Cabinet Office’s
Economic and Social Research Institute.  Growing Debt Burden  Even with the sales tax increase, the government said in
January that it will probably miss its goal of achieving a
primary balance surplus, which excludes debt servicing costs, by
fiscal 2020. It forecast a primary deficit of between 1.9
percent and 3.1 percent of GDP in that year, compared with the
fiscal 2011 deficit of 7.4 percent.  “Achieving a primary balance would do nothing more than
stem the bleeding,” Shigeki Morinobu, formerly director of the
Ministry of Finance tax bureau who helped supervise the 1997 tax
hike, said in an interview yesterday. “It’s just a step to stop
further expansion of debt, not to start paying back accumulated
debt.”  Gross public debt will be 223 percent of GDP next year, up
from the projected 214 percent in 2012, “pushing Japan’s public
finances further into uncharted territory,” the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development said in a
report last month.  Low Bond Yields  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield was 0.805 percent at 3:15
p.m today in  Tokyo . It reached 0.79 percent on June 4, the
lowest since June 2003 and the least globally after
Switzerland’s. Five-year credit-default swaps for Japan’s bonds
were 94 basis points yesterday, having slid 12 basis points
since Noda took office in September, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  The yen was trading at 79.47 to the dollar, strengthening
more than 5 percent since mid-March. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average closed at 8,730.49, down about 14 percent over the same
period.  “Higher taxes will automatically shore up tax revenues
even though an accompanying economic slowdown will somewhat
reduce the amount collected,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior
economist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities. “Even so, Japan
must raise the consumption tax to 16-17 percent if it wants to
eliminate the  budget deficit  with taxes alone,” he said, adding
“the government simply has to slash spending.”  Korean Confidence Falls  Elsewhere in  Asia , an index measuring South Korean
manufacturers’ confidence for July fell to the lowest level in
four months, and a gauge at non-manufacturing companies also
declined.  New Zealand  reported a narrowing of its  trade surplus 
in May as the biggest jump in imports since November, led by
crude oil and gasoline, outpaced a gain in shipments abroad.  In  Europe , Germany may say consumer-price inflation slowed
in June, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Romania’s central
bank is forecast to keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged,
a separate survey showed.  The U.S. Commerce Department may say durable goods orders
rose for the first time in three months in May, while the
National Association of Realtors is forecast to report the
number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned
homes grew in May from April, economists predicted.  Inflation Rises  The Japanese government report in January also indicated
that the planned tax increase would lead to inflation
accelerating to between 3.1 percent and 3.8 percent in fiscal
2014, compared with between 0.7 percent and 1.4 percent if the
levy wasn’t raised. The report forecasts the tax rise would
affect prices until the end of fiscal 2016.  These prices rises could bring temporary relief to the  Bank
of Japan (8301) , which has added 20 trillion yen to its asset-purchase
program this year as it looks to meet its 1 percent inflation
target and pull the nation out of more than a decade of
deflation.  Moody’s Investors Service on June 20 said the government
won’t eliminate Japan’s primary deficit without further reforms.
It added that Japan may reach “tipping point” where the market
demands a  risk premium  for Japanese  government bonds  if the
current political “gridlock” is not eliminated.  Thomas Byrne ,
a senior vice president of the New York-based rating company
said yesterday that the passage of the legislation was “credit
positive,” although Japan still needed to increase revenue
further.  Snowballing Debt  “The upcoming sales tax increase would be a very tiny step
forward for Japan’s fiscal reform,” said  Azusa Kato , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “Japan would need to
increase sales tax up to 25 percent just to avoid any further
expansion of snowballed debt and avert a jump in bond yields.”  The bill passed despite opposition from some ruling-party
members who argued it may discourage spending. The legislation
now goes to the opposition-dominated upper chamber, where it is
expected to pass during the current session of parliament ending
Sept. 8. Yet even Diet approval doesn’t necessarily mean the
increase will be implemented.  The bill has a non-binding stipulation that the higher  tax
rate  will only go into effect if economic circumstances have
improved. This could make the increase politically difficult to
implement if growth decelerates next year from this year’s pace,
in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “I really doubt they would dare raise taxes if we had
growth at zero,” said Naomi Fink, head of Japan strategy at
Jefferies Japan Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  