-- Japanese Stock Futures Advance on U.S. Home Sales Data
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-27T23:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/japanese-stock-futures-advance-on-u-s-home-sales-data.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  rose as reports showed U.S. home sales and durable goods
orders climbed more than estimated, overshadowing concern
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  American depositary receipts of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese
carmaker that gets almost 45 percent of its sales in  North
America , rose 0.7 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo.
Shares of Konica Minolta Holdings Inc. may be active on a Nikkei
newspaper report the photographic-film maker’s first-quarter
operating profit may rise by about 70 percent. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s biggest oil producer and the world’s
No. 1 mining company by market value, added 0.6 percent after
crude and metal prices increased.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,785 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,740 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,790 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 0.7 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added
0.2 percent in Wellington.  “The  U.S. economy  remains in a recovering trend,”
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $627 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. “Some deteriorating data, such
as manufacturing, has been already factored into the market.
Also, individual investors are buying companies counting on
domestic demand and low-priced equities. That’s supporting the
markets.”  U.S. Reports  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge gained 0.9 percent in  New York 
yesterday as orders for durable goods and the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy an existing home rebounded in
May. The index of pending home resales climbed 5.9 percent after
a 5.5 percent decline in April, the National Association of
Realtors reported. Economists forecast a 1.5 percent gain.  Orders for durable goods climbed more than forecast in May,
easing concern that U.S. manufacturing is faltering. Bookings
rose 1.1 percent, a Commerce Department report showed. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 0.5 percent gain.  In Europe, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut the door to
joint euro-area bonds as a means of lowering Spain’s borrowing
costs, saying they are the “wrong way” to achieve the greater
European integration needed to stem the debt crisis. Speaking
three hours after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  made a
plea for help from today’s European summit, Merkel said that
euro bonds, euro bills and debt redemption funds are
unconstitutional in Germany and economically “wrong and
counterproductive.”  Oil, Metals  Crude oil for August delivery gained 1.1 percent to $80.21
a barrel in New York, the highest settlement in a week. The
London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum climbed 0.6 percent yesterday,
biggest gain since June 19.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S gained 1.1 percent to 89.95 in New York
yesterday. Giant Interactive Group Inc. surged the most since
April on prospects the government will take steps to shore up
flagging growth in Asia’s largest economy.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5.9 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 0.5 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.7 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  