-- JPMorgan Invests in Its Own Junius Real Estate Fund, WSJ Reports
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2012-06-27T03:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/jpmorgan-invests-in-its-own-junius-real-estate-fund-wsj-reports.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  invested as
much as $110 million as initial capital in its Junius Real
Estate Partners fund after the venture failed to raise money
from investors, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The fund is developing properties with a total value of
about $465 million, including a shopping mall in  Chicago  and
hotels in  Ohio , the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t
name. Junius plans to raise funds from outside investors to take
over the bank’s position, the Journal said, citing people who
have been briefed on the matter.  The investment may not comply with the so-called Volcker
rule, which bans banks from proprietary trading, the newspaper
said, citing lawyers. The rule prohibits banks from supplying
more than 3 percent of firm money into their own funds, the
newspaper said. The Volcker rule may not apply in this instance
as Junius isn’t operating a closed-end property fund, it said.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, didn’t return an
e-mail seeking comment. A spokeswoman who wasn’t named declined
to comment on how the bank will comply with the rule, the
Journal reported.  The largest  U.S. bank  by assets has lost at least $2
billion on derivative trades. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , who testified about the losses before Congress this month
and said traders didn’t fully understand the risks, has been a
critic of the Volcker rule.  Junius doesn’t plan to use more than $300 million of
capital a year from the bank, the Journal said, citing people it
didn’t name who have been in discussions with the fund’s
executives. The initial investment was from $100 million to $110
million, according to the newspaper.  The real estate fund had initially planned to raise $750
million, with JPMorgan contributing 3 percent of the total
capital, the newspaper said, citing investors it didn’t name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  