-- Kenya Stocks Lure Templeton to World’s Third-Best Rally
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k ,   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-06-28T08:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/kenya-stocks-lure-templeton-to-world-s-third-biggest-rally.html
Kenyan stocks, the worst performers
in sub-Saharan  Africa  last year, are this year’s third-best
worldwide as the central bank reins in inflation and spurs a
rally in the currency.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NSEASI)  has surged 24
percent this year, the most after Venezuelan and Egyptian
equities and paring 34 percent losses in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While valuations have climbed from an
all-time low of 5.6 times earnings in March, the ratio of 6.4 is
42 percent below the average for the index since 2008.  Shares are rebounding after record-high  interest rates  cut
inflation to 12.2 percent in May from 19.7 percent in November
and sent the shilling to the biggest rally globally since
October.  Kenya ’s $12.3 billion stock market will probably extend
gains as economic growth accelerates, said Standard Bank Group
Ltd., Africa’s largest lender.  “Companies are doing extremely well on the back of the
current stability,” Carlos von Hardenberg, an emerging and
frontier markets money manager at Franklin Templeton
Investments, which oversees about $684 billion including Kenyan
stocks, said in a June 14 interview in  London . “We are quite
confident at this point in time.”  Kenya’s benchmark gauge trades at a 41 percent discount to
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, compared with a record 53
percent gap on March 23.  The gauge for  East Africa ’s largest economy was unchanged
at 67.62 as of 11:29 a.m. in Nairobi.  Earnings Growth  East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL) , the local unit of  Diageo Plc (DGE) 
and the country’s biggest company by market value, which has
gained 32 percent this year, will see net income probably jump
41 percent in the financial year ending this month, after a 17
percent increase in the first half, according to the mean of six
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The brewer, based
in the capital Nairobi, value has climbed to 24 times earnings
from 19 times at the start of January.  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , the nation’s biggest lender by
assets, has rallied 36 percent in 2012. Profit in the first
quarter increased 37 percent as income from the interest
received on customer loans rose 35 percent, the company said
April 26. The bank fell to a record low value of 4.5 times
earnings in January and is currently trading at 6.2 times.  Kenya’s five biggest companies by market value will
increase profits by 13 percent on average during the 2013 fiscal
year, according to estimates from 26 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kenya Commercial Bank , based in Nairobi, and
 Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, will
lead the gains with earnings growth of about 18 percent, the
projections show.  Political Unrest  Concern the rally has gone too far and that presidential
elections next March may stir political unrest has made T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. more cautious.  “We’re going to get booms and busts in sub-Sarahan
Africa,”  Oliver Bell , a  fund manager  at T. Rowe Price in
London, said at a June 12 presentation in the British capital.
“I suspect we’re in the latter stages of a boom in Kenya and we
need to go through a correction in order for it to become
attractive.”  Elections in December 2007 prompted allegations of vote-
rigging by supporters of then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga  and
two months of violence that left more than 1,000 people dead.  “This is the first election since the last one that went
into bloodshed,” said Bell, whose  Africa & Middle East Fund (TRPMEAA)  has
outperformed 80 percent of peers this year according to data
compiled by Bloomberg with 5 percent returns. “We’d like to get
comfortable that we can pass through the election without that
happening.”  Stocks Tumble  The shilling tumbled as much as 16 percent in the month
after the 2007 election and the  stock index  dropped as much as
14 percent. Clashes subsided in February as incumbent President
Mwai Kibaki, a member of the most populous Kikuyu ethnic group,
signed a power-sharing accord with Odinga, an ethnic Luo who was
named prime minister.  Kenya enacted a new constitution in 2010 that devolved some
power from the presidency to regional legislators to curb ethnic
tension.  “We tried to carry out reforms to ensure we don’t repeat
what happened in this country in 2008,” said Odinga at an aid
donor conference in Nairobi on June 19.  Kenya’s economy is gaining strength, with growth probably
accelerating to 5 percent this year from 4.4 percent, according
to World Bank estimates on June 18. Inflation eased for a sixth
consecutive month in May to a 13-month low of 12.2 percent and
will slow to less than 10 percent in the next few months,
Finance Minister Robinson Githae said in his June 14 budget
statement.  World’s Best Currency  The shilling has advanced 19 percent against the dollar
since October, the most among more than 170 currencies
worldwide. Price swings in the currency have fallen to the
lowest level since 2007, with a gauge of historical volatility
dropping to 5.7 percent on June 26 from this year’s peak of 15
percent in January, according to data compiled by Blooomberg.  Reduced currency swings and increased rain boosting  food
production  have helped ease consumer price pressures, Githae
said. Agriculture accounts for a quarter of Kenya’s output,
according to government data.  Slowing inflation and a stable currency will give policy
makers room to cut borrowing costs as soon as next quarter,  Absa
Capital , a Johannesburg-based unit of Barclays Plc, said in an
e-mailed note on June 6. Rates may fall at the next meeting on
July 10, Giulia Pellegrini, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said June 26 by phone from Johannesburg.  Central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has kept borrowing
costs unchanged at a record 18 percent this year, following six
increases from an all-time low of 5.75 percent in March 2011.  “Lower rates will, on average, be positive for companies
as well as the economy,” said Kojo Amoo-Gottfried, an analyst
at London-based FM Capital Partners Ltd., which manages about
$1.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  