-- Kenya Says May Give 20% of Oil Royalties to Nearby Communities
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-27T11:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/kenya-says-may-give-20-of-oil-royalties-to-nearby-communities.html
Kenya  is studying giving at least a
fifth of oil and gas royalties to people living in areas where
the resources are pumped, an Energy Ministry official said.  The ministry proposed guaranteeing 5 percent of royalties
going to the communities and another 15 percent to local county
governments, Petroleum Commissioner Martin Heya said.  “It would not affect the share negotiated by a company,”
Heya said in an interview today in Nairobi.  The East African nation is seeking funds from donors such
as the  World Bank  to update its 25-year-old  Petroleum Act  after
U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and Canadian partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) 
in March found the country’s first oil, in the Turkana region.
The oil and gas proposals would mirror draft revisions to the
mining law to share revenue from mineral production, Heya said.  Any proposal to change Kenyan legislation must be debated
by “stakeholders” and backed by a vote in parliament, he said.  Heya discussed the idea on the weekend at a meeting with
the community of northwestern Turkana, bordered by  South Sudan ,
Uganda and  Ethiopia  and the poorest of Kenya’s 47 counties.
About 95 percent of Turkana’s 855,399 people, who are mainly
livestock farmers, live in poverty, according to a December
report by the country’s Commission on Revenue Allocation.  “There are going to be enough resources to fast-track
development in Turkana,” Heya said. “People want a predictable
regime for commercialization, so they set their expectations in
advance and we will provide that.” Once commercial viability of
a deposit is verified, it will take a minimum of three years to
five years to begin pumping crude in Kenya, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  