-- Kerviel ‘Love’ May Not Be Enough to Overturn Verdict
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-28T17:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/kerviel-love-may-not-be-enough-to-overturn-socgen-verdict.html
Jerome Kerviel ’s statement last week
that he “loved”  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  may have come too late to
help him win a reduced sentence for causing the bank’s 4.9
billion-euro ($6.1 billion) trading loss.  Kerviel lawyer David Koubbi told the appeals court in Paris
today that the lower court verdict was “absurd” and asked for
a dismissal. Koubbi’s aggressive tactics have frequently led to
clashes with Judge Mireille Filippini, who earlier in the case
threatened to notify the bar about his treatment of witnesses.  While Kerviel is seeking to throw out a 2010 verdict
sentencing him to three years in jail and ordering him to repay
Societe Generale in full, his continued attempts to blame the
bank have led prosecutors to seek a five-year prison sentence.
The 35 year old’s lack of remorse, and his lawyer’s aggressive
tactics, may have weakened his chances for an appellate victory.  “I fear it will in some way have repercussions on Kerviel,
and the recommendations by the prosecutor reflect that,” said
Paris lawyer Stephane Bonifassi, who isn’t involved in the case.
“It’s a sign that the appeal didn’t go so very well.”  Filippini said the court would issue its opinion Oct. 24.  Koubbi had a black eye today, which he received after a
fight with another motorist last night,  Agence France-Presse 
reported. Kerviel left the hearing three times, mopping his
forehead frequently and splashing water on his face in the 30-
degree Celsius (86-degree Fahrenheit) heat in a Paris courtroom
that lacked air conditioning.  Defense Teams  Kerviel changed criminal defense teams at least four times
before hiring Koubbi, who had represented him in defamation
cases related to the trading loss, about three months before the
appeal began. Kerviel quit his job last year to devote himself
to his appeal, and worked closely with Koubbi.  Kerviel’s statements on June 21, admitting he’d made
mistakes while still saying he believed he had acted in the
bank’s best interests, may have been an effort to regain some
ground after seeing the ire provoked by Koubbi’s tactics,
Bonifassi said.  “Perhaps Jerome Kerviel realized at the end that it wasn’t
going so well,” he said.  The trading loss was one of the biggest in history, at 2008
exchange rates exceeding the $6.6 billion Amaranth Advisors LLC
lost in 2006, and is more than four times the $1.4 billion of
losses by  Nick Leeson  that brought down Barings Plc in 1995. It
wiped out almost two years of pretax profit at Societe
Generale’s investment-banking unit and cost several of his
bosses their jobs.  Repayment Unlikely  The bank, during its own closing arguments this week, asked
the court to confirm its right to the full 4.9 billion euros,
while acknowledging that actual repayment is unlikely.  The appeal has been marked by sharp exchanges between
Koubbi and Filippini, who once called a recess for them both
“to calm down” after his questioning of Christophe Mianne, one
of Kerviel’s former bosses. Koubbi had repeatedly reminded the
witness he was speaking under oath when Mianne’s answers didn’t
satisfy him.  “We don’t intimidate witnesses here,” said Filippini,
presiding over the three-judge appellate panel. Another day, she
called his interruptions “unreal, it’s untenable.”  Unhedged Positions  Koubbi, with two other lawyers, has presented a more
aggressive defense than Kerviel’s attorneys did in 2010. He said
Kerviel’s former superiors knew he was taking unhedged positions
far exceeding the desk’s limits and that the bank used the
trader’s deficits to hide its own losses on U.S. subprime
mortgages.  That theory “takes a lot of imagination to believe,”
prosecutor Dominique Gaillardot said yesterday. No prosecution
witnesses supported it and no defense witnesses could offer any
proof, he said. His five-year recommendation was tougher than in
2010 when the prosecution called for four years jail time.  Koubbi has needled the press during the hearings, posting
on Twitter “Let’s salute the creation of the PIF: press-
independent-of-the-facts who assume as their own all of the
positions of SG.”  Societe Generale ’s lawyers referenced the
tweet several times in the hearings, including in their June 25
closing arguments.  Today is the final day of the four-week appeal. Filippini
will announce at the end of the hearing when the judges will
deliver their decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  