-- Keystone, Coal Ash Dropped From Highway Bill, Inhofe Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-27T19:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/keystone-coal-ash-dropped-from-highway-bill-inhofe-says-1-.html
Language requiring approval of the
Keystone XL pipeline and barring Environmental Protection Agency
regulation of coal-ash waste were dropped from a highway
spending bill being negotiated by U.S. lawmakers, Republican
Senator  James Inhofe  said.  The deal removes two obstacles preventing agreement on a
compromise package paying for bridge and road construction and
transit programs. Legislation drafted by a Senate-House
committee may be filed tonight, Inhofe, chief Republican
negotiator for the Senate on the package, said today.  “There are a few more things we need to do and then we’ll
be ready very soon,” he said in an interview.  In opposing the Keystone and coal-ash provisions, Democrats
were supported by environmental groups that said the proposals
threatened environment and public-health protections.
Republicans said Keystone will create U.S. jobs and the coal-ash
regulations would kill them.  The Keystone language backed by House Republican
negotiators would have required the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  to approve the pipeline within 30 days of receiving
an application from Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)   Republicans said the project, which would carry crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to Gulf Coast refiners, would create
thousands of jobs and lower U.S. dependence on overseas oil.  ‘Good Sense’  The Republican-backed plan to include Keystone had made
“good sense for our economy and our energy future,” Thomas
Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, a Washington-
based group that backs free-market energy policies, said in an
e-mail.  Obama rejected the permit application in January after
officials in  Nebraska  complained the pipeline route threatened
the Ogallala water aquifer in the porous Sand Hills region.  Congressional Republicans  have sought to force U.S.
approval by attaching language to various unrelated bills,
including the transportation package, all without success.  Republicans also have sought to prohibit the EPA from
regulating coal ash as a hazardous waste, which they said could
hurt the economy.  The EPA in 2010 proposed classifying coal ash, a byproduct
of burning the fuel, as hazardous waste, which gives regulators
authority over permits and enforcement, and requiring liners for
coal-ash sludge ponds; or establishing standards that the states
would enforce, a step the industry prefers.  The administration has said the rule could cost industry
more than $1 billion. The Edison Electric Institute, a
Washington-based group that represents utilities, has estimated
annual costs from $1.7 billion to $5 billion over 20 years.  Industry lobbyists have warned Congress that classifying
coal-ash as hazardous would prevent companies from recycling the
waste in concrete, roofing and wallboard.  Melinda Pierce, a lobbyist for the  Sierra Club , said the
coal-ash provision would have weakened public health
protections.  “We’re delighted it’s out,” Pierce said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  