-- Korea Bonds Advance on European Summit Outlook; Won Gains
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-06-27T07:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/korea-won-bonds-little-changed-u-s-data-offsets-europe-worry.html
South Korea’s government bonds
gained as investors doubted whether  Europe ’s leaders will make
progress at a summit on the region’s debt crisis this week. The
won strengthened.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers yesterday
that she “doesn’t see” shared debt happening in the euro area,
according to Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman. South Korean
manufacturers’ confidence for July fell to four-month low,
official figures showed today. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  closed little
changed as overseas funds sold more of the nation’s shares than
they bought.  “Purchases of bond futures by foreign investors today
supported the market,” said Huh Kwan, a Seoul-based bond trader
at Korea Investment & Securities. “There are doubts whether the
European summit will be able to improve anything.”  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2015 slid two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.27 percent at the
close in  Seoul , Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt
futures climbed 0.7 to 104.82 and one-year  interest-rate swaps 
slid one basis point to 3.33 percent.  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,156.17 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, trimming this quarter’s
decline to 2 percent.  The currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 32 basis
points, or 0.32 percentage point, to 8.02 percent.  “South Korean exporters selling the dollar to convert
overseas earnings outweighed foreign investors buying the
greenback after selling the nation’s stocks,” said Han Sung Min, a Seoul-based currency dealer for Busan Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  