-- Kumba Shares Plunge After Australian Iron-Ore Forecast
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-27T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/kumba-shares-plunge-after-australian-iron-ore-forecast.html
Kumba  Iron Ore  Ltd. declined after
 Australia , the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, cut its price
forecast for the steel raw-material as slowing economic growth
in China, the largest buyer, curbs demand.  Shares in Africa’s biggest producer of the metal ore
dropped as much as 5 percent, the biggest intraday fall since
March 12, to 545.05 rand, before closing 3.3 percent down at
555.30 rand in Johannesburg. The company, which has a market
value of 177 billion rand ($21 billion) is controlled by London-
based  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   The steelmaking ingredient will average $136 a metric ton
in 2012, the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said in a
 report  today. That compares with $140 estimated by the Canberra-
based bureau in March and an average of $153 last year. Kumba
 exported  more than 60 percent of its ore to  China  last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “China is Kumba’s major exporting partner right now and
will remain a key driver until demand from other countries like
India picks up,” said Clinton Duncan, a resources analyst at
Johannesburg’s Avior Research Ltd.  Slow Pace  Prices dropped 2.2 percent this year as the Chinese economy
expands at the slowest pace since 2009 and Europe’s debt crisis
threatens global growth.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest mining
company, said on June 6 that the  European debt crisis  and
spreading economic uncertainty will affect demand for
commodities.  China may expand 8.2 percent in 2012, compared with 9.2
percent last year, according to the median forecast of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month. The nation’s gross
domestic product growth slowed for a fifth quarter to 8.1
percent in the first three months, government data showed.  “There has been a slowdown and prices have come back with
that change in momentum,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst
at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “The outlook for China is slowing,
but they still do require significant iron ore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  