-- Nassau Freedom Revealed in Buffalo Losing Oversight: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/nassau-freedom-revealed-in-buffalo-losing-oversight-muni-credit.html
Nassau,  New York ’s wealthiest
county, can take lessons from Buffalo, its poorest city, on how
to win back financial independence from a state oversight board.  Eighteen months after Nassau’s fiscal affairs were taken
over, County Executive Edward Mangano failed last week to get
permission from lawmakers to sidestep the state panel and borrow
$40 million to pay tax refunds. Instead, the Long Island suburb
of 1.3 million, which has seen its relative borrowing costs
climb in the past month, will tap reserves.  Buffalo, in contrast, is set to end nine years of New York
oversight July 1, when its control board will shift to an
advisory role. The city of 261,000 on the Canadian border
achieved the goal by cooperating with the authority to balance
its budget for three straight years while shrinking its debt by
more than 25 percent.  “A control board takes away some political authority, but
permits unpleasant decisions,” said Howard Cure, head of
research at New York-based Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which
manages $3.5 billion. “To get out from under its yoke, you need
to maintain a structural balance. Nassau has a way to go to get
there. Buffalo cooperated with its board to achieve one.”  Nassau has joined nearby counties Suffolk, home of the
Hamptons beach towns, and Rockland in facing fiscal strains
caused in part by flagging sales-tax revenue. The Nassau County
Interim Finance Authority took control in January 2011 after
ruling the county’s budget had a gap of more than 1 percent of
projected spending.  NIFA Directives  NIFA wants Nassau to bolster reserves, end the use of one-
shot revenue, reduce labor costs and avoid borrowing to cover
property-tax refunds, the authority said when it took control.  Nassau, whose $93,613 median  household income  is triple
Buffalo’s, must get the authority’s approval to borrow and on
contracts it negotiates with unions. About 30 percent of Buffalo
residents live under the poverty level, and its median household
income is the lowest of the state’s cities.  The two municipalities have the same  credit rating , at A1
from Moody’s Investors Service, fifth highest. Buffalo’s has
risen from Baa3, one step above speculative, when the control
board took over in 2003. It’s now the best in the city’s
history, according to Mayor Byron Brown. Nassau’s rating was cut
one step by Moody’s in November 2010.  Yield Penalty  As Nassau attempted this month to persuade state lawmakers
to agree to a bill allowing it to issue bonds without NIFA’s
approval, demand for some of its debt weakened. The yield on an
18-year bond issued by Nassau County in April rose to 1.18
percentage points above top-rated debt on June 15, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s the widest since it was issued and up
from 0.97 percentage point a month earlier.  The attempt to get approval for a bond sale showed county
leaders are prone to work against the control board, said
Lawrence Levy, executive dean of the National Center for
Suburban Studies at Hofstra University in Hempstead, part of
Nassau.  “In Nassau, they still don’t completely understand how
profoundly they need to change,” Levy said in an interview.
“It’s still a political game played by the old script.”  County lawmakers on June 25 voted down a request by
Mangano, a 50-year-old Republican, to borrow about $40 million
for the property-tax refunds. The plea came after he couldn’t
get state lawmakers, including Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos, a Nassau Republican, to go along with the plan. He’ll
use county savings to cover the costs, said Brian Nevin, a
Mangano spokesman.  Tax Refund  Nassau isn’t the only local government in New York that
pays for so-called tax certiorari payments, a refund to a
property owner after a court rules the payer was overcharged,
said Robert Weber, an analyst for Moody’s. Jurisdictions
including Westchester County pay for them through operating
budgets or hold reserves, he said.  “Having to bond out for them may be a sign they’re having
operational weakness,” Weber said of Nassau in a telephone
interview. “We’re going to continue to analyze the county’s
ability to get a structural balance, and at some point that’s
going to have to include paying for tax certioraris.”  Nassau guarantees the payments for property owners who win
settlements against school districts and towns. In 2013, a
Mangano-backed law goes into effect ending the guarantee.  “Working together, NIFA and I will do all in our power to
address today’s actions in a responsible manner while protecting
taxpayers,” Mangano said in an e-mailed statement after the
county Legislature rejected the borrowing.  Working with the authority may help Nassau regain financial
independence and reduce borrowing costs, said George Marlin, a
NIFA director.  Buffalo regained independence after its debt shrunk by more
than 25 percent since 2004 to less than $300 million and as it
lowered its residential property tax rate since 2006, according
to Fred Floss, a control board member, and a statement from the
mayor.  Following is a pending sale:  LAS VEGAS VALLEY WATER DISTRICT plans to sell $400 million
in general-obligation bonds as soon as July 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About $40 million will be used for
refunding, the data show.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the debt AA+,
second-highest. (Added June 27)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  