-- National Shipping, Aramco Sign Accord to Merge Their Fleets
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-06-27T19:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/national-shipping-aramco-sign-accord-to-merge-their-fleets-2-.html
National Shipping Co. (NSCSA)  of  Saudi
Arabia  and the country’s state-owned oil company signed an
initial agreement to merge their fleets in a combination worth
$1.3 billion.  National Shipping said today in a stock-exchange statement
it will pay $832.8 million to Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s Vela
International Marine Ltd. unit. It also will issue 78.8 million
new shares to the subsidiary at 22.25 riyals ($5.93) each under
the nonbinding accord, giving Vela a 20 percent  stake  in
National Shipping after the stock is issued.  The Riyadh-based National Shipping said it will raise the
money for the transaction through different financing sources.  National Shipping will be the sole carrier for crude pumped
by  Saudi Aramco , as the state company is known, under long-
duration contracts, according to the statement. The merger will
make National Shipping the industry’s fourth-largest owner of
very large crude carriers.  The new fleet will also include 20 chemical tankers, 4
refined product tankers, and 16 vessels under-construction, and
this “would also expand the ability of Saudi Aramco and the
Kingdom to meet future maritime transport needs for its
expanding downstream businesses,” Saudi Aramco said in an e-
mailed statement today. The two companies plan to explore ways
to expand their cooperation in the maritime sector, Aramco said
in the statement.  The companies plan to sign a final accord in the fourth
quarter and complete the combination in 2013, according to the
statement.  National Shipping appointed  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Saudi
unit as a financial adviser on the transaction and Saudi Aramco,
the world’s biggest oil exporter, hired the local division of
 HSBC Holdings Plc. (5)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net 
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  