-- Natural Gas Gains Power Plant Share From Coal, EIA Says
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-06-27T17:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/natural-gas-gains-power-plant-share-from-coal-eia-says-1-.html
U.S.  power plants  produced the same
amount of electricity from natural gas and coal for the first
time in April as low gas prices boosted demand, a government
report showed.  Each of the fossil fuels accounted for 32 percent of the
296.1 million megawatt-hours generated during the month as
coal’s share declined 23 percent to a record low, the Energy
Department’s Energy Information Administration said in a report
today. Gas’s share rose 36 percent during the month.  “The shift from coal to natural gas consumption is again
most notable in the Southeast, Central, mid-Atlantic and
Northeast regions,” the department said in its  Electric Power
Monthly  report. “The monthly average spot price for  Henry Hub 
natural gas remained below the monthly average spot price for
Central Appalachian coal in April of 2012, as it has since
December 2011.”  U.S. power output fell 2.3 percent during the month, the
report showed. Companies decide which generating units to run
based on operating costs, of which fuel prices represent “the
lion’s share,” the department said.  Gas Gain  Power plants burned 36 percent more natural gas in April
for a total of 744.5 billion cubic feet from 548.3 billion a
year earlier. The increase represents 6.5 billion cubic feet a
day of additional gas demand during the month, up from the
average daily gain of 6.4 billion reported for March and 5.8
billion in February.  “Natural gas consumption increased in all regions,” with
the biggest gains in the Southeast, where gas use rose by 38
percent, the department said.  Coal use fell to 51.6 million tons from 66.9 million in
April 2011. Coal-fired generation fell by 88 percent in the
Northeast and is now contributing less than 1 percent of total
output in the region, the department said.  The average price for natural gas at the Henry Hub in
 Louisiana , the delivery point for  New York  futures, dropped for
the eighth straight month, the department said.  Gas  at the
benchmark hub averaged $2.03 per million British thermal units
in April compared with $2.68 per million Btu for Central
Appalachian coal, according to department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  