-- NBC Universal, France Telecom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-06-27T11:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/nbc-universal-france-telecom-intellectual-property.html
Federal copyright law doesn’t
preempt contract rights under state law, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit ruled yesterday.  The production company Forest Park Pictures, along with
actor  Hayden Christensen  and his brother Tove, had developed an
idea for a television series involving what’s known as a
concierge doctor, according to the ruling.  They submitted the idea in 2005 to USA Network, a division
of Comcast Corp.’s  NBC Universal . Although they had a meeting,
no agreement was reached, according to the ruling.  Four years later, USA began airing “Royal Pains” about a
physician who treats the affluent in the Hamptons, according to
the ruling. The Christensens and Forest Park sued for breach of
an implied contract.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  initially dismissed the
case. On appeal, the three-judge appeals panel reversed, finding
that the federal copyright law doesn’t preempt contractual
rights under state laws.  The appeals panel said a number of other circuits have
“concluded that at least some contract claims involving the
subject matter of copyright” aren’t the equivalent of copyright
claims “and thus are not preempted” by federal law.  Cory Shields, a spokesman for NBC Universal, said in a
telephone interview that “the claim is totally without merit
and we expect to prevail after all the evidence is presented.”  David Marek , a partner at Liddle & Robinson LLP who
represents the writers, said he was pleased with the ruling and
that the case will now proceed to the discovery phase.  Lisa Pearson, a partner at Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton
LLP who specializes in copyright law, said in a telephone
interview that “these types of claims are prevalent in the
entertainment industry, most often filed in California and New
York.”  Pursuing these types of claims can be “very fact-intensive
and protracted,” Pearson said.  The case is Forest Park Pictures v. Universal Television
Network Inc., 11-2011-CV, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Apple Wins Court Order Blocking U.S. Sales of Samsung Galaxy Tab  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a court order immediately blocking U.S.
sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet
computer as the companies continue their global patent dispute.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California,
issued the order yesterday after rejecting a similar request in
December. Apple’s request, part of a broader patent dispute over
smartphones and tablets, was based on an appeals court finding
that it will probably win its patent-infringement claim relating
to the Tab 10.1 tablet.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said in a statement
that it was disappointed in the ruling, but that it won’t have
significant impact on its business. Other Tab products will
continue to be available to U.S. consumers, the company said.  The U.S. sales ban follows last week’s ruling in The Hague
that Apple has to compensate Samsung for damages caused by a
breach of patents since August 2010. Apple also sought a U.S.
ban on the latest model of the Galaxy S smartphone, which went
on sale in the market this month.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  France Telecom Sues Marvell Semiconductor Over Data Patent  France Telecom SA (FTE)  sued Marvell Semiconductor Inc., claiming
that it infringed a patent for methods of coding digital data.  France Telecom , a Paris-based telecommunications provider,
said Marvell used the patent in making processors for BlackBerry
wireless devices, according to a filing yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan.  Claude Berrou received at least three awards for being the
inventor of the patent, according to the complaint. He invented
data elements known as “turbo codes,” which according to the
suit “revolutionized digital communications.”  France Telecom said telecommunications companies including
Qualcomm Inc. and Broadcom Corp. have obtained licenses to use
the patent and pay royalties.  Daniel Yoo, a spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based
Marvell, didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking comment
on the suit.  The case is France Telecom v. Marvell Semiconductor Inc.,
12-4986, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Microsoft’s Fight Nears End With European Antitrust Ruling  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s decade-long struggle against a European
Union antitrust probe that led to more than 1.68 billion euros
($2.1 billion) in fines will enter its final phase today when an
EU court rules on the company’s challenge.  The world’s largest software company asked the EU General
Court to void an 899 million-euro fine imposed after Microsoft
failed to comply with a 2004 antitrust order to provide rivals
with data to help them work with the company’s operating-system
software. The fine was on top of Microsoft’s earlier penalties
of 497 million euros and 280.5 million euros and surpassed only
by a 1.06 billion-euro levy against  Intel Corp .  “The two fines for Microsoft and Intel certainly sent a
message,” said Ted Henneberry, a lawyer at Bingham McCutchen
LLP in Washington who previously worked for Microsoft on matters
not related to the EU case. “This thing is history now. Today
companies realize that you’re better served trying to work
things out with the” European Commission.  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy penalized for failing to comply with an
order. The Redmond, Washington-based company agreed to a
settlement in 2009 in a bid to repair the company’s relationship
with the European Commission. Microsoft is now on the other side
of the fence, filing complaints against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and what is
now its Motorola Mobility unit.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, was told by the
EU last month it could avoid an antitrust complaint over
allegations that it discriminates against rivals if it offered
to settle a probe by early July.  “The big issue is whether it was reasonable for the
commission to fine an enormous amount of money for non-
compliance with what was not a bright-line issue,” said Becket
McGrath, a lawyer at Edwards Wildman Palmer UK LLP in London.
“The issue of whether or not there was compliance is a very
technical one” and depends on the price Microsoft charged for
the interoperability information and what it had to disclose.  The tribunal “might give guidance” on whether Microsoft’s
proposed royalty rates for the interoperability information were
excessive, said  Thomas Vinje , a lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP
who represented  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , which opposed Microsoft in the case.  Fair and reasonable licensing terms, or FRAND, form “the
core” of three investigations regulators opened this year into
whether Samsung Electronics Co. and Google’s Motorola Mobility
used their control of standard technology patents to block
competitors’ devices, the EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia 
 said  this month. He said there was a need “to clarify what are
the implications of FRAND and how FRAND negotiations should be
conducted.”  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Data Theft  U.S. Arrests Two Dozen in Undercover Credit Card Operation  U.S. agents arrested two dozen people in 13 countries as
part of a global undercover operation targeting credit-card
hacking that may have affected hundreds of thousands of
customers.  The scheme may have also reached dozens of companies and
educational institutions, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
statement. Two suspects were caught through an undercover
website set up by the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, he
said.  The FBI established the website “as an online meeting
place where the FBI could locate cybercriminals, investigate and
identify them and disrupt their activities,” prosecutors said
in a criminal complaint unsealed yesterday.  “The FBI estimates that it helped financial institutions
prevent many millions of dollars in losses from credit card
fraud and other activity,” according to the complaint.  The website set up by the FBI allowed users to discuss
topics relating to “carding,” or stealing credit and debit
card data to get money, services and merchandise, according to
the complaint.  The FBI monitored discussions and recorded the Internet
addresses of the users’ computers, according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Hicks, 12-mg-1639, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Wyndham Hotels Sued by FTC Over Alleged Data Security Breach  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN) , the franchiser of  Days Inn  hotels
and  Super 8  motels, was sued by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission over security breaches that led to more than 500,000
credit cards being compromised.  The data breaches led to fraudulent charges on customers’
accounts and the export of credit card information to an
Internet domain address registered in Russia, the FTC said in a
statement on its website yesterday.  “Wyndham’s privacy policy misrepresented the security
measures that the company and its subsidiaries took to protect
consumers’ personal information,” the FTC said in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Arizona. The breaches led to
more than $10.6 million in “fraud losses,” the FTC said.  Wyndham, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, licenses the
Wyndham name to about 90 hotels under franchise and management
agreements. The company in April reported that first-quarter
revenue rose about 9 percent to $1.04 billion, while net income
fell 56 percent to $32 million because of early extinguishment
charges related to debt tender offers. The shares have climbed
59 percent in the past year.  “We regret the FTC’s recent decision to pursue litigation,
as we have fully cooperated in its investigation and believe its
claims are without merit,” Michael Valentino, a Wyndham
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Wyndham will fight the
agency’s suit and doesn’t expect it to have a material impact on
the company, he said.  According to the FTC’s complaint, Wyndham exposed
consumers’ personal data to unauthorized access three times
between 2008 and 2009 and failed to take security measures to
prevent future intrusions.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Wyndham Worldwide
Corporation, 12-cv-01365, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 