-- Netflix Wants Help from U.S. Against Cable Data Caps
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-27T15:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/netflix-wants-help-from-u-s-against-cable-data-caps.html
Netflix Inc., (NFLX)  the provider of video
by mail and over Internet connections, asked U.S. lawmakers to
prevent cable providers from squelching its growth by imposing
online-data consumption limits for customers.  Netflix, with 23.4 million subscribers, made its request at
a  hearing  today before the House communications and technology
subcommittee in Washington.  “When you couple limited broadband competition with a
strong desire to protect a legacy video distribution business,
you have both the means and motivation to engage in
anticompetitive behavior,” David Hyman, Netflix’s general
counsel, testified.  The session was called to examine changes since the last
broad revision to cable law in 1992, when few consumers used the
Internet and cable companies controlled 98 percent of the pay-
television market, according to a  staff memo . The 1992 law set
terms for broadcasters to demand payment from cable companies
for their signals.  Since then, the U.S. television market has been reordered
by the emergence of satellite providers  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and
 DirecTV (DTV)  as competitors to cable, and an array of online video
providers including Netflix and Google Inc.’s YouTube.  ‘Opening Shot’  The hearing is “the opening shot in a 2013 congressional
battle that could reshape the pay TV landscape” as lawmakers
look to recast old rules,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based
analyst with Guggenheim Securities, said in a note to investors
today.  Republicans said they want to trim regulations, and members
of the Democratic minority said new rules may be needed to
protect nascent companies.  “The creative chaos in the marketplace is healthy as
parties fight to out-innovate each other and win viewers,” said
Representative Greg Walden, the Oregon Republican who is
chairman of the panel. “The last thing we want is to shackle
everyone’s entrepreneurial spirit with one-size-fits-all
rules.”  Representative  Henry Waxman , of California, the top
Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee that houses the
subcommittee, said Congress needs to ensure video innovation can
continue to flourish.  Preventing Discrimination  “Competitors need a fair shot at gaining access to
content, and independent creators need rules that prevent
discrimination against carriage of their programming,” Waxman
said.  Cable’s share of the pay-TV market has dropped to 57
percent,  Michael Powell , chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission under President  George W. Bush  and now president of
the  National Cable & Telecommunications Association , a trade
group, said yesterday.  The hearing was scheduled as the Justice Department is
investigating whether companies including largest U.S. cable
company Comcast and No. 2  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  have created
incentives to consumers to watch programming and high-speed
Internet through their services to put online providers such as
Netflix at a competitive disadvantage, according to two people
familiar with the matter who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Charging More  Cable companies have begun charging subscribers more for
exceeding certain levels of Internet-data consumption. The
practice discourages viewing of online video, Gigi Sohn,
president of the policy group Public Knowledge, said.  “I’m concerned about the potential impact of data caps on
the growth of the streaming video market,” Representative  Anna Eshoo , of California, the subcommittee’s top Democrat, said in a
statement prepared for today’s hearing and distributed by e-
mail. “It falls on this subcommittee to thoroughly examine the
issue and ensure future innovation is not curtailed.”  Netflix could face higher prices and lowered growth from
limits on data consumption by providers of high-speed Internet
service, or broadband, the Los Gatos, California-based company
said in a  filing .  Powell testified that cable companies frequently promote
video from Netflix, Amazon, Apple Inc., YouTube and Hulu LLC
with owners that include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Comcast and  News Corp. (NWSA)   More Competition  Greater Internet consumption is good for cable companies,
he said.  “It’s just flatly wrong” to suggest cable companies are
harming Netflix’s growth, Powell said.  Powell, in a briefing yesterday, said he isn’t worried
about the reported antitrust investigation.  Many of the practices reportedly being probed, such as data
caps and favorable pricing for the largest customers, were
cleared by regulators who vetted Comcast’s purchase of  NBC
Universal  that was completed last year, Powell said. Comcast
told the FCC it would treat affiliated and unaffiliated Internet
traffic the same, the agency said as it  approved  the purchase of
NBC.  The  Justice Department  hasn’t contacted the Washington-
based cable association “in any meaningful way” to discuss its
reported probe, Powell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  