-- Nomura CEO Watanabe Apologizes for Insider Trading Role
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-27T09:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/nomura-ceo-watanabe-apologizes-amid-probe-into-insider-trading.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  Chief Executive
Officer Kenichi Watanabe broke his silence on a government
crackdown on insider trading, delivering his first personal
apology over the company’s role in the probe.  Japan ’s biggest brokerage will make sincere efforts to
restore confidence, Watanabe told shareholders at an annual
meeting in Tokyo today, according to investor Hideyuki Sakai,
41, who attended the private gathering. Nomura spokeswoman Keiko Sugai confirmed the remarks.  Watanabe, 59, is under pressure to explain how employees
leaked information ahead of share sales managed by Nomura in
2010 that third parties used for trading. Regulators have also
investigated firms including  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) ’s brokerage unit and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in an effort to
restore confidence in Japan’s capital markets.  The CEO today declined to comment on the leaks, saying the
company’s response depends on the outcome of an internal
investigation, according to shareholders including Sakai, who
has owned Nomura shares for about three years. Nomura has
employed a group of outside lawyers to conduct its review, which
it plans to complete by the end of the month.  Some 1,852  shareholders  attended the meeting, according to
spokeswoman Sugai. That’s up from last year’s 1,554. As well as
the  insider trading  issue, investors demanded an explanation for
deteriorating profit, falling shares and dividend cuts.  ‘Not Happy’  “I’m not happy with Nomura’s response today as they didn’t
answer questions about their involvement in the insider cases,”
said Yoshiko Kimura, who owns 800 shares. “The president and
management should resign to take responsibility for this as well
as dividend cuts and poor earnings.”  Shareholders today approved the reappointment of executives
including Watanabe, Sugai said.  Shares of Nomura rose 2.2 percent to 281 yen at the close
in Tokyo, paring losses over the past year to 27 percent. They
tumbled to 224 yen on Nov. 24, the lowest in at least 37 years.  Nomura cut its full-year  dividend  to 6 yen from 8 yen after
posting  earnings  that fell 60 percent to 11.6 billion yen ($146
million) in the year ended March. The Tokyo-based company is
cutting costs that surged after it bought bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. during the 2008 global financial crisis.  Nomura apologized in a statement on June 8 for its
employees’ roles in leaking information before share sales by
Inpex Corp., Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co. in 2010.  History Repeats  It’s the third time Nomura employees were found to have
facilitated insider trading since Watanabe became CEO in 2008.
In 2009, the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission
said a staffer in the mergers advisory division gave tips over
meals and phone calls to an accountant who traded shares in five
takeover bids.  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita yesterday
urged Nomura to “explain as much as they can in terms of
corporate governance and employees’ ethics.” The securities
firm may face “severe action” over the leaks, Matsushita said
earlier this month, without elaborating.  A former executive at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a
brokerage unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui , was arrested this week,
becoming the first banker from a major firm to be detained for
suspected insider trading since a Nomura employee was in 2008.
The SESC and Yokohama city prosecutors are investigating the
person, Hiroyoshi Yoshioka, and three others.  Denied Involvement  Yoshioka denied any involvement in insider transactions
while he was employed by the securities firm, SMBC Nikko
President Eiji Watanabe told reporters on June 25.  The cases have raised concern about the security of private
information at Japanese financial institutions. Japan’s
benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  has dropped 13 percent since late March,
when the commission began announcing that underwriters were
leaking information before the stock offerings.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange will inspect about 30 Japanese and
foreign brokerages from around October to determine how they
guard market-sensitive information, a senior TSE official said,
requesting anonymity as the bourse hasn’t made an announcement.
The official declined to name which firms it will review.  The SESC last month found that an employee of JPMorgan gave
information on a 2010 offering by  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202) ,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. New York-
based JPMorgan said on May 29 that it’s “cooperating fully”
with the authorities on the matter.  Deferred payments boosted Nomura CEO Watanabe’s total
compensation by 74 percent to 299 million yen in the year ended
March, the company said in a filing to the  Finance Ministry 
today. Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata’s compensation
rose 68 percent to 260 million yen, also because of deferred
payments. The executives’ basic pay remained flat and no cash
bonuses were awarded, Nomura said.  Nomura investor Yoshio Fukuda, 79, said he traveled from
Yokohama to join the meeting at the Hotel Okura for the first
time, looking for reassurance over the company’s profitability
and management. He said he won’t add to his 1,000 shares.  “It’s a mess,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  