-- Nora Ephron, Writer of ‘When Harry Met Sally,’ Dies at 71
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/nora-ephron-wry-when-harry-met-sally-writer-dies-at-71-1-.html
Nora Ephron, the author,
screenwriter and playwright whose wry take on life, love and
loss informed the hit films “When Harry Met Sally” and
“Sleepless in  Seattle ” as well as the novel “Heartburn,”
about the breakup of her marriage to journalist Carl Bernstein,
has died. She was 71.  Ephron died yesterday after a battle with leukemia,
according to a statement from her publisher, the Alfred A. Knopf
unit of  Random House .  Through her writing and filmmaking, Ephron was a fixture at
the crossroads of  New York  City, where she was born, and
Hollywood, around which she was raised by her screenwriter
parents. Starting with a post-college job in the mailroom at
 Newsweek , Ephron rose swiftly in journalism, writing for the New
York Post and New York magazine and landing a column in Esquire.  Unsentimental and cynical in much of her early writing, she
found fame in romantic comedies for the big screen. “When Harry
Met Sally” (1989) starred  Billy Crystal  and Meg Ryan as two
friends finally drawn into love. Ryan paired with  Tom Hanks  for
“Sleepless in Seattle” (1993) and “You’ve Got Mail” (1998),
which likewise end with attraction conquering obstacles.  Ephron was nominated for the Academy Award for
screenwriting for “When Harry Met Sally” and “Sleepless in
Seattle,” as well as for “Silkwood” (1983), written with
Alice Arlen. She directed “Sleepless in Seattle” and “You’ve
Got Mail.” She also wrote and directed “Michael” (1996) and
“Julie & Julia” (2009), among other films.  Showing Differences  In a 2006 interview with  Charlie Rose , Ephron said some of
her best-known works were “completely about men and women and
how different they are.”  Her last two books, “I Feel Bad About My Neck: And Other
Thoughts on Being a Woman” and “I Remember Nothing and Other
Reflections,” were collections of essays on the surprises and
indignities of getting older. In one essay, “On Maintenance,”
she counted up the time she spends on fighting the effects of
aging:  “Eight hours a week and counting. By the time I reach my
seventies, I’m sure it will take at least twice as long. The
only consolation I have in any of this is that when I’m very old
and virtually unemployable, I will at least have something to
do. Assuming, of course, that I haven’t spent all my money doing
it.”  In a 2009 review of their play, “Love, Loss, and What I
Wore,” Bloomberg News chief drama critic Jeremy Gerard called
Ephron and her sister, Delia, “literary alchemists expert at
mixing the sentimental and the satirical and turning out
something poignant.”  Troubled Parents  Ephron was born on May 19, 1941, in  New York City , the
first of four daughters of screenwriters Henry and Phoebe
Ephron, whose collaborations included “ Desk Set ,” a 1957 film
starring  Katharine Hepburn  and Spencer Tracy. She and her
sisters were raised in  Los Angeles . Her mother became an
alcoholic and died of cirrhosis at 57, and her father spent time
in mental hospitals in his later years and attempted suicide,
according to a  New Yorker  profile in 2009.  Ephron said her mother would say, “Everything is copy,”
instilling in her four daughters the principle of turning pain
into funny stories. All four became writers.  After earning a bachelor’s degree in political science from
 Wellesley College  in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , in 1962, Ephron
moved to New York City to test the waters in journalism. Given a
career break when hired by Dorothy Schiff, owner of the New York
Post, Ephron later repaid her with a scathing profile in
Esquire. The piece opened, “I feel bad about what I’m going to
do here.”  Ruined Marriage  Ephron’s first marriage, to writer Dan Greenburg, ended
after nine years. In 1976 she married Bernstein, who along with
 Bob Woodward  had broken the Watergate scandal for the Washington
Post a few years earlier. “Heartburn,” her 1983 novel, found
humor in the ruins of her marriage to Bernstein, who, she said,
had an affair while she was pregnant with their second son. The
Bernstein-based character was played by  Jack Nicholson , the
Ephron-based character by  Meryl Streep , in the 1986  film
version .  Streep had also starred three years earlier in the Mike
Nichols-directed “Silkwood,” a drama based on the real-life
story of a labor organizer at a nuclear-processing plant whose
whistle-blowing was abruptly ended when she died in a car
accident.  ‘Goodfellas’ Author  Ephron’s third marriage was to journalist Nicholas Pileggi,
who adapted his 1985 book “Wiseguy” into the movie
“Goodfellas” (1990), directed by  Martin Scorsese .  Pileggi survives her, as do her two sons from her marriage
to Bernstein, Max and Jacob.  “If you want to be successful and you are a woman, you
have to understand that there’s all kinds of horrible stuff that
comes with it, and you simply cannot do anything about it but
move on,” Ephron told the New Yorker in 2009.  “I don’t mean that you can’t have your feelings hurt or
that you can’t sit at home and feel sorry for yourself --
briefly,” she said. “But then I think you have to just start
typing and do the next thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  