-- Not Best Time to Buy Land in China Now, Hang Lung’s Chan Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-06-27T05:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/not-best-time-to-buy-land-in-china-now-hang-lung-s-chan-says.html
Land prices in  China  may drop
further and it is still too early to buy land in the country,
said Ronnie Chan, Chairman of  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the
Hong Kong developer investing at least $8.5 billion in Chinese
real estate.  “Why hurry? It’s not like the market is going to take off
anytime soon,” Chan said in an interview at the sideline of the
Real Estate Investment World conference in  Singapore  today.
“It’s still not the best time yet. We need to look more
carefully.”  Cash-strapped  Chinese developers  have been reluctant to buy
land after government curbs introduced since 2010 to prevent a
property bubble tightened credit, draining liquidity. China’s
home values fell in a record 54 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in May as developers cut prices to boost sales amid
housing curbs.  The company, already one of the most cashed-up  Hong Kong 
builders, is “doing all the preparations work” for acquiring
more projects in China, said Chan.  Hang Lung has restarted sales of its Hong Kong apartments
this year and has sold commercial properties that it deemed to
be “non-core” assets, Chan said. It raised $500 million this
month through its first dollar-denominated debt sale since 1993.  Hang Lung will in the fourth quarter open a shopping mall
in the northeastern Chinese city of Shenyang, its fifth outside
of Hong Kong. That mall is fully let and may generate 50 percent
higher return than the company’s other shopping center in the
city, Chan said.  The company is also building projects in cities including
Wuxi, Tianjin, and Dalian. Its most recent acquisition was in
September for a site in the southwestern city of Kunming. It was
the company’s first land purchase since May 2009.  Hang Lung’s cash ratio, a measure of liquidity for
developers, was 2.66 at the end of 2011, the second-highest
among the 50 biggest Hong Kong-listed builders tracked by
Bloomberg.  Hang Lung’s  shares  have gained 17 percent this year,
compared with the 6.2 percent advance in the Hang Seng Property
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  