-- O’Donnell Says He’s Adding to Bank Knowledge as He Mulls BOE Job
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/o-donnell-says-he-s-adding-to-bank-knowledge-as-he-mulls-boe-job.html
Gus O’Donnell , the former head of
the U.K. civil service, said he’s using his new job to learn
about banks and financial regulation as he considers whether to
apply to replace Mervyn King as Bank of England governor.  “When they do advertise it, I’ll make up my mind whether I
want to apply or not,” O’Donnell, who joined  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  this month, said in an interview yesterday in London. “I
haven’t made up my mind one way or another.”  King is scheduled to leave the bank in June 2013 after
serving the maximum two five-year terms allowed. Potential
successors include Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker 
and Financial Services Authority ChairmanAdair Turner. Goldman
Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  told Bloomberg News
on June 22 that he would consider replacing King if asked.  The hiring process comes at a time when the institution is
gaining new powers to regulate the financial system. O’Donnell,
who attended Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee meetings
as a government representative while at the U.K. Treasury, was
named by Canadian lender Toronto-Dominion as a strategic adviser
to Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  on June 11. He said that
his new job should give him skills that will help in any
application when King’s job is advertised.  “I’m learning a lot between now and then,” O’Donnell
said. “I’m learning about bank regulation, I’m learning quite a
lot about how banks operate, so that will be very useful to me
as background for the job.”  O’Donnell is ranked at odds of 4/1 at bookmaker  Paddy Power
Plc  to become next Bank of England governor. That means a 1-
pound ($1.56) winning bet would yield a 4-pound profit. Tucker
is favorite for the post, at 5/6, while Turner is 6/1.  O’Donnell made the comments on the sidelines of a
conference organized by Demos Finance in partnership with the
Financial Times and Cass Business School. As U.K. Cabinet
Secretary, he was the most senior official in the British civil
service from 2005 to the  end of 2011 , serving in that role under
three prime ministers. He has also been the U.K.’s executive
director to the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  