-- O’Reilly Automotive Tumbles Most Since IPO in 1993
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-06-27T20:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/o-reilly-automotive-tumbles-most-since-ipo-in-1993.html
O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  had its
biggest ever decline after saying sales growth was slower than
expected and second-quarter profit will be on the lower end of
the company’s forecast range.  O’Reilly dropped 14 percent to $82.61 at the close in  New
York , for the steepest decline since its initial public offering
in April 1993. The retailer of auto parts, tools and accessories
had risen 21 percent this year through yesterday.  While comparable-store sales improved in May after a slow
start in April, in June they fell below expectations, and same-
store sales for the second quarter ending this month may
increase as much as 2.5 percent, Springfield, Missouri-based
O’Reilly said. That compared with the earlier forecast of as
much as 5 percent.  “The announcement overall is rather surprising but seems
to reflect negative overhang from the abnormally warm winter
that put less wear and tear on vehicles,” Peter Keith, a New
York-based analyst for Piper Jaffray & Co., wrote in a note to
clients. He rates O’Reilly overweight, the equivalent of buy.  Piper Jaffray is maintaining its rating on O’Reilly because
of the company’s “strong positioning” in commercial sales and
“healthy” gross margins, Keith said.  Profit for the second quarter will be on the lower end of
the range of $1.13 to $1.17 a share, according to a statement
released yesterday after the close. That compared with an
average estimate of $1.19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  O’Reilly plans to release its second-quarter results on
July 25.  Shares of other auto retailers also fell.  AutoZone Inc. (AZO) 
dropped 4.7 percent to $359, while  Advance Auto Parts Inc. (AAP) 
declined 0.4 percent to $65.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  