-- Obama Tops Romney in Poll of Three Swing-State Voters
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-06-27T18:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/obama-tops-romney-in-poll-of-three-swing-state-voters.html
President Barack Obama holds an edge
over presumed Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  in the competitive
states of Pennsylvania,  Ohio  and Florida, a Quinnipiac
University poll shows.  Obama leads Romney by 9 percentage points in Ohio, 6 points
in Pennsylvania and 4 points in Florida, according to the June
19-25 “swing-state” survey released today. Obama has gained
ground in Ohio and Florida while his lead in Pennsylvania
diminished slightly, compared with a Quinnipiac poll released on
May 3.  The president’s move to stop deportations of some illegal
immigrants brought to the U.S. as children helped win over
voters, said  Peter Brown , assistant director of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. The
president holds almost a 2-1 lead among Hispanic voters in
Florida, the poll found.  “If he can keep those leads in all three of these key
swing states through Election Day, he would be virtually assured
of re-election,” Brown said in a statement. “Of course, the
election is more than four months away, which is a lifetime in
politics.”  No one has won the White House since 1960 without carrying
at least two of the three states surveyed in this poll; Obama
won all of them in 2008. The three states combined hold 67 of
the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House.  Florida Results  In  Florida , Obama leads Romney 45 percent to 41 percent,
the poll showed. In the swing-state poll released May 3, the
president led by 1 point, meaning the race in the state was a
virtual dead heat.  The revised deportation policy Obama announced June 15 and
his June 22 address to the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials meeting in Lake Buena Vista,
Florida -- following a Romney speech to the group the previous
day -- boosted the president’s standing with Hispanics in that
state, according to Quinnipiac poll data.  In a June 12-18 poll by Quinnipiac solely of Florida voters
-- in which Obama also led by 4 percentage points -- the
president had a 10-point edge over Romney among Hispanics
surveyed, 49 percent to 39 percent. In the latest poll, Obama’s
lead over Romney in this bloc has grown to 24 points, 56 percent
to 32 percent.  Immigration Initiative  Among all Florida voters in the new survey, 58 percent said
they supported Obama’s immigration initiative, while 33 percent
opposed it.  Voters in the other two states in the poll were also
supportive, backing the policy 52 percent to 38 percent in Ohio
and 51 percent to 41 percent in  Pennsylvania .  In the fight to carry Ohio, Obama leads Romney 47 percent
to 38 percent, the poll showed. In the May 3 swing-state poll,
Obama was up 44 percent to 42 percent.  The president benefits from positive views about him among
Ohio voters -- 50 percent rate him favorably, compared with 44
percent who have an unfavorable opinion of him. By comparison,
32 percent of Ohio voters say they view Romney favorably, while
46 percent don’t.  While Democrats and Republicans in the state allied
overwhelmingly with their party’s candidate, independent voters
backed Obama 45 percent to 36 percent.  “The president’s lead is largely due to his lead among
independent voters, the group that usually decides Ohio
elections,” Brown said.  Pennsylvania Results  In Pennsylvania, Obama leads 45 percent to 39 percent in
the latest poll; in the survey released May 3 he was backed by
47 percent to Romney’s 39 percent. Obama has a 12-point edge
with women voters in the state in the latest poll.  Neither candidate enjoys positive favorability ratings in
the state. Obama gets favorable marks from 45 percent, while 49
percent view him unfavorably. Romney is viewed favorably by 34
percent, unfavorably by 39 percent.  “Pennsylvania voters have no great love for President
 Barack Obama , but at this point they like Governor Mitt Romney
less,” said Tim Malloy, assistant director of the polling
institute.  In all three states, Obama is holding his own against
Romney on the handling of the economy -- the central argument
the Republican has made for replacing the president.  In Ohio, voters back Obama 47 percent to 42 percent when
asked whether he or Romney would do a better job on the economy.
In Pennsylvania, voters tie on this question -- 44 percent for
each -- while in Florida, Romney has a slight edge, 46 percent
to 44 percent for Obama.  Vanishing Advantage  “For much of last year, more voters in these swing states
have said Romney would do a better job on the economy,” Brown
said. “That advantage has largely disappeared.”  Ohio has been carried by the winner of every presidential
election since 1964, and Florida sided with a loser only once
over that period -- in 1992, when it backed then-President
 George H.W. Bush  over Democrat  Bill Clinton . Pennsylvania has
been won by every Democratic White House contender since the
1992 vote.  The poll’s margin of error in each state is plus or minus
2.8 percentage points. Quinnipiac surveyed 1,200 voters in
Florida, 1,237 in Ohio and 1,252 in Pennsylvania.  A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll of 12 swing states
released today shows that taken as a whole, Obama has an 8-point
margin over Romney, 50 percent to 42 percent. Along with
Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, the states in this group were
 Colorado ,  Iowa ,  Michigan ,  Nevada ,  New Hampshire ,  New Mexico ,
 North Carolina ,  Virginia  and  Wisconsin .  The survey was conducted June 20-24 and the finding for the
12 states has an error margin of plus or minus 6.2 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  