-- Obama’s Legacy at Risk After Winning Health-Care Fight
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/obama-s-legacy-at-risk-after-winning-100-year-health-care-fight.html
The outcome of a 100-year fight for
U.S. national health care rests on the verdict today of nine
justices, who will emerge from behind a red velvet curtain.  Just four months before the presidential election, the
Supreme Court is poised to rule on the constitutionality of
President  Barack Obama ’s biggest legislative achievement, which
would extend coverage to at least 30 million uninsured Americans
in the biggest overhaul of the nation’s health-care system since
Medicare and Medicaid were enacted in 1965.  “When we talk about Obama 20 or 30 years from now, this is
likely to be the bill we talk about,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
presidential historian at  Princeton University . “If the Supreme
Court takes away from Obama his biggest accomplishment, this is
exactly what a president really fears. In some ways, it’s worse
than not getting re-elected.”  The last time the court invalidated legislation so central
to the presidency was when it struck down parts of  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal program in 1935 and 1936, said Zelizer.
Even those decisions only addressed pieces of a larger package
of economic and social initiatives that Roosevelt adopted in
response to the Great Depression, he said.  The political stakes for Obama are high: The presumptive
Republican presidential challenger, Mitt Romney, moved yesterday
to frame a loss in the  Supreme Court  as a blow to his
presidency. A ruling that invalidates the statute would make
Obama’s term in office “a waste,” he said.  High Price  The court, which heard arguments in the case in March,
meets at 10 a.m. Washington time and may keep the candidates and
everyone else in suspense for a few more minutes.  Rulings on two other cases will probably come first. One is
on a challenge to a law that makes it a crime to falsely claim
to have been awarded a military medal. The other is a dispute
over homebuyers’ lawsuits against title insurers.  Obama has paid a high political price for passage of the
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the culmination
of efforts on behalf of a national health plan that stretch back
to President  Theodore Roosevelt ’s 1912 “Bull Moose” third-
party candidacy. The cause has frustrated Democratic and
Republican presidents, including  Harry Truman ,  Richard Nixon  and
 Bill Clinton , all of whom failed to win enactment of such
legislation.  The perception of political weakness that enveloped Clinton
after his universal health-care plan failed in Congress, costing
Democrats’ control of the House and Senate, stalled efforts to
pass a similar bill until Obama was elected.  It’s the Economy  Obama rejected advice from aides, including then-chief of
staff  Rahm Emanuel , to settle for a more modest version of the
health-care overhaul to reduce the political risk. He confronted
Republicans and even some Democratic critics as he prevailed in
a yearlong legislative battle.  The push for the bill detracted from his capacity to make a
public case for his economic agenda -- at a time the recession
was voters’ highest priority, said  Tad Devine , a Democratic
strategist.  The controversy also helped fuel the Tea Party movement and
“was a factor, without a doubt” in Democrats’ loss of the
House in the 2010 midterm congressional elections, said Devine,
who worked on the Al Gore and John Kerry presidential campaigns.  “Much, if not most, of the advertising Republicans did in
2010 focused on health care,” he said. “People were frustrated
by anything they saw that led them to believe the president and
other leaders were not focusing almost exclusively on the
economy.”  ‘Not Sleeping’  Romney, appearing yesterday in the Washington suburbs,
suggested that he stands to gain and Obama will lose regardless
of how justices rule.  “My guess is they’re not sleeping real well at the White
House tonight,” Romney said during a visit to EIT LLC, an
electronic manufacturing company in Sterling,  Virginia , about 30
miles (48 kilometers) west of the Supreme Court steps.  Romney is prepared to paint an invalidation of most or all
of the health-care law as a repudiation of Obama’s signature
domestic policy achievement, paving the way for its repeal. Even
if justices choose to uphold the law’s constitutionality, Romney
said, the measure still is “a bad policy” and that he will
“repeal it and replace it” if elected.  The Obama campaign has said the health-care law was modeled
after a Massachusetts plan that Romney signed into law as
governor, and that repealing the Obama initiative would mean
ending popular provisions, including a ban on insurance
companies withholding coverage from people with pre-existing
medical conditions.  Pre-Existing Conditions  “Americans don’t want to go back to the days when
insurance companies were in charge,” Lis Smith, an Obama
campaign spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement after
Romney’s remarks. “ Mitt Romney , however, is promising to take
us back there.”  The health law bars insurers from denying coverage to
people or discriminating in price based on pre-existing
conditions. To maintain the insurance system’s financial
viability, people must obtain coverage beginning in 2014 or face
a fine, a provision that’s at the center of the constitutional
challenge by 26 Republican-controlled states.  An individual  insurance  mandate was proposed more than 20
years ago by the Republican-aligned Heritage Foundation, and
before Obama embraced it as part of his health-care legislation
the provision had the support of many Republicans.  Provisions that already have taken effect allow young
adults under 26 to remain on their parents’ insurance plans, ban
lifetime payment limits on policies and require insurers to
cover children under 19 regardless of pre-existing conditions.  Rebate Payments  Insurers also will have to make rebate payments beginning
this year by Aug. 1 to policyholders for plans that didn’t spend
a minimum portion of premiums the previous year on patient care.
The  Department of Health  and Human Services said on June 21 that
insurers will pay $1.1 billion in rebates to 12.8 million
policyholders this year.  Low- and moderate-income families will receive assistance
obtaining insurance through subsidies and an expansion of
eligibility for the Medicaid program for the poor, financed in
part by an excise tax on medical device makers and higher taxes
on individuals earning more than $200,000.  The Supreme Court has several options for dealing with the
law.  Pivotal Votes  The court may uphold the entire statute. It could strike
down part of the law, including the insurance mandate and the
related provisions, which require  insurers  to cover people with
pre-existing conditions and charge them the same rates as other
policyholders. The justices also might invalidate the expansion
of the Medicaid program, which is intended to  provide  coverage
to about 16 million uninsured. Or they could strike down the
law.  Based on the arguments in March, the pivotal votes belong
to Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice  Anthony Kennedy , two
of the five Republican appointees on the nine-member court.  During the arguments on the insurance mandate, both aimed
the bulk of their questions at the lawyer representing the Obama
administration. At the same time, they left their likely votes
in doubt by similarly directing questions toward the challengers
to the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  