-- Lockhart Says Economy Doesn’t Need New Bond Buying Now
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-27T23:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/lockhart-says-economy-doesn-t-need-new-bond-buying-now.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said while a new bond-buying program
remains an option, current conditions don’t call for the Fed to
take such an aggressive step.  So-called quantitative easing is “certainly an option,”
Lockhart said in an interview with  “Nightly Business Report” 
on PBS Television. Even so, “I don’t think the conditions have
developed that require us to bring out bigger guns quite yet.”  Lockhart said “dramatically” slower growth and a threat
of falling prices are among the conditions that might prompt him
to consider more bond purchases. The Fed has already bought $2.3
trillion of securities in two rounds aimed at reducing borrowing
costs, spurring economic growth and reviving the job market.  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  on June 20
expanded the Fed’s maturity-extension program, known as
Operation Twist. Central bank officials also downgraded their
forecasts for growth and employment while noting “significant
downside risks” to the economy.  “The Operation Twist extension through year-end I view as
the maintenance of a policy that was in place that keeps
pressure on longer-term rates,” Lockhart, who votes on the FOMC
this year, said in the transcript of the broadcast interview.  Further Expansion  The Atlanta Fed chief urged his central bank colleagues to
take their time in reviewing the outlook.  “I would argue we need to be a little bit patient here to
look at the incoming data and to size up what is really
happening and also stand ready for whatever external events
might affect the economy,” he said.  By contrast, Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , meeting
with reporters, today called for new easing, including more
asset purchases, to spur economic growth. “We should be doing
more accommodation than what was adopted under the Twist,” he
said in Chicago.  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district
includes  Alabama , Florida,  Georgia , and portions of Louisiana,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  