-- Oil Fluctuates Amid Speculation EU Outlook Will Worsen
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-28T12:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/oil-climbs-a-third-day-on-economic-outlook-norway-strike.html
Oil fluctuated in  London  amid
speculation that the European Union’s economy will fail to grow,
as the region’s leaders gathered in Brussels for a summit.  Brent crude  was little changed after falling as much as 1.2
percent as the EU continued to battle the financial crisis that
claimed Cyprus this week as its fifth victim. Economic
confidence in the euro area slumped to the lowest in more than 2
1/2 years in June, the European Commission said.  Germany 
reported that unemployment in the region’s biggest economy rose
for a fourth month this year.  “The oil price is a reflection of the market’s expectation
that there will be no growth in  Europe  for the next few years,”
said  Michael Hewson , analyst at London-based CMC Markets UK Plc
who predicts Brent may fall as low as $76 a barrel in the next
six months. “Although  Iran  could provide potential for prices
to move higher in the short term, the overall outlook is down,
based on the lack of economic growth.”  Brent oil for August settlement traded at $93.58 a barrel,
up 8 cents, at 1:19 p.m. on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange after falling as much as $1.09 to $92.41. The European
benchmark’s premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
narrowed to $13.10, compared with $13.29 yesterday. Brent has
lost 24 percent this quarter, the steepest slide since the last
three months of 2008.  Euro-Zone Economy  WTI for August delivery on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
increased traded at $80.48 a barrel, up 27 cents, after rising
as high as $80.70. Prices are down 22 percent this quarter, also
the biggest drop since the final three months of 2008.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area dropped to 89.9 from a revised 90.5 in May, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest
since October 2009. In Germany, the number of people out of work
rose a seasonally adjusted  7,000 to 2.88 million, a separate
report showed. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had
forecast a gain of 3,000 in the month.  London-traded Brent, the second-worst performer between
April and June in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index, is
set to recover as an EU ban on Iranian oil takes effect, central
banks act to protect growth and on speculation that OPEC will
curb some of its excess supply, according to analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Front-month Brent is forecast to rebound to an average
$114.50 a barrel in the third quarter, according to the median
estimate of 32 analysts. BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and
Barclays Plc predict $110, $115 and $121 a barrel, respectively.  ‘Price Up-cycle’  Brent slipped as low as $88.49 last week. The decline took
prices below the marginal cost of production, which was $92 a
barrel in 2011, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. The drop
“marks the start of the next oil price up-cycle,” Bernstein
said in a report e-mailed today.  The EU ban on oil purchases from Iran, the second biggest
exporter in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
starts on July 1 as part of pressure from Western nations to
halt the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.  Saudi Arabia  is
OPEC’s biggest shipper of crude.  The European contract will outperform WTI crude as the
embargo takes effect and  Norway ’s strike cuts supply, Mirae
Asset Securities said in a report today. Investors should buy
Brent and sell WTI futures, Mirae recommended.  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest energy company, estimates the
industrial action by workers is curbing national oil output by
as much as 250,000 barrels a day while the Oil Industry
Association puts the daily loss at 240,000 barrels of crude plus
11.9 million standard cubic meters of natural gas. The country
produced 1.63 million barrels of oil a day last month, according
to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  “The Norwegian strike was priced in yesterday,” Hewson at
CMC Markets UK said. “The expectation is that there is
significant oversupply in the market so the Norwegian strike is
neither here nor there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  