-- Oil Over $100 Seen on Iran After Worst Quarter Since 2008
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-28T15:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/oil-over-100-seen-on-iran-after-worst-quarter-since-08.html
Brent crude  is set to recover from
its worst quarter since 2008 as a European Union ban on Iranian
oil takes effect, central banks act to protect growth and on
speculation OPEC will curb some of its excess supply.  Brent, the second-worst performer between April and June in
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index, is forecast to
rebound to an average $114.50 a barrel in the third quarter,
according to the median estimate of 32 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg. BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc
predict $110, $115 and $121, respectively. Prices dipped as low
as $88.49 last week in London and rose as high as $93.85 today.  “We do look for a rebound and feel that the oil price has
gone beyond economic fundamentals,”  Michael Lewis , Deutsche
Bank’s head of commodities research in London, said by phone on
June 26. “We are in quite an extreme level of investor
pessimism, which would only seem to us justified if the U.S. was
going back into a recession.”  The prospect of a rebound in prices driven by sanctions on
Iran illustrates the readiness of the U.S.,  Europe  and their
allies to suffer higher fuel costs in order to curb the Islamic
republic’s nuclear program. The EU, Iran’s biggest buyer after
 China , is due to stop importing the nation’s oil July 1. While
reflecting an improvement in demand as major economies tackle
the fallout from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, rising prices
may also pose headwinds to a recovery.  Second-Quarter Slump  Brent has lost 24 percent in the quarter through yesterday
to $93.50, its steepest slide since the 54 percent retreat in
the last three months of 2008. Only cotton fell more among the
24 commodities in the GSCI index, tumbling 27 percent. The  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  of stocks has declined 8.4 percent.  Concern earlier this year that measures against Iran might
culminate in a wider disruption of Middle Eastern supply
propelled Brent to a 3 1/2-year high of $128.40 a barrel on
March 1. The rally prompted other members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase production and the
U.S., U.K. and  France  to consider releasing emergency reserves.  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global supplies,
resolved to constrain output at a June 14 meeting in Vienna
because of “mounting” downside risks to the global economy and
accumulating inventories. The group aims to pare back output to
its official ceiling of 30 million barrels a day from the
current 31.6 million barrels, according to Secretary-General
Abdalla El-Badri.  OPEC ‘Dial Back’  While Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  promised the
following day that his country, OPEC’s largest member, will
ensure that global markets remain adequately supplied, Morgan
Stanley estimates that prices have fallen far enough for OPEC to
begin delivering on its June 14 resolution.  “OPEC will start to dial back production” with Brent
prices at about $90 a barrel,  Hussein Allidina , Morgan Stanley’s
New York-based head of commodities research, said in a report
dated June 17.  Iran’s oil exports are declining 20 percent to 30 percent
as the sanctions start, though that’s partly due to field
maintenance, Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Qalebani told reporters
in Moscow on June 26.  Sanctions and Waivers  Adding to the EU ban, the U.S. has imposed financial
sanctions on banks handling Iran’s sales, though several
nations, including  India  and South Korea, have been granted
waivers after proving they already “significantly reduced” the
volume they buy from the Persian Gulf nation.  “Implementation of full sanctions” will cut Iran’s
exports by 1 million barrels a day in the second half compared
with last year’s levels, the Paris-based  International Energy
Agency  said on June 13. The country exported about 1.5 million
barrels a day in May, according to the IEA.  “The oil market will move into a seasonally-adjusted
deficit as sanctions go into effect on July 1,”  Jeffrey Currie 
and  David Greely , commodity analysts at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., wrote in a report on June 11.  Oil exports from the  Middle East , including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will slip 0.5 percent to 17.58 million
barrels a day in the four weeks to July 7, from the previous
four-week period, led by a reduction from  Saudi Arabia ,  Oil
Movements , a Halifax, England-based tanker-tracking researcher,
estimated in a June 21 report.  Most Banks Bullish  Spain , the euro-region’s fourth-largest economy, requested
as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) from European rescue
funds this month to shore up its banking system, the fourth
member of the bloc to seek a bailout since the debt crisis began
almost three years ago. Global oil demand will still increase by
2 million barrels a day, or 2.3 percent in the third quarter to
an average 90.5 million a day, according to the IEA.  Consumption will be shored up by monetary stimulus in
 emerging markets  such as China, according to  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas’s head of commodity-markets
strategy in London.  “On the supply side, Iran’s production can easily fall as
sanctions begin to bite, forcing the world to live with lower
spare capacity,” he said in a June 22 interview.  During the first three months of this year, BNP Paribas,
Deutsche Bank and Barclays held forecasts for the second quarter
Brent price that ranged from $114 to $119, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With two days to go, the second quarter
mean so far is $109.22.  Long Positions  Goldman Sachs said in a June 11 report that Brent will
trade at about $120 a barrel and West Texas Intermediate at $115
in three months’ time.  A “long WTI position is compelling,” the bank said.  As of June 19,  hedge funds  and other money managers had
reduced bullish oil bets on WTI to a 19-month low and Brent to a
seven-month low, according to weekly reports from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and ICE Futures. The CFTC will
tomorrow publish its next set of WTI data, for the week ended
June 26.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is among banks that remain cautious on
a rebound. Brent futures will average $95 a barrel in the third
quarter, down from a previous prediction of $120, because of a
“stormy outlook” for the global economy, Colin Fenton, the
bank’s global head of commodities research in  New York , said in
a report dated June 25. Even so, Fenton expects crude “may
spend some time above $100” in the coming three months and
there’s more potential for price volatility.  Norway Dampens Contango  The recent decline in Brent crude coincides with the re-
emergence of a contango market structure situation whereby
there’s a price discount for prompt versus later deliveries,
typically an indication that immediate supply is outpacing
demand. The front-month Brent contract on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange became as much as 38 cents cheaper than
the second month on June 21, the biggest discount since Feb. 2,
2011, when that gap was 57 cents.  The contango has faded this week though, as a new
disruption in the North Sea revives immediate-delivery prices. A
strike by Norwegian oil workers entered its fifth day today,
halting 250,000 barrels a day or about 15 percent of the crude
supply from western Europe’s largest exporter.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said on June 20 it will expand its
Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of assets on
its balance sheet, and said it stands ready to take further
action to put unemployed Americans back to work. China cut
borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 and loosened
controls on banks’ lending and deposit rates, stepping up
efforts to combat a deepening slowdown. The one-year lending
rate was reduced by a quarter-percentage point to 6.31 percent,
the People’s Bank of China said in a statement on June 7.  The focus on Europe’s debt crisis and the global recession
has clouded assessments on the amount of oil that will be
removed from world supply because of the Iran sanctions, Helima Croft, an analyst at Barclays in New York, said in a television
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “We’re going to add basically another 500,000 off the
market in Europe come July 1,” she said on June 25. “Our call
still for the end of the year is $121 Brent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  