-- Holder Contempt Vote to Proceed in U.S. House, Boehner Says
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-27T21:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/holder-contempt-vote-will-proceed-in-u-s-house-boehner-says.html
The U.S. House plans to proceed with
a vote on whether Attorney General Eric Holder should be cited
for contempt of Congress, the first proceeding of its kind
against a Cabinet member.  The contempt vote will be held tomorrow concerning
documents that Holder declined to provide to Congress related to
the Fast and Furious federal gun operation, said House Speaker
 John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican . President  Barack Obama  has
asserted executive privilege over the documents and declined to
turn them over.  “We’d really rather not be there,” Boehner told reporters
today in Washington. The White House hasn’t cooperated with the
House Republicans’ requests “to get to the bottom of a very
serious issue,” Boehner said.  The contempt vote would escalate a standoff that began last
year between the administration and Republican lawmakers over
Fast and Furious, which allowed illegal gun purchases in the
U.S. in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels.
The vote would occur the same day the Supreme Court rules on a
constitutional challenge to the president’s health-care
overhaul.  NRA Support  The  National Rifle Association  told House members in a June
20 letter it would consider the Holder contempt vote in
evaluations of candidates for office. The group said that the
Obama administration tried to use Fast and Furious “to advance
its gun-control agenda.”  Democrats, citing the National Rifle Association’s support
of the contempt motion, accused Republicans of trying to divert
the public’s attention from the need for tougher firearms
trafficking laws to stem gun smuggling into Mexico.  Republicans want “political blood” so “instead of going
after guns, the Congress is going after the attorney general,”
Democratic Representative Carolyn Maloney of  New York  told
reporters at a news conference.  Criminal Prosecution  If lawmakers hold the attorney general in contempt, the
matter would go to the U.S. attorney in  Washington  to determine
whether criminal prosecution is warranted. House leaders also
may seek authority to file a lawsuit to obtain a court order
directing Holder to comply with the committee’s subpoena.  Both sides remained at an impasse after a meeting yesterday
among White House and Justice Department officials and
representatives of Boehner and the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee. The panel voted along party lines
last week to approve the contempt citation.  White House Counsel  Kathryn Ruemmler  and other
administration officials showed congressional staffers a
sampling of fewer than 30 pages from material Holder had offered
to turn over to avert a contempt vote, said a House Republican
aide, who asked for anonymity and wasn’t authorized to discuss
the matter.  The officials told congressional staffers that Holder was
prepared to turn over an unspecified compilation of hundreds of
documents if the committee first agreed to drop the contempt
proceedings, the aide said. Congressional staffers rejected the
offer, first made on June 19 when Holder met with  Darrell Issa 
of  California , who is chairman of the oversight panel, and
Maryland Representative  Elijah Cummings , the committee’s top
Democrat, the aide said.  ’Good-Faith Effort’  “This was a good-faith effort to resolve this while still
protecting the institutional prerogatives of the executive
branch, often championed by these same Republicans criticizing
us right now,” Eric Shultz, a White House spokesman, said in an
e-mail statement. “Unfortunately, Republicans have opted for
political theater rather than conduct legitimate Congressional
oversight.”  No follow-up meeting was scheduled, the aide said. Still,
additional discussions are possible if the administration seeks
them, the aide said.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential
communications because their release would chill the candid
advice provided by government officials or White House advisers.  The House is seeking documents describing internal  Justice
Department  discussions about a February 2011 letter to lawmakers
on Fast and Furious that Holder later said mistakenly contained
incorrect information. The documents sought by the panel cover
the 10-month period between the initial letter and a subsequent
one the Justice Department sent to correct the erroneous
statements.  A ‘Stain’  The Justice Department says it has provided more than 7,600
pages of documents in the case. During a Rules Committee
hearing, Issa said that the Justice Department provided “what
shows their side of the story.”  Cummings retorted that lawmakers “should be able as
reasonable people to get this resolved” because the contempt
citation against Holder would be “a stain on us as an
institution.”  In the operation, the U.S. lost track of guns that turned
up at crime scenes in  Mexico . Holder has said that when he
learned about Fast and Furious, he halted use of the tactics and
asked the Justice Department’s inspector general to investigate.  No Cabinet member has ever been held in contempt by either
chamber of Congress, said Senate Historian Donald Ritchie.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  