-- Older Workers in U.S. Drive Competition in Labor Market
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/older-workers-in-u-s-drive-competition-in-labor-market.html
     June 27 (Bloomberg News) -- Richard InLove, 60, works 20
hours a week as a receptionist and office assistant in Eugene,
 Oregon , and wants more. After losing a full-time job in a cereal
factory three years ago, he hasn’t been able to find a second
position.  “I’d do one more part-time job if I could get it,” said
InLove, who has been with a local museum since 2010. “I am
still looking but it’s been hard.”  He plans to join the record 7.3 million workers 65 or older
trying to shore up  finances  battered by the recession that ended
three years ago and stay productive. An aging population, longer
and healthier lifespans and changes to retirement-benefit plans
will mean rising competition for jobs and limited  wage gains 
even after the economy strengthens.  About 74 percent of Americans say they plan to work past
age 65, according to a May study by economists  Jay Bryson  and
Sarah Watt of  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . Thirty-nine percent said they need to earn to make
ends meet or maintain their lifestyle, and 35 percent wanted to
stay employed.  “Many seniors simply aren’t in a position to retire,”
said Watt, whose research was based on a Wells Fargo retirement
 survey  done in 2011. “More people are hanging on to the job
longer,” she said, as a result of the recession and some
longer-term trends.  Job Outlook  The job outlook may take time to improve as the world’s
largest economy isn’t growing fast enough. Payrolls in May grew
at the slowest pace in a year and joblessness has topped 8
percent for 40 consecutive months.  Many seniors take  part-time , temporary and lower-paying
positions to remain in the workforce. Since 2010, those age 55
and older are outpacing prime-age workers in holding multiple
jobs, a Bloomberg review of Labor Department data shows.  There’s “more competition per opening,” said Watt,
particularly in stores or fast-food restaurants where younger
workers vie for positions that demand few skills and little
experience, she said. Joblessness among 16 to 24-year-olds was
16.1 percent in May, about double the 8.2 percent rate for the
nation.  High unemployment has brought more attention to seniors
continuing to work, said Richard Johnson, director of the
Program on Retirement Policy at the  Urban Institute  in
 Washington . Crowding out can occur “regardless of age,” he
said, as depressed job turnover means there’s less room for
others to enter, move up or switch to another position.  Working Longer  Nearly 17 percent of those age 65 and older were employed
in May, a 46-year-high and up from 15.5 percent at the start of
the recession in December 2007, Watt said. The percentage of
those between age 25 and 54 working dropped to 75.3 percent last
month, compared with 79.9 percent in December 2007.  While the ranks of those at least 65 are growing, their
jobless rate remains close to the post-World War II high reached
in 2010, and a record 42 percent have been out of work for more
than a year, she said.  “Older Americans might plan to work but may not be able to
do so,” Watt said. “It is definitely tougher for seniors to
become re-employed.”  InLove struggled after losing a production job at $13 an
hour with health insurance.  ExperienceWorks , a national,
community-based employment program for seniors, helped place him
at the Lane County Historical Society and Museum, where he earns
$9.27 an hour. He’s on call after a three-month stint as an
after-school-care assistant.  Rising Competition  “I’m worried,” said InLove. “I rent, and couldn’t move
if I wanted to. There’s so much competition. None of the part-
time jobs offer health care or vacation.”  Perry White, owner of Mr. Ribs BBQ in Kenosha,  Wisconsin ,
packs boxes a few days a week at a nearby warehouse to
supplement income. He found work through a unit of
 ManpowerGroup (MAN) , a provider of temporary staff, which pays him
$14.25 an hour.  “It’s not stressful but it’s hard work,” said White, 64.
“I tried retirement and found too much time on my hands. I’ll
work until I get tired.”  Reasons to continue working longer, even as the economy
improves, include shifts toward less physically demanding
service jobs, contribution retirement plans instead of pensions,
later eligibility for Social Security and rising health care
costs, said Urban Institute’s Johnson.  The population of those age 55 to 79 will expand by 26.9
percent between 2011 and 2020, compared with 2.3 percent growth
for 25 to 54-year-olds, he said.  Employment Growth  “We’ve seen these things come to a head in the past
decade,” Johnson said. “Older workers are going to propel U.S.
employment growth in the next few years.”  Peter White , an 87-year-old financial adviser in
Williamstown,  Massachusetts , says he will work as long as his
health permits. The retired Wall Street attorney has been
driving to the Pittsfield office of  Principal Financial Group
Inc. (PFG)  three to four times a week for the past six years.  “The money is useful and helpful, that’s part of it,”
said White, who is also a World War II veteran. “Working is
very therapeutic, mentally and emotionally. If you’re able to,
I’d say do it.  ‘‘It’s a difficult market, but I don’t think I’m keeping
anybody out,” White said, referring to the competition. “I
have a lot of attributes to offer to my employers.”  Less Likely  Americans 50 and over are less likely to stay with the same
company until they retire than in the 1990s, said Steven Sass,
associate director of the Financial Security Project at  Boston
College . They are better-educated and more skilled, he said.  “The  labor force  will look quite different,” as the U.S.
ages, said Sass, a former economist at the  Federal Reserve Bank
of Boston . “Employers who recognize this and adjust to this
will have a comparative advantage.”  Older staff would be useful for companies that have large
sales and customer-support departments and want steady, reliable
workers with fewer family responsibilities, Sass said. Firms
with diverse businesses could also take advantage of the
combination of skills that an older employee can offer, he said.
Still, wage growth could be under pressure as “there may be a
glut of older workers, relatively cheap, who need jobs,” he
said.  Earn Less  Workers displaced in their early 60s earn about 30 percent
less in their new job than their previous one, according to the
Wells Fargo study.  Tom Cavanaugh, 64, collects data for a marketing firm near
his Greenfield, Wisconsin, home for $11-an-hour about four days
a week. He had worked at  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in Dearborn, Michigan
for 30 years, the last four in marketing, before taking a buyout
in 2002.  “I’d like a better-paying job with more responsibilities
but I’m kind of resigned I won’t get it,” said Cavanaugh, who
also does occasional consulting for Toyota Motor Corp. “Most
times when I apply for openings they want people who are 25, not
65. They want some experience, but not too much.”  He has used the extra income to install a new washer-dryer,
stove, furnace and air conditioner in the past year and is
planning a vacation. “It wouldn’t have been easy to do those
things if I wasn’t working,” he said. “I’m spending the money.
I’m pumping it back into the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  