-- Hong Kong Exchange COO Sees Need for Closing Auction Revival
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-06-27T06:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/hong-kong-exchange-coo-sees-need-for-closing-auction-revival-1-.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s second-largest stock-market operator, is considering
the reinstatement of a closing auction for equities to calm
price swings, according to its chief operating officer.  The Hong Kong bourse operator suspended the auctions in
March 2009 after large moves at the end of the day spurred
concern of price manipulation. Exchanges in most countries use
auctions to set closing prices by pooling share orders and
finding the level at which the most can be matched.  “It’s clear to most of us here that we need to come up
with a better mouse trap, a new way to do a closing auction,
because we really do need one,” Gerald Greiner said in an
interview. “We need to cover all the concerns there were with
the old one.”  Hong Kong Exchanges is trying to regain its ranking as the
 world’s biggest  bourse operator, a title it lost to CME Group
Inc., and upgrade its trading systems amid global competition
from alternative venues and as large initial public offerings
from  China  slow. The bourse operator has bid 1.39 billion pounds
($2.16 billion) for London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest
commodities market. Greiner declined to comment on the deal.  The closing auction process, shunned only by Hong Kong and
Shanghai among the 10 biggest markets worldwide, may reduce
 volatility  and limit manipulation, according to a 2006 paper
tracking the introduction of the process at Singapore’s stock
exchange. Hong Kong now uses the median price from the final
five transactions in a stock to calculate its closing level.  Local Opposition  International brokers and institutional investors have been
asking Hong Kong to reinstate the auction, saying it lowers
volatility and gives them more confidence in the  closing price .
Deutsche Bank AG in April delivered a survey to the Hong Kong
Exchange in April in which its institutional clients unanimously
asked for an improved system.  Local independent brokers oppose the auctions, saying they
are a manipulation tool for the bigger players, according to
Francis Lun, chairman of the Hong Kong Institute of Financial
Analysts.  Closing auctions, by bundling all trades into one pool,
mean that more capital needs to be deployed to sway prices,
researchers led by the Australian National University’s Carole
Comerton-Forde said after a study of  Singapore  Exchange Ltd.  There is no timeline for the reintroduction of an auction,
Greiner said.  Options Market  LME shareholders, led by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and closely held Metdist Ltd., are expected to
vote on the offer by the end of July. If they approve it, the
transaction will be reviewed by the U.K. Financial Services
Authority. Hong Kong Exchanges should lose government
protections against competition if it begins commodities
trading, Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange Chief Operating Officer
William Barkshire said in May.  No other bourses or alternative venues may compete with
Hong Kong’s main public exchange without government approval,
according to the city’s Securities and Futures Ordinance. The
only rivals so far allowed have been so-called dark pools,
venues that don’t display prices and in Hong Kong exclude retail
investors.  The bourse is preparing for competition by upgrading its
trading platform and is trying to lure investors to its  options 
business, which Greiner says has been slow to develop despite
similarities to its flourishing warrants business.  Warrants are pre-packaged puts and calls created by issuers
and sold to investors through the exchange. Using them, retail
investors may only buy an option, limiting downside loss to the
premium paid. In the options market, investors may buy or sell
the derivatives.  OTC Derivatives  While almost 500 brokers may sell  warrants  in Hong Kong,
only about 100 are licensed for the options market, partly
because of regulatory impediments, Greiner said. Position
limits, or the total amount of options an investor may hold on
one underlying stock, are too low, and if brought up to par with
U.S. markets, would be as many as 10 times higher, he said.  “We’re always trying to attract the OTC derivatives
business to the exchange,” Greiner said. “If our position
limits are too low, and the OTC trades are bigger than our
position limits each trade, we’re not even on their radar with
these levels.”  China Ties  The Chinese government announced it will encourage joint
ventures between the  Shanghai  and Shenzhen stock bourses and
their Hong Kong counterpart, and allow the listing of exchange-
trade funds in the city and the mainland, the official Xinhua
News Agency said today, citing a statement from the State
Council. Foreign investors will also be encouraged to use the
yuan in trade settlement and investments in Hong Kong.  China’s efforts to bolster ties come two days before
President  Hu Jintao  visits Hong Kong for the 15th anniversary of
the city’s return to Chinese rule on July 1. China has already
expanded its RQFII program, which allows the Hong Kong units of
financial companies to invest overseas yuan in the mainland, as
well as the sale of  yuan  bonds in the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  