-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise on China Market Integration Plans
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-06-27T04:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/hong-kong-stocks-rise-on-china-market-integration-plans.html
Hong Kong stocks  rose, with the  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  heading for a second day of advance, as  China  plans
to boost the city’s integration with mainland financial markets
during Chinese President Hu Jintao’s visit this week.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Chinese
homebuilder traded in  Hong Kong , gained 2.7 percent amid
speculation China will do more to boost economic growth. Chow
Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd., a Hong Kong-based chain with more
revenue than Tiffany & Co., climbed 5.2 percent after posting
higher full-year profit. Glencore International Plc fell 1.5
percent, an eighth day of decline, after Qatar Holding LLC asked
the world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier to
raise its offer for Xstrata Plc.  “Some people are excited about the news of so-called gifts
from China for the 15th anniversary of the hand-over” of Hong
Kong to the mainland,  Alex Au , managing director of Richland
Capital Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees about $250
million of assets. “Those new policies are not really anything
exciting. The market is overreacting.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.1 percent to 19,190.26
as of the midday trading break in the city, erasing losses of as
much as 0.2 percent. The measure retreated about 12 percent from
this year’s high in February through yesterday amid concern that
growth in the U.S. and China will be slower than estimated, and
as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spread from  Greece  to Spain
and Italy.  Bourse Cooperation  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong gained 1.2 percent to 9,512.48. China plans
to strengthen cooperation among bourses in the mainland and the
Chinese city, Xinhua reported today, citing a statement from the
State Council. The anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to China is
on July 1.  “It’s not a game changer,” said  Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-
based chief investment officer at Samsung Asset Management Co.,
which manages $100 billion. “It may be positive for some
corporations in Hong Kong but ultimately it doesn’t solve the
problems we’re facing in the world today. Valuation are cheap,
but I don’t see the broader market turning around just yet.”  Chinese developers and lenders advanced after the Shanghai
Securities News reported the central bank may cut the reserve
ratio requirement for banks next month. Separately, the China
Securities Journal said in a commentary that the government may
introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure stable growth.  Losses in the Hang Seng Index dragged the  valuation  of the
shares on the gauge to 9.8 times estimated earnings on average
yesterday, compared with 12.7 times for  S&P 500 Index  and 10.2
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on Hong Kong’s benchmark stock index expiring this
month gained 1 percent to 19,211. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  fell
1.4 percent to 20.6, indicating options traders expect a swing
of about 5.9 percent on the gauge during the next 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  