-- Hong Kong Exchange, CFTC Rule Gap, Basel III: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-27T17:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/hong-kong-exchange-cftc-rule-gap-basel-iii-compliance.html
(Corrects currency conversion in Barclays item in
Compliance Action.)  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., (388) 
the world’s second-largest stock-market operator, is considering
the reinstatement of a closing auction for equities to calm
price swings, according to Gerald Greiner, its chief operating
officer.  The Hong Kong bourse operator suspended the auctions in
March 2009 after large moves at the end of the day spurred
concern of price manipulation. Exchanges in most countries use
auctions to set closing prices by pooling share orders and
finding the level at which the most can be matched.  Hong Kong Exchanges is trying to regain its ranking as the
 world’s biggest  bourse operator, a title it lost to  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , and upgrade its trading systems amid global competition
from alternative venues and as large initial public offerings
from China slow.  The closing auction process, shunned only by Hong Kong and
Shanghai among the 10 biggest markets worldwide, may reduce
 volatility  and limit manipulation, according to a 2006 paper
tracking the introduction of the process at Singapore’s stock
exchange. International brokers and institutional investors have
been asking Hong Kong to reinstate the auction, saying it
reduces volatility and gives them more confidence in the  closing
price .  There is no timeline for the reintroduction of an auction,
Greiner said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Gensler Calls for Closing Rules Gap Exposed by MF Global  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission should close a
regulatory gap exposed by the collapse of  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ)  that lets futures brokers have less protection for
customers’ funds in foreign accounts, said  Gary Gensler , the
agency’s chairman.  Under current regulations, brokers may use an alternative
method for calculating how much margin to keep in accounts used
for trading on foreign exchanges that can be less than the
amount maintained for U.S. accounts. In the U.S., brokers must
keep funds sufficient to handle the liquidation of an account.  The CFTC, the main U.S. derivatives regulator, has been
debating changes to how customer accounts are maintained after
MF Global collapsed leaving a $1.6 billion shortfall in client
funds. The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and Justice
Department are investigating the failure of the company that was
led by Jon S. Corzine, the former co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and a Democratic senator and governor of New Jersey.  For more, click here.  Basel Committee Publishes Capital Disclosure Rules  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published rules
for capital disclosure, according to a statement on the website
of the Bank for International Settlements.  The 30-page Composition of Disclosure details the steps and
procedures the banks should take in order to implement the
capital disclosure requirements of the Basel III Accords.  Basel III introduced the disclosure rules “to raise the
quality and consistency of capital in the banking sector,” the
committee said in the Composition of Disclosure.  The instructions cover subjects including the
implementation date and frequency of reporting, disclosure
templates and reconciliation procedures, according to the
Composition of Disclosure.  U.S. Defense Department Plans Tougher Rules on Small Loans  The U.S. Department of Defense plans to strengthen rules
designed to curb abusive lending to servicemembers as Congress
considers changes to a 2006 law that regulates small loans,
according to a senior military officer.  The Senate Armed Services Committee approved amendments to
the Military Lending Act on June 6 as part of its annual review
of defense policy, including one that would tighten the
definition of payday loan to cover other high-interest products.  Congress passed the law in response to complaints from the
Pentagon that so-called payday loans were often harmful for
servicemembers and affected troop readiness. Advocacy groups,
including the Consumer Federation of America, have argued that
some lenders have evaded the law by redefining their products
without lowering the interest rates.  Compliance Action  Barclays Fined by U.K., U.S. for False Libor Rates  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million pounds
($451.4 million), the largest penalties ever imposed by
regulators in the U.S. and U.K., after admitting it submitted
false London and euro interbank offered rates.  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  and other
executives will forgo their bonuses as a result, the bank said
in a statement.  “The events which gave rise to today’s resolutions relate
to past actions which fell well short of the standards to which
Barclays aspires in the conduct of its business,” Diamond said
in the statement.  The settlements with the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission and
U.S. Department of Justice come as regulators look into whether
banks tried to manipulate Libor, the benchmark rate for $360
trillion of securities, to hide their true cost of borrowing,
and whether traders colluded to rig the benchmark to profit from
interest-rate derivatives.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , UBS AG,
ICAP Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are
among firms that are being probed by regulators worldwide.  For more, click here.  Nomura CEO Watanabe Apologizes for Insider Trading Role  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi
Watanabe broke his silence on a government crackdown on insider
trading, delivering his first personal apology over the
company’s role in the probe.  Japan’s biggest brokerage will make sincere efforts to
restore confidence, Watanabe told shareholders at an annual
meeting in Tokyo today, according to investor Hideyuki Sakai,
41, who attended the private gathering.  Nomura spokeswoman Keiko Sugai confirmed the remarks.  Watanabe, 59, is under pressure to explain how employees
leaked information ahead of share sales managed by Nomura in
2010 that third parties used for trading.  The CEO today declined to comment on the leaks, saying the
company’s response depends on the outcome of an internal
investigation, according to shareholders including Sakai, who
has owned Nomura shares for about three years. Nomura has
employed a group of outside lawyers to conduct its review, which
it plans to complete by the end of the month.  About 1,852  shareholders  attended the meeting, according to
spokeswoman Sugai. That’s up from last year’s 1,554. As well as
the insider trading issue, investors demanded an explanation for
deteriorating profit, falling shares and dividend cuts.  Shareholders today approved the reappointment of executives
including Watanabe, Sugai said.  For more, click here.  Ex-Kaupthing U.K. Unit Executives Accept FSA Limits After Probe  The former top executives of the U.K. unit of  Kaupthing
Bank hf  agreed with Britain’s financial watchdog not to perform
certain regulated work in the country for five years after a
probe into its collapse.  The unit, Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Ltd., would have
faced fines if it weren’t insolvent, the Financial Services
Authority said yesterday in a statement. Former Chairman
Sigurdur Einarsson, former Chief Executive Officer Armann
Thorvaldsson and an ex-director, Hreidar Mar Sigurdsson, agreed
not to perform any “significant influence functions” requiring
FSA approval for five years, dating from October 2008, the FSA
said.  “The FSA has not made any findings of regulatory breach
against them and they have not made any admissions,” the
regulator said.  KSFL breached an FSA principle by assuming it could rely on
a so-called special financing arrangement with its parent
company in Iceland, under which it could draw as much as 1
billion pounds ($1.56 billion) at short notice “without testing
that assumption,” the regulator said.  “The FSA considers KSFL’s failings to be serious as they
occurred at a critical period for the financial markets and at a
time when the FSA was particularly concerned to ensure it was
fully informed about all banks’ liquidity,” the regulator said.  For-Profit Colleges Risk Losing Tax Money Under Debt Rules  For-profit colleges training security guards, medical
assistants and law enforcement officers risk losing federal
money because they leave students with debts they struggle to
repay, the U.S. Education Department said.  More than 190, or 5 percent, of the career-training
programs failed to meet new loan-repayment regulations, the
government said.  Career Education Corp. (CECO)  and  Corinthian Colleges
Inc. (COCO)  ranked among the worst schools on the agency’s list.  The Obama administration is seeking to protect taxpayers
from loan defaults and stop students from taking on debt for
degrees that don’t pay off with higher incomes. The industry
lobbied against the proposed rules and said yesterday that it
will reduce access for working adults and military veterans.  More than 90 percent of programs training security guards
and medical assistants could become ineligible for funding. So
could more than 80 percent of criminal justice programs.  The Education Department regulations give colleges until
2015 to improve their outcomes before they lose federal funding.  Career Education officials are analyzing the department’s
information, said Mark Spencer, a company spokesman. Of 45
Corinthian programs violating the new standards, the company has
moved to eliminate 13 and will address compliance issues at 11
others, said Kent Jenkins, a company spokesman. The rest will be
able to comply using an alternative standard, he said.  Steve Gunderson, president of  the Association of Private
Sector Colleges and Universities , called the data underlying the
new regulations “a faulty metric that does not accurately
reflect the services provided by career colleges and
universities.” In July 2011, the organization filed a lawsuit
to block it.  Courts/Tribunals  Falcone Said to Face Lawsuit From Regulators Over Personal Loan  Philip Falcone , the billionaire hedge-fund manager whose
largest investment went bankrupt after being blocked by
regulators, now faces a showdown in court with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Falcone, the 49-year-old founder of Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC, may be sued by the regulator as soon as this week
over claims he improperly borrowed client money to pay his
taxes, according to two people familiar with the matter. He may
also face claims that he gave preferential treatment to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., an investor in his fund, and manipulated
markets when trading bonds of MAAX Holdings Inc., said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public.  The SEC voted to authorize enforcement staff to sue, the
people said, after Falcone in 2009 took out a $113 million loan
from his Special Situations fund to pay personal taxes. The loan
was disclosed and later repaid. At the time of the borrowing,
clients were barred from pulling money from the fund.  “Any allegations by the SEC of improprieties by Mr.
Falcone or Harbinger are neither supported by the facts or the
law,” said Matthew Dontzin, an attorney for Falcone. “Should a
lawsuit be brought, it will be contested vigorously.”  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Telefonica Seeks Arbitrator After $1 Billion Mexico Damage Claim  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is seeking international arbitration with
Mexico’s government after failing to reach a settlement on its
claim of $1 billion in damages from regulators’ decisions.  Telefonica, Mexico’s second-largest wireless phone carrier,
filed for arbitration on June 21 before the World Bank’s
 International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes ,
according to the agency’s  website .  The Spanish carrier has struggled to expand its 20 percent
share of Mexico’s wireless market against billionaire  Carlos
Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMX) , which has 70 percent of subscribers.
In September, Telefonica told the Economy Ministry that Mexico’s
actions violate the nation’s bilateral investment treaty with
Spain. The company then calculated the damages at 14.7 billion
pesos ($1.07 billion) “as of today,” according to the Sept. 7,
2011,  document  posted on the Economy Ministry’s website.  Telefonica and Economy Ministry officials had no immediate
comment. International Arbitration Reporter reported the
arbitration filing earlier.  The arbitration case is Telefonica SA v. United Mexican
States,  ARB(AF)/12/4 , International Center for Settlement of
Investment Disputes.  EU Regulator Can Sue Companies It Fined, Court Aide Says  The European Union’s antitrust regulator should be able to
file a damages lawsuit against elevator makers it fined for
illegal price-fixing, an EU court aide said.  The European Commission is suing Otis Elevator Co. and
ThyssenKrupp AG, the world’s two largest elevator makers, and
smaller rivals Kone and Schindler, for 7.1 million euros ($8.8
million) in damages in the Belgian courts because it said it
purchased elevators and escalators for EU buildings at increased
prices. The lawsuit is based on the EU’s own antitrust ruling
that found the companies colluded to raise prices.  Advocate General Pedro Cruz Villalon, the legal adviser to
the EU’s highest court, said the EU courts should handle any
challenge to the regulator’s decision to fine the companies and
national courts should “declare and quantify” damage suffered
by the regulator as a customer, according to a court statement.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the  European Commission 
in Brussels, Martina Behrend, a spokeswoman for ThyssenKrupp in
Essen, and Liisa Kivala, a spokeswoman for Kone in Espoo,
Finland, declined to comment on the legal opinion. Otis and
Schindler didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker and the world’s
largest maker of elevators, was fined 479.7 million euros,
reduced last year to 320 million euros on appeal. The commission
fined Otis 224.9 million euros, Schindler 143.7 million euros
and Kone 142 million euros in 2007.  While the advocate general’s opinion isn’t binding, it is
followed by the  European Court  of Justice in the majority of
cases. Final decisions on the case will be taken by the Brussels
court.  The case is  T-199/11  Otis and Others.  Interviews  Levitt on Failure to Save Glass-Steagall Bank Act  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and senior adviser to Goldman Sachs, said he
“regrets not having fought sufficiently to retain Glass-
Steagall.” Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom
Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Large Says BOE’s New Powers Need Not Overwhelm Policy Makers  Former Bank of England Deputy Governor Andrew Large said
the expansion of the bank’s powers to include financial
regulation may be manageable, and keeping them in a separate
institution presents its own problems.  Large made the remarks in an interview in London yesterday.  Lawmakers are considering a new bill that will give the
central bank tools to promote financial stability as it absorbs
the Financial Services Authority’s oversight functions. The
breadth of responsibilities led Labour Party lawmaker  Ed Balls 
to say in April that the person who replaces Governor Mervyn
King after he retires next year “will face a near-impossible
task” to manage it all.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said this month
he will further expand the bank’s goals by making it a “legal
requirement for the Financial Policy Committee to report, for
every action it takes, how that action is compatible with
economic growth as well as stability.” The panel will present
the results of its latest policy meeting, and its semi-annual
report on Financial Stability, on June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  