-- Mongolia’s Democratic Party Leads After Vote for Parliament
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-06-29T04:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mongolians-vote-seeking-bigger-share-of-world-beating-economy.html
Mongolia’s opposition  Democratic
Party  is leading after early counting from parliamentary
elections though no party has a clear majority, President
Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in an interview today.  Elbegdorj said he believed all parties have accepted the
results so far and it’s likely a coalition government will be
formed in August. The Democratic Party claimed 12 of 14 seats in
the capital of  Ulan Bator  and was winning 50 percent of the
rural vote, according to Chimed Saikhanbileg, the party’s leader
in the 76-seat parliament.  The Democrats had worked with Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold’s Mongolian People’s Party to run the country, which
sits on an estimated $1.3 trillion in mineral wealth and had the
world’s fastest  economic growth  last year. Leaders are grappling
with how best to exploit deposits of gold, copper, iron and coal
without fanning inflation or creating conflict with mining
companies led by  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  that have invested $5.3
billion.  “The MPP seems to be losing to the Democratic Party,”
Elbegdorj said, adding that the results were still preliminary.
“I hope that Mongolia is going to make great progress toward
democracy, justice and prosperity.”  Voting went calmly and turnout was about 65 percent, said
Luvsanjav, the head of the General Election Commission. There
was no sign of the tension that erupted into violence after
parliamentary elections in 2008. At least five people were
killed in that unrest, during which the government imposed a
four-day state of emergency.  Riots Unlikely  Riots aren’t likely, Elbegdorj said. The MPP will seek
manual recounts in some areas because of problems with
electronic voting machines, MPP spokesman Amarbayasgalan
Dashezegve said.  The General Election Commission delayed announcing results
because not all the votes from the rural districts are in,
election commission spokesman Jamindorj Nergui said.  “We’re expecting many things from the new government, but
this time I think we can’t change a lot,” Amgalan Terbish, 35,
a travel company employee said after voting yesterday. “I want
to see the money go into development.”  The country of about 3 million ranked 120th out of 183 in
Transparency International’s latest corruption survey. Almost
two thirds of those polled in a June 14 survey by the  Sant Maral
Foundation  said government policies “always” fail to solve
citizens’ issues.  Wealth Distribution  Public discontent centers around the distribution of wealth
from the mineral boom, which boosted the economy 17 percent last
year. Mongolia, which supplies almost half of  China ’s coal for
steelmaking, doubled state spending in real terms to 6.3
trillion tugriks ($4.7 billion) last year, the International
Monetary Fund said in December. That caused food prices to jump
31 percent in April from a year earlier.  An April announcement by state-run  Aluminum Corp. (2600)  of China
Ltd. that it will take control of  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) , a
Mongolian coal miner, sparked a public outcry. Parliament
reacted by passing a law tightening rules on foreign investment
in industries including metals, media and communications, Vice
Finance Minister Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said in May.  “Mongolia is right to worry that the deals with foreign
investors should offer the best value for its citizens,” the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said in a June
22 report. “Yet Mongolia also needs foreign expertise, not
least in mining, given that most of its resource wealth is still
in the ground.”  Foreign Investors  With commodities accounting for about 80 percent of all
exports, the two main parties may have limited scope for
maneuver with  Rio Tinto  and other foreign investors. Mongolia
risks economic contraction, which happened in 2008, should
commodity prices fall,  the  International Monetary Fund ’s
Mongolia chief Steven Barnett said in an interview.  The Democrats and the Mongolian People’s Party, or MPP,
together wrote most of the current legislation for business and
infrastructure development.  “Whichever party wins, they’ve already been party to
drafting a lot of the legislation,” said Travis Hamilton, the
founder of Khan Investment Management Ltd., which focuses on the
nation’s stocks. “From the perspective of an international
investor, I don’t see any policy shift post-election.”  In the 2008 election, the two biggest parties vowed to hand
out at least 1 million tugriks to each citizen as spoils from
the mining boom. The government also plans to distribute
preferred shares of Erdenes MGL, the state’s holding company for
the country’s biggest mining projects, Ganhuyag said.  Each citizen will get one preferred share of the holding
company to make sure that profits are distributed equally to all
citizens via Erdenes MGL dividends, he said. Not all are happy
about the plan.  “These are pieces of paper that go up and down -- there is
no guarantee that they will rise in value,” said Chimeddorj, a
39-year-old businessman who travels to southeast  Asia  often for
work. “They should be spending on real things, like transport,
education and health.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  