-- Monsanto Sees Advantage in U.S. Drought Testing Corn Output
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-27T20:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/monsanto-sees-advantage-in-u-s-drought-testing-corn-output.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
seed company, said it stands to gain from the worst U.S. Midwest
drought in a decade because the difficult conditions may
demonstrate its superior yields and create seed shortages for
competitor.  Drought may cut seed output at smaller U.S. competitors,
while Monsanto has the option of shipping more seed from Latin
America, Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said today on a
conference call to discuss third-quarter earnings. Monsanto also
stands to win new customers who see the company’s seeds
outperforming the competition in hot weather, he said.  “Our genetics tend to do well in warm, dry conditions,”
Grant said on the call. “It’s not something that you hope for,
but we have an edge in that.’”  U.S. corn futures have surged 28 percent since June 15 as a
Midwest heat wave damages the largest crop in 75 years.
Monsanto’s third-quarter earnings climbed 35 percent, topping
analysts’ estimates, as sales of corn seed rose to a record, the
St. Louis-based company said today. Monsanto will be able to
fill shortages in U.S. seeds next year, Grant said.  The company will raise enough seed to supply a 96 million-
acre corn crop, 2 million to 4 million acres more than
anticipated in the company’s forecast for a “mid-teens”
percentage rise in 2013 earnings, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Courduroux said on the call. U.S. corn growers planted 95.9
million acres this year, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates.  Growth Drivers  Growth drivers next year include corn and soybeans in the
U.S. and  Brazil , Argentine corn, vegetables, and price gains
associated with seed improvements, Monsanto said in a
 presentation  on its website.  Net income rose to $937 million, or $1.74 cents a share, in
the three months through May 31, from $692 million, or $1.28, a
year earlier, Monsanto said in a statement. Profit excluding a
legacy tax matter was $1.63 cents a share, topping the $1.60
average  estimate  of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Monsanto
forecast profit of $1.57 to $1.62 on May 30.  Sales climbed 17 percent in the quarter to $4.22 billion,
topping the $3.98 billion average estimate of 13 analysts in the
survey. Sales of corn seed and genetic licenses rose 35 percent
and soybean sales gained 15 percent. Grant also is expanding
into  Latin America  and Eastern Europe.  “Corn is clearly the driver now,” Chris L. Shaw, a New
York-based analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. who recommends
holding the shares, said today in a phone interview. “It was
strong across the board.”  The shares rose 3.9 percent to $80.89 at the close in  New
York . The company has climbed 15 percent this year.  Monsanto plans to use its cash to repurchase shares, pay
dividends and make acquisitions, CFO Corduroux said.  Monsanto, which last week closed on its purchase of closely
held Precision Planting Inc. for as much as $250 million, plans
to invest more in tractor technology that uses data on seed
varieties and soil conditions to boost yields, Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  