-- Monsoon Worst Since 2009 Threatening Sugar, Rice Crops
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-06-28T12:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/monsoon-worst-since-2009-threatening-sugar-rice-crops.html
The worst start to the monsoon
season in  India  in three years is threatening crops from rice to
sugar cane, stoking concern that the nation may limit exports to
preserve supplies. Soybean futures in India climbed to the
highest since 2003 and corn rose to a five-month high.  Rainfall from June to September, which represents 70
percent of annual amount, may be below normal with the main
cane-growing regions getting less rain than required, said
Michael Ferrari, a commodity director and senior scientist at
 Falls Church , Virginia-based  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  Rain is 23
percent below average since the season started on June 1,
according to the  India Meteorological Department .  Dry weather from the U.S. to  Australia  has parched fields,
pushing up corn and wheat prices by as much as 17 percent this
month in  Chicago , curbing a decline in global food costs. El
Nino weather conditions, which can parch  Asia  and bring cooler
weather to the U.S, may develop some time during July to
September, the  World Meteorological Organization  said June 26.
India extended a ban on exports of sugar, rice and wheat in
2009, following the weakest monsoon since 1972.  “Every day is a cause of concern until the rains come to
the growing regions,” said Faiyaz Hudani, senior analyst at
Kotak Commodity Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “If the rains are bad,
then the summer crops could be delayed, yields would be lower
and the quality could be impacted.”  Recovery Possible  Sowing of summer crops such as rice and oilseeds has been
delayed this year after rain was either late or less than
adequate in the main growing regions. Showers in June, which
account for 18 percent of season’s total, have been the least
since 2009, when they were 47 percent below a 50-year average,
according to the weather bureau. Rain will be 96 percent of the
average between 1951 and 2000, the  weakest monsoon  since 2009,
the state forecaster said last week.  Soybeans for August delivery climbed as much as 2.5 percent
to 3,984 rupees ($70) per 100 kilograms, the highest since
December 2003, on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange
Ltd. in Mumbai, while corn for July delivery advanced as much as
1 percent to 1,274 rupees per 100 kilograms, the highest price
for the most-active contract since January.  The monsoon can recover, bridging the June shortfall, said
D.S. Pai, head of long-range forecasting division at the  India
Meteorological Department .  Sugar cane will be hit by a less than normal rainfall this
year, Ferrari from Computer Sciences said, joining Morgan
Stanley in raising concerns over India’s crop prospects.  ‘Price Risk’  “The global supply-demand expectations for a favorable
supply balance are largely dependent on a good sugar crop coming
from India, and there is some risk that production projections
might come up short, adding upside price risk,” Ferrari said in
an e-mail. “Since domestic demand for sugar is so strong, a
government ban on exports is certainly a possibility.”  Futures slumped to a 21-month low in  New York  on June 4 on
concern that a global slowdown will curb sugar demand amid
rising supplies. Production will exceed demand by 4.6 million
tons in the 2012-2013 season that begins Oct. 1, the third
annual global surplus, according to Rabobank International.  Production in India, which is exporting sugar for a second
year after domestic output exceeded demand, may fall to between
24.5 million tons and 25 million tons in the year beginning Oct.
1 from 26 million tons estimated by the Indian Sugar Mills
Association this year, Ferrari said.  ‘Drought-Stricken’  “The slow early progress of the monsoon has begun to raise
concerns over new crop production prospects, particularly in
drought-stricken Maharashtra,” Morgan Stanley said on June 25.  Raw sugar futures have gained 9 percent this month on ICE
Futures U.S., heading for the first monthly advance in four.
October-delivery contract surged as much as 2.1 percent to 21.39
cents a pound in New York today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is counting on growth in farm
output, which accounts for about 15 percent of gross domestic
product, to curb inflation in India, where the  World Bank  says
more than 75 percent of the people live on less than $2 a day.  Inadequate rainfall may stoke food inflation as farmers and
traders tend to hold back inventories, said  Kishore Narne , head
of research at AnandRathi Commodities Ltd. Food prices may begin
to climb from October, he said.  Wholesale prices  rose 7.55 percent in May after increasing
7.23 percent in April, government data showed this month. Food
prices, which climbed the most in seven months, have a weighting
of about 14 percent in the inflation basket.  Grain Inventories  “I am concerned that monsoon rainfall this year may be
less than last year,” Food Minister K.V. Thomas said in an
interview. “However, I am not worried about overall food grain
production” as stockpiles will be adequate, he said.  Any review of export policies on farm goods would be based
on the performance of monsoon and its impact on output, he said.  State  reserves  of food grain swelled to 82.4 million tons
as of June 1 after the nation harvested record crops for a
second year, according to the food ministry. Monsoon-sown rice
production may climb 10 percent in the year starting July to a
record after the end of a three-year ban on exports last year
spurs planting, Tarsem Saini, president of the Federation of All
India Rice Millers Association, said June 25.  Sowing of monsoon crops begins in June and harvesting
starts in September. The monsoon typically begins in southern
Kerala state by the first week of June, before blanketing the
entire nation by July 15.  “El Nino in the eastern Pacific would suggest a below
normal rainfall pattern for India,” Joel Burgio, senior
agriculture meteorologist at Telvent DTN, said in a report.  The El Nino event is caused by periodic warming of the
 Pacific Ocean , while its reverse, La Nina, is indicated by a
cooling of surface waters. The twin patterns influence weather
worldwide and can roil commodity markets as farmers from
 Indonesia  to  Argentina  contend with drought or too much rain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  