-- Monte Paschi to Seek 3.4 Billion Euros in Government Aid
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-06-27T15:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/monte-paschi-to-raise-3-4-billion-euros-selling-bonds-to-state.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the world’s oldest bank, will seek 3.4 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of government money to plug a capital gap uncovered by
European regulators.  “There were no alternatives,” Chief Executive Office
Fabrizio Viola said today at a presentation in Siena. The bank
expects to pay a higher  interest rate  on these securities than
the 8.5 percent annual coupon for 2009 aid, Viola said. The
government hasn’t set the bond’s terms yet.  The lender also may seek to raise an additional 1 billion
euros from private investors, Chairman  Alessandro Profumo  said.
The bank, the country’s third biggest by assets, will offer to
swap subordinated for senior debt securities maturing in 2015 to
bolster capital.  Monte Paschi is raising the money after failing to close
the 3.3 billion-euro shortfall identified by the European
Banking Authority. Viola, who became CEO in January, failed to
find private funding to meet the EBA’s requirement to bolster
its core Tier 1 capital ratio to 9 percent, prompting the lender
to seek a government rescue as it sells assets and cuts costs in
coming years.  The plan is “quite aggressive” and involves cost-cutting
“never experienced before in  Italy ,” Kepler Capital Markets
analyst Annamaria Benassi wrote in a note to clients today.  The stock closed little changed at 19.1 cents in Milan, for
a market value of 2.4 billion euros. The stock has dropped 24
percent this year, compared with the 2.3 percent decline of the
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Cost Cutting  The bank, which expects revenue to fall 1 percent through
2015, is selling a 60 percent stake in its northern Italian
unit, Biverbanca, for as much as 223 million euros, closing 400
branches and eliminating 4,600 jobs to boost profit. A review of
goodwill may lead to “material” impairments in first-half
earnings, the bank said in today’s statement.  Monte Paschi wrote down 4.5 billion euros of goodwill and
intangible assets in the fourth quarter related to acquisitions,
including its purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA. The lender
targets net income of 630 million euros in 2015.  Viola said he will also seek to eliminate its reliance on
interbank and European Central Bank funding by shrinking its
loan book. “We want to repay our 30 billion euros of funds
received from the central bank in their long-term refinancing
operation by 2015.”  The bank’s liquidity is sound and the lender has covered
almost 25 percent of its 2012 institutional funding, Viola said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The outlook is not
good, that’s why we developed a business plan with a very
prudent scenario.” He ruled out the need for an additional
request for state aid.  The bank is seeking to cut its commercial loan-to-deposit
ratio to 110 percent in 2015 from 131 percent today.  Monte Paschi plans to repay about 3 billion euros of the
 government aid  by 2015. “Asset sales, the planned capital
increase and our profitability, will help us to repay the
government,” Profumo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  