-- Monti Plays Italian Politics in Labor-Law Overhaul: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-27T09:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/monti-plays-italian-politics-in-labor-law-overhaul-euro-credit.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
seeking to bridge European differences over how to end the
region’s debt crisis, is pushing a labor market overhaul at home
that has divided his allies and sapped his support.  The legislation, designed to revive Italy’s economy by
making it easier for distressed companies to fire workers, is
due to be voted on by parliament today before tomorrow’s
European Union summit in Brussels. Italy’s 10-year bond yield,
at more than 6 percent, has jumped 30 basis points since June 9
when  Spain  became the fourth euro-region country to seek aid.
The yield fell 5 basis points today to 6.14 percent.  “In the European scenario, Monti is doing very well,”
said Tommaso Nannicini, a professor of political economy at
 Bocconi University  in Milan. “On the domestic side he looks
more and more incapable of keeping together his majority and
gives the impression of a lack of political action.”  Monti was pressed into watering down the labor law as
Italy’s recession deepened and public support for the government
waned. Monti is facing the possibility of early elections, while
abroad he is pushing euro-region allies for collective action to
foster growth. The summit will be Monti’s second meeting in less
than a week with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and French President  Francois Hollande 
after hosting the three in  Rome .  Mutualizing Debt  European leaders are debating how to reshape the 17-nation
euro area, with Monti and Hollande advocating proposals to pool
 government borrowing  and Merkel continuing to stress fiscal
discipline. Monti has been trying to increase protection for
countries like Italy that have moved to tame their budgets and
is pushing to collectively sell euro bonds as a way to bring
down borrowing costs in the most-indebted nations.  Merkel, who opposes the mutualization of debt, said
yesterday there would be no so-called euro bonds in her
lifetime. Monti may struggle to keep his allies in line if he
can’t wrest concessions out of Merkel at the summit.  “Passage of these critical changes to labor legislation
will offer him some much-needed respite ahead of tomorrow’s EU
summit,” Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Group Ltd. in
 London , said of Monti. “These new labor laws may not be the
revolution that the Italian labor market requires, but are an
important first step.”  Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who met with Monti
yesterday to discuss the summit, said the government showed a
complete “lack of determination” going into the meeting.
Berlusconi, head of the biggest party in Monti’s coalition,
later warned his lawmakers that 75 percent of the party’s
supporters opposed backing the government, newspaper la
Repubblica reported.  Extending Summit  For his part, Monti said that he would be willing to extend
the summit through the entire weekend if there was a chance of
producing an agreement before markets open on July 2.  The Italian premier has pledged to secure approval of the
labor market reform before the summit to show progress on the
structural reforms he pledged to make  Italy  more competitive.
The Chamber of Deputies, the lower house of parliament, will
vote on final approval of the plan this afternoon.  Market turmoil is raising borrowing costs in a country that
needs to sell an average of 35 billion euros ($43.7 billion) of
bonds and bills a month to finance  Europe ’s second-biggest debt
load. Italy paid the most since December to sell zero-coupon
securities yesterday and returned to the market today with the
sale of 9 billion euros of 185-day treasury bills at 2.957
percent, the highest rate since December.  Fiscal Rigor  Monti, a former university president who succeeded
Berlusconi as prime minister in November, has sought to appease
investors by taming Italy’s budget deficit and making the
economy more competitive. He collected the first installment of
a 10.7 billion-euro property tax this month and is conducting a
review to cut billions of euros from public spending.  The final version of the labor-market law falls short of
Monti’s original plan because it gives some fired workers the
chance to win their jobs back in court. That concession, which
disappointed employers and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,
was made after Italy’s biggest union called a general strike and
Monti’s key political ally on the center-left, Pier Luigi Bersani, vowed to oppose the bill.  “It is a step in the right direction, but it is not long
enough,” said Andrea Ichino, a professor of economics at the
University of Bologna. “Either you do it all the way through or
you risk getting stuck in a system where firms can fire but
they’re scared to hire.”  Borrowing Costs  Monti, 69, whose government comprises Italy’s main parties
on both the right and the left, has maintained cohesion thanks
in part to his success in bringing borrowing costs down from the
record levels of late last year. When Monti was appointed seven
months ago, 10-year bond yields topped the 7 percent level that
led  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  The arrival of the former EU competition commissioner,
followed by his 20 billion-euro austerity plan and measures such
as the labor reform, helped knock more than 200 basis points off
that yield by March 1.  Now with the country mired in its fourth recession since
2001 and bond yields moving higher, public discontent is rising.
Monti’s political backers are paying the price as public support
declines in opinion polls.  Plunging Support  Backing for the main parties in the government has
plummeted to the lowest in about two decades as voters tune in
to previously marginal politicians, like Beppe Grillo. The
governing coalition, which scored more than 77 percent in polls
at its inception, is down to about 49 percent. Grillo, who is
now polling at about 20 percent, has said that Italy should
considering pulling out of the euro and defaulting on its debt.  Officials within Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party and
the  Democratic Party  have raised the specter of early elections,
rather than clinging to Monti until the next vote, which is due
by May 2013.  Early elections could produce a fractured parliament with
anti-euro forces in the ascendancy, said  Mario Baldassarri , the
head of the Senate Finance Committee and a member of the Third
Way coalition that is backing Monti.  “It would be crazy to go to early elections,” he said in
an interview. “From time to time, Italian politician have given
signs of madness. I hope this time they give signs of being
responsible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  