-- Looking for 15% Returns? Think College, Not Stocks, Bonds: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/looking-for-15-returns-think-college-not-stocks-bonds-books.html
Time for a brainteaser.  You’re a patriotic American with a 17-year-old daughter,
and you just won $102,000 in a lottery. One catch: The rules say
the money must be spent for the public good.  You could give  Uncle Sam  the cash to repair roads and
bridges. It turns out, though, that $102,000 is the total
average cost of a four-year college degree, including tuition,
fees and forgone earnings. Can you justify investing the money
in your Goth child?  Absolutely, judging from “The New Geography of Jobs,”
Enrico Moretti’s persuasive look at why some U.S. cities have
prospered in recent decades while others have declined.  The short explanation for these diverging fortunes is that
towns such as Seattle are teeming with college-educated workers
in high tech. So giving your daughter the right education could
boost both the economy and her earnings.  Tune out, for a minute, the grim news about student-loan
debts reaching $1 trillion and graduates struggling to find
jobs. Investing in a four-year degree produces an inflation-
adjusted annual return of more than 15 percent, according to
 research  from the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  ‘Brain Hubs’  Moretti is a professor specializing in labor and urban
economics at the  University of California , Berkeley. He has
combed through U.S. census data and teased out a secular trend.  Over the past three decades, education has become a great
divider, he says. Even as communities desegregated racially,
they became more segregated scholastically.  Conurbations with many college graduates, including  Boston ,
 San Jose  and the Raleigh-Durham research triangle in North
Carolina, have become “brain hubs.” They offer higher wages and
longer  life expectancy .  At the other extreme are traditional manufacturing centers
such as Flint, Michigan. In between stand cities that could flip
either way, he says.  This sounds blindingly obvious. Yet the winnowing has
profound implications for today’s gnawing debate about why
inequality has reached a level not seen since before the Great
Depression.  Joseph Stiglitz  and others have framed today’s income
disparity as a conflict between the top 1 percent of earners and
the remaining 99 percent. For Moretti, the more consequential
divide lies elsewhere -- between the 45 million workers who have
a college education and the 80 million who don’t.  Driving Prosperity  Education has long been a driver of a productive economy.
That’s one reason why the U.S. made such rapid gains after
public high schools became widely available early in the 20th
century, Moretti says. Today, innovation is becoming what
manufacturing used to be, America’s “main engine of prosperity,”
he argues.  Without question, innovation is throwing off dream jobs.
Moretti introduces us to a digital programmer who designed a
starship for “Avatar” and a mathematician who blended colors
for “Ratatouille” and “Toy Story.”  Not everyone can create video games or discover
breakthrough medications, of course. Only some 10 percent of
U.S. jobs are in the innovation sector, Moretti says. Yet the
presence of these workers creates demand for local services,
which provide the vast majority of today’s jobs.  Yoga Teachers  Luring biotech scientists and software engineers to town
creates more work for plumbers and yoga instructors. Everyone in
town winds up earning more than they would elsewhere.  One drawback is that the cost of living also runs higher.
Nor is there an easy fix for the Flints of the world, contrary
to what  Richard Florida  suggested in “The Rise of the Creative
Class.”  If all it took to ensure success were a flood of creative,
college-educated kids, uber-cool Berlin wouldn’t have such high
unemployment, Moretti says. To get a Silicon Valley cooking, you
need an intellectual star like William Shockley to draw a bunch
of “hot minds” to your startup in the orchards. One thing
leads to another and, sure as Moore’s law,  California  ends up
producing more patents than any other state, with  New York  and
its Silicon Alley a distant second, Moretti says.  To show how these forces play out, Moretti recalls what
happened to Seattle. Three decades ago, the city depended
heavily on manufacturing: Think  Boeing Co. (BA)  and truck maker
 Paccar Inc. (PCAR)  Employers were scaling back and unemployment was
high.  Then  Bill Gates  and  Paul Allen  decided to move their
software company to the city of their youth. So  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
put down roots near Seattle.  Tech Magnet  As Microsoft grew, Seattle became a magnet for other high-
tech companies, including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  What’s more,
millionaire Microsoft alumni set up some 4,000 new companies, a
majority of them around Puget Sound, Moretti says. By his
estimate, Microsoft can be credited with creating 120,000 jobs
for workers with limited education and 80,000 for those with
advanced degrees, including doctors and architects.  So how can we boost the number of innovation workers in
America and, by extension, create more jobs for everyone else?
The answer should be clear:  import them  or grow our own.  Giving work visas to more foreign engineers and scientists
would be a cheap solution. Educating more Americans would be
costly, yet good for the nation’s future, assuming students can
be persuaded to major in computer science, chemical engineering
and microbiology.  Why not do both?  “The New Geography of Jobs” is published by  Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt  (294 pages, $28). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 