-- Oracle Wins U.K. Supreme Court Ruling Over Marketing in EU
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-27T14:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/oracle-wins-u-k-supreme-court-ruling-over-first-marketing-in-eu.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
database maker, won a U.K. Supreme Court ruling protecting its
right to be first to market its hardware in the European Union
before third-party resellers may do so.  The judgment today in  London  reversed a Court of Appeal
ruling in favor of M-Tech Data Ltd., which was sued by Sun
Microsystems Inc. in 2009 for importing Sun disk drives into the
EU after Sun sold them in  China ,  Chile  and the U.S. Sun,
purchased in 2010 by Oracle, may be first to market its goods in
the EU under an “economically controversial, but legally well-
established policy,” even if it had previously sold the
products elsewhere, the  Supreme Court  ruled.  M-Tech, based in Manchester, argued that Sun tried to
control the secondary market for its hardware in the European
Economic Area valued at $1.07 billion in 2007, according to the
judgment. M-Tech claimed Sun did so by withholding data from
independent resellers that would have helped determine whether
certain goods had already been sold in the region, producing a
“chilling effect,” M-Tech said.  “The unlawful conduct alleged by M-Tech does not amount to
a defense, even if proved,” according to a court summary of the
judgment handed down by a panel of five justices. “On the
agreed facts, the disk drives were never marketed in the EEA
until they were imported by M-Tech without Sun’s consent.”  Generated Interest  M-Tech is “surprised and disappointed with the decision,”
Harvey Stringfellow, the company’s lawyer at Hill Dickinson LLP
in Liverpool, said in a phone interview. “This was a case that
generated a huge amount of interest within the independent
sector for”  information technology , he said.  M-Tech had argued that Sun can’t enforce its trademark
because Sun is trying to divide the market in the 27-nation EU
in violation of laws permitting free movement of goods. The case
was filed as a trademark dispute because Sun has distribution
rights to products that carry its logo.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City , California, acquired Sun in
January 2010, for $7.3 billion, and renamed the unit Oracle
America Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  