-- Slowdown Concern Ebbs on Durable Goods, U.S. Home Sales
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-27T20:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/orders-for-durable-goods-in-u-s-rise-more-than-forecast.html
Orders for durable goods and the
number of Americans signing  contracts  to buy an existing home
rebounded in May, easing concern the world’s largest economy is
faltering.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
1.1 percent, the first increase since February, a Commerce
Department report showed today in  Washington . Pending home sales
climbed 5.9 percent after slumping 5.5 percent in April,
according to data from the National Association of Realtors.  Stocks rallied as the figures indicated manufacturing, a
mainstay of the economy, was holding up amid a global economic
slowdown that’s curbing demand for exports and hurting sales at
companies like  Joy Global Inc. (JOY)  Housing, the industry that
triggered the recession, may keep improving as record-low
 mortgage rates  spark buyer interest.  “The economy is growing, but it’s still muddling
through,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York , who forecast a gain
in durables orders and pending home sales. “Concerns about the
collapse of manufacturing are grossly overblown. We’re in a
housing recovery.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent to
1,331.85 at the close in New York. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note was little changed at 1.63 percent, the
same as late yesterday.  Elsewhere today, Britons repaid more mortgage debt than
they borrowed in May for the first time in at least 15 years as
consumers sought to improve finances, the British Bankers’
Association reported.  Previous Slump  The increase in demand for U.S. durable goods followed a
revised 0.2 percent drop in April that was previously reported
as little changed. Orders fell 6.8 percent in the first four
months of the year, the weakest stretch since the same period in
2009, during the recession.  “May looked OK, but the trend is still relatively soft,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York. “It’s soft, but it’s not collapsing.”  “Manufacturing is probably going to slow here” in the
middle of the year, Feroli said.  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.5 percent gain in durable-goods orders.
Survey estimates ranged from a decline of 1.5 percent to an
increase of 2 percent.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
climbed 1.6 percent after a 1.4 percent decline in the prior
month. These bookings are considered a proxy for future business
investment in items such as computers, engines and
communications gear.  Capital Goods  Shipments of those capital goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 0.4 percent after falling 1.5
percent the prior month.  “This comes as a relief that businesses aren’t completely
cutting back,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto, who projected a 1 percent gain in
orders. “We still have to be quite cautious as there is
considerable uncertainty. U.S. growth will be moderate.”  The expiration at the end of 2011 of a tax incentive
allowing 100 percent depreciation on equipment purchases may
have prompted business investment to cool this year. The
allowance for 2012 is 50 percent.  Joy Global , the maker of P&H and Joy mining equipment, cut
forecasts for full-year earnings and revenue as mining companies
ease  capital expenditures  amid concern over the slowdown in
 China . Its equipment orders fell 62 percent in the fiscal second
quarter from a year earlier primarily due to a weak U.S. coal
market, the Milwaukee-based company said.  Companies ‘Cautious’  “Even though there is upside to the current market
conditions, the continuing uncertainty will keep mining
companies cautious,” Mike Sutherlin, chief executive officer,
said in a May 31 statement.  Some regional reports showed the slackening has spilled
into this month. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area shrank
in June at the fastest pace in almost a year, while New York-
region factories expanded at the slowest pace in seven months.  Meantime, housing is showing signs of stabilizing. Pending
home sales provide insight into actual contract closings a month
or two later. Purchases of existing homes, which made up about
93 percent of the housing market last year, are tabulated when
the contract closes.  Today’s figures suggest sales of existing homes will
rebound after a drop in May. Purchases declined 1.5 percent last
month to a 4.55 million annual rate, the Realtors group said
June 21.  Sales Peak  Existing-home sales  have climbed since reaching a low of
3.39 million at an annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to
the subprime lending collapse and recession, sales reached a
peak of 7.25 million in September 2005.  Compared with a year earlier, May pending sales of
previously owned properties climbed 15.3 percent after a 14.7
percent April gain.  Contract signings climbed in all four regions, including a
14.5 percent jump in the West and a 6.3 percent increase the
Midwest.  “This beleaguered sector is finally on the mend,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in New York,
said in an e-mail to clients. “On the surface, it points to a
decent pop in existing home sales activity in June.”  Low borrowing costs continue to attract buyers. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped last week to 3.66
percent, the lowest since  Freddie Mac  began keeping records in
1972.  Builders like  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  are seeing improvement. The
third-largest homebuilder by revenue said today it received
orders for 4,481 homes in the three months through May from
3,204 a year earlier. The Miami-based builder’s backlog jumped
61 percent.  “The ‘for sale’ housing market has, in fact, bottomed,”
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said in a statement. “We
have commenced a slow and steady recovery process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  