-- Morgan Stanley Faces ServiceNow IPO Test After Facebook
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-27T16:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/morgan-stanley-faces-test-on-servicenow-ipo-after-facebook-flop.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is taking ServiceNow
Inc. public this week in the first U.S. technology initial
public offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB) , a sale that may be crucial
in preserving its position as Silicon Valley’s go-to bank.  Morgan Stanley has been under fire for how it led the $16
billion Facebook sale after the  shares  plunged as much as 32
percent since their debut last month. That’s put the New York-
based firm under more pressure than usual to balance
ServiceNow’s expectations with those of investors when it prices
the IPO of the cloud-based software maker on June 28.  “Everybody is going to be watching this IPO, and Morgan
Stanley’s reputation is on the line,” said  Keith Wirtz , who
oversees $15 billion as chief investment officer at Fifth Third
Asset Management in Cincinnati. “If the price is too low, the
company is underserved; if the price is too high, like Facebook,
investors will be frustrated.”  Morgan Stanley’s dominance in the IPO market is at stake.
The firm is the No. 1 underwriter of global IPOs and is on track
to lead the most initial offerings by Internet and technology
companies this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The outcome of ServiceNow’s IPO is also likely to influence
plans to go public by other technology companies such as Palo
Alto Networks Inc. and Kayak Software Corp. and may help revive
the broader IPO market.  Lower Multiple  ServiceNow and its founder are offering the stock for $15
to $17 a share. The company attracted more than enough demand
for all the shares being sold in the offering, a person with
knowledge of the matter said today. The person, who asked not to
be identified as the terms aren’t final, declined to say by how
much the offering is oversubscribed.  The midpoint of the  price range  would give the San Diego-
based company a valuation of about $1.92 billion, 13 times
 ServiceNow’s (NOW)  trailing 12-month sales. That’s more than twice the
average valuation sought in the biggest U.S. software-company
IPOs since the start of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  It’s a lower  multiple  than Facebook, which was valued at
about 26 times sales in its May 17 IPO, the largest in history
for a technology or Internet company. Morgan Stanley bought
Facebook shares on behalf of the underwriting syndicate on the
first day of trading to keep them from slipping below the $38
offering price, people familiar with the matter said at the
time. The shares  traded  13 percent below the IPO price as of
yesterday.  “Facebook was a mistake from a pricing standpoint,” said
Stanley Nabi, who helps oversee more than $10 billion as vice
chairman of New York-based Silvercrest Asset Management Group.
“Overpricing the next deal will taint” Morgan Stanley.  First-Day Pop  At the same time, underpricing the IPO may upset
ServiceNow’s owners, including JMI Equity,  Sequoia Capital  and
 Greylock Partners . For entrepreneurs and venture capitalists, an
IPO is a chance to partly cash out and to raise as much money as
possible to fund a company’s growth. They normally keep most of
their equity and sell down in later share sales. None of
ServiceNow’s VC backers are selling in the IPO.  Greylock spokesman Tom Frangione declined to comment, as
did Andrew Kovacs, a spokesman at Sequoia. Officials at JMI and
Sequoia didn’t immediately respond to phone messages seeking
comment.  “A first-day pop between 15 percent to 25 percent is the
sign of a healthy stock -- above that it means the stock has
been underpriced,” said Darren Hayes, the chairman of the
computer information systems program at  Pace University  in  New
York  and a former stockbroker.  More Feedback  To help abate concern, Morgan Stanley, which was criticized
in the  Facebook IPO  for failing to listen to input from co-
underwriters, is likely to give more heed to fellow managers
Citigroup Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , according to people
familiar with the matter. Paul Chamberlain, Morgan Stanley’s co-
head of the global technology group, is leading the ServiceNow
IPO, said the people.  Michael Grimes , who is co-head with
Chamberlain, led the Facebook IPO.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment. Officials at ServiceNow didn’t respond to phone
messages seeking comment.  A successful offering by ServiceNow may help improve
sentiment for IPOs after initial sales globally have raised 50
percent less than a year ago, Bloomberg data show. Palo Alto
Networks, an Internet security company, will base its plans to
go public in July on ServiceNow’s early performance, while Kayak
may set terms on its IPO if the offering goes well, said people
familiar with the companies’ plans. Morgan Stanley is also
leading those sales.  Rivals’ Performance  Rivals’ performance suggests ServiceNow might have room to
rise at the midpoint valuation. Cornerstone OnDemand Inc., the
maker of employee-development software, went public at about 14
times trailing 12-month sales in March 2011 and has since gained
67 percent through yesterday.  ServiceNow shares will probably initially “pop because
it’s a good growth story in a hot industry,” said  Francis Gaskins , president of researcher IPodesktop.com in  Marina del
Rey ,  California .  ServiceNow is led by Chief Executive Officer Frank Slootman, who previously ran Data Domain Inc. He sold the
storage company for more than $2 billion in 2009 to EMC Corp.
following a battle with NetApp Inc. that boosted the final
takeover price by 34 percent.  Slootman’s Record  The company, which plans to list on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol NOW, generated more than $150 million
in revenue in the 12 months through March 31, while total
customers grew 61 percent to 1,074. It posted a net loss of
$10.3 million.  Slootman’s track record may help lure ServiceNow investors,
said Peter Barris, managing general partner at  New Enterprise
Associates , a venture capital firm that backed Data Domain.
Morgan Stanley should also be given the benefit of the doubt,
though an unsuccessful debut for ServiceNow may have
consequences.  “Morgan Stanley has led many of our IPOs and my experience
with them has been fantastic,” said Barris. “If a ServiceNow
IPO didn’t do well, I would be worried for the longer-term
psychological impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  