-- Mortgage Seizures Create ‘Very Serious Concerns,’ Sifma Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-06-28T01:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/mortgage-seizures-create-very-serious-concerns-sifma-says.html
Wall Street ’s largest lobbying group
is objecting to the use of eminent domain by municipalities to
seize mortgages packaged into bonds so the loans can be shrunk
to aid homeowners who owe more than their properties’ values.  San Bernardino County in  California  is exploring the
strategy along with the cities of Fontana and Ontario there.
 Robert Shiller , an economics professor at  Yale University  and
co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller property-value indexes,
supported the approach in a June 23 op-ed in the  New York  Times.  Both the investment firm and bank members of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association have “very serious
concerns” based on an agreement approved last week by San
Bernardino officials granting the authority to  study and create 
such a program, said  Ken Bentsen , executive vice president for
public policy and advocacy at the New York-based trade group. By
using eminent-domain powers, municipalities can force the sale
of private property at prices deemed to be fair if doing so
serves a public purpose.  “We have very serious concerns and strong objection to the
concept of using eminent domain to seize a mortgage for the
purpose of restructuring it, no matter how meritorious the goal
might be,” Bentsen said today in a telephone interview. “We
think it raises the serious constitutional issues of a
government entity overstepping its bounds.”  ‘It’s Controversial’  San Bernardino is exploring the idea because about 150,000
homes, or half of those in the county with a mortgage, are
underwater and officials need to try to rescue the housing
market, said Greg Devereaux, its chief executive officer.  “I understand it’s controversial, but we have to explore
it,” Devereaux said in a telephone interview.  Taking the step may limit the availability of credit to
homeowners by making lenders doubt the strength of their
contracts, Bentsen said.  “It would have far-reaching ramifications, certainly to
the mortgage markets in that jurisdiction and perhaps more
broadly,” he said.  The American Securitization Forum, a separate trade group,
is exploring the legality of the proposal, said Executive
DirectorTom Deutsch. “It would be extremely destructive to the
use of securitization on a go-forward basis, which would further
frustrate efforts by the federal government to bring private
capital into the mortgage markets,” he said. “The question
then is it a legal and appropriate use of government power for a
public purpose? If it’s not, legal challenges appear likely to
ensue.”  ‘Entirely Constitutional’  Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC, a San Francisco-based
investment firm headed by Steven Gluckstern, proposed the plan,
according to Devereaux. Such a firm may be the buyer of the
loans at discounts to a home’s value and then rework them.  “There’s no doubt this is entirely constitutional,”
Robert Hockett, a professor of law at  Cornell University  who has
advised Mortgage Resolution Partners on the plan, said in a
telephone interview. “This is a completely garden-variety
public purpose.”  Gluckstern said in an e-mailed statement that legal
scholars have made it clear that using eminent domain to save
neighborhoods serves valid public purposes and is
constitutional.  “The Washington lobbyists for Wall Street are opposed even
though they agree it has merits to help average Americans who
are struggling,” Gluckstern wrote. “We’ll take the advice of
legal scholars over the comments of Wall Street’s lobbyists any
day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  