-- Osborne Accused of Cowardice by Tory Lawmaker Over Fuel U-Turn
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-06-27T13:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/osborne-accused-of-cowardice-by-tory-lawmaker-over-fuel-u-turn.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  was accused of cowardice by a lawmaker in his
own  Conservative Party  for sending a junior Treasury minister to
defend a retreat on a planned gasoline-duty increase.  Osborne yesterday scrapped a 3 pence (4.7 cents) per-liter
rise in fuel duty that was due to take effect in August, his
fourth U-turn in a month. Economic Secretary Chloe Smith, 30 and
a minister since October, appeared on media broadcasts including
 BBC Television ’s “Newsnight” program to answer for the move.
Her performance drew derision from lawmakers and commentators.  “I was at a dinner last night so didn’t see Newsnight,”
Conservative lawmaker Nadine Dorries wrote on her Twitter Inc.
account today. “However, if Osborne sent Chloe on re. scrapping
3p he is a coward as well as arrogant.”  Dorries, whose parliamentary district may disappear under
planned boundary changes at the next election, has already
criticized Osborne and Prime Minister  David Cameron  as
“arrogant posh boys who don’t know the price of milk.”  Her intervention may point to wider dissatisfaction in the
Conservative Party, which governs in coalition with the Liberal
Democrats, said  Bill Jones , professor of politics at Liverpool
Hope University,.  “Given the discontent on the right of the Conservative
Party, Nadine Dorries could be the tip of the iceberg,”
Jones said in a telephone interview. “If her remark gains
traction it is potentially very dangerous.”  Fuel Campaign  The decision to freeze fuel duty until January came on the
same day that  Ed Balls , who shadows Osborne for the Labour
opposition, urged Conservative lawmakers to rebel against the
government on fuel duty in a vote next week. About 50 lawmakers,
including seven Conservatives, backed the Fair Fuel U.K.
campaign led by television motoring show presenter Quentin
Wilson.  It followed climbdowns over plans announced in the March 21
budget to levy value-added tax on hot takeaway snacks, charge
the full VAT rate on mobile homes and include charitable
donations in a cap on tax relief.  In Parliament today, Cameron denied the move was a U-turn
as he had inherited the planned increase from the previous
Labour government.  “They put in place 12 increases in fuel duty in
government,” he said. “They left behind six increases in fuel
duty and I’m proud of the fact we are dealing with them.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said the decision was made out of
panic and accused Cameron and Osborne of failing to consult
Cabinet colleagues before the announcement was made.  “It was all part of a seamless political strategy?”
Miliband said. “Unfortunately they forgot to tell the Transport
Secretary. Let’s call it what it is: another case of panic at
the pumps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  