-- Housing Exuberance Led by Shiller’s U.S. Glamorous Cities
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-06-27T14:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/housing-exuberance-led-by-shiller-s-u-s-glamorous-cities.html
Home prices  are beginning to rise
after a six-year slump in cities from  San Francisco  and  Seattle 
to Miami with jobs and lifestyles that appeal to younger and
affluent buyers.  “A number of the cities that have done the best have been
glamour cities,”  Robert Shiller , an economics professor at  Yale
University  and co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller property-value
indexes, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “People have this speculative
fervor. It comes back.”  A tight supply of homes and an increase in affordability
fueled by record-low  mortgage rates  are helping shore up some
regional markets where values plunged during the recession. San
Francisco’s home prices surged at a 16 percent annual rate in
the three months ended in April, while Phoenix gained at a 26
percent rate, according to Case-Shiller.  “Glamour cities where people want to move to and reside
have always been on the East Coast and West Coast,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi 
UFJ. “The drop in mortgage rates closer to 3.5 percent helped
stimulate demand,” while sellers holding homes off the market
caused “not a lot of supply, and what was out there got bid
up.”  An index of pending  home resales  in the U.S. climbed 5.9
percent in May, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 39
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.5 percent
gain.  Multiple Bids  Brian Adamski, a Phoenix-based real estate agent, said that
buyers he represents have put in bids on houses that have
received as many as 40 offers. Inventory is especially slim for
properties priced below $200,000, which are popular with cash
buyers, he said.  “If you have a good product, priced reasonably well, it
will go quick,” he said.  Prices rose at annual rates of 12 percent over the past
three months in Seattle; 11 percent in Tampa,  Florida ; 8.3
percent in  San Diego ; and 8.2 percent in Miami, according to the
Case-Shiller indexes. Some former housing-bubble markets haven’t
fared as well. Prices rose at a 2.6 percent rate in  Las Vegas 
and fell at a 4.3 percent rate in Atlanta and 7.3 percent rate
in  New York .  Remarkably Fast  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , which is based in Atlanta and operates
mostly in the U.S. Southeast, said housing is picking up in
South Florida markets such as Miami, which were hit hard during
the slump. The city is “having a remarkably fast recovery,”
Chief Executive Officer William Rogers said in a May 15
interview.  “Miami got punched in the face and got two black eyes, but
it’s going to recover because of where it’s located,” said Joe
Higgins, a broker in Coconut Grove, Florida. “The Miami market
is very active.”  The prime cities, neighborhoods and property types, such as
Palm Beach County in Florida and condominiums in Miami’s
Brickell neighborhood, are drawing the most demand, pushing
prices up, said  Brad Hunter , chief economist for Metrostudy, a
Houston-based firm that tracks housing starts.  “These glamour markets are also 24-hour, international
gateway cities, which do business worldwide and they attract
demand from global buyers” such as the Brazilians who’ve been
purchasing properties in Miami, he said.  Tech Growth  In San Francisco, prices are being driven up by the soaring
technology industry. In May, a record 211,400 people were
employed in the city’s professional services sector, which
includes computer design, an increase of 12,400 positions from a
year earlier, according to the California Employment Development
Department. Jobs in health care and private education services,
leisure and hospitality also had larger-than-normal annual
increases.  With inventory low, properties in the city’s Noe Valley and
Dolores Heights neighborhoods are getting multiple offers, said
Suhl Chin, an agent at Zephyr Real Estate. A “fixer” three-
bedroom on Liberty Hill had 12 bids and is in contract for over
$1.5 million, she said.  Listings at $1 million to $2 million are the “opening
price point for a lot of tech workers getting their options at
emerging companies,” according to Joel Goodrich, a broker at
TRI/Coldwell Banker. His penthouse listing at the SOMA Grand
high-rise on Mission Street may fetch $1,100 a square foot, he
said.  Upper Income  “San Francisco is enjoying a combination of mega-factors,
high among them the tech industry,” Goodrich said. “People are
coming from London, China, New York and L.A.”  Cities with large numbers of upper-income households are
faring best, said  Mark Vitner , a Wells Fargo & Co. senior
economist.  “This is a bifurcated economy where the well-to-do, and
more highly educated and folks in the right places are doing
relatively well, and sales are taking off for those guys,” he
said.  U.S. homebuyers also are benefiting from falling borrowing
costs. The average 30-year U.S.  mortgage rate  dropped to 3.66
percent in the week ended June 21, the lowest in records dating
to 1971 at McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company
 Freddie Mac .  Investor Demand  Some economists said it may be too early to call a broader
recovery.  “Demand coming from investors” might be contributing to
gains in markets where prices are jumping, said  Patrick Newport ,
an economist for IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“I think that it is too soon to come to any conclusions about
where home prices are heading, given the number of homeowners
delinquent on their mortgage, and given that the Case-Shiller
indices hit cyclical lows in March.”    Overall, the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities dropped 1.9 percent in April from a year earlier, the
smallest decline since November 2010, after decreasing 2.6
percent in the year ended March. The median  forecast  of 28
economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected a 2.5 percent
drop.  The index’s co-creator said he remains encouraged.  “There are signs of strength,” Shiller said. Still,
surveys of home buyers show a continued lowering of expectations
on prices, he said. “Those expectations have just been down,
down, down steadily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  