-- Panasonic to Simplify Management Group to Help Revive Profit
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-06-27T08:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/panasonic-to-simplify-management-group-as-it-moves-to-end-losses.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  will revamp its main
management group to pare its size as it aims to shift away from
its money-losing television business to more profitable
batteries and solar cells after posting a record annual loss.  “We aim to make a v-shaped recovery, no matter what it
takes,” Chairman Fumio Ohtsubo, 66, said today at the company’s
annual shareholder meeting in  Osaka . “We intend to simplify the
headquarters function this fiscal year.” Ohtsubo became
chairman today and was replaced as president by Kazuhiro Tsuga.  Panasonic,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Sharp Corp. are all seeking
shareholder approvals this week for their new leaders after a
decline in television prices, the yen’s gain, floods in  Thailand 
and an earthquake led them to post a combined 1.6 trillion yen
($20 billion) in net losses for the year ended March 31.
Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of plasma TVs, has been
trying to boost sales of energy-saving appliances and solar
panels in an attempt to move away from its money-losing TV
operation.  Panasonic, the biggest employer among Japanese publicly
traded companies with 330,767  employees  as of March 31,
eliminated 36,000 jobs last fiscal year and may further
streamline operations, it said May 29.  Tsuga was promoted to the  top job  after he took steps to
stem the company’s losses from TVs. The executive, who spent
most of his career at Panasonic’s research operations, suspended
three of five TV-panel factories within a year after taking
charge of the audio-visual products unit in April 2011.  Profit Outlook  Panasonic’s TV unit will probably turn profitable in the
fourth quarter this fiscal year after four consecutive years of
losses, the company said in May.  The maker of HIT solar panels in May projected  net income 
of 50 billion yen for this fiscal year, compared with a 772
billion-yen loss last fiscal year. The company’s record loss
stemmed partly from a total of 250 billion yen in charges to
writedown assets related to Sanyo Electric Co.  Panasonic  dropped 1.3 percent  to 618 yen as of the close of
trading in Tokyo. The shares have slumped 35 percent in the past
12 months, compared with an 8.9 percent decline in the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Ohtsubo apologized to shareholders for the company’s
decline in market value.  “We’re sorry about the decline in our share price and we
intend to revive earnings to relieve shareholder concern about
this,” Ohtsubo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  