-- Payroll Tax Cut Heads for Lapse as Lawmakers Doubt Policy
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-27T17:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/payroll-tax-cut-heads-for-lapse-as-lawmakers-doubt-policy.html
Four months after reaching a
bipartisan agreement to extend a payroll  tax cut  through 2012,
U.S. lawmakers and President Barack Obama are showing little
fervor for continuing the break, which puts about $1,000 a year
in an average worker’s pocket.  House Republicans  don’t plan to include it in a bill they
want to pass next month that would extend Bush-era income tax
breaks expiring at the end of the year. In his speeches, Obama
praises the payroll provision without proposing to keep it.  “I doubt that there is any enthusiasm for taking that
issue up prior to the end of the year,” said Representative  Tom Price  of Georgia, chairman of the Republican Policy Committee.  The collective shrug for a policy designed to encourage
 consumer spending  and growth comes even as the  U.S. economy 
shows signs of continuing weakness. The  unemployment rate  has
declined by 0.1 percentage point since February and gross
domestic product increased by 1.9 percent in the first quarter.  Democrats and Republicans have similar -- and differing --
reasons for their reluctance. Leaders in both parties worry that
the payroll tax cut could eventually undermine the Social
Security trust fund. Republicans say the tax break hasn’t done
much good.  Money in Pocket  “I’m all about making sure people have more money in their
pocket,” said Representative Patrick Tiberi, an  Ohio Republican 
on the Ways and Means Committee. Still, he said, “no one has
shown anybody that the  payroll tax  has helped the economy.”  House Republicans say they will vote in July to extend all
of the expiring tax cuts first enacted in 2001 and 2003,
preventing a year-end increase in tax rates for income,  capital
gains , dividends and estates. Those rates, Tiberi said, are the
ones constituents mention to him when they cite uncertain  tax
policy  as a reason for delaying investment decisions.  Obama rallied public support and put pressure on Congress
to extend the payroll tax cut through 2012. He sometimes
mentions the law during speeches, taking credit for it. Still,
he hasn’t sought another extension, ruled one out or explained
what should happen to the provision at the end of 2012.  Temporary Measure  “The payroll tax cut was intended to be a temporary
measure to give middle class families relief during these
difficult economic times,”  Amy Brundage , a White House
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. She added that the
administration has proposed other tax policies to benefit those
workers, including extensions of the current income tax rates
for all but the highest earners and expanded tax credits for
low-income workers and families with children.  Though the tax cut didn’t lead to economic growth, letting
it lapse would hurt the taxpayers who are benefiting, said J.D.
Foster, a senior fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington
organization that favors limited government. He said Obama was
correct when he said that early 2012 was a terrible time to
raise taxes.  “If Republicans are paying attention, they’re going to
realize that all of those families, a lot of them, vote,”
Foster said. “And they might want to think about not raising
taxes on middle-class families.”  The tax, dedicated to Social Security, applies only to the
first $110,100 of wages in 2012. The U.S. kept Social Security’s
trust fund whole by borrowing from the general fund, which runs
a deficit.  ATM Machine  Some Democrats may be reluctant to support payroll-tax cut
extensions because of concerns about using the tax dedicated to
Social Security as “kind of an ATM machine,” said
Representative  Jan Schakowsky , an Illinois Democrat who is a co-
chairwoman of Obama’s presidential campaign.  “There are some who worry that if they were to become a
permanent fixture, that could damage the Social Security trust
fund,” Schakowsky told reporters and editors at a Bloomberg
Government luncheon yesterday.  Congress first passed the payroll tax cut in December 2010,
as part of a deal between Obama and Republicans that extended
expiring income tax cuts. Employees now pay 4.2 percent of their
wages, instead of the usual 6.2 percent, meaning that a worker
making $50,000 a year who is paid twice a month saves $41.67 in
every paycheck.  Under Pressure  Democrats and Republicans sparred over the payroll tax cut
at the end of 2011 and beginning of 2012. Republicans initially
paired a one-year extension with spending cuts and then relented
under pressure from Obama for a deficit-financed break.  “Allowing this tax cut to expire would make people’s lives
harder right now,” Obama said Feb. 14 in urging Congress to
pass the year-long extension. “It would make their choices more
difficult.”  The final bill passed the House 293-132 and the Senate
60-36, including support from a majority of House Republicans.  The expiration of the payroll tax cut represents more than
15 percent of the so-called fiscal cliff facing at the end of
2012. The combination of scheduled spending cuts and tax
increases would probably push the economy into recession if
Congress doesn’t alter some of those policies, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, said he thought the payroll tax cut helped the
economy. He didn’t commit to seeking an extension.  “Everything’s on the table,” said Baucus, a Montana
Democrat. “It all depends on all the various provisions and
tradeoffs.”  Economic Weakness  Because the case for the payroll-tax cut was based on
economic weakness, Democratic calls for an extension could also
indicate continued sluggishness as Obama seeks re-election.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee, said Republican action or
inaction between now and the end of the year will determine
whether the payroll tax cut is necessary.  “It is up to Republicans in Congress to move to help
economic growth now,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Republicans make two main arguments against extending the
payroll tax cut. They say it doesn’t work and that it undermines
Social Security.  “It’s always good when you let people keep more of their
hard-earned money,” said Representative Geoff Davis, a Kentucky
Republican. “But the bigger question is the damage done to the
long-term solvency of Social Security.”  Divided on Effect  Economists are divided over the effects of the payroll tax
cut.  The tax cut “essentially evaporated” when it first took
effect in 2011, said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Plc in New York. The benefits, he said, were outweighed by
higher income-tax bills, rising gasoline prices and the
expiration of a tax credit more targeted at low-income workers
that had been part of the 2009 stimulus law.  “It didn’t provide as much of a boost to economic activity
as many expected,” Maki said.  In a  CBO analysis  of policy options for economic growth,
payroll tax cuts ranked ahead of business tax cuts and
infrastructure spending and behind aid to unemployed workers.
CBO estimates that every dollar in payroll tax cuts raises the
gross domestic product by 16 cents to one dollar.  The payroll-tax cut puts money directly in the hands of
consumers who are likely to spend it, said Ethan Pollack, a
senior policy analyst at the  Economic Policy Institute , a
Washington group that favors ideas that benefit low- and middle-
income workers.  Consumer Spending  “In the short run, we want additional consumer spending
because that will create jobs and get the economy back on
track,” said Pollack, who said he would prefer more aid to
states and expanded unemployment insurance, both of which are
more politically difficult. “If the question is, is it better
to have the payroll-tax holiday or nothing, I would say it’s
better to have it.”  Maintaining that the payroll tax cut reduces the balance of
money in the Social Security trust fund is bogus, Foster said,
because of the general fund transfers.  Republicans also sometimes argue that financing Social
Security from the general fund damages the conceptual link
between the tax and benefit sides of the program.  “Your hurt the integrity of the system when you are
replacing that money with general fund money,” Tiberi said.  Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat, said
he wants to extend the payroll tax cut and expand it to
employers, as Obama proposed last year. Like employees,
employers typically pay 6.2 percent of wages toward Social
Security; that rate hasn’t changed. Expanding the payroll tax
cut is better, Pascrell said, than extending income tax cuts for
high earners.  Foster, of the Heritage Foundation, said Congress should
wait to let the payroll-tax cut expire until the economy has
recovered and lawmakers start overhauling the  tax code .  “This becomes a driver for  tax reform ,” he said. “And
this becomes part of the mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  