-- Pending Sales of U.S. Homes Climbed More Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-27T15:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/pending-sales-of-u-s-homes-climbed-more-than-forecast-in-may.html
More Americans than forecast signed
contracts to purchase previously owned homes in May, indicating
the real estate industry is firming three years after the start
of the economic recovery.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 5.9 percent to
101.1, matching a two-year high reached in March, after a 5.5
percent decline in April, figures from the National Association
of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.5
percent gain in May.  Record-low  mortgage rates  and cheaper properties may keep
sparking buyer interest, even as cooling employment and limited
access to credit remain hurdles for the market. The  Federal
Reserve ’s decision last week to extend a program aimed at
holding down borrowing costs may sustain the progress in
residential real estate.  “This improvement adds to the recent flow of good news on
the housing sector, reinforcing our view that this beleaguered
sector is finally on the mend,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S.
strategist at TD Securities in  New York , said in an e-mail to
clients. “It points to a decent pop in existing-home sales
activity in June.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 1.6
percent to a rise of 6.8 percent.  Stocks extended gains after the housing figures, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbing 0.7 percent to 1,328.65 at
11:21 a.m. in New York. The S&P Supercomposite  Homebuilding
Index (S15HOME) , which includes shares of PulteGroup Inc. and D.R. Horton
Inc., gained 3.7 percent.  Durable Goods  Another report today showed orders for durable goods
climbed more than forecast in May, easing concern that U.S.
manufacturing is faltering. Bookings rose 1.1 percent, the first
gain in three months, the Commerce Department said.  Pending home sales provide insight into actual contract
closings a month or two later. Purchases of existing homes,
which made up about 93 percent of the housing market last year,
are tabulated when the contract closes.  Today’s figures suggest sales of existing homes will
rebound after a drop in May. Purchases declined 1.5 percent last
month to a 4.55 million annual rate, the Realtors group said
June 21.  Existing-home sales  have climbed since reaching a low of
3.39 million at an annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to
the subprime lending collapse and recession, sales reached a
peak of 7.25 million in September 2005.  New Homes  New dwellings accounted for almost 7 percent of the market
last year, down from a high of 15 percent during the boom of the
past decade. Sales of new homes climbed 7.6 percent to a 369,000
annual rate in May, a Commerce Department report showed June 25.  Compared with a year earlier, May pending sales of
previously owned properties climbed 15.3 percent after a 14.7
percent surge in April.  Contract signings climbed in all four regions, today’s
report showed, including a 14.5 percent jump in the West and a
6.3 percent gain the Midwest.  A decline in transactions involving foreclosures and short
sales, where a lender agrees to accept less than the balance of
the mortgage, helped push up the median price of a previously
owned house up 7.9 percent from the same time last year, the
biggest 12-month gain since February 2006, last week’s data
showed.  Mortgage Rates  Low borrowing costs continue to attract buyers. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped last week to 3.66
percent, the lowest since Freddie Mac record-keeping began in
1972.  Builders like  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  are seeing improvement in the
housing market. The third-largest homebuilder by revenue said
today that net income for the three months through May rose to
$452.7 million, or $2.06 a share, from $13.8 million, or 7
cents, a year earlier.  “Evidence from the field suggests that the ‘for sale’
housing market has, in fact, bottomed and that we have commenced
a slow and steady recovery process,” Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Miller  said in the statement.  Orders at the company climbed to 4,481 homes from 3,204 a
year earlier. The Miami-based builder’s backlog jumped 61
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  