-- PensionDanmark Targets Onshore Wind to Counter Volatile Equities
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-27T12:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/pensiondanmark-targets-onshore-wind-to-counter-volatile-equities.html
PensionDanmark A/S, the Danish
retirement fund with more than a half-million members, plans its
first foray into onshore wind power as long-term infrastructure
investments may help counter stocks that underperform.  “We expect to disclose our first investment in a large
onshore wind park this year,” Chief Executive Officer Torben
Moger Pedersen said in an interview in  London . The fund, which 
allocates 7 percent of its portfolio to energy and 
infrastructure, plans to spend 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) 
in five years to reach 10 percent, he said.  Pension funds and insurers are seeking alternative
investments after a decline in  interest rates  hurt bond returns
and equity-market volatility increased. Wind farms, promoted by
European nations chasing climate goals and supported by subsidy
programs, operate for about 25 years, offering steady gains for
institutions with long-term savings.  PensionDanmark has already invested in offshore wind. In
early 2011, it bought 30 percent of Dong Energy A/S’s Anholt
project,  Denmark ’s largest offshore wind farm and the first
investment by a pension fund in an unbuilt wind park at sea.  While the Copenhagen-based fund doesn’t plan to announce
further offshore wind investments this year, its 2 billion-euro
spending plan could enable it to buy a “substantial” share in
one offshore wind park a year in the future, Pedersen said.  PensionDanmark, with 622,000 members and 16.8 billion euros
in assets last quarter, has also started buying bank
infrastructure loan portfolios as alternatives to  government
bonds  and equities as  Europe ’s debt crisis persists, Pedersen
said. The groups of loans deliver “slightly better” returns
than U.S. high-yield bonds issued by companies, he said.  “European banks are in a situation where it’s not
profitable for them to keep long-term credit on their books,”
he said. “We have a need to find alternative sources of capital
both on the equity and debt side if ambitious plans for
transforming the European economy to a green one” are to be
realized.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  