-- Peter Madoff, Bernie’s Brother, to Plead Guilty
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/peter-madoff-brother-of-bernard-will-plead-guilty-u-s-says.html
Ponzi scheme  mastermind Bernard L. Madoff’s brother Peter will plead guilty on June 29 to two
federal charges as part of the U.S. investigation of fraud at
the investment fund, prosecutors said.  Peter Madoff, 66, who was Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC’s chief compliance officer and senior managing
director, will plead guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and one count of falsifying records, a
prosecutor said in a letter yesterday to U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain in  New York .  Prosecutors said Madoff also will agree to forfeit $143.1
billion, an amount based on the total funds that passed through
the Madoff firm during his tenure.  Peter Madoff , a graduate of
Fordham University Law school who began working at his brother’s
firm in 1965, has also agreed to forfeit his personal assets,
prosecutors said.  “Pursuant to a plea agreement with the government, Peter
Madoff agrees not to seek a sentence of other than 10 years’
imprisonment,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lisa Baroni and Julian
Moore said in court papers. “Further, Peter Madoff agrees to
the criminal forfeiture of approximately $143.1 billion,
including all of his real and personal property.”  Madoff will admit that he made false statements to
investors about the firm’s compliance program and the nature and
scope of its investment advisory business as part of his role as
chief compliance officer, the U.S. said. He will also plead
guilty to falsifying business records, prosecutors said. Both
charges carry a maximum statutory term of as long as five years
in prison and a fine of at least $250,000.  Madoff Collapse  Bernard Madoff , 74, whose New York-based firm collapsed in
December 2008, is serving a 150-year prison term after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud.  Peter Madoff’s lawyer, John Wing, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message seeking comment on the agreement.  Bernard Madoff said in June 2008 that he deceived his
brother and his two sons about his $65 billion Ponzi scheme.
U.S. District Judge  Denny Chin , who presided over Bernard
Madoff’s criminal case, signed a criminal forfeiture judgment
against the convicted con man of $170.8 billion in June 2009.  Since Bernard Madoff’s December 2008 arrest, federal
prosecutors and  Federal Bureau  of Investigation agents in New
York have been hunting for his assets, seeking forfeiture of the
$170.8 billion they said moved through his firm since the fraud
began in the 1980s.  Forfeiture Order  Chin explained in his June 2009 forfeiture order against
Bernard Madoff that $170 billion “represented the amount of
proceeds traceable to the commission of the offenses,” as well
as all property derived from the scheme. The judge also imposed
a separate $799 million judgment representing the property
involved in money-laundering offenses which Bernard Madoff had
pleaded guilty to committing.  In October 2009, Bernard Madoff’s sons, along with Peter
Madoff and his daughter, Shana Madoff Swanson, were sued by
trustee Irving Picard in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York over
claims they spent $198.7 million of victims’ money and treated
the Madoff firm as a “family piggy bank.”  Peter Madoff paid $60 million to himself, his family
members and entities he controlled, and used the money to buy
homes on Park Avenue in  Manhattan  and in  Palm Beach ,  Florida ,
according to Picard’s complaint. Peter Madoff was also accused
of backdating trades to withdraw more money from his accounts
than he deposited.  ‘Failed Miserably’  Peter Madoff was “an experienced investment
professional,” Picard said, who “did not carry out this
responsibility with any degree of diligence or integrity”
Picard alleged in an amended lawsuit against Peter Madoff and
other family members filed in May.  “Peter Madoff’s duties and responsibilities were well-
defined by law,” Picard said, “Yet he failed miserably to meet
them, to the financial detriment of thousands of Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Services customers victimized by the Ponzi
scheme.”  The trustee said he hadn’t located or identified “any
evidence of meaningful compliance or supervisory activities,”
at the firm. Had Peter Madoff done his job properly, “the fraud
might have been revealed years earlier,” Picard said.  Picard later amended his claims to about $226 million,
saying in court papers that the judgment he is demanding
reflects money the family took from the Ponzi scheme, plus
“breaches of fiduciary duties and other tortious conduct that
facilitated Madoff’s crimes and enriched the family.”  Madoff’s Sons  Bernard Madoff fraud scheme was uncovered after his sons
Andrew and Mark turned in their father to U.S. authorities,
saying he told them he was operating a Ponzi scheme. They later
reported their father for giving away watches and jewelry worth
$1 million in alleged violation of a court asset-freeze order.  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer representing  Andrew Madoff  and
the estate of Mark Madoff, has previously said the brothers had
no knowledge of the fraud until their father confessed to them
one day before his arrest. Mark Madoff committed suicide on Dec.
11, 2010.  Flumenbaum didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
yesterday seeking comment on the government’s letter. Ira Lee Sorkin, a lawyer for Bernard Madoff, didn’t return a voice-mail
message left at his office after business hours seeking comment.  Mark Warren Smith, a lawyer for Shana Madoff, Peter’s
daughter and a compliance officer at the firm, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment about her
father’s guilty plea.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is prosecuting the case,
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Peter Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  