-- Philippine Peso Rises for a Second Day on Stock Market Inflows
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-06-27T08:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/philippine-peso-rises-for-a-second-day-on-stock-market-inflows.html
The Philippine peso rose for a
second day on signs economic growth is drawing overseas
investors to the nation’s shares.  International funds bought $160 million more equities than
they sold this month through yesterday, according to stock
exchange data, helping drive a 3.3 percent gain in the benchmark
index. Philippine gross domestic product increased 6.4 percent
in the first quarter, the most among Southeast Asia’s five
biggest economies, as President  Benigno Aquino  boosted state
spending.  “The flows are positive,” said Lito Mercado, head of
trading at  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in  Manila . “We are
hearing more and more funds say the  Philippines  looks good.
They’re still OK to put money here via investments through the
stock market and bonds.”  The peso advanced 0.2 percent to 42.37 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency reached
42.305 today, the strongest level since June 21. It strengthened
1.3 percent this quarter, the most among Asia’s 10 most-active
currencies excluding the yen.  One-month implied volatility for the peso, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 6.3
percent, less than 7.75 percent at the end of last month  The Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index climbed 0.9
percent, a fourth day of gains.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 was unchanged at 5.94 percent, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services.  Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-
phone message today that inflation remains manageable and may be
at 2.5 percent to 3.4 percent this month as increases in utility
costs and higher prices of some vegetables are offset by lower
 oil prices . Consumer-price increases slowed to 2.9 percent in
May from a year earlier. The government is due to report the
data on July 5.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 