-- Pimco Hires Three as Bridwell's Alternatives Unit Grows
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-27T14:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/pimco-hires-three-as-bridwell-s-alternatives-unit-grows.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest mutual fund, hired three
professionals to bolster the unit run by Jennifer Bridwell that
oversees  hedge funds  and distressed debt.  Neal Reiner, Molly Hall and Jennifer Strickland have
started at the firm and are based in the  Newport Beach ,
 California , headquarters, the firm said today in a statement.  Pimco named Bridwell head of alternatives product
development in September as it expands beyond its core fixed-
income funds such as those run by  Bill Gross . The firm manages
$16 billion in so-called alternatives, which include hedge funds
and mortgage-related assets, and has more than 70 people working
on the offerings.  “We have not been as active in the past in really getting
out and telling our clients how long we’ve been doing this, and
really talking to them about our performance,” Bridwell, who’s
been at Pimco since 2005, said in a telephone interview. “We
live in a really dislocated world post-crisis, where there are
lots of things that are really attractive that can’t be housed
inside of a traditional strategy.”  Pimco has offered hedge funds to institutional clients for
the past decade, and since 2007 has opened funds to buy
distressed residential and commercial mortgages that fell in
value after the global credit crisis. Under Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed El-Erian, the firm is also pushing into products
such as stock funds and exchange-traded funds.  Reiner, an executive vice president and product manager for
credit alternative strategies at Pimco, was previously at Gottex
Fund Management Ltd. Hall, formerly with Canyon Capital Advisors
LLC, and Strickland, previously with Blue Mountain Capital
Management LLC, are both executive vice presidents focusing on
client services and marketing of alternatives.  Pimco, a unit of German insurer  Allianz SE , manages about
$1.7 trillion in assets. Led by co-chief investment officers
Gross and El-Erian, the firm runs the $261 billion Pimco Total
Return Fund, the largest mutual fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  