-- Polish Monetary Policy Should Focus on Growth, Wisniewski Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-06-27T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/polish-monetary-policy-should-focus-on-growth-wisniewski-says.html
Polish  monetary policy  should focus
on economic growth rather than inflation as investors value
financial stability the most, said Jacek Wisniewski, a member of
the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisers Council.  “The international credibility of countries is defined by
their fiscal situation and solvency these days, so the central
bank has to focus more on growth than on cutting inflation for
the country’s economic stability,” Wisniewski, who is also the
chief economist of Raiffeisen Bank Polska SA, said in an
interview in Warsaw on June 25. “There is no need to raise
Polish borrowing costs more.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski last month raised its benchmark
seven-day rate a quarter-point to 4.75 percent to combat
inflation, becoming the European Union’s only central bank to
increase borrowing costs this year. Policy makers left the rate
unchanged this month and warned that more monetary tightening
may be needed if price growth doesn’t slow and the economy
avoids a steep slowdown.  Poland ’s gross domestic product, the largest among the
European Union’s eastern members, will grow 2.7 percent this
year after a 4.3 percent advance in 2011, the fastest pace in
the trading block, according to the European Commission.  The cost of insuring Polish debt for five years using
credit-default swaps has dropped 58 basis points this year to
224, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dropping credit-
default swaps signal improving perception of creditworthiness.  Inflation Slows  Since the rate meeting three weeks ago, inflation
unexpectedly decelerated to 3.6 percent in May, the slowest in
15 months, while jobs growth at companies with more than nine
workers held steady at 0.3 percent and wages rose 3.8 percent,
missing economist forecasts. Retail sales grew 7.7 percent, less
than the 10 percent average average advance far this year and
down from an almost 14 percent increase last May.  Monetary Policy Council member Andrzej Bratkowski said June
25 he sees no need to raise rates and warned that GDP expansion
slowing to less than 2 percent “would complicate fiscal
consolidation that depends on economic growth to some degree, so
one has to be cautious not to harm that growth additionally,”
according to the state-owned news service PAP.  Next year’s draft budget assumes the benchmark interest
rate will be half a percentage point lower than at present.  “Following the global slowdown and commodities prices
drop, inflation in Poland will also drop, driving expectations
for lower  interest rates ,” Wisniewski said. “The government’s
2013 budget draft expresses that logic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  