-- Portugal Telecom CEO Says Dividend Is Attractive After Cut
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-06-27T16:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/portugal-telecom-ceo-says-dividend-is-attractive-after-cut-1-.html
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) ’s dividend
remains attractive as the country’s biggest telecommunications
company reduces payouts as part of a more “prudent” financial
strategy, Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said.  Portugal Telecom will pay an annual dividend of 32.5 euro
cents a share for the fiscal years 2012 to 2014, it said today.
The company paid 65 euro cents on last year’s earnings. It also
announced a 200-million-euro ($249 million) share buyback
program for the three-year period, and said it will offer 250
million euros of four-year bonds to the public.  The dividend policy will allow the Lisbon-based company to
reduce debt and increase  financial  flexibility, addressing any
“market concerns” about its balance sheet, as investors want
“prudence,” especially in Southern  Europe , Bava said in a
phone interview today. Its moves will also let the company
continue to invest, Bava said.  Portugal Telecom’s dividend yield is close to 10 percent
now, compared with 8.5 percent for the sector, Luis Prota, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a note today. The Portuguese
company follows competitors such as  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA)  in cutting dividends as consumers and companies trim
spending amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Portugal Telecom shares climbed 3.1 percent to 3.42 euros
in Lisbon.  Business Fundamentals  Portugal Telecom said the amount of its planned  bond issue 
may be increased and it is now refinanced until the end of 2015.  “This increases the prospect of at least some investors
being willing to look at Portugal Telecom whilst waiting for the
Portuguese macro environment to improve,” analysts including
Keval Khiroya at Deutsche Bank said in a note today.  Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS SA, the company’s second-
biggest shareholder, said Portugal Telecom’s decision was a
“responsible and adequate” move amid uncertainty in the
financial markets.  Bava said today’s announcements means “the market can now
concentrate on the analysis of the fundamentals of the
company.” The executive previously said that Portugal Telecom
was frustrated about its stock price, which has declined 23
percent this year.  Portugal Telecom reported in May that revenue rose 97
percent to 1.72 billion euros in the first quarter as it gained
customers in  Brazil  after buying a stake in Brazilian phone
company Telemar Norte Leste SA, also known as Oi, in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joao Lima at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net  