-- Potash Producers Must Face Buyers’ U.S. Antitrust Lawsuit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-27T22:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/potash-producers-must-face-buyers-u-s-antitrust-lawsuit.html
Potash Corp. (POT)   of Saskatchewan Inc. 
and six other producers of the fertilizer must face an antitrust
lawsuit by buyers, a U.S. appeals court said in reversing an
earlier ruling in the same court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Chicago , in a so-called en
banc re-hearing by its judges, set aside a Sept. 23 ruling
dismissing the case by a panel of three of its members. Today’s
decision upholds a lower-court decision denying the producers’
request to have the case thrown out.  “This is not a house-that-Jack-built situation in which
action in a foreign country filters through many layers and
finally causes a few ripples in the U.S.,” the court said today
in its 32-page decision. “To the contrary: foreign sellers
allegedly created a cartel, took steps outside the U.S. to drive
the price up of a product that is wanted in the U.S.”  Potash buyers sued in 2008, claiming violations of the U.S.
Foreign Trade Antitrust Improvements Act, which can extend the
reach of American antitrust law to foreign anticompetitive
conduct that affects U.S. imports.  “Markets are increasingly global, and today’s decision
helps ensure that U.S. antitrust law and U.S. courts will
protect U.S. purchasers who are targeted and injured by global
cartels,” W. Joseph Bruckner, a Minneapolis-based attorney for
the plaintiffs, said in a statement.  Resist Drought  The defendants are seven potash producers, including
Calgary-based  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , Plymouth, Minnesota-based  Mosaic Co. (MOS) 
and Russian and Belorussian companies. Potash is a form of
potassium used by farmers to strengthen roots and help plants
resist drought.  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for Saskatoon-based Potash Corp.,
declined to comment on the ruling. Richard Downey, a spokesman
for Agrium, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the ruling. Rob Litts, a spokesman for
Mosaic, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The appeals court panel in September ruled in favor of the
producers, saying the plaintiffs had failed to state a plausible
direct link between the allegedly anti-competitive activity and
the U.S. market.  The complaint describes a “tight-knit global cartel” that
restrained output of potash so that prices would remain
artificially high, the appeals court said in today’s ruling.  “The alleged effect was substantial,” the appeals court
said. “The inference from these allegations is not just
plausible but compelling that the cartel meant to, and did in
fact, keep prices artificially high in the U.S.”  The case is Minn-Chem Inc. v.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , 10-1712, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  