-- Qatar’s Harrods Shift Gives It Major Role on Xstrata Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-06-28T09:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/qatar-s-harrods-shift-gives-it-major-role-on-xstrata-deal.html
Qatar’s unexpected role as kingmaker
in the biggest proposed merger of the year is an outgrowth of
its new strategy to shift assets of its $100 billion sovereign
wealth fund into commodities including gold, copper and oil.  Once known for acquiring trophy investments like  London ’s
Harrods department store, the tiny Persian Gulf kingdom first
disclosed its holding in  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc in February, just after
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  made its $25 billion bid for the
Swiss mining company. Qatar’s 11 percent stake, worth $4.1
billion, effectively controls the outcome of the deal, and
illustrates its efforts to seek new leverage abroad.  “The Qataris now are in the driver’s seat,” said  Peter Davey , metals and mining research chief at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. “Is it crucial that Qatar Holdings vote for the merger?
Yes.”  Qatar flexed its muscles on June 26, asking for a 16
percent higher price from Glencore, based in Baar,  Switzerland .
The demand, which took the commodities-trading firm by surprise,
according to people familiar with the situation, set off a new
round of negotiations, putting in doubt a deal that would create
the world’s fourth-biggest mining company. Advisers to Glencore
and Qatar met yesterday in London to discuss its opposition, the
people said, which has helped push back a planned July 12
shareholder vote on the combination.  Officials at the Qatar Investment Authority, which oversees
the country’s investment vehicles, declined interview requests.
It is the world’s 12th biggest sovereign wealth fund, according
to the Las Vegas-based SWF Institute. Qatar’s own resources
include the world’s third-largest natural gas reserves.  Asset Shift  The size of  Connecticut  and with a population of just 2
million, Qatar began shifting assets to natural resources this
year, betting on a global surge in commodity prices, Hussain Al- Abdulla, a board member at the sovereign fund, told reporters in
April.  In the same month French oil giant  Total (FP)  said Qatar had
acquired a 3 percent stake, now worth $2.4 billion. That
followed a $250 million investment in a resources fund managed
by Barclays Plc, and a deal to take control of more than 150
square miles of farmland in  Australia .  Its latest move came June 22, when it agreed to buy a 49
percent stake for about $2 billion in the AUX gold mining
business owned by  Brazil ’s richest man,  Eike Batista . AUX mines
for gold in  Colombia .  Lately Qatar’s also checked out copper deposits in Mongolia
and gold mining companies in  Africa , according to people
familiar with those situations. It recently formed a new venture
focused on mining and has signed agreements for joint projects
with such countries as Bulgaria and Sudan.  Commodity Moves  Qatar’s timing could be right. This month Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. predicted investors in commodity companies could reap
a 29 percent return over the next year as prices rebound for
products like copper, aluminum and crude oil. Gold may rise as
much as 15 percent to $1,800 an ounce by the fourth quarter,
according to the median of 24 analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We think there is structural change happening in the
commodities sector and the price of commodities will keep going
up,” especially in the middle of this decade as the effects of
reduced spending on developing mines and infrastructure this
year come through, Al-Abdulla said.  Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining firm, and rival Rio Tinto Plc are scaling back resource
investments as project costs rise and prices for some metals
soften. London-based Rio in April pulled out of plans for a $9.2
billion port project in Australia’s Queensland state, where it
mines coal, citing volatile markets.  Qatar could also be motivated by a desire to diversify away
from troubled investments in the European financial sector and
real estate, said Rachel Ziemba, a senior analyst at Roubini
Global Economics based in London. Qatar is “heavily overweight
property and financial,” she said.  Bank Stakes  It has taken 6 percent and 7 percent stakes, respectively,
in Credit Suisse Group AG and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Those companies are
in the doldrums, with the Swiss lender’s shares down 46 percent
in the past year, and Barclays’ falling 17 percent in the same
period. Qatar owns 28 percent of Songbird Estates Plc, which
controls London’s Canary Wharf financial district. Songbird’s
shares have sunk 33 percent in the past year.  Qatar has also sought iconic properties, including paying
$2.2 billion in 2010 for Harrods Ltd., buying the Paris St-
Germain soccer club, and backing the Shard skyscraper, London’s
tallest.  “There seems to have been a decision at the highest levels
of the state to shift Qatar’s orientation toward commodities as
it reaches the limits of its previous investment strategy,”
said Kristian Coates Ulrichsen, a professor of Arab politics at
the  London School of Economics .  Global Exposure  Global exposure is nothing new to Qatar, which since the
late 1990s has been one of the Persian Gulf’s most outward-
looking countries. Its royal family has mediated in recent
crises in Lebanon and  Libya , bankrolled the Doha-based Al
Jazeera TV news channel and made commitments in 2011 to invest
as much as $5 billion in boosting  Greece ’s foundering economy.  By taking stakes in resource companies like Xstrata, said
Ulrichsen, Qatar is trying to extend its influence outside its
region, where it’s clashed with neighboring  Saudi Arabia , and
build new allies in countries where the companies are located.  Yet even a country enjoying newfound leverage faces
financial limits, which is one reason many analysts expect Qatar
to eventually vote for the Glencore-Xstrata merger, perhaps with
a token sweetening of terms.  Were Qatar to torpedo the deal, the value of its huge
Xstrata investment “would likely fall sharply,” said Jefferies
Group analysts  Christopher LaFemina  and Seth Rosenfeld. “We
continue to expect the merger to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  