-- Qualcomm Weighs Writing ‘Big Checks’ to Ensure Chip Access
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-06-28T13:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/qualcomm-weighs-writing-big-checks-to-ensure-parts-supply-1-.html
Qualcomm Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Jacobs , girding against a shortage of chips, said
he wouldn’t rule out owning a manufacturing plant or tapping the
company’s cash pile to ensure access to needed parts.  Qualcomm is weighing different business arrangements with
its suppliers and would consider “writing big checks,” Jacobs
said yesterday at a briefing in  San Diego , where the company is
based.  “If that’s what it took in the future, I wouldn’t say no
to that,” Jacobs said. Qualcomm would prefer to keep relying on
other companies to make its chips, rather than building plants,
he said.  “It’s not something that’s high on our list of things that
we want to do. But I wouldn’t rule it out completely.”  Qualcomm is the biggest in a growing group of chip
companies that focus on designing chips and leave the
manufacturing to other companies, usually so-called foundries in
 Asia . As smartphone demand surges, parts suppliers are
struggling to keep up. That has prompted electronics makers such
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to use cash payments to the tune of hundreds of
millions of dollars to secure their quota.  “The gut reaction of investors to Qualcomm building a fab
would be negative -- it would be changing their business
model,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM Partners LLC.
Using upfront payments to lock down supply from existing
partners would be a “judicious use of cash,” he said.  Higher Orders  Qualcomm said earlier this year that earnings growth will
be constrained because it can’t get enough chips from Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. The company had received more
orders than anticipated for chips made with the most advanced
manufacturing processes.  Jacobs said that while supply is improving and Qualcomm may
be able to provide enough chips to match demand for phones by
the end of the year, some customers will miss planned
introductions of phones -- even as fresh orders for those chips
roll in.  Jacobs also said yesterday that devices powered by
Qualcomm’s Snapdragon processors will be available later this
year, when  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  releases its Windows RT software.
Snapdragon will run some of the thinnest and lightest computers
available, he said.  Qualcomm is one of three chip companies partnering with
Microsoft to develop devices using processors based on  ARM
Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology. Microsoft is enabling ARM-based chips,
which dominate mobile phones and are the heart of Apple’s iPad,
in a computer operating system for the first time.  ARM Tablets  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  are also working
with Microsoft to deliver ARM-based computers and tablets.  Intel
Corp . and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , whose processors have
traditionally run Windows computers, are working on a similar
Microsoft touch-screen operating system.  Windows 8, for Intel and AMD chips, and Windows RT, for
ARM-based chips, are Microsoft’s first computer operating
systems designed for touch displays.  Qualcomm (QCOM)  declined 0.9 percent to $54.41 at 9:36 a.m. in New
York. Through yesterday, the shares were little changed this
year.  Google Inc. yesterday said it will use a Tegra processor
from Nvidia for its Nexus tablet computer based on an updated
version of the Android software. That followed Microsoft’s
choice of Tegra for its Surface tablet.  Qualcomm’s Jacobs said those decisions came before Qualcomm
released an update to Snapdragon. That chip, with two processing
cores, outperforms Tegra, which has four, he said.  Dual Core  “It was a timing thing,” he said. “Our dual core is
better than their quad core.”  “Nvidia will let its design wins speak for themselves,”
said Hector Marinez, a spokesman for the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company.  Qualcomm is restructuring to form a parent company, which
will include corporate operations and most of its patent
portfolio, as well as a wholly owned subsidiary to operate
research and development and run its products, services and
semiconductor businesses, the company said in a statement today.  “Our internal reorganization will provide even greater
protection for our industry-leading intellectual property
portfolio as our products and services businesses seek to
accelerate innovation and deliver our products to market
quickly,” Jacobs said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  