-- Queen Elizabeth Meets Former IRA Leader in Northern Ireland
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-06-27T10:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/queen-elizabeth-ii-to-meet-former-ira-leader-in-northern-ireland.html
Northern Ireland’s Deputy First
Minister  Martin McGuinness , a former Irish Republican Army
leader, met and shook hands with  Queen Elizabeth II  today.  McGuinness became the first  Sinn Fein  leader to meet a
British monarch when the pair attended an event in Belfast today
as  Queen Elizabeth  continues a tour of the U.K. as part of her
Jubilee celebrations. She arrived in the region yesterday.  Sinn Fein  boycotted the Queen’s visit to the Republic of
Ireland last year, the first trip of its kind since the state
gained independence from Britain in 1921. The party said the
visit was “premature.” McGuinness said this week he’ll meet
the monarch this time as an “act of reconciliation” toward
unionists in  Northern Ireland . A riot in West Belfast last night
signaled the tensions around the move.  “This is very important symbolically,”  Pete Shirlow , a
politics lecturer at Queen’s University Belfast, said. “In the
past McGuinness would have had nothing to do with the British
monarchy. Our  peace process  is successful, but it’s slow.”  The pair met at the Lyric Theatre, according to the British
Broadcasting Corp., which aired pictures of the handshake.  Nine police officers were hurt in rioting in west Belfast
when a crowd of around 100 people threw petrol bombs and bricks,
the Police Service of Northern Ireland said.  The violence followed a confrontation between loyalists,
who want to keep Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom, and
dissident republicans who were protesting at the Queen’s visit.
More than 20 petrol bombs were thrown, police said, with
officers receiving minor injuries.  IRA Peace  Northern Ireland’s power-sharing assembly was revived in
2007 following an IRA decision to decommission its weapons and
pursue a united Ireland goal peacefully. Sinn Fein is the second
biggest party in the assembly, with McGuinness one of its key
leaders, along with  Gerry Adams .  In 2001, McGuinness told a state tribunal that he was
second-in-command of the IRA in Derry in 1972. He says he left
the IRA in 1974.  Around 3,500 people were killed during Northern Ireland’s
‘ Troubles ’, with the IRA responsible for half of the deaths in a
conflict that began in 1969 and largely ended with a 1998 peace
deal which paved the way for the power-sharing assembly. Queen
Elizabeth’s cousin, Lord Louis Mountbatten, was killed by the
IRA in 1979 when a bomb exploded under his fishing boat. His
grandson also died in the attack.  Northern Ireland’s First Minister,  Peter Robinson , leader
of the Democratic Unionist Party, which shares power with
McGuinness, welcomed the Sinn Fein decision to meet the Queen.
He said it was a “step in the right direction,” in an
interview aired by the  BBC  on June 23.  “We think it is right the Queen should meet
representatives from all parts of the community,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  