-- Rajoy to Call for Easing Spain’s Borrowing Costs at Summit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-27T09:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/rajoy-to-call-for-measures-to-ease-borrowing-costs-at-summit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said he will urge other European Union leaders at a summit
tomorrow to move more urgently to reduce unsustainably high
 interest rates .  EU leaders must use the “available instruments” to
stabilize markets, Rajoy said in Parliament today, as Spain’s
10-year bond yields surged toward the 7 percent level that
prompted full bailouts in other euro members.  “The most important thing today is being able to finance
ourselves in the markets, that’s the main issue, and on that
point Spain,  Italy  and other countries are going to push for
reasonable decisions to be made,” Rajoy said. “We can’t
finance ourselves at the prices we are paying for very long.”  EU leaders convene in Brussels June 28-29 for their 19th
summit since the debt crisis started as pressure builds on
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to make concessions to solve the
two year-old crisis. Their talks will focus on a 10-year road
map released yesterday by four officials led by European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy .  The plan centers on common banking supervision and deposit
insurance and a “criteria-based and phased” move toward joint
debt. It also suggests that the EU could impose upper limits on
annual budgets and debt levels of nations that use the euro.  Merkel Isolated  Merkel is increasingly isolated as French President
 Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Rajoy
unite to push for quicker action to ease the sovereign debt
crisis. The three leaders back the creation of joint euro-region
bonds, which Merkel opposes, and are pushing for measures to
spur growth. The four leaders met in Rome on June 22 and their
finance ministers spoke in Paris late yesterday.  Spain  formally requested a European bailout for its banks
on June 25 and discussions continue as to what conditions
lenders will have to meet and whether the loan of as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) would take precedence over other
debts in the event of default.  Rajoy today said he will fight so that European rescue
loans “aren’t superior to the rights of other creditors of
public debt.” Germany, Finland and the Netherlands want
official loans to Spain to be repaid first in the event of
default, undermining the interests of existing bondholders, two
European officials said this week.  Rajoy also backs a so-called banking union, which he says
includes joint deposit-guarantee funds and would allow the
European rescue funds to recapitalize banks directly without
going through the government.  Germany  also rejects those
proposals.  Euro-area finance ministers will discuss the situation in
Spain and Cyprus on a conference call starting at 1 p.m.
Brussels time today, two EU officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  