-- Rangel Wins Primary in Redrawn New York Congressional District
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-27T03:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/rangel-wins-primary-in-redrawn-new-york-congressional-district.html
Charles Rangel, who has represented
 New York  City’s Harlem neighborhood in Congress for more than 41
years and once served as chairman of the tax-writing House Ways
and Means Committee, survived a Democratic primary challenge in
his redrawn district.  Rangel led state Senator Adriano Espaillat by 45.2 percent
to 39.8 percent with 84 percent of the unofficial vote count
reported by  Associated Press . Democrats make up about 97 percent
of the district, so winning the primary almost ensures that
Rangel, 82, the co-founder of the Congressional Black Caucus,
will return to  Washington  in 2013 for a another two-year term.  It was Rangel’s first campaign since the House censured him
in December 2010 for 11 ethics violations, including failure to
disclose and pay taxes on rental income from a house he owned in
the  Dominican Republic . Rangel prevailed even after a federal
judge this year redrew the district to include more Latinos and
fewer blacks.  “Ethics charges and ethnic change didn’t matter,” said
Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant not involved in the
race. “The voters kept Charlie Rangel despite everything, and
that means Harlem still rules uptown politics.”  Espaillat, 57, was seeking to become the first Dominican
member of  U.S. Congress . He campaigned saying the censure had
reduced Rangel’s effectiveness and made him a “poster child for
dysfunction in Washington.”  Helped by Rockefeller  New York traditionally holds primaries in September. This
year, a federal judge moved the congressional primary to June to
comply with a U.S. law requiring military personnel serving
overseas to get ballots at least 45 days before the November
general election.  “If they didn’t think after 42 years that I was the best-
qualified, I promise them that in the next two years they’ll
have no question about the fact that we’re the best,” Rangel
told supporters last night at a victory celebration at a Harlem
restaurant.  Rangel entered Congress in 1970 with support from former
Republican Governor  Nelson Rockefeller . Working his way up the
seniority system -- he has served longer than all but three
current House members -- Rangel in 2007 became chairman of the
Ways and Means Committee, which helps write U.S. tax and trade
policy. He gave up the chairmanship in 2010 while under scrutiny
by the House Ethics Committee.  Bronx Streets  After the state Legislature failed to agree on
congressional boundaries, Magistrate Judge Roanne Mann, using
2010 census data, created a new 13th District. It took away much
of  Manhattan ’s Upper West Side, where Rangel had won votes for
decades, and extended the northern border into Latino areas of
the Bronx, where Rangel had never campaigned.  “When I’m walking the streets of the Bronx, I feel my
district in the blood, in the minds, in the ambitions and the
things that people want for their children,” Rangel said.  The congressman also faced challenges from three other
candidates, all black, who together received about 15 percent of
the vote, according to AP.  “The other three candidates took from the anti-Rangel vote
and hurt Espaillat,” Sheinkopf said.  Robert Shapiro , a Columbia University political scientist,
attributed Rangel’s victory to his edge as a well-known
incumbent in a low-turnout election.  “Latino turnout, while perhaps on the rise, trails
African-American turnout nationwide and almost certainly in
Rangel’s long-standing base,” Shapiro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  