-- Brazil Real Touches Month Low, Prompting Currency Swap Auction
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-27T21:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/real-falls-to-one-month-low-as-europe-woe-trumps-brazil-stimulus.html
Brazil ’s real touched a one-month
low on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil is derailing
global growth, prompting the central bank to announce a second
day of currency swaps.  The currency declined as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
ruled out joint euro-area bonds as a means of lowering Spain’s
borrowing costs before this week’s regional summit. Brazil
reduced its development bank’s long-term interest rate to a
record low and stepped up government purchases of buses and
tractors to revive growth.  “There are expectations for the meeting in Europe this
week, but the market thinks nothing will come out of it,”
Hideaki Iha, a currency trader at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview.  The real was little changed at 2.0754 per  U.S. dollar  after
dropping 1 percent to 2.0963, the weakest level since May 23.
The currency has fallen 12 percent this quarter, the worst
performance among the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The real pared its losses after the central bank said in a
statement it will offer as many as 60,000 currency swap
contracts at an auction tomorrow from 10:15 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.
local time. The bank sold 60,000 contracts today in a rollover
of swaps that were set to expire July 2, according to the bank’s
website.  The  yield  on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 was unchanged at 7.94 percent after touching
a record low 7.88 percent yesterday.  BNDES Easing  The long-term  reference rate  for loans from the BNDES state
development bank will be cut to a record low 5.5 percent from 6
percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today. The
government will also increase purchases of trucks, buses,
ambulances, defense equipment and tractors by 6.6 billion reais
($3.2 billion) in the second half of the year, he said.  The moves follow a 65 billion real ($31.1 billion) stimulus
package announced in April that included tax cuts and more
subsidized credit.  The country’s  exchange rate  and borrowing costs will remain
low, helping to boost economic growth, according to Mantega.  “Both the interest-rate cuts and the weak exchange rate
are going to continue, spurring an important structural change
in the economy” Mantega said. “This process hasn’t ended. It’s
only beginning and will continue over the coming months.”  Central Bank Cuts  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has reduced the
target lending rate by 4 percentage points to a record low 8.5
percent since August to shield the economy from the  European
debt crisis . Traders expect the benchmark to fall to at least
7.75 percent this year, according to interest-rate futures.  The government’s purchases of vehicles are unlikely to
boost Brazil’s industrial production significantly, according to
 Vladimir Caramaschi , chief economist of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s
Brazilian unit in Sao Paulo.  “In the short term, the effects may be disappointing,”
Caramaschi said in a telephone interview. “The climate abroad
doesn’t help at all, with all the uncertainty. The demand for
investments continues to be weak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  