-- Treasuries Auction Seen at Record Low on Refuge Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-27T15:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/treasuries-snap-loss-on-speculation-manufacturing-to-slow.html
Treasury five-year notes are poised
to draw a record low yield at today’s $35 billion auction as
 U.S. government debt  retains its status as the premier haven for
investors from global financial market turmoil.  Ten-year note  yields fluctuated and remained within a
quarter-percentage point of the record low of 1.44 percent set
June 1 before the start tomorrow of a two-day European Union
summit. A report showed orders for durable goods rose more than
forecast in May. The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.98 billion of
longer-term Treasuries today in its Operation Twist program.  “People are fairly doubtful that will we get something
substantial on the European front, and with the Fed’s extension
of Twist it’s doubtful rates will shoot higher any time soon, so
we should see a well-bid auction,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of
 interest rates  in  New York  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21
primary dealers that are required to bid at U.S. debt auctions.
“The market is going to continue to trade within a very narrow
range until something changes.”  The 10-year note yield was little changed at 1.63 percent
at 11:51 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 1.75 percent security maturing in May 2022 traded at
101 3/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields were little changed at 2.69
percent.  Bond Returns  U.S. government debt returned 3.2 percent this quarter
through yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, as economic growth ebbed and European leaders struggled
to resolve their fiscal crisis. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of stocks handed investors an 8.9 percent loss including
reinvested dividends.  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 0.734 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.748 percent at the
previous offering on May 23, which was a record low. Investors
 bid  for 2.99 times the amount offered last month, versus 3.09
times in April.  “There is no clarity on Europe, and for the most part
people are just keeping their powder dry to see what happens at
the European summit,” said  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income
strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Expectations for a positive outcome are
quite low, and that is keeping a bid in the market. Nothing is
getting done until  Germany  says something is going to get
done.”  Five-year Treasuries have returned 1.9 percent this
quarter, versus 0.1 percent for two-year notes and 14 percent
for 30-year bonds, the Bank of America indexes show.  The U.S. government also plans to sell $29 billion of
seven-year debt tomorrow. It auctioned $35 billion of two-year
securities yesterday.  Durable Goods  Bookings for durable goods rose 1.1 percent, the first
increase in three months, a Commerce Department report showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 76 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent gain.
Excluding the volatile transportation equipment category, orders
for goods meant to last at least three years advanced 0.4
percent.  Treasuries remained little changed as data showed more
Americans than forecast signed contracts to purchase previously
owned homes in May.  The index of pending home resales climbed 5.9 percent to
101.1, matching a two-year high reached in March, after a 5.5
percent decline in April, figures from the National Association
of Realtors showed. The median forecast of 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.5 percent gain in May.  MOVE Index  Volatility declined for a seventh day yesterday, the
longest stretch since March, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index . The gauge fell to 71.1 basis points,
the lowest level in almost a month. The index measures price
swings based on options.  A valuation measure showed the benchmark notes trading at
almost the most expensive level ever. The  term premium,  a model
created by economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.86 percent,
after reaching a record negative 0.94 percent June 1 as
investors sought refuge from  Europe ’s debt turmoil.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  “Treasuries are clearly overvalued, but this condition can
persist as long as the level of uncertainty does,” GMP
Securities’ Miller said.  The Fed purchased Treasuries today due from February 2036
to May 2042 as part of its effort to spur the economy by capping
borrowing costs, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s
website. The program is called Operation Twist.  The central bank last week extended the plan, originally
set to replace $400 billion of shorter maturity Treasuries in
its holdings with longer-term debt through June, by $267 billion
through the end of 2012.  The  10-year yield  is consolidating within a range of 1.55
percent to 1.75 percent established since June 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  