-- Treasuries Little Changed Amid Lower Demand at Five-Year Auction
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-27T21:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/treasuries-little-changed-amid-weaker-demand-at-u-s-note-sale.html
Treasuries were little changed after
the government’s auction of $35 billion in five-year notes
attracted the lowest demand in almost a year as yields traded
less than a quarter-percentage point above record lows.  The sale drew a  yield  of 0.752 percent, compared with the
average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of six of the
 Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers of a record auction low of
0.737 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.61, the least since July 2011. A gauge of volatility fell for
an eighth day before European leaders begin a summit tomorrow.  “There is so much uncertainty right now from  Europe  and
from  Washington , there isn’t a very strong flight-to-quality
bid, and we are coming into the quarter-end, all of which
created an atmosphere for a weak auction,” said  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York.
As a primary dealer, the firm must bid at Treasury offerings.  The yield on the current  five-year note  was little changed
at 0.72 percent at 5:06 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. It touched 0.59 percent on June 1, the
lowest ever. The yield has fallen 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, this quarter and lost 12 basis points this
year. The 0.625 percent security maturing in May 2017 rose 1/32,
or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 18/32.  Ten-year note  yields fell less than one basis point to 1.62
percent. They reached a record 1.44 percent on June 1.  Treasuries declined yesterday amid speculation whether
European leaders are making progress toward resolving the euro
bloc’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Indirect Bidders  At today’s auction, indirect bidders, an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, bought 35.1 percent of the
notes, compared with an average of 45 percent at the past 10
offerings.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that
place their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 10.7
percent, versus an average of 11.2 percent at the past 10
auctions.  The last sale of the maturity, on May 23, drew a record low
auction yield of 0.748 percent.  Today’s sale was the second of three note offerings this
week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury will sell $29 billion in
seven-year securities on June 28. Yesterday’s offering of $35
billion in two-year debt yielded 0.313 percent.  “It’s the second weak auction in a row, and that is
weighing the market some, as it suggests tomorrow’s auction
won’t be very strong,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at the primary dealer BNP Paribas SA.
“It’s still a bond-friendly environment given the issues we
have. The market understands that we won’t see much from the
summit.”  Operation Twist  The Fed bought $1.98 billion of Treasuries today due from
February 2036 to May 2042 as part of its effort to spur the
economy by capping borrowing costs. The program is called
Operation Twist.  The central bank last week extended the plan, originally
set to replace $400 billion of shorter maturity Treasuries in
its holdings with longer-term debt through June, by $267 billion
through the end of 2012 to support economic growth. While policy
makers refrained from introducing a third round of large-scale
debt purchases under quantitative easing, Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  indicated it remains an option.  “The Fed may have underwhelmed the market a bit with the
extension of Twist,” Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates
investment at New York-based BlackRock Inc., said in an
interview on “In the Loop” with Deidre Bolton. “That said,
what I think the market needs to take from here is that the bar
for QE is significantly higher than they initially estimated.
Most likely it’s not going to happen this year.”  Volatility Drops  Volatility on options for U.S.  interest-rate swaps , which
are known as swaptions and used to speculate on and hedge
interest-rate risk, fell to the lowest in almost six weeks.  Normalized volatility, or so-called basis-point volatility,
on three-month options for U.S. 10-year swaps, known as 3m10y
swaptions, touched 79.3 basis points, the lowest level since May
17. Normalized volatility signals traders’ expectations for
fluctuations in swap rates over the next year by adjusting the
implied volatility of the option by the interest rate struck on
the swaption.  “People are fairly doubtful that will we get something
substantial on the European front, and with the Fed’s extension
of Twist it’s doubtful rates will shoot higher any time soon,”
said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  in New York at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, a primary dealer. “The market is going to
continue to trade within a very narrow range until something
changes.”  Costly Securities  A valuation measure showed the benchmark notes trading at
almost the most expensive level ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.87 percent,
after reaching a record negative 0.94 percent June 1 as
investors sought refuge from Europe’s debt turmoil.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  “There is no clarity on Europe, and for the most part
people are just keeping their powder dry to see what happens at
the European summit,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist
at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a phone interview.
“Treasuries are clearly overvalued, but this condition can
persist as long as the level of uncertainty does.”  Door Shut  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut the door to joint
euro-area bonds as a means of lowering  Spain ’s borrowing costs,
saying they are the “wrong way” to achieve the greater
European integration needed to stem the debt crisis.  Speaking three hours after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  made a plea for help from tomorrow’s European summit,
Merkel said that euro bonds, euro bills and debt redemption
funds are unconstitutional in  Germany  and economically “wrong
and counterproductive.”  Treasuries remained little changed earlier after durable-
goods orders rose 1.1 percent in May, the first increase in
three months, and more Americans than forecast signed contracts
to buy previously owned homes.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
1.1 percent rose 1.1 percent, Commerce Department data showed.
The index of pending home resales climbed 5.9 percent to 101.1
last month, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed. A Bloomberg News survey projected a 1.5 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  