-- Red Sox Pitcher Clay Buchholz Is Released From Boston Hospital
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-27T16:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/red-sox-pitcher-clay-buchholz-hospitalized-with-esophagitis.html
Boston  Red Sox  pitcher  Clay Buchholz 
was released from a Boston hospital after treatment for
esophagitis, which had caused internal bleeding.  Buchholz, who pitched a no-hitter in his second  Major
League Baseball  start in 2007, had been placed on the 15-day
disabled. He was admitted to Massachusetts General Hospital
yesterday and released around midnight, Pam Ganley, a
spokeswoman for the team, said in an e-mail.  The Red Sox didn’t give a timetable for Buchholz’s return
to the mound.  The illness “led to an erosion of the esophagus and an
associated gastrointestinal bleed,” the Red Sox said yesterday
in a statement.  Esophagitis is inflammation that damages tissues of the
esophagus, the muscular tube that delivers food from the mouth
to the stomach, according to the Rochester, Minnesota-based Mayo
Clinic’s website. The affliction causes chest pain and makes
swallowing difficult and painful.  “It’s relatively easy to treat with a combination of acid
suppression and sometimes medication to coat the esophagus,”
Christopher DiMaio, director of Therapeutic Endoscopy at Mount
Sinai Medical Center in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“Overall, his prognosis is going to be very good.”  If there are no underlying issues such as infectious
causes, and if Buchholz didn’t lose so much blood that he needed
a transfusion, his return to baseball would be quick, said
DiMaio, who is not treating Buchholz.  “Recovering from all of this, a young healthy guy like
him, probably a week’s time is enough to recover,” DiMaio said.  Buchholz, 27, is 8-2 with a 5.53 earned run average in 14
starts this season for the Red Sox, who are 39-35. He hasn’t
pitched since June 19 against the  Miami Marlins , having been
placed on the disabled list five days later with a stomach
ailment. In four starts this month, Buchholz was 4-0 with a 2.40
ERA and 25 strikeouts in 30 innings.  Buchholz threw a no-hitter on Sept. 1, 2007, against the
 Baltimore Orioles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  