-- Rehn Says EU Is Seeking to Break Link Between Banks, Governments
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-06-27T16:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/rehn-says-eu-is-working-around-the-clock-to-tackle-debt-crisis.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said officials in the EU are
seeking to break a “negative spiral” caused by links between
distressed euro-area governments and banks.  “Life has been actually continuous conference calling in
the last couple of days for quite obvious reasons because we’ve
had to finalize not only the long-term perspective but also the
more immediate, short-term, perspective of market
stabilization,” Rehn told a conference today in Brussels.  He spoke after finance ministers held a conference call on
Spain and Cyprus, the fourth and fifth euro nations to seek
emergency aid following 386 billion euros ($481 billion) in
rescue pledges to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . EU leaders meet
tomorrow, their 19th gathering to tackle the debt crisis.  Rehn said European policy makers must examine short-term
actions including steps to ease the connection between
governments and banks.  “We need to be ready to consider more immediate measures
to stabilize financial markets, especially government bond
markets,” he said. “The weakening of the negative links
between the sovereigns and the banks is a key issue in this
respect because, for the moment, we are in a situation where we
have a negative spiral between banking problems and the
sovereign-debt crisis.”  Rehn said debt sharing, an idea supported by distressed
euro governments and opposed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
may take years because it would require deeper economic
integration.  Mutualizing Risk  “More mutualization of sovereign risk would require more,
deeper, economic integration before it could be accepted by all
Europeans,” he said. “At the same time, more fiscal
integration would likely involve more explicit pooling, further
pooling, of sovereignty and this may be possible only in the
medium to long term.”  Rehn signaled that  Spain , whose aid program of as much as
100 billion euros is centered on bolstering banks, will fail in
its push to have them recapitalized directly by the permanent
European rescue fund rather than via the national government.
Direct funding of the banks would ease Spain’s debt burden.  Rehn said the accord on the euro-area rescue fund doesn’t
foresee aid flowing straight to banks and such a possibility,
which he said he supported when the rules were being drawn up,
will require more centralized European regulation to address the
concerns of some nations. The German government opposes direct
European aid to recapitalize lenders.  “My reading of the positions of the member states is such
that we need to have a strong and genuine euro-area banking
regulatory authority in order to ensure that, especially the
larger banks but basically all banks in  Europe , are equally and
effectively supervised,” Rehn said. “The question of direct
bank recapitalization should be seen in this context.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  