-- Triangle Points to Decrease in 10-Year Yield: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-27T15:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/triangle-points-to-decrease-in-10-year-yield-technical-analysis.html
Treasury  10-year notes , which
returned more than twice as much as the overall Treasury market
this year, are poised to climb higher after their yields formed
a “consolidation triangle” on a chart, according to Citigroup
Inc. and Royal Bank of  Canada .  A triangle pattern is formed when upper and lower trend
lines intersect. The 10-year yield’s trend lines have been
converging since the start of June as its daily increases and
decreases lessened. The movements, while yields remained near
the record low of 1.4387 reached June 1, suggest yield decreases
are set to resume, according to technical analysts at the firm.  “The consolidating-yield pattern combined with the
direction yields have gone since June, and the inability to
break sharply to the upside, is signaling that the falling-yield
trend will reestablish itself,”  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief
technical analyst at Citigroup in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. Ten-year yields may fall as low as 1.2 percent by the
end of the fourth quarter, he said.  The 10-year yield was little changed at 1.63 percent at
11:21 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. It is consolidating within a range of 1.55 percent to
1.75 percent established since June 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark yield has fallen from a 2012 high of 2.40
percent reached March 20 as the  European debt crisis  and slowing
global growth have fueled investor demand for safety.  ‘Fairly Pessimistic’  European leaders will open a two-day summit tomorrow to try
to stem the euro bloc’s financial turmoil.  “Yields suggest the market is fairly pessimistic that
anything of substance will come from the EU summit, and in that
environment yields can rally pretty quickly as things get
worse,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-
income in Toronto at Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets unit.  If 10-year yields close below 1.61 percent this week, it
will signal an extension to lower yields, Davis said.  “Volatility has fallen off, but the trend has held and the
general expectation when you take technicals into account is a
break to the downside,” Davis said.  Volatility declined for a seventh straight day yesterday,
the longest stretch since March, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index. It fell to 71.1 basis points, the
lowest level since May 29. The index measures price swings based
on options.  Ten-year notes have returned 3.7 percent this year, more
than double the 1.8 percent gain in the broader Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  