-- RIM Set to Extend Losses on BlackBerry Decline
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-27T20:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/rim-set-to-extend-losses-on-blackberry-decline.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s forecast
for a first-quarter operating loss tomorrow, its first since
2004, is generating speculation that failure to deliver a best-
selling phone will create losses the rest of the year.  While 31 analysts on average project an operating profit of
$105 million for the fiscal year ending next March, 14 predict a
loss, according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. RIM’s first-
quarter operating loss may total $36.3 million, based on the
estimates.  RIM is grappling with an exodus of smartphone customers to
 Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone and  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Android, following product
delays. Customers have grown tired of waiting for the next-
generation BlackBerry 10 lineup, for which Waterloo, Ontario-
based RIM has yet to announce a release date. A full-year loss
would be a reversal for a company that earned an operating
profit of $4.6 billion in fiscal 2011.  “They’re way too far behind to catch up,” said  Scott Sutherland , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  San Francisco .
He has the equivalent of a hold rating on RIM and estimates the
company will have an operating loss of $55 million this year.
“BB10 will buy them some time, but long term unless they change
their strategy, I think they are in a decline.”  Compounding RIM’s gloomy prospects for this year, the new
phones will probably miss the back-to-school season, making it
“likely too late and fraught with risks,”  Ehud Gelblum , an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in  New York , said in a note to
investors this week.  Firm Date  RIM has only said that the first BB10 phone will come in
the “latter” part of this year. Heidi Davidson, a spokeswoman
for RIM, declined to comment on the full-year outlook, citing
the company’s quiet period before results.  RIM said last month that it hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 RBC Capital Markets  to help it evaluate options, including
forging partnerships, licensing its software and looking at
“strategic business model alternatives.”  “We expect fundamentals to worsen at RIM for at least the
next two to three years before reaching bottom,” said Gelblum,
who cut his rating on the stock to the equivalent of a sell.
“The only way RIM remains a viable entity is at a fraction of
its current size, a transformation that erases much of its
earnings power.”  The company is already a shadow of its former self, having
fallen almost 95 percent from its  stock  market peak in mid-2008.
The stock has dropped 67 percent in the past 12 months alone,
cutting RIM’s market value to $4.8 billion. The shares climbed
2.4 percent to $9.18 at the close in New York.  Execution Challenges  The best news investors could hope for tomorrow is a firm
date for the release of the first BB10 phone, said  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC. RIM is more likely
to give details on how many jobs it will cut as it works toward
saving a targeted $1 billion in operating costs this year, he
said.  Alkesh Shah, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  agrees,
in part because RIM is mindful of past delays and blown
promises.  “They do want to make sure the product is completely
formed and they don’t want to set the expectation of a date and
have it slip because they’ve had so many execution challenges
over the last two years,” said Shah, who rates RIM the
equivalent of a hold.  BlackBerry founder and former co-Chief Executive Officer
 Mike Lazaridis  in December pushed back BB10’s release initially
set for early 2012 to the current guidance for late this year,
blaming the delay in part on a shortage of microchips. That was
just the latest gaffe for RIM, which was synonymous with
cutting-edge technology when the BlackBerry debuted more than a
decade ago.  Playbook Blasted  Since then, the BlackBerry’s aging Web browser and shortage
of applications has driven consumers into the arms of
competitors led by Apple, which introduced the iPhone in mid-
2007. RIM’s first foray into touch-screen devices with the
BlackBerry Storm in late 2008 was panned by critics as a device
that appeared to have been rushed to market with software flaws.  The BlackBerry PlayBook tablet released last April was
given good reviews for its hardware but again blasted for
lacking key features: built-in e-mail, calendar or contacts
programs. Sales reflected the poor reviews. RIM in its last
quarter said it sold more than 500,000 PlayBooks to Apple’s 11.8
million iPads.  RIM probably sold 300,000 PlayBooks and 7.4 million
BlackBerrys last quarter,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Gelblum predicted.
That compares with 11.1 smartphones sold in the previous
quarter.  Fourth Ecosystem  RIM is expected to have a loss excluding charges for
writedowns, job cuts or other expenses of 7 cents a share and
sales of $3.04 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  An autumn release for BB10 will likely also put it up
against Apple’s iPhone 5, and new devices built on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 platform. Given the dominance of Apple’s iOS
and Android, and the resurgence of Windows as a mobile-phone
competitor, the best RIM can hope for is that it will be the
world’s fourth mobile platform, said Evercore’s Shah.  “The question is, do you need four ecosystems?” said
Shah. “If they’re not going to embrace Windows or something
like that and be part of another ecosystem, they’re going to be
a much, much smaller company three years from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  