-- Djokovic, Federer Win at Wimbledon as Stosur Heads Seeds to Exit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-28T00:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/roger-federer-defeats-fabio-fognini-in-wimbledon-2nd-round-match.html
Novak Djokovic and  Roger Federer  won
in straight sets to reach the third round of Wimbledon as
women’s seeds Sam Stosur,  Caroline Wozniacki  and  Li Na  were
ousted at the Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Top-seeded Djokovic, who is trying to become the first man
to retain the title since Federer in 2007, defeated American
Ryan Harrison 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 under a closed roof on Centre Court
last night. Six-time winner Federer, seeded third, beat Fabio Fognini of Italy 6-1, 6-3, 6-2.  “It was great to be under the roof once again,” Djokovic
said in a news conference. “It is quite different. It was a
spectacular match from a player’s point of view.”  Djokovic, 25, started the year by winning the Australian
Open and then finished runner-up at  Roland Garros  to  Rafael Nadal . The Serb, whose victories in 10 tournaments last year
gave him record earnings of $12.6 million, is trying to win his
sixth Grand Slam title. Harrison, 20, was trying to reach the
third round of a major for the first time.  Earlier on Wimbledon’s main court, Federer won 90 percent
of the points against Fognini when his first serve went in and
never faced a break point. Federer, the winner of a record 16
men’s singles Grand Slam titles, has made the third round of
every major since a first-round loss at the 2003 French Open.  The 30-year-old Swiss is attempting to tie  William Renshaw 
and  Pete Sampras  with a record seven men’s singles titles at the
All England Club. He’s won four events this year, maintaining
his record of winning at least one tournament annually since his
first tour-level title at Milan in 2001.  Service Satisfaction  “I was serving well,” Federer told reporters. “You’re
not going to get many chances throughout a set against me when
I’m serving well like that and able to vary with my serve.”  Federer’s victory was watched by the Prince of  Wales  and
the Duchess of Cornwall. It was the first time since 1970 that
Prince Charles has attended play at the All England Club,
although his wife attended last year.  The second-round women’s match between top-seeded  Maria Sharapova  of Russia and Tsvetana Pironkova of Bulgaria was
suspended because of bad light and will resume today with
Sharapova leading 7-6 (7-3), 3-1. Men’s No. 2 seed Nadal of
Spain and fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain are scheduled to
play second-round matches today, while Petra Kvitova of the
Czech Republic continues her defense of the women’s title.  Wozniacki Exits  Several matches were halted yesterday because of steady
drizzle and bad light. The Centre Court roof was closed for the
first time this year, allowing Tamira Paszek of Austria to beat
Wozniacki 5-7, 7-6 (7-4), 6-4 in a first-round match lasting 3
hours, 12 minutes.  Wozniacki’s loss to Paszek was the former top-ranked
player’s only opening-round Grand Slam exit since the Dane made
her major tournament debut at the 2007 French Open.  “It’s not a nice feeling,” said Wozniacki, who squandered
two match points. “It wasn’t because I played badly. She just
went for it.”  U.S. Open champion Stosur, the No. 5 seed, was upset 6-2,
0-6, 6-4 in a second-round match by Aranxta Rus of the
Netherlands. Stosur’s loss means no Australian will reach the
Wimbledon third round in either singles draw, the country’s
worst result since tennis turned professional in 1968.  In another upset, former French Open champion Li, the No.
11 seed from China, was beaten 6-3, 6-4 by Sorana Cirstea of
Romania. No. 3 seed Agnieskza Radwanska of Poland defeated
Russian Elena Vesnina 6-2, 6-1.  Clijsters Wins  Kim Clijsters , a four-time Grand Slam winner, beat Andrea
Hlavackova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-3. Italy’s Sara Errani
defeated Coco Vandeweghe of the U.S. in a first-round match that
was halted the night before on match point. Errani, who lost the
final of the French Open, won 6-1, 6-3 on a Vandeweghe double
fault when the women returned to the court yesterday.  Men’s No. 7 seed  David Ferrer  of Spain defeated Germany’s
 Dustin Brown , and eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia beat
 Ryan Sweeting  of the U.S. Federer’s Davis Cup teammate Stanislas Wawrinka, seeded 25th, lost to Jurgen Melzer of Austria in a
five-set match that began two days ago.  American  Andy Roddick , seeded 30th, beat British wild-card
entrant  Jamie Baker  in a first-round match played over two days
because of rain delays. Roddick, a three-time finalist at the
All England Club, faces Germany’s Bjorn Phau today in the second
round.  “You just go play,” Roddick told reporters. “They tell
you to go play, you go play. You can’t really stress about
what’s out of your control. I’ve done it a million times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  