-- Romney Shouldn’t Avoid the Income-Inequality Debate
-- B y   B r i a n   B a r r y
-- 2012-06-27T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/romney-shouldn-t-avoid-the-income-inequality-debate.html
As he challenges  Barack Obama  for
the presidency,  Mitt Romney  may be inclined to leave the issue
of income inequality to his opponent. That would be a mistake.  The reason isn’t just that the country’s widening income
gap over the past few decades is an issue any president should
address. Romney should also talk about inequality because he
could benefit in the November election by convincing voters that
there is more than one way to increase incomes for low-earning
households.  He isn’t supposed to venture into this area. As a
Republican and successful capitalist, Romney is assumed to be
the candidate who favors private initiative to unleash growth,
without fretting over how its fruits are distributed.  In addition, Obama has argued that the natural response to
inequality is steep taxes on high earners and investment income.
Since Romney opposes this remedy, it may seem wise for him to
ignore the disease, especially when other issues -- a feeble
economic recovery and huge  fiscal deficits  prominent among them
-- offer a clearer advantage to the challenger.  Yet Romney shouldn’t shy away from the debate. First, he
should talk about its causes, and point out that the most
credible explanations for the widening income gap emphasize the
role of powerful technological forces, rather than the bogeymen
-- outsourcing, immigration and  Wall Street  -- that anti-capitalist activists tend to rail against.  Innovation’s Role  One of the clearest explanations of how these forces have
driven earnings in the U.S. can be found in a 2008 book by
Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz of  Harvard University , “ The
Race Between Education and Technology .” They showed how “ skill-biased technological change ” -- the tendency of innovations such
as computers and related technologies to boost the productivity
of workers who were educated enough to make the most use of them
-- has greatly increased the relative demand for high-skilled
workers since the 1950s.  Over the past three decades or so, the supply of well-educated workers hasn’t kept pace with this demand. So those
with the most skills, such as college graduates and especially
people with postgraduate degrees, have seen their earnings rise
sharply compared with those with less education.  In a new  paper ,  Daron Acemoglu  and  David Autor  of the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  show how this process can
also explain why the wages of many low-skilled workers fell in
the U.S., and why many people with middling levels of skill and
education have  lost ground  during the past 20 years -- the so-called middle-class squeeze.  Romney, whom Obama has begun calling the “outsourcer in
chief,” should make it his mission to clear up public confusion
about these underlying forces. Americans can either try to
resist innovation or they can use it to their advantage. The
debate in this election should be about how to harness it while
sharing the benefits more broadly.  One way to “spread the wealth” is through the  tax code , as
Obama has advocated. Romney and his party, by contrast, are much
more concerned about the  effect of tax rates  on growth. Romney
needs to explain convincingly why dealing with the earnings gap
directly -- by enabling low- and medium-skilled workers to boost
their pretax earnings -- is better than combating it through
steep taxes either on investment or highly productive workers.  Human Capital  Education reform is obviously a crucial part of this
challenge, but it is hardly the only one. Romney has correctly
pointed out, for example, that workers can gain valuable  human
capital  on the job, as well as in the classroom. This insight is
especially relevant to Americans who are already in the
workforce and beyond school age. Even a sudden and effective
reform of schools wouldn’t help these workers. But a better
approach to skills training could.  A promising, though little-noticed, proposal is Romney’s
own plan to overhaul the government’s approach to aid for
retraining workers. The current mishmash of programs -- more
than 40 separate ones, driven by bureaucratic rules -- makes
little sense. The idea should be to enable workers and employers
to find each other and invest in the skills that the workers
will need to be successful. To help accomplish this, Romney
wants to convert much of the federal government’s aid into block
grants that the states could use to experiment, an approach that
resembles the successful, bipartisan welfare reform of the
1990s.  Romney has also shown that he grasps the role employers
could play in making these retraining programs effective.
Instead of treating companies as monolithic providers of jobs,
as policy makers often do, the government should build on what
business does best: finding, training and organizing people in
ways that make them more productive, and steering that
productive energy in valuable directions. A program aimed at
helping workers retool needs to be designed so that it
encourages companies and workers to make their own decisions
about what works best for them.  On education, too, Romney prefers an approach that involves
more choice and competition than Obama is willing to advocate.
This is a crucial debate for many reasons, but the question of
 income inequality  is at its heart.  The issue isn’t going to go away. So while Romney works to
convince voters that he is the candidate to get the  U.S. economy 
growing again, he should also explain why he’s the one who will
help more Americans lift themselves on that rising tide.  (Brian Barry is an economics professor and executive
director of the Initiative on Global Markets at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business, and a contributor to
Business Class. The opinions expressed are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Europe’s banking union  and
 restoring U.S. fisheries ;  Caroline Baum  on why  Washington can’t
fix the economy ;  Ezra Klein  on the tectonic shift in the
 Republican approach to health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on  women who
can have it all ; Richard J. Carroll on why  some tax cuts work
and others don’t ; Jane S. Shaw on how  Mitch Daniels  can  shake up
higher education .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Brian Barry  at  Brianbarry.chi@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  