-- Russia’s BBB Rating Affirmed at S&P on ’Balanced Risks’
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-06-27T12:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/russia-s-bbb-rating-affirmed-at-s-p-on-balanced-risks-1-.html
Russia’s BBB debt rating was
affirmed at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited low government debt
levels balancing risks for the world’s biggest energy exporter
from commodity-price swings.  “The stable outlook reflects our assessment of balanced
risks to the ratings,” S&P said in a statement today.
“Vulnerability of the budget and the economy to fluctuations in
key export prices are offset by low government debt levels and
the country’s slight net external asset position.”  Russia has had its credit grade on hold since Standard &
Poor’s cut it in 2008 and  Fitch Ratings  did the same the next
year after crude prices plunged. Revenue from oil and gas
accounts for half the government’s income, leaving the budget at
risk from external shocks.  Urals crude  snapped three days of
gains, trading down 0.8 percent at $89.88 a barrel. Russia’s
main export blend fell 15 percent in May, the most in two years.  “The confirmation of the rating is a positive for Russia
given the very adverse global backdrop and very significant fall
in  oil prices ,”  Ivan Tchakarov , Moscow-based chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital , said by e-mail today.  The government’s $3.5 billion of Eurobonds due 2020 rose,
cutting the yield by four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.773 percent. The yield on ruble bonds due 2021
dropped two basis points to 8.6 percent and the Micex Index
extended gains, adding 1.1 percent to 1,357.95 as of 4:20 p.m.
in Moscow.  Weaknesses ‘Overblown’  Russia, which had a 0.8 percent budget surplus last year,
is rated BBB at S&P and Fitch, their second-lowest investment
grade and thee rungs below an A rating. The country was upgraded
to Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, its third-lowest
investment grade, in July 2008.  The debt rating should be upgraded at least two steps
because the country’s weaknesses are overblown compared with
those of higher-rated nations, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said in a June 22 interview.  “We’ve more than earned that, even with our continued
dependence on energy markets,” Storchak said. “Many countries
that have higher ratings have their own dependencies, which are
no less significant.”  The country’s short-term foreign currency rating was raised
to A-2 from A-3 after S&P’s changed its criteria, and doesn’t
reflect a change its view of the country’s creditworthiness,
according to the statement.  The long-term rating may be downgraded “if government
deficits were to deteriorate beyond our expectations,” S&P said
in the statement.  Russia ’s rating could be upgraded with “policies that
would broaden the economic base and improve growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  