-- Russia Said to Endorse Replacing Assad in Turn From Ally
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-27T23:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/russia-said-to-endorse-replacing-assad-in-turn-from-ally.html
Russia has endorsed a detailed
 United Nations  road map for a political transition in  Syria , a
sign that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has lost the support
of a key ally, according to three United Nations diplomats.  Persuading Assad to step aside and forming a transitional
government to pave the way for elections will be at the core of
a June 30 conference of top diplomats organized by Kofi Annan,
the UN’s special envoy on Syria, the officials said. All three
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  The foreign ministers of the five permanent UN Security
Council members --  China ,  France , Russia, the U.K., and the U.S.
-- as well as  Turkey , Qatar and  Iraq  will attend the meeting in
Geneva.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday called
the conference a potential “turning point” in the conflict
that already has claimed more than 10,000 lives.  Annan earlier this week gave the parties to the talks a few
days to respond to a set of recommendations entitled “On
Guidelines and Principles of a Syrian-led transition.” By late
on June 26, the Russians had accepted the paper in full,
including language that spells out Assad’s departure, according
to the three officials, who all were informed of the decision.  The Annan document, which was reviewed by Bloomberg News,
says a transitional government may include members of Assad’s
government and opposition and other groups, although not “those
whose continued presence and participation would undermine the
credibility of the transition and jeopardize stability and
reconciliation.”  Veto Power  According to a U.S. official, who was briefed on Annan’s
plan, representatives of both the regime and the opposition
could veto proposed members of a national unity government. He
asked not to be identified in order to discuss the negotiations.  The latest effort to end the 16-month battle between the
Alawite-dominated Assad regime and a largely Sunni Muslim
uprising comes as Assad said his country is in a state of war.
It also follows the Syrian downing of a Turkish military jet and
an attack yesterday on Syria’s pro-government television station
that killed seven journalists.  Russia has realized that Assad is losing the battle to
preserve his grip on power, the UN officials said, and now the
government of President  Vladimir Putin  is seeking a leading role
in paving a smooth exit for a longtime Soviet and Russian client
and arms customer.  “When Assad went into total war footing, he lost the
Russians,” said  George Lopez , a former UN sanctions
investigator who’s now at the Kroc Institute for International
Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame  in  Indiana .  Iran Out  The Obama administration rejected Russia’s and Annan’s
attempt to include  Iran  in the Geneva talks, and Russia in turn
insisted that  Saudi Arabia  be excluded because the Sunni kingdom
has funneled support to the Syrian opposition.  “If other countries don’t want the benefits of Iran’s
cooperation, it is up to them,” Iran’s UN Ambassador Mohammed
Khazaee told reporters in  New York  yesterday.  Aware of Putin’s sensitivity on the question of regime
change in Syria, the U.S. accepted  Russia ’s demand that some
Assad loyalists must be part of an interim government, according
to two of the UN diplomats.  The UN officials also said that all the parties to the
talks, as well as other nations such as Saudi Arabia and Iran,
are in rare agreement that action is needed to prevent radical
Sunni Islamists from filling a power vacuum in Syria.  Civil War  “We have made it clear to the Russians that the outcome
they are most concerned about, which would be a sectarian civil
war, is made more likely, not less likely, by the international
community’s failure to take a strong position vis-a-vis the
Assad regime,” Clinton said yesterday in Helsinki.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , a former UN
ambassador, will outline his country’s position in a news
conference today in Moscow.  Absent some transition, said three other U.S. officials
also involved in Syria policy, there’s a growing danger that
Assad could lose his limited control of the Syrian security
services and Alawite militias.  That could trigger even greater atrocities and an all-out
civil war that could destabilize neighboring Lebanon and Jordan,
they said. The three officials also spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss confidential diplomatic negotiations and
intelligence reports.  Russian Shift  The shift by Russia, which until now has shielded Assad
with UN Security Council vetoes, could be the beginning of the
end to a lengthy stalemate over how to halt the escalating
violence. In February, Russia resisted Annan’s first effort to
map a transition.  Even with the apparent international agreement, ushering
Assad out and a transitional government in will be difficult, if
it’s possible at all, the U.S. and UN officials acknowledged.  Among the difficulties, the U.S. officials said, will be
bringing the warring Syrian parties together to reach an
agreement on a transitional government; defining who would
control Syria’s military, intelligence and security services;
neutralizing the Alawite militias and the armed opposition; and
providing multinational aid to encourage a transition toward
elections.  The Syria action group should “agree on guidelines and
principles for a Syrian-led political transition that meets the
legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people; and agree on
actions that will make these objectives a reality on the
ground,” Annan said in a statement distributed by e-mail.  Road Map  Participating in yet another round of “dialogue for
dialogue’s sake” has little value unless it makes clear what a
“Syrian-led transition” entails: namely, that Assad goes, and
sooner rather than later, said  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, in an e-mail.  Annan has developed “his own very concrete road map for
political transition,” Clinton told reporters in Helsinki. “If
we can meet on the basis of that road map, with everyone
agreeing before we arrive in Geneva that this will be the
document we are endorsing by our presence, then I think this
meeting makes a lot of sense.”  With Syria’s future is at stake, the most conspicuous
absence in Geneva will be that of Syria itself.  “It is unfortunate,” Russian UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin
told reporters. “I think the most difficult problem  Kofi Annan 
encountered in his work, and this is the fact that so far he’s
not been successful in moving the opposition to dialogue, to
forming a platform for dialogue, and sort of expressing their
views politically on the situation there.”  “It’s their country, they need to figure out how they want
to proceed with their country,” Churkin said. “Our role is to
create conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Helsinki at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  