-- Samsung Asset May Start Asia Debt Fund Amid Europe’s Woes
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-06-27T00:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/samsung-asset-may-start-asia-debt-fund-amid-europe-s-woes.html
Samsung Asset Management Co. is
considering setting up its first Asian bond fund to tap investor
demand for assets that can best withstand  Europe ’s debt crisis.  A fund may be started within a year and securities in  China ,
 Malaysia  and Thailand are of interest, said Kim Youngsung, head
of the fixed-income division at South Korea’s biggest fund
manager, which oversees 124 trillion won ($107 billion). Samsung
Asset’s overseas debt investments are currently limited to
Australia, Brazil and Dim Sum bonds, which are denominated in
yuan and sold in  Hong Kong .  “ Asia  looks better than other regions now with good growth
potential and inflation stabilizing,” the Seoul-based Kim said
in an interview on June 25. “China has a big domestic market,
and Asian countries have become less sensitive to the economic
situation in the U.S. and Europe.”  Asian economies will expand 6 percent this year, compared
with growth of 2.1 percent in the U.S. and a 0.3 percent
contraction in the euro-area, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast in April. Consumer-price gains in China and Malaysia
eased to the slowest pace in almost two years in May, official
data show. Malaysia’s ringgit, Thailand’s baht and China’s yuan
will strengthen by 4.3 percent, 4.4 percent and 2.6 percent,
respectively, versus the dollar by mid-2013, according to median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  Chinese Growth  China’s gross domestic product will increase 8.2 percent
this year, compared with 9.2 percent in 2011, according to
another Bloomberg survey. HSBC Holdings Plc said in a research
note yesterday that it expects authorities to spur Asia’s
largest economy with more monetary easing in the coming months.  “Chinese policy makers are trying to boost the economy,
and this will support the  yuan  in the long-term although the
currency has been weak recently,” said Kim, who was promoted to
head of fixed income at Samsung Asset in April.  Thailand’s consumer  prices  rose 2.53 percent in May from a
year earlier following a 2.47 percent increase in April that was
the smallest since 2009, official data show. Inflation in China
and Malaysia slowed last month to 3 percent and 1.7 percent,
respectively.  Kim forecast the yield on South Korean government three-
year bonds will rise to 3.70 percent by year-end from 3.29
percent yesterday as the  Bank of Korea  will probably leave its
benchmark interest  rate  at 3.25 percent for the rest of the year.  “ South Korea ’s economy may hit bottom in July or August,
and will improve in the fourth quarter as global policy makers
coordinate” their response to Europe’s debt crisis and the
worldwide slowdown, he said.  Samsung Asset was “overweight” on South Korean corporate
securities during most of the first half but has cut holdings to
“neutral” as the yield premium over government debt began to
widen this month, Kim said. Still, local companies are not under
any credit risk and are globally competitive so any further
widening of spreads may present buying opportunities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  