-- Sara Lee Meat Spinoff Chases Foodies With Gourmet Salami
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/sara-lee-meat-spinoff-chases-foodies-with-gourmet-salami.html
Will Americans eat chicken curry
meatloaf?  Sean Connolly is betting they will. The chief executive
officer of Hillshire Brands Co. is trying to take the purveyor
of sausage and lunchmeat upmarket -- he even wants to appeal to
foodies -- at a time when shoppers are trading down to store
brands or buying ready-to-eat entrees.  The new company, which sells Hillshire Farms meats, Jimmy
Dean sausages and Ball Park Franks, starts trading June 28 --
making official its split from  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , which is dividing
into a U.S. meat business and a global coffee and tea company.  Because Hillshire and the other meat brands were once part
of an enterprise selling everything from apparel to cheesecake,
“we haven’t had a focused food company, so we haven’t had the
innovation we need,” Connolly said in a phone interview. “We
see enormous potential for growth. Meat-centric meals is a $68
billion business and we have $3 billion of it.”  The company, which will be based in Chicago, is No. 1 in
its core U.S. markets: Hillshire Farms, an almost $1 billion
brand, leads in dinner sausage; Jimmy Dean, which also generates
about $1 billion a year in sales, is tops in breakfast sausage;
Ball Park Franks sells the most hot dogs. To hit his goal of 5
percent annual revenue growth, Connolly will have to gain market
share in those slow-growing niches and create new categories, as
Jimmy Dean did with refrigerated breakfast sandwiches.  Doing all of that -- and maintaining profit -- won’t be
easy, according to  Tim Ramey , an analyst with D.A. Davidson Co.
in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon .  Narrowing Margins  In 2009, Sara Lee’s retail meat business did $2.8 billion 
in sales, growing to only $2.9 billion last year. Plus, 
operating margins, which were 10.8 percent this time last year,
narrowed to 10.2 percent in the first three quarters of fiscal
2012. That’s partly because food ingredient prices have been 
rising, and companies such as Hillshire are having trouble 
passing the costs on to shoppers.  While Connolly is plotting a growth strategy, Hillshire may
become a takeover target, according to  Alexia Howard , a Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York . In a June 25 report,
Howard said Hillshire brands is attractive because it has a
family of established brands and is the only company focused
almost exclusively on meat. Potential suitors include  Hormel
Foods Corp. (HRL)  and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , she said.  “This will be a transformational deal for whoever makes
it,” Howard said in the report.  Connolly made a name for himself at  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) ,
where he helped bring to market such innovations as the V8 V-
Fusion line of vegetable-fruit drinks. Since taking over Sara
Lee’s meat business in January, he has set up a new research and
development team to come up with new creations, including the
chicken curry meatloaf.  First Act  One of Connolly’s first acts was to start cutting staff,
which will save $100 million over three years, according to a
company statement. The streamlining is also supposed to reduce
how long Hillshire takes to get new products to market, he said.  “We had analysis paralysis,” Connolly said. “So we
consciously downsized the organization so it’s leaner. We have
fewer meetings and fewer check-offs on decision-making.”  Connolly is using Aidells, a gourmet sausage company Sara
Lee bought a year ago, to help spread innovation to the rest of
Hillshire Brands. While Aidells revenue is only about $100
million a year, it’s growing faster than the core Hillshire
sausage business. Its R&D group also can get new products to
market in 12 weeks -- or almost four times as fast as Sara Lee
typically took to put new innovations on grocery shelves.  At the Aidells Gourmet Food Group in  San Francisco ,
Connolly has chefs and creative staff working on items for all
of the company’s brands.  Guy Food  Ball Park Franks sells $400 million a year worth of
products, and Connolly wants a bigger slice of the $8 billion
“better guy-food” market -- also known as tailgaters and patio
grillers. In April, the company began selling Ball Park frozen
burgers; sliders are being tested.  The chicken curry meatloaf is now moving from the Aidells
skunkworks to the testing phase. If it winds up in grocery
stores, it could complement the brand’s gourmet salami, which is
being market tested, and chicken teriyaki meatballs.  Hillshire Farms needs the most rehab. Connolly said he 
wants to improve lunch meat quality. In an attempt to attract 
foodies, he’s introducing super-premium smoked Hillshire sausage,
which typically commands higher prices and generates faster 
sales growth than mainstream brands.  Core Following  “Hillshire has a core following that has atrophied,” said
Ken Harris, an independent consultant who recently left
consulting firm Kantar Retail’s  Chicago  office. “They can do
some new things with formulation and flavoring. It doesn’t have
the reach of Oscar Meyer and some others.”  Harris cites Connolly’s success with the line of V8 drinks
at Campbell as evidence that he has the right experience to make
a go of Hillshire Brands.  Though Campbell had mixed results while Connolly ran the
U.S. and North American businesses, he was adept at running a
team that vacuumed up consumer trends and brought new products
to market, said Mindy Mackenzie, a former colleague who is now
chief human resources officer at the Deerfield, Illinois-based
spirits company  Beam Inc. (BEAM)   “He thinks about what consumer trends are hot and how to
marry that with what the company’s brands deliver,” Mackenzie
said in a phone interview. “He can galvanize a group of people
and get after it. That’s why he is perfect for this role.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  