-- Serb Central Bank Ready to Offer Cash as Surplus Liquidity Dries
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-27T15:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/serb-central-bank-ready-to-offer-cash-as-surplus-liquidity-dries.html
Serbia ’s central bank is ready to
expand its role in open-market operations and offer banks cash
as liquidity dries up after tighter policy measures were
introduced on June 7.  The outstanding repo stock, or surplus liquidity commercial
banks keep at the central bank, fell to 12.56 billion dinars
($135.3 million), a record low, from 24.2 billion dinars on June
20, according to the National Bank of Serbia figures released
after a repo auction today. It stood at 137.2 billion dinars at
the start of 2012.  “The National Bank of Serbia and commercial banks are
fully prepared and tested for adequate repo operations,” Vice-
Governor Bojan Markovic said in a statement to Bloomberg. The
bank will ’’offer limited liquidity at a multiple price’’ if it
switches to direct repo operations, he said.  The change comes after the central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  50 basis points to 10 percent on June 7,
and tightened reserve requirement rules to drain liquidity from
the market amid the government’s fiscal expansion and
depreciation pressure’s on the dinar.  The central bank will take dinar-denominated Treasury bills
and bonds as collateral. The outstanding dinar debt held by bond
investors with maturities through Dec. 20 stood at 138.2 billion
dinars as of June 25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since it started inflation targeting in August 2006, the
central bank has used reverse repo operations to drain excess
liquidity as high interest rates attracted both domestic and
foreign investors to park their funds with the Belgrade-based
Narodna Banka Srbije.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  