-- Serb Socialist Leader Mulls Offer to Become Next Prime Minister
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-27T13:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/serb-socialist-leader-mulls-offer-to-become-next-prime-minister.html
Serbian Socialist Party Chairman
 Ivica Dacic  is mulling an offer to take the post of prime
minister should the former opposition Progressive Party have the
chance to form the Balkan country’s next government.  Dacic, 46, was asked by President  Tomislav Nikolic , whose
Progressive Party placed first in May 6 parliamentary elections,
on June 25, he told reporters in Belgrade today. He would he
lead a three-party coalition that also includes the United
Regions of  Serbia  and would hold a majority 131 seats in the
250-member Parliament.  The Socialist Party, which placed third in elections, may
be thrust back to power for the first time since former
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  was toppled as the Progressive
Party and the second-place Democratic Party of ex-President
 Boris Tadic  remain locked in a dispute about policy and power.
Dacic said he and his party leaders are weighing whether to lead
or simply take part in the next government.  “It’s not about how many ministries we get, it’s about the
strategic interest of our coalition,” Dacic said.  Political leaders have been haggling for eight weeks over
who has the right to form a coalition after inconclusive
election results. The country needs cash to cover the budget
deficit, which ballooned because of the economic slowdown and
campaign-related spending. Serbia needs to repay about $1.5
billion in maturing dinar debt by the end of year, with a
quarter of that total due next month.  Public Debt  Serbia’s public debt was 51.1 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of March, exceeding the debt limit of 45
percent, while the current-account gap reached 17 percent of GDP
in the same three-month period, instead of the planned 8.5
percent.  The Socialists and Nikolic’s Progressive Party, which both
relied on nationalistic rhetoric to spur the campaign and
promised closer ties to  Russia , already hold a combined 117
seats. The Socialists first agreed with Tadic’s  Democratic Party 
to work together to form a coalition.  Dacic said that since parliamentary and the presidential
runoff that elevated Nikolic to head of state, there has been a
“huge tectonic shift.”  “This is a historic chance for our coalition to define its
political profile and become one of three most important factors
in Serbia,” said Dacic, who was Milosevic’s spokesman between
1992 and 2000, during the violent breakup of  Yugoslavia .  Tadic’s Democrats have stepped up pressure on Dacic to make
up his mind as the country needs a new government quickly to
tackle growing economic problems.  Financing Troubles  The government is finding it increasingly difficult to
raise cash in the home market and finance the  budget deficit ,
which has expanded 80 percent to 89.2 billion dinars ($972.15
million) in the first five months, or 7.3 percent of GDP,
according to the central bank.  The new Cabinet will need to resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  over a $1.3 billion precautionary
loan deal suspended earlier this year when it became clear the
country would slip on fiscal targets that include keeping the
full-year gap within 4.25 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  