-- Singh Assumes India Finance Role as Mukherjee Resigns
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-27T15:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/singh-assumes-india-finance-role-as-mukherjee-resigns-1-.html
Pranab Mukherjee  resigned as  India ’s
finance minister to vie for the presidency, prompting Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  to take charge of the portfolio as he
tries to revive a faltering economy.  Singh will head the ministry until Mukherjee’s successor is
appointed, Pankaj Pachauri, communications adviser to the prime
minister’s office, said in New Delhi yesterday. Singh was
finance minister in the 1990s, sparking an economic turnaround
that now faces one of its sternest tests. Mukherjee, the ruling
Congress party’s nominee for the presidential poll in July, quit
earlier yesterday.  Mukherjee departs with the government projecting record
borrowing to plug its  budget deficit  and as political gridlock
hampers efforts to spur investment and ease bottlenecks stoking
elevated  inflation . The veteran politician’s attempt on June 25
to halt a slump in the rupee by allowing foreigners to buy more
bonds fizzled, leaving the currency close to its weakest level
against the dollar as his three-year tenure ends.  The immediate emphasis of the government “is to manage
balance of payment” and implementing policies that boost
institutional flows to India, Singh said in comments posted on
his Twitter Inc. account today, after meeting Chief Economic
Adviser  Kaushik Basu  and  finance ministry  officials. Singh said
there is a need to revive investor sentiment and “reverse the
climate of pessimism.”  The rupee, which touched a record low of 57.3275 per dollar
on June 22, declined 0.2 percent to 57.1350 today. It is down 21
percent in the past year, the worst slide among major Asian
currencies. Aside from India’s deteriorating outlook, the rupee
has also been hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis, which has sapped
demand for emerging-market assets.  Singh’s decision to refrain from appointing a successor
immediately implies he “wants to keep the portfolio with
himself for some time to push stalled reforms and lift the
slowing economy in order to boost confidence” said Satish
Misra, an analyst at the New Delhi-based Observer Research
Foundation.  Singh Steps In  Singh, 79, was finance minister for five years from 1991,
when India was on the brink of defaulting on some of its
overseas debt. In his first two months in the job, he devalued
the rupee, tackled government monopolies, cut import tariffs and
tax rates, and let foreign companies take majority stakes in
sectors including automobiles and pharmaceuticals.  Liberalization spurred faster growth, including an 8.4
percent expansion in the 12 months ended March 2011, before a
paralysis in policy making contributed to a  slowdown  to 5.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, a nine-year low.  The government’s recent setbacks include the suspension in
December of plans to allow foreign companies such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open supermarkets after an ally of the ruling
coalition objected. India has also foregone investment in the
pension and insurance industries in recent months.  IKEA, Coca-Cola  Swedish furniture retailer IKEA last week eased some of the
gloom, saying it wants to open stores in India and may invest as
much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion). Coca-Cola Co. said
yesterday the company and its local partners plan to spend $5
billion in the country by 2020.  Mukherjee, 76, entered parliament in 1969 after working as
a teacher and journalist. He had stints in charge of India’s
foreign, defense, commerce and steel ministries and ran a closed
economy as finance minister from 1982 to 1984.  “Given the challenging global environment during his
tenure, Mukherjee has done a decent job,” said  Vishnu Varathan ,
an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “A lot
more could have been done, but one has to be mindful of
political processes involved which make ground-breaking changes
a lot tougher.”  Mukherjee’s resignation may lead to a cabinet reshuffle as
Singh tries to revitalize his development agenda to cut poverty.  Possible Replacements  Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma , Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic
Advisory Council Chakravarthy Rangarajan and Rural Development
Minister Jairam Ramesh are all probable candidates to replace
Mukherjee, Business Standard newspaper reported June 15.  The government projects record borrowing of 5.69 trillion
rupees ($100 billion) in the year through March 2013. It aims to
narrow the budget gap to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product
this fiscal year, from 5.76 percent in 2011-2012.  Inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in May, and the
central bank signaled this month that price pressures are
crimping scope to cut  interest rates .  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may
strip  Asia ’s third-largest economy of its investment-grade
rating. The nation has struggled to pare spending on a subsidy
program ranging from diesel to fertilizers.  ‘Messy Combination’  “It’s a very messy combination of things that is going on
in the economy,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based
director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse Group AG. The next
finance minister will need to improve public finances by raising
fuel prices and push forward with other reforms, such as
introducing a goods and services tax, he said.  The finance ministry and  Reserve Bank  of India two days ago
boosted the amount of  government bonds  foreign investors can
purchase by $5 billion to $20 billion to support the rupee.  The poll for president, India’s highest constitutional
office, is due July 19. Elected legislators of state assemblies
and the federal parliament will vote to select the successor to
Pratibha Devisingh Patil.  While largely a ceremonial post, the  president  is the
supreme commander of the armed forces and oversees the creation
of a government after general elections, which are due by 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  