-- SingTel Boosts CEO Pay, Sees Potential in Mobile Advertising
-- B y   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-06-27T10:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/singtel-boosts-ceo-pay-sees-potential-in-mobile-advertising.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) 
Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong, who was paid S$4.9
million ($3.8 million) last year, said the mobile advertising
industry holds “significant potential” for the company.  The phone operator,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest, paid Chua 9
percent more in the past year as its mobile subscription base
jumped 10 percent to 445 million from 403 million with
investments in markets including Australia and  Indonesia , it
said in its annual report. Mobile operators in both developed
and  emerging markets  could use location data provided by
customers to target the right ads, she said in the report.  “We are particularly excited about the potential of mobile
marketing in emerging markets, where mobile phones offer
advertisers the most compelling avenue to reach hundreds of
millions of current and future customers,” Chua said, adding
that the mobile advertising industry is in a “nascent stage.”  Mobile advertising in  Asia  is set to almost double to $6.21
billion by 2015 from $3.13 billion this year, according a Smaato
Inc.  report  this week on 10 countries in the region. The San
Francisco-based company, which connects advertisers to mobile
app developers, also estimates that one in three mobile-phone
customers to be using apps or functions on their smartphones in
three years.  SingTel shares climbed 0.9 percent to S$3.22, the highest
since May 11.  Revenue for mobile data services “significantly lags” the
growth in data usage, SingTel’s Chua said. The company plans
more investments in its network ahead of the increasing global
demand in data, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ee Chien Chua in Singapore at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  