-- Sony CEO Says He’ll Move Quickly to Revive Electronics Business
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-06-27T04:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/sony-ceo-says-he-ll-move-quickly-to-revive-electronics-business.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will move quickly to turn
around its electronics business after the company posted four
straight years of losses, Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai 
told a shareholders meeting in Tokyo today.  “We take it seriously,” said Hirai, 51, addressing
shareholders of  Japan ’s largest consumer-electronics exporter
for the first time after becoming CEO on April 1. “We have to
promote reform quickly.”  Hirai, who is trying to revive Sony after it reported a
record loss last fiscal year under his predecessor  Howard Stringer , reiterated a goal of making a profit from televisions
in the year ending March 2014, ending nine years of losses at
the TV unit. Sony will strengthen its main businesses including
digital imaging, games and mobile devices, boost earnings from
developing markets, expand its medical business and speed up
innovation, the new CEO said.  Sony’s shares fell to their lowest in more than three
decades in May after the company posted a 457 billion-yen ($5.8
billion)  loss  for the year ended March 31, as its TV unit
continued losing money amid the strong yen, falling prices and
competition from  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. and LG
Electronics Inc. The Japanese company is  projecting  net income
of 30 billion yen for the year started April 1.  Sony  fell  1.4 percent to 1,087 yen as of 12:34 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, extending its loss this year to 21 percent. The
shares plunged 53 percent in 2011.  Revenue Target  The electronics maker aims to boost revenue to 8.5 trillion
yen next fiscal year, with an operating margin of 5 percent or
more, Hirai said today, reiterating previous forecasts.  “The only way to gain shareholders’ trust is to deliver
results, one by one,” Hirai said. “Our strategies will be
meaningless unless we show results.”  Sony has forecast its  TV unit  will probably lose about 80
billion yen this fiscal year as sales volume falls 11 percent to
17.5 million sets.  Global TV shipments fell last year for the first time since
2004, according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Flat-screen
TV shipments in the U.S. may decline for the first time this
year, to 37.1 million sets from 39.1 million the year before,
according to IHS Inc.’s iSuppli.  Sony forecasts revenue will rise 14 percent to 7.4 trillion
yen this fiscal year, helped by smartphones and portable game
players. Smartphone sales may rise to 33.3 million units from
22.5 million and handheld game players including PlayStation
Vita may more than double to 16 million units from 6.8 million,
the company said May 10.  Shareholders voted today to approve Sony’s new board,
consisting of 14 members including Hirai, Vice Chairman Ryoji Chubachi, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato and Stringer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  