-- South Korea’s Current-Account Surplus Widens to Six-Month High
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-06-27T23:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/south-korea-s-current-account-surplus-widens-to-six-month-high.html
South Korea ’s current-account
surplus widened in May to a six-month high as exports increased
from the previous month and annual dividend payments to foreign
shareholders declined.  The  surplus  was $3.6 billion compared with a revised
surplus of $1.7 billion in April, the  Bank of Korea  said in a
statement today in Seoul. The current account is the broadest
measure of trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income.  The prospect that  Europe ’s debt woes will further damp
global demand has weighed on consumer and business sentiment in
South Korea, where the central bank earlier this month held off
from altering borrowing costs for a 12th straight month.
Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in June for a fourth
consecutive month, while South Korean manufacturers’ sentiment
dropped to a four-month low and  consumer confidence  slid to a
three-month low.  “We may see a further economic slowdown unless the EU
moves quickly and decisively,” Park Sang Hyun, chief economist
at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the
release. “Interest rate cuts will come in South Korea as the
last resort.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,156.17 per dollar
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, trimming
this quarter’s decline to 2 percent. The Kospi was little
changed.  The surplus on traded goods was $1.75 billion last month
compared with a revised $1.75 billion surplus in April, today’s
report showed.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose to $47.1
billion in May from $46.1 billion in April, led by steel,
semiconductor chips and machinery, according to today’s
statement. Imports were at $44.8 billion, up from April.  Overseas shipments probably rose 0.5 percent in June from a
year earlier after declining for three consecutive months,
according to the median estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. South Korea is scheduled to report export data on
July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  