-- Standard Chartered Keeps 10% Full-Year Profit Rise Forecast
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-06-27T16:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/standard-chartered-sees-high-single-digit-revenue-growth.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by market value, reiterated its forecast for
profit in 2012, even as revenue growth slowed in the first half
of the year.  The bank is “comfortable” with analyst estimates for 2012
pretax profit of $7.46 billion, Finance Director Richard Meddings said on a conference call with analysts today. That’s a
10 percent increase on the $6.78 billion year-earlier figure.  The bank may record “high single-digit” profit and
revenue growth in the first half, hindered by the weakness of
Asian currencies against the  U.S. dollar , London-based Standard
Chartered said today in a statement. Margins widened, revenue
from markets including  China , Indonesia and Malaysia is expected
to grow by 10 percent or more, and the bank will “step up” the
pace of investment, Meddings said.  “The second quarter is a challenging quarter,” said
 Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in  Hong Kong , who has
a buy rating on the stock. “Revenue growth in some of the
businesses is under pressure, but asset quality and expenses are
better than expected.”  Unsecured Lending  Standard Chartered, which  focuses  on Asia, the Middle East
and  Africa , said its net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, “improved” from 2.3 percent a year earlier,
partly because of an increase unsecured lending in its consumer
unit.  The bank will invest “ahead of budget” in Hong Kong and
China and add branches in Africa, Finance Director Richard Meddings said last month.  The company’s plans to hire more than 1,000 people, mainly
in front office roles, Meddings said today, even as U.K. lenders
including HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
are cutting jobs. Employment at  Standard Chartered (2888)  increased to
almost 87,000 last year from about 44,000 in 2005.  Standard Chartered gained 3.1 percent to 1,375 pence in
London today. The stock has declined 2.4 percent this year,
compared with a 2.1 percent fall in the 43-member  Bloomberg
European Banks and Financial Services  index. The bank has a
market value of about 33 billion pounds ($51 billion), while
HSBC’s is 104 billion pounds.  European Crisis  The bank’s wealth management unit was “impacted by
continued uncertainty arising from the  European debt crisis ,”
Standard Chartered said. The bank has no “direct sovereign
exposure” to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal or Spain, and
total direct exposure is “significantly less than 0.5 percent”
of assets, the bank said.  The lender in February posted its eighth annual record
earnings as 2011 net income rose to $4.85 billion from $4.33
billion a year earlier. The bank earns about three quarters of
profit from its corporate banking unit, led by  Michael Rees ,
which includes trade finance and payment processing in addition
to some  investment banking  such as equities and merger-advisory
activities.  Standard Chartered is 18 percent-owned by Temasek Holdings
Pte, Singapore’s state investment company, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wage increases across the company have been at “about 3
percent” so “there has not been significant inflationary
pressure,’ said Meddings. ‘‘That’s about 1 percent below what we
budgeted at.”  The bank is gaining market share in trade finance in Asia,
Meddings said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television with
 Maryam Nemazee .  “We are seeing some emerging slowdown in trade flows
although intra-Asian trade is much more resilient than global
trade,” Meddings said. “The important thing is  Standard
Chartered  continues to take market share and gain market share
in these key business activities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  