-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Seychelles (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-27T13:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-seychelles-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Seychelles:  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) team led by Jean Le Dem visited
Victoria during June 20-27, 2012. The team met with Vice President Faure,
Finance Minister Laporte, Central Bank Governor Abel, and other senior
government officials. It also participated in a government-sponsored
conference on ways to strengthen private sector-led growth in Seychelles.
At the conclusion of the visit, the mission issued the following statement:  “In June, the IMF Executive Board completed the fifth review of the
program supported by an arrangement under the Extended Financing
Facility. Discussions for the 2012 Article IV consultations and for the
sixth review of this program are scheduled to take place in
September-October 2012. Quantitative targets as of end-June appear
within reach, and progress has been achieved on several structural
reforms, including in the area of public finance management.  “Recent economic data are broadly in line with projections, with GDP
expected to grow by about 3 percent in 2012. Strong growth in tourist
arrivals from new markets has more than compensated for the drop-off in
visitors from traditional markets in  Europe , where economic activity has
been weak. Inflation has picked up (8.7 percent year-on-year), but is
expected to decelerate in the second half of 2012 in the wake of the
current tightening of monetary policy. The present fiscal policy stance
continues to be appropriately geared toward maintaining macroeconomic
stability and reducing public debt.  “Challenges remain. Improved coordination between the central bank and
the treasury is needed to resolve anomalies in the structure of short-term
 interest rates . The authorities have indicated their desire to conduct
additional analysis of the economic and social impact of introducing a
value-added tax (VAT). The mission hopes that these studies will help to
alleviate public concerns about the new tax, which is to replace the
current  sales tax ; international experience has underscored the merits
of VAT as a broad-based and effective form of indirect taxation. Plans
to introduce the VAT in July have been put on hold, pending completion
of the proposed studies.  “The mission wishes to thank the authorities for their warm hospitality
and the constructive discussions.”  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 