-- ‘GI Bill’ Site Called Misleading Closed in Settlement
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-27T19:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/state-closes-college-lead-generator-aimed-at-military.html
State officials have reached an
agreement to shut down a website called GIBill.com that drives
business to for-profit colleges,  Kentucky  Attorney General Jack Conway announced today.  The military-themed website collected contact information
from veterans interested in using their post-service benefits
for higher education and funneled it to the colleges. Conway
said the site gave the misleading impression that it was run by
the U.S. government.  “This company preyed on our veterans who received
educational benefits as a result of their military service to
our country,” Conway said at a news conference in Washington.
“The actions were unconscionable and purposefully drove
veterans to for-profit colleges who were perhaps more interested
in getting their hands on the federal benefits than in educating
our soldiers and their families.”  The site, operated by  QuinStreet Inc. (QNST) , will be turned over
to the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs  as part of the deal,
Conway said. The company will also pay a $2.5 million fine, and
include prominent statements on its other veteran-focused
websites that it has no government associations.  QuinStreet, in a statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission today, said it “does not engage in
deceptive marketing practices and does not believe that its
websites were misleading prior to the agreement.” Company
spokesman Jeffrey Scott declined further comment.  Servicemembers’ Finances  Federal regulators, particularly in housing, have recently
focused on financial issues that affect the military. Last week,
agencies put in place new rules to ease home sales by
servicemembers who are ordered to move, and this week the
 Department of Defense  said it is considering new rules on small-
dollar loans to those in the service.  After September 11, 2001, veterans became a lucrative
market for private-sector colleges with the passage of federal
benefits, known colloquially as the “GI Bill” after similar
post-World War II legislation.  Separately from today’s announcement, Conway is leading a
30-state investigation by  attorneys general  into for-profit
colleges. He promised Kentucky will focus on issues related to
the military, including outside the education industry.  “We are looking at all sorts of things with respect to
consumers and the military,” Conway said.  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, applauded the
state attorneys general for looking into the for-profit
colleges. He lamented that federal lawmakers have failed to
crack down on abuses in the industry.  Congress Silent  Congress has not passed proposals designed to limit the
incentives for-profit colleges have to market to veterans. This
category of schools received almost $32 billion in federal
grants and loans in the 2009-2010 school year, according to the
Department of Education.  “You can get little done on for-profit colleges in
Congress,” Durbin said. “They have every lobbyist in town,”
including many ex-lawmakers, he added.  Steve Gunderson, a former U.S. congressman who is now head
of the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities,
said in an e-mailed statement that the group’s members are
“deeply proud” to help educate veterans.  “We condemn any activity by companies that mislead
veterans, and we continue to work with our members and other
stakeholders on initiatives designed to promote clear and
unambiguous communications with students and prospective
students,” Gunderson said.  Consumer Bureau  The settlement emerged from work done by the Kentucky
attorney general’s office and the  Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau  beginning in August 2011, Conway said. The CFPB staff
examined the website and its marketing to veterans, and Conway
led the investigation for the states.  QuinStreet, which is based in  Foster City ,  California ,
reported net income of $2.9 million on revenue of $93 million in
the quarter ending March 31. Its shares were up 0.17 percent to
$9.44 at 3 p.m.  The site GIBill.com “has never been a material
contributor” to the company’s revenue, it said in a statement
on its website.  Emails obtained by the Kentucky attorney general made clear
that many people “thought they were communicating with the
government” when they wrote to GIBill.com, Conway said.  Conway conceded that there are probably other similar sites
on the Internet, and said only educating the public could reduce
their impact.  Unhelpful Sites  Hollister “Holly” Petraeus, the head of the bureau’s
Office of Servicemember Affairs, explicitly warned veterans
against using sites that collect information but do not actually
offer education services themselves.  “Using one of these lead-generator sites is extremely
unlikely to assist veterans in making an informed choice between
different types of schools where they might spend hard-earned GI
Bill benefits,” Petraeus said.  The GIBill.com website will be redirected to the veterans’
affairs department within 10 days, its deputy secretary, Scott Gould, said at the news conference. The agency will use it to
disseminate information about government benefits, Gould said.  Other states participating in the agreement with QuinStreet
are Alabama, Arizona,  Arkansas , Delaware, Florida,  Idaho ,
Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Massachusetts,  Mississippi ,  Missouri ,
New York,  Nevada ,  North Carolina , Ohio,  Oregon , South Carolina,
Tennessee and  West Virginia , according to Conway’s announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  