-- Steel-Making Dry-Bulk Shipment Estimates Lowered by Australia
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-27T10:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/steel-making-dry-bulk-shipment-estimates-lowered-by-australia.html
Australia  lowered estimates of
global shipments of  iron ore  and metallurgical coal in 2012, as
demand from China for imports of the steelmaking raw materials
grew more slowly than expected.  Iron ore exports this year will be 1.1 billion metric tons,
16 million tons less than forecast three months ago, government
forecaster Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said in a
quarterly  report  on its website today.  Along with metallurgical coal, global exports of the two
raw materials comprise about 35 percent of all dry-bulk cargoes
shipped by sea, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest
shipbroker. The cutback represents 100 fewer cargoes of iron ore
carried on Capesize vessels, which each transport about 160,000
tons.  Australia, the largest ore exporter, is expected to ship
479 million tons this year, down from the previous forecast of
493 million, the report showed. Global ore shipments to  China ,
which imports 53 percent of all steelmaking raw materials, will
reach 699 million tons, down from the March estimate of 713
million tons, according to the bureau.  Australian ore exports are growing more than twice as
quickly as those from  Brazil , the second-largest supplier,
rising 9 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent advance
for the South American country. Brazilian exports will reach 326
million tons, down from the previous forecast of 333 million,
according to the report.  Estimates related to steel consumption in China are being
lowered “due to a reduction in assumed domestic economic
growth,” while production is still seen rising 4 percent to 648
million tons, the report showed. The Asian country produced 47
percent of the world’s steel in May,  according  to the World
Steel Association.  Property Construction  More than 40 percent of steel produced in China is used in
property construction, Simon Young, chief executive of the U.K.
subsidiary of  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the country’s largest
shipowner, said in London on June 20. The link between declining
house prices, steel production and shipping was the most
important factor in dictating seaborne demand for dry-bulk raw
materials, he said at a shipping-industry luncheon.  Metallurgical coal exports from Australia, the largest
exporter of the material used in steelmaking, will be 149
million tons this year, down from the last estimate of 157
million tons, the bureau said. China’s imports will grow 15
percent to 53 million tons, lower than the estimate three months
ago of 63 million. Global seaborne trade in the commodity will
be 286 million tons, 11 million tons lower than forecast in
March, according to the bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  