-- Stockton, California, to File for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-27T13:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/stockton-california-to-file-for-bankruptcy-city-says.html
Stockton, California, said it will
file for bankruptcy after talks with bondholders and labor
unions failed, making the agricultural center the biggest U.S.
city to seek court protection from creditors.  “The city is fiscally insolvent and must seek Chapter 9
 bankruptcy protection ,” Stockton said in a statement released
yesterday after its council voted 6-1 to adopt a spending plan
for operating under bankruptcy protection. “In addition to the
bankruptcy petition, the city will file a motion with the courts
to share information from the confidential mediation.”  The budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 calls for
defaulting on $10.2 million in debt payments and cutting
$11.2 million in employee pay and benefits under union contracts
that could be voided by the  bankruptcy court . The city of
292,000 may file its petition as soon as today.  “It’s a sad day in the city of Stockton,” Mayor Ann Johnston said before the budget vote. “I see no other solution
to this.”  Municipal bankruptcies in the U.S., while still rare
compared to corporate filings, became more common after the
housing and financial crisis began. Ten of 42 cases filed since
1981 came in the past four years, according to court records.  The biggest municipal bankruptcy was filed last year by
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which is trying to restructure
$4.2 billion in debt, most of which is tied to sewer bond deals
tainted by corruption.  Vallejo Bankruptcy  Stockton’s bankruptcy will probably resemble the 2008 case
of another California city, Vallejo, which exited court
protection last year, bankruptcy attorney Dale Ginter said. Both
cities have been hurt by high labor costs, particularly health
insurance for retirees, he said.  “Retirees are not going to be happy,” said Ginter, who
represented retired Vallejo workers in that city’s bankruptcy.
“My prediction is that retiree health care is cut. I wouldn’t
be surprised to see it cut to zero.”  Bondholders and current employees will probably also have
to take less, said Ginter, who has reviewed city financial
reports.  “We think Chapter 9 protection is the only choice left,”
City Manager Bob Deis told the City Council, referring to the
section of the federal  bankruptcy code  that applies to
municipalities.  Municipal Bonds  Stockton’s expected bankruptcy filing won’t create a sell-
off in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market because investors
of tax-exempt debt have known about the city’s budget deficit
and rising health-care expenses, Matt Fabian, managing director
at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said
in a telephone interview.  “There’s been enough talk about municipal bankruptcy and
worries about it that when one actually happens, it’s a little
beside the point,” Fabian said. “It’s hard to see one city’s
faltering pushing the market weaker.”  Investors will buy municipal debt for its relative safety
and low default rate, said Chris Ryon, who helps manage
$8.25 billion of municipals, including a $367 million  California 
fund, at Thornburg Investment Management. The average cumulative
default rate in the past four decades was 0.13 percent for
municipal bonds versus 11.2 percent for corporate debt, Moody’s
Investors Service data show.  ‘Extremely Low’  “The overall default rates in municipal bonds are
extremely low and Stockton is a small participant in the
$3.7 trillion market,” Ryon said in a telephone interview.  A taxable Stockton pension bond sold in 2007 and due
September 2037 traded June 25 as high as 80.68 cents on the
dollar, down from when it traded as high as 102.03 cents on the
dollar on Feb. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The City Council’s approval paves the way for Deis to
proceed with the bankruptcy filing. Stockton, a river port about
80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , ran out of
options after three months of negotiations with creditors ended
June 25 without enough concessions to close a $26 million 
deficit .  “We’ve worked really hard with our creditors and we’ve
been unable to close the gap,” Deis said. “If we get any
agreements in the near future, then those will be honored in
Chapter 9.”  Break Contracts  Bankruptcy would allow the city to break contracts with
creditors without the threat of lawsuits, though it won’t assure
the city’s recovery, he said.  “This basically is the equivalent of the pause button,”
Deis told the council. “It provides you a breather to adopt a
budget and maintain services during this next year. It doesn’t
guarantee success in the long term. That’s going to require some
negotiating and some give-and-take.”  Dale Fritchen, the only one of seven council members to
vote against the plan, said he wasn’t convinced there was no
alternative.  “I think it’s going to hurt Stockton more than it will
help Stockton,” Fritchen said. “For heaven’s sake, I hope I’m
wrong.”  In February, the city began a process during which it is
required by state law to review its finances with help from a
“neutral observer” who is picked in cooperation with
creditors. That review is similar to a mediation process in
which creditors have a right to participate, according to the
law, passed last year at the request of California labor unions.  Salaries for current workers and benefits for them and
former employees account for about 68 percent of the city’s
general fund, the city said.  Service Cuts  The city has cut services so much the past two years that
“public safety is at a crisis level,” officials said in a June
5 fiscal report. Unemployment, at 15.4 percent in April, was
almost double the national average, according to the U.S.
Department of Labor.  Stockton ranked third in murders last year among large
California cities, behind  Los Angeles  and Oakland, according to
FBI data.  The collapse of the housing market left Stockton to contend
with mounting retiree health-care costs and eroding tax dollars
in the wake of the recession, amid accounting errors that
overstated municipal revenues. One in every 195 homes in
Stockton’s metropolitan area received a foreclosure filing in
May, the fifth-highest rate in the U.S., according to RealtyTrac
Inc.  Creditor Talks  Negotiations with creditors began on March 27 and were
extended to June 25. The  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the largest U.S. pension fund, and San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s biggest home lender, and bond
insurer Assured Guaranty were among at least 18 creditors
involved in the talks.  Last year, three municipalities entered bankruptcy,
including Jefferson County.  Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code is reserved for
cities, counties and quasi-governmental bodies, such as special
water or tax districts. It offers more protection from creditors
than Chapter 11, which is used by companies and wealthy
individuals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  