-- Stockton Bankruptcy ‘Only Choice Left,’ City Manager Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-27T05:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/stockton-bankruptcy-only-choice-left-city-manager-says.html
Stockton,  California , approved a
spending plan it would use to operate under bankruptcy, moving
closer to becoming the biggest city to seek Chapter 9 protection
in U.S. history.  The budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 calls for
defaulting on $10.2 million in debt payments and cutting $11.2
million in employee pay and benefits under union contracts that
could be voided in bankruptcy. The city of 292,000 may file for
protection this week before the budget is implemented.  “We think Chapter 9 protection is the only choice left,”
City ManagerBob Deis told the City Council, referring to the
section of federal bankruptcy law applicable to the
municipality.  Stockton, a river port about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east
of  San Francisco , ran out of options after three months of
state-mandated negotiations with creditors ended yesterday
without enough concessions to close a $26 million  deficit .  “We’ve worked really hard with our creditors and we’ve
been unable to close the gap,” Deis said. “If we get any
agreements in the near future, then those will be honored in
Chapter 9.”  The city in California’s agricultural Central Valley saw a
surge in homebuilding during the housing boom in the 2000s as
buyers from the San Francisco Bay area sought affordable
alternatives. The boom filled tax coffers, prompting the city to
borrow to build entertainment venues and spruce up the downtown
on the notion that the prosperity would last.  The collapse of the housing market left Stockton to contend
with mounting retiree health-care costs and eroding tax dollars
in the wake of the recession, amid accounting errors that
overstated municipal revenues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  