-- Sudanese Activists Call for Mass Demonstration Amid Crackdown
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-06-27T10:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/sudanese-activists-call-for-mass-demonstration-amid-crackdown.html
Sudanese activists called for a mass
demonstration in two days to demand the end of President Umar al-Bashir’s 23 years in power, as  Human Rights Watch  urged the
authorities to halt repression of anti-government protests.  The security forces have used tear gas, rubber bullets and
live ammunition to suppress 10 days of protests that started at
Khartoum University, Human Rights Watch said today in a
 statement . The demonstrations started when the government raised
transportation and fuel prices, boosted taxes and devalued the
currency to cope with the loss of about 75 percent of the
nation’s oil output when South  Sudan  seceded in July.  The protests have spread to at least six other cities, an
activist group identifying itself as #SudanRevolts said in an e-
mailed statement. The crackdown has led to the arrest of
reporters and protesters, and beatings of people in detention,
according to New York-based Human Rights Watch.  “Sudan is using these protests as an excuse to use
violence and intimidation to silence dissenters,” it said in
the statement. “Authorities should call off their security
forces and vigilantes, end the violence immediately, and respect
the right of people to protest peacefully.”  Human Rights Watch criticized the detention of Sudanese and
foreign journalists covering the protests. Salma El Wardany, who
reported for Bloomberg News from Sudan, was expelled by the
Sudanese authorities yesterday, while Simon Martelli, a reporter
for  Agence France-Presse , was detained for about 14 hours on
June 19.  Oil Income  The challenge to al-Bashir’s authority is the biggest since
a sit-in at Khartoum University in December to protest police
violence and demand the overthrow of the government. The protest
led to the arrest of 73 students. About 400 more were detained
in a raid on the campus in February.  The loss of oil revenue since  South Sudan ’s independence
resulted in a $2.4 billion  budget deficit  and a surge in
inflation to 30.4 percent last month.  Police have used “extreme violence” to crack down on
protesters, #SudanRevolts said.  “Several hundreds have been arrested; many being released
quickly but those perceived as mobilizers are being detained at
National Intelligence and Security Services,” it said.  Sudanese government spokesman Kamal Obeid’s phone was
switched off and Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid Murawih
didn’t answer his phone when called today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 