-- Supporters Join Foes to Claim Victory After NRC Report
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-27T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/supporters-join-foes-to-claim-victory-after-nrc-watchdog-report.html
Supporters and opponents of
departing U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  used a fresh inspector general’s report on his management
and use of authority to claim vindication.  Jaczko didn’t exceed his authority during  Japan ’s nuclear
crisis, as suggested by opponents, though he did frequently
intimidate staff who disagreed with him, the agency’s inspector
general said in a report released yesterday.  Jaczko, 41, decided to leave a year before before his term
ends amid criticism by lawmakers and colleagues for bullying
employees, mistreating female staff and not being forthcoming
with the other four commissioners. His colleagues in October
wrote to White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  saying Jaczko
bullied staff and tried to intimidate the independent panel.  The report “verifies the concerns brought forward by
Chairman Jaczko’s colleagues last year -- it is vindication for
their efforts,” Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican
who requested the report, said in a statement yesterday. “As it
confirms, Mr. Jaczko was undermining the agency and its mission
of safety -- and he was doing this at one of the NRC’s most
critical junctures: in the aftermath of the Fukushima
accident.”  Senior executives and commissioners described instances
where “bullying tactics” caused them to side with Jaczko over
their own judgments, the inspector general said in the report.  Tsunami, Fukushima  The watchdog’s report also focused on four accusations
related to Jaczko’s management, including his use of emergency
powers after a 2011 tsunami crippled  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plants and determined he didn’t
exceed his authority.  “This report is a welcome vindication of Chairman Jaczko
and his leadership of the commission during the worst nuclear
disaster in history,” Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat who previously hired Jaczko as an
adviser, said yesterday.  “Greg Jaczko has been the victim of a
sustained and mean-spirited whispering campaign by hostile NRC
Commissioners who resented a strong Chairman with a real
commitment to nuclear safety who wanted to turn the NRC into a
real watchdog.”  President  Barack Obama  nominated  Allison Macfarlane , a
geologist and expert on atomic waste, to replace Jaczko. Both
Democrats and Republicans endorse her swift confirmation and the
Senate may vote on her nomination this week.  Damage Done  “Damage has been done that will take some time to
repair,” Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee
led by Chairman  Fred Upton  of Michigan said in a statement
yesterday. “Time will tell whether the next chair will work
collegiality to restore the NRC’s credibility as an independent,
objective protector of public health and safety.”  Jaczko issued an e-mail statement before the report was
available, citing awards received by the agency for workplace
diversity and for being rated among the best places to work in
the federal government.  “I have felt confident all along that my actions have been
consistent with my responsibilities and authorities as chairman,
and certainly that there was no wrongdoing,” Jaczko said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “The report raises nothing new of
substance.”  A June 6, 2011, report by the inspector general found
Jaczko “was not forthcoming” with colleagues about his intent
to close the Yucca Mountain nuclear-waste site project in
 Nevada .  Macfarlane, 48, had spoken against Yucca Mountain in her
past academic work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  