-- Swiss Stocks Gain for Second Day; Adecco, Von Roll Rise
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-06-27T16:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/swiss-stocks-gain-for-second-day-swiss-re-von-roll-rise.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for a second
day after reports on U.S. durable-goods orders and existing
house sales exceeded economists’ estimates.  Adecco SA (ADEN)  surged 5.7 percent, the biggest gain on the
benchmark  Swiss Market Index. (SMI)   Von Roll (ROL)  Holding AG gained 1.6
percent after the stock was upgraded by Vontobel Holding AG.  The SMI advanced 0.7 percent to 5,996.53 at the close in
Zurich. The benchmark measure has  gained 5 percent from its 2012
low  on June 4 as Greece formed a coalition government after its
second election in six weeks. The gauge has risen 1 percent in
 the first six months  of this year. The Swiss Performance Index
also added 0.7 percent today.  “As it is quite difficult to get any positive signs from
the European Union nowadays, better-than-expected U.S. durable-
goods and housing data have helped to push European markets
higher today,” said George Satlas, head of investments at TT
ELTA Mutual Funds Management SA in Athens.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 6.7 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and European Commission President  Jose
Barroso  have prepared a 10-year road map for the euro area,
which they will present to the summit tomorrow.  A senior member of Germany’s ruling Christian Democratic
Union said today that the 17 countries using the single currency
must agree to share control over their budgets before the euro
area’s largest economy will agree to share responsibility for
their debts.  Chinese Stimulus  In China, a newspaper said that the world’s second-biggest
economy may introduce “more proactive” policies to ensure
stable growth. Separately, the official Xinhua News Agency said
China will promote alliances between the mainland markets and
Hong Kong and increase cooperation in investments overseas and
in infrastructure. The government will encourage joint ventures
between the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock bourses and their  Hong
Kong  counterpart, and allow the listing of exchange-traded funds
in both places, the agency said.  In the U.S.,  durable-goods orders  climbed more than
economists had estimated. A Commerce Department report showed
that bookings increased 1.1 percent, compared with the  median
projection of 76 economists  in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.5
percent gain.  Another report showed more Americans than forecast signed
contracts to buy previously owned houses. An index of  pending
house sales  rose 5.9 percent in May, after dropping 5.5 percent
a month earlier, the National Association of Realtors said.
 Economists had predicted  a 1.5 percent increase, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Adecco Jumps  Adecco, the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers,
advanced 5.7 percent to 40.57 Swiss francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager
established in 1890, rose 4.4 percent to 33.75 francs, snapping
a two-day decline.  UBS AG (UBSN)  gained 2.1 percent to 11.05 francs. A
gauge of bank stocks was the best performer of the 19 industry
groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Von Roll, a maker of wire insulation and transformers,
increased 1.6 percent to 1.88 francs as Vontobel raised the
stock to hold from reduce.  Swiss Re gained 1.7 percent to 58.70 francs. Global
insurance premiums may rebound this year after they dropped in
2011 because of lower sales of life policies in western Europe,
China and India, Switzerland’s biggest reinsurer said. Zurich
Insurance Group AG added 1.5 percent to 207.80 francs.  Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  Switzerland’s biggest phone company , climbed
1.4 percent to 377 francs, while Transocean Ltd., the world’s
largest offshore-rig, gained 3 percent to 41.65 francs.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company,
fell 2.2 percent to 38.36 francs, the biggest drop on the SMI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  