-- Syrian Refugees Have What They Need, Not What They Want
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-06-27T22:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/syrian-refugees-have-what-they-need-not-what-they-want.html
Purgatory comes with world-class
services in  Turkey ’s camps for Syrian refugees. Residents enjoy
free health care, an open-air cinema and Internet cafes. If they
marry, they get a complimentary night in a five-star hotel.  The one thing inhabitants of the Kilis camp on Turkey’s
southeastern border with Syria don’t have is what they want
most: A road home.  “You know you can return to your country tomorrow,” said
a 15-year-old girl named Qamer. “It’s not up to us when we go
home. We don’t know when we’ll ever go back.”  Qamer, like most of the people I spoke to, wouldn’t give
her last name for fear that relatives in Syria would be targeted
and killed by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. The 16-
month conflict already has claimed more than 10,000 lives.  So a makeshift town of 10,500 men, women and children is
rising on the flat, sun-baked fields at the foot of  Syria ’s
hills. Children toss balls in the narrow roads. Men in ankle-
length robes hunch in the shade of improvised awnings, smoking
and pumping the latest refugees fleeing attacks by Assad’s
regime for news that only gets worse. Beyond the 10-foot walls,
gunfire echoes from the border about 109 yards (100 meters)
away.  On the 2,051 metal shipping containers that serve as homes,
people have scrawled the names of their towns and slogans such
as, “We will return!” The only question anyone has for a
visiting reporter is how the U.S. will help them get home.  Seven Camps  Kilis is one of seven camps dotted along Turkey’s 511-mile
(822 kilometer) border with Syria, which together hold more than
27,000 people. It is easily the nicest refugee camp I’ve ever
seen, a far cry from Asian or Palestinian camps that have
calcified into makeshift cities or decomposed into haphazard
slums. Even so, there’s no escaping the despair of so many
scarred and suspended lives.  The conflict across the border between Assad’s Alawite-
dominated regime and a largely Sunni Muslim uprising is ever-
present, borne in by new arrivals, hourly newscasts, and
peoples’ need to share their stories. I spent hours sitting in
the 226-square foot (21-square meter), two-room shipping-
container houses, cradling sugary cups of black tea and
listening to people talk about their experiences.  Qamer, like 20 percent of Kilis’s residents, comes from the
seaside town of Latakia. After soldiers shot her 23-year-old
uncle and let him bleed to death in the street, she and her
family ran, stumbling north toward the border through the hilly
countryside.  Qamer pulled her five-year-old sister by the hand,
convinced that the army was in pursuit and would get them before
they could reach the border. It took them four hours.  “The whole way, we were feeling they would kill us, too,”
she said.  Young Deserters  Women and children make up two-thirds of the camp, which is
geared toward families. There are also many young men who have
fled service in Syria’s conscript army.  Ibrahim, a chain-smoking 20-year-old, decided to defect
after he watched his officer stop a man at a checkpoint. When
the man asked why he was being questioned, the officer shot him
in the leg. Then another officer approached the man, now prone
and bleeding, and shot him dead.  Abdullah, a beefy 20-year-old from Idlib, served in
Damascus as part of the Republican Guard that protects Syria’s
capital city. At checkpoints, he was told to inspect every
mobile phone. If one held footage or photos of a demonstration,
he arrested the owner. When it came time to stop protesters, his
orders were “shoot to kill.” The night he deserted his unit,
57 others went with him, he said.  Cut Off  The young men spoke about the isolation they felt in their
army units. Mohammed, a soft-spoken six-footer with reddish
hair, fled four days before we spoke. For months, his unit had
no home leave, no access to telephones, radios or TVs. Instead,
they got daily lectures about terrorists raping women and
killing children across Syria.  When Mohammed and his friends were deployed, they saw other
soldiers hammer old men with rifle butts and beat sons in front
of their mothers. When a friend decided to go AWOL to join the
opposition Free Syrian Army, Mohammed jumped at the chance to
join him.  His friend is still in Syria with the opposition force.
Mohammed used a fake ID to get to Turkey. His friend faces a
fierce fight, he said. “If someone is not afraid of Allah, you
have to be afraid of them,” he said. “The Syrian army is not
afraid of Allah.”  Later, sitting elbow-to-elbow in a tiny room with 10
others, I watched two blond toddlers play while the TV behind
them showed Al Jazeera footage of dead, bloodied babies. No one
muted their words or softened their stories as they spoke
through a translator.  Spies Everywhere  My host, a former school director named Mahmoud Mosa, said
the regime’s violence isn’t just physical. Camp residents are
wary of one another, a legacy of 40 years of the Assad family’s
pervasive network of informers, he said.  Suphi Atan, the Turkish Foreign Ministry official in charge
of the camps, had already told me that Turkey’s concerns about
infiltration by Syrian intelligence had led the government in
Ankara to bar access to some camps.  Mosa was talking about what he considered the more ordinary
and insidious way neighbors inform on each other, about the
suspicions camp residents had of each other, and of him.  Suspicion “is so deep in us,” he said. “Sometimes people
even suspect themselves.”  Before going to the refugee camp, I spent a night in the
city of Kilis, about three miles (4.8 kilometers) and a world
away, chatting with local officials at a high school graduation
ceremony.  Smoke, Laughter  The air was thick with cigarette smoke and laughter. The
tables were laden with hummus, patties made of ground lamb and
bulgur wheat, and non-alcoholic drinks. (A travel tip: If you’re
ever offered Salgam, a ferociously spicy drink made of fermented
turnip and pickled carrot, proceed with caution.)  The town’s 84,000 people have mixed feelings about the
camp, the official to my right said. While businesses benefit as
camp residents shop, the local smuggling industry is suffering
as border security on both sides tightens, he confided. Prices
for Sri Lankan tea, sugar and fuel will edge up soon, he said,
asking not to be identified discussing the underground economy.  In places, the border is little more than strands of limp
barbed wire hanging off tilting wooden posts. Syrians don’t need
visas to enter Turkey and are now getting “temporary protection
status” that guarantees them entry.  Thin Veneer  The Kilis camp is approaching its capacity of 12,000
refugees, and other camps aren’t far behind. One Turkish
government official, who asked not to be identified discussing
the sensitive matter, told me Turkey is only now asking for
international support after spending $150 million on refugees
this year.  I joked that Kilis camp’s amenities made me want to move
in. I pressed him for details on the plush  Ottoman Palace  hotel
in Antakya three hours away, the type of hotel where camp
newlyweds spend their one-day honeymoons. He laughed and said
ruefully that residents of the city of Kilis don’t get such
amenities.  The services in the Kilis refugee camp offer a thin veneer
of dignity to people who have lost almost everything, including
people they love and any certainty about the future.  Their new home is ringed by coils of razor wire and secured
by a steel gate six inches thick. The camp uses biometric
screeners to track their comings and goings. In the stark
Mediterranean sunlight, it looks like a sterile, brand-new
suburb.  Cypress, Oleander  Turkey has tried to soften the surroundings, landscaping
Kilis with little cypress trees and oleander bushes. It’s clean,
orderly and divided into five districts with names such as
“Revolution” and “Democracy.” The roads have been carefully
laid with interlocking bricks. Small satellite dishes sit atop
many of the white containers.  Residents are grateful to be here. I asked one mother of
three who spent the previous year in a tent camp whether she was
happy. She pointed at the walls of her shipping container with
an “Are you kidding?” look. “We have a window, we have a
door, we have hot water,” said the woman, who declined to share
even her first name. “Yes.”  There are three schools where her children go, two mosques
and a hospital. Two social centers for women teach hairdressing
and carpet-weaving. A Turkish company buys the rugs, paying each
woman who worked on one $200. Men learn carpentry. There are
chess clubs and Turkish-language lessons. People have started up
little markets to sell vegetables and cigarettes.  Chicken Coop  They’ve hung rugs and blankets to create rooms outside
their shipping containers. Fences have become laundry lines. One
man who wouldn’t give his real name fashioned a chicken coop out
of mattress springs. His family had carried the birds over the
border with other prized possessions.  Against the odds, there is some hope. Qamer, slight and
brown-eyed under her headscarf, has ambitions. She wants to get
back to Syria. And once she’s there? “I want to be a minister
and run the country,” she said. “I know I can do a better
job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Kilis, Turkey, at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  