-- Syrian Fighting Leads to Worsening Human Rights, UN Report Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-27T08:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/syrian-fighting-leads-to-worsening-human-rights-un-report-says.html
The  human-rights  situation in Syria
has “deteriorated rapidly” since March and promises to end the
violence have proven empty as clashes between pro- and anti-
government forces escalate and spread through the country,
according to a United Nations commission of inquiry.  “Gross violations of human rights are occurring in the
context of increasingly militarized fighting,” the Independent
International Commission of Inquiry on Syria said in a report to
be presented today to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva.
“In some areas, the fighting bears the characteristics of a
non-international armed conflict.”  The U.S. and the UN say President Bashar al-Assad’s
government is using helicopter gunships as it accelerates the
tempo of military operations against the opposition. After
almost 16 months of conflict, the UN says its two-month-old
cease-fire is failing to hold and that Sunni Muslim civilians in
 Syria  are being killed.  At least 435 people died in fighting between Feb. 22 and
June 15, the commission of inquiry said. Assad’s government told
investigators that 804 people, both armed forces and civilians,
were killed between May 7 and June 4 and puts the total number
of casualties by April 27 at 6,143. Non-governmental groups say
between 13,000 and 17,000 people have been killed.  Houla Killings  Among those were more than 100 people -- mainly women and
children -- who were killed during a three-day attack in late
May on Houla, a group of towns some 30 kilometers (19 miles)
northwest of Homs. While the commission wasn’t allowed to visit
the site, it concluded that the killings were carried out by
state-backed shabiha militiamen, anti-government forces or
foreign fighters with unknown affiliation.  “The situation on the ground has dramatically changed in
the last three months as the hostilities by anti-government
armed groups each day take on more clearly the contours of an
insurrection,” the commission said in its 21-page report. “As
a result of the estimated flow of new weapons and ammunitions,
both to the government forces and to the anti-government armed
groups, the situation risks becoming more aggravated in the
coming months.”  Syrian forces and shabiha “have perpetrated unlawful
killings, arbitrary arrests and detention and torture”
including “acts of sexual violence against men, women and
children,” according to the report. Opposition fighters have
also tortured and executed government troops, shabiha and
supporters of Assad, it said.  Children Targeted  Youngsters in particular are suffering from the conflict
and are often among those killed and injured during attacks on
protests and the bombardment of towns and villages, the
commission said.  The commission’s findings were based on several missions in
March, April and May during which 383 interviews, including 50
with women and 11 with children, were conducted. Investigators
also spoke with government officials and opposition groups.  The commission of inquiry, created in September, said the
fighting in Syria has created 92,000 refugees, led to the
pillaging and burning of homes, restrictions in the freedoms of
movement, speech and association and the systematic denial in
some areas of food, water and medical care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 