-- U.S. Dollar-Funding Stress Levels Decline as Libor is Unchanged
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-27T15:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-dollar-funding-stress-levels-decline-as-libor-is-unchanged.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled little stress in the short-term dollar funding markets
with the rate banks say they borrow from one another steady.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,  was 
0.4606 percent, where it had held all week, according to the
British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of
banks reluctance to lend, was unchanged at 29.8 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, widened to 32 basis points from 30.7 basis
points yesterday, according to the second rolling three month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.56 basis points to 23.5 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market was little changed. The three-month cross-
currency basis swap was 57.7 basis points below Euribor,
compared to 58 basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, widened. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was little
changed at 43 basis points.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $8.9 billion to $998.2 billion in the week ended June 20,
the third consecutive slide, according to Federal Reserve data.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 35.75 basis points, from minus
34.6 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  