-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for June 22 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-06-27T14:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-june-22-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.6 million barrels per
day during the week ending June 22, 37 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 92.6
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging nearly 9.3 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.1 million barrels per day last
week, down by 327 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
about 9.2 million barrels per day, 343 thousand barrels per day
above the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 773 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 90 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 0.1 million barrels
from the previous week. At 387.2 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
2.1 million barrels last week and are in the lower limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories decreased by 2.3 million barrels last week and are
below the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.8 million
barrels last week and are above the upper limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 2.6
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.8 million barrels per day, down by 0.9 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 8.8 million
barrels per day, down by 4.8 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged nearly 3.6
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 0.1
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 9.9 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  