-- U.S. Stocks Advance Amid China Bets, Economic Reports
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-27T21:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-stock-futures-little-changed-bristol-myers-gains.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a second day, amid
better-than-estimated housing and durable goods orders data
while speculation grew that  China  will add to economic stimulus.  Energy and financial shares rose the most in the  S&P 500 
among 10 groups. A gauge of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes climbed
3 percent to the highest since 2008.  Monsanto (MON)  Co., the world’s
biggest seed company, added 3.9 percent as earnings beat
estimates.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  fell 2.6 percent as analysts including
those at lead underwriter Morgan Stanley said the social-network
operator is worth no more than its debut price of $38.  The S&P 500 rose 0.9 percent to 1,331.85 at 4 p.m. New York
time. It has risen 1.6 percent so far in June. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 92.34 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,627.01. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5.8
billion shares, or 14 percent below the three-month average.  “The economic data was encouraging,” said  Walter Todd ,
who oversees about $940 million as chief investment officer of
Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina. “It’s important
to see that because most recently we’ve had weaker data here and
in China while Europe came back to the forefront. Any policy
moves out of China would certainly be welcomed.”  Equities rallied as orders for durable goods and the number
of Americans signing  contracts  to buy an existing home rebounded
in May, easing concern the world’s largest economy is faltering.
The China Securities Journal said the country may introduce
“more proactive” policies to ensure stable  growth  in the
world’s second-largest economy. European leaders prepared for a
two-day summit starting tomorrow.  Debt Concern  Concern about a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis and a
global slowdown has taken the S&P 500 down 5.4 percent this
quarter. Energy and financial shares have had the biggest losses
in the period, tumbling at least 9.5 percent.  Both groups jumped more than 1.2 percent for the largest
increases in the S&P 500 today, with energy companies accounting
for eight of the gauge’s nine biggest gains.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
added 1 percent to $83.20. JPMorgan Chase & Co. climbed 3
percent, the most in the Dow, to $36.78, while  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  had the second-biggest increase, rising 2 percent to
$7.77.  Monsanto, the largest seed company, added 3.9 percent to
$80.89. Sales of corn seed and genetic licenses rose 35 percent
as U.S. farmers planted the biggest crop in 75 years. Soybean
sales gained 15 percent, driven by demand for the newest seed
engineered to tolerate Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide. Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  also is expanding in
 Latin America  and Eastern Europe.  Share Buyback  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  gained 1.7 percent to $35.09 after
the drugmaker doubled the size of its share buyback program,
authorizing $3 billion in additional repurchases to be made over
the “next couple years.”  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  rose 4.8 percent to $28.70. The homebuilder
gained after a tax benefit and improving demand fueled a surge
in its fiscal second-quarter profit.  Facebook slid 2.6 percent to $32.23. At least 17 securities
firms began coverage of the company today, bringing the average
analyst share-price estimate to $37.95, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Morgan Stanley gave Facebook the equivalent of a
buy rating, as did  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and five other firms. There were eight holds and one sell,
the  data  show.  Facebook, its bankers and listing exchange Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. faced criticism after the shares fell below the initial
public offering price of $38 on the second day of trading and
extended losses to 32 percent on June 5. Underwriters sold stock
at a higher valuation than every S&P 500 company except two.  ‘Maximum Pricing’  “Investors probably have a right to be a little bit
upset,” John Kattar, chief investment officer at Eastern Bank
Wealth Management in  Boston , which manages $1.7 billion, said in
a telephone interview. His firm doesn’t own  Facebook  stock.
“The underwriters got a lot of pressure from the company to
price it as high as possible. They were getting a lot of
pressure from Facebook to try to extract the maximum pricing.”  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  surged 5 percent to $18.29.
The computer-animation studio rose after an analyst said the
company’s latest film, “Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted,”
was exceeding expectations.  O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  tumbled 14 percent to $82.61. The
retailer of auto parts, tools and accessories sank the most in
more than a decade after saying sales growth was slower than
expected and second-quarter profit will be on the lower end of
the company’s forecast range.  Rival  AutoZone Inc. (AZO)  sank 4.7 percent to $359.  Economic Data  Economic reports are due to take a turn for the better that
will lift U.S. stocks, according to Binky Chadha, chief global
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Investors are suffering from “data disappointment” that
has become extreme by historical standards, Chadha wrote in a
report two days ago. “The typical pattern from here would be
for fewer negative surprises and then positive ones.”  Changes in jobless claims explain 88 percent of the S&P
500’s performance during the period, according to statistical
analysis cited in the report. The figure is near a 100 percent
limit when two values move in lockstep.  As the relationship suggests, economic data “have been the
key driver of equities,” Chadha wrote. They largely explain why
stocks have retreated in the past few weeks, the New York-based
strategist added. The S&P 500 has fallen as much as 9.9 percent
from this year’s high, set on April 2.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and slowing growth in
 emerging markets  have contributed to the decline, the report
said. Any stock-market rebound triggered by policy changes on
these issues won’t last unless the economic data turn around, he
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  