-- Syria Meeting Called by Annan as Clinton Endorses Session
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   L o u i s   M e i x l e r
-- 2012-06-27T14:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-targets-annan-meeting-as-turning-point-in-syrian-crisis.html
Kofi Annan , the United Nations
special envoy on Syria, called a conference of foreign ministers
for June 30 in Geneva, as U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  endorsed the event as a potential “turning point.”  Annan said today that he will seek to persuade major powers
and neighboring states to support a political transition to end
the Syrian conflict, which has claimed more than 10,000 lives,
according to human rights groups.  “When I spoke to him yesterday I conveyed our support for
his plan,” Clinton told reporters today in Helsinki, the
Finnish capital. “If we can meet on the basis of that road map,
with everyone agreeing before we arrive in Geneva that this will
be the document that we’re endorsing by our presence, then I
think a meeting makes a lot of sense and we support it.”  Clinton has agreed to participate in the Geneva conference,
according to State Department official Philippe Reines.  Annan’s new plan calls for a unity government in  Syria 
composed of members of President Bashar al-Assad’s regime as
well as the opposition seeking his ouster, according to a U.S.
official who asked not to be identified discussing diplomatic
communications. The transition would be followed by adoption of a
constitution and then elections, the official said.  The U.S. had balked at  Russia ’s insistence that  Iran 
participate in the Geneva conference, citing that nation’s
support for Assad’s regime. Iran was left off the invitation
list issued today by Annan, as was  Saudi Arabia , which Russia
said has funneled support to the Syrian opposition.  ‘Syrian-Led’ Transition  Annan said he is inviting the foreign ministers of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- China,  France ,
Russia, the U.K., and the U.S. -- plus representatives of the
European Union and the  Arab League , according to an e-mailed
statement from his office.  The Syria action group should “agree on guidelines and
principles for a Syrian-led political transition that meets the
legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people; and agree on
actions that will make these objectives a reality on the
ground,” Annan said in his statement.  Annan proposed the conference in Geneva after a monitoring
mission he led was suspended in the face of continued warfare.
That has put at risk the future of the mission, which is up for
renewal July 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler in Istanbul at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  