-- U.S. Doubles Counter-Mine Ships in Gulf, 5th Fleet Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-27T20:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-doubles-counter-mine-ships-in-gulf-5th-fleet-says.html
The U.S. Navy has doubled to eight
the number of counter-mine ships in the Persian Gulf region, 
according to the service.  The ships arrived in the region on June 23 for a seven-
month deployment, according to a  statement  from the U.S. 5th
Fleet headquarters in  Bahrain .  Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan Greenert
disclosed the plan in March at a congressional hearing. The
added vessels are the USS Sentry, Devastator, Pioneer and
Warrior.  Some Iranian officials had threatened earlier this year to
close the  Strait of Hormuz , transit point for one-fifth of the
oil traded worldwide, in response to international sanctions
over its nuclear program. The threats have subsided since then.  Greenert said today that encounters with units of the
regular Iranian Navy and with the Iranian Revolutionary Guard
Corps in charge of Strait of Hormuz security have been calm “in
the last couple of months.”  “Things have been, relatively speaking, quiet,” Greenert
told reporters in a briefing at the Pentagon. Iranian naval
conduct has been “professional and courteous, committing to the
rules of the road,” he said.  Mines in the Strait could prompt insurance companies to
raise rates on tankers utilizing the waterway, which in turn
could lead at least temporarily to higher  oil prices .  U.S. officials who follow  Iran  for the U.S. Central Command
estimated in 2008 that Iran possessed as many as 5,000 mines.
That compares with 1,000 mines in the 1980s during its conflict
with  Iraq  and the “tanker war” with the West, when it
attempted to block vessels.  Greenert also outlined today Navy plans for a gradual
increase in forces to the Pacific as part of the “re-balance”
toward  Asia  and also for the Gulf region.  The U.S. has 25 vessels in the Gulf today. That number will
grow to 34 by 2017 and stay at that level through 2020,
according to the Navy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  