-- U.S. House to Pair Student Loan, Highway Measures
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-27T19:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-house-to-pair-student-loan-highway-measures.html
U.S. House Republican leaders plan
to combine a multiyear highway bill with a one-year freeze for
government subsidized student loan rates, Speaker  John Boehner 
told reporters today.  “We are moving, I think, towards an agreement on a
transportation bill that will also include a one-year fix on the
student loan rate” that otherwise would double on July 1,
Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said in Washington today.  Lawmakers are working to pass the combined measure through
both chambers and send it to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature before the end of the week.  The highway measure will reduce the number of projects
funded and “streamline the regulatory process,” Boehner said.
He said the measure allows “us to focus our highway dollars on
fixing America’s highways, not planting more flowers around the
country.”  John Mica , a Florida Republican and chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said his goal is to
file the highway bill by tonight.  In addition to the highway measure and the student loan
rate freeze, the bill the House will file probably will include
a measure to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, a
Senate Democratic aide said today. Flood insurance programs
expire at the end of July.  Senate Negotiations  Senate consideration of the measure extending flood
insurance programs through 2016 has been slowed because Senator
 Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, is insisting on a vote on an
unrelated proposal specifying that human life begins at
conception.  Also, the Senate’s leading Republican negotiator on the
highway measure, Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, confirmed that
provisions to press for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline and
to limit the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating
coal-ash waste wouldn’t be in the final measure. Inhofe said the
bill would be filed tonight.  Inhofe said he didn’t anticipate that the absence of the
Keystone and coal-ash provisions would hurt Senate Republican
support for the bill. “Keystone and coal ash are really sort of
one-shot deals,” Inhofe told reporters.  Student Loans  Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican on
the Transportation panel, said today that he couldn’t see a
situation in which House leaders would separate  student loans 
from the highway measure. Still, to gain support from
Republicans, the measure must be finished in time for lawmakers
to review.  “We have to get everybody the final text. We’ve talked
generalities of all the things, but we got to get all the
specifics,” Lankford told reporters.  Unless Congress acts, student loan interest rates will
double to 6.8 percent on July 1. Current funding for highway
programs expires at the end of June.  Mica said the elements under his panel’s jurisdiction are
settled, including streamlining environmental reviews.  “Loose ends are being tied together,” Mica said. “The
outstanding items, we are ticking them off one at a time.”  House Republican leaders told members to “be prepared to
vote” this week on a highway measure,  Oklahoma  Representative
Tom Cole said as he left the caucus.  ‘Good Deal’  Cole said Boehner “has always been anxious to get a good
deal” and won’t ask the House to vote on something without
“serious reforms in it.”  Senate leaders said yesterday they had reached tentative
agreement on how to cover the cost of the one-year student loan
interest rate freeze, cautioning that the agreement hinged on
the success of highway bill negotiations with the House.  “We’re very close to having everything done, but until we
get everything done, nothing is done,” Majority Leader  Harry Reid  told reporters yesterday. The agreement would include three
offsets, which would cover the $5.9 billion cost of the student
loan rate freeze and also may help pay for the highway bill,
said Senate Republican and Democratic aides, who requested
anonymity to discuss the non-public agreement.  They are higher fees payable to the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp., changes to corporate pension funding
requirements to reduce payments and increase taxable income, and
a six-year limit on loan subsidies for part-time students.  ‘An Understanding’  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, told reporters yesterday he and Reid had reached
“an understanding” on a student loan proposal that “may or
may not be coupled” with the highway bill.  The Senate on March 14 passed a two-year, $109 billion
highway bill by a vote of 74-22. The House has been unable to
pass a multiyear highway bill, instead opting to go straight to
negotiations with the Senate over a compromise measure.  The Highway Trust Fund, which enables the federal
government to pay for state road, bridge and mass transit
projects, may run out of money if Congress can’t agree on long-
term legislation and resorts, as it has nine times already, to a
temporary extension of current law.  Without a long-term bill or extension, U.S. authority to
collect the 18.4-cents-a-gallon gasoline tax and spend on
highways and transit will run out June 30, cutting off money to
states for programs funded by the Highway Trust Fund such as
safety and repairs. Thousands of construction and government
workers probably would be idled.  Lawmakers were pushing for a measure that extends highway
funding through September 2013, Representative Bill Shuster, a
Pennsylvania Republican, said yesterday. That’s about the time
frame of the measure the Senate passed in March. After efforts
to pass a long-term bill fell apart, the House passed an
extension of current law April 18 to push discussions to a
conference committee.  “We’ve got to wait and see what the money is,” Shuster
said as talks continued. “The money is going to be the thing
that drives that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  