-- Congress Readies Transportation Plan With Focus on Roads
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-29T00:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/u-s-highway-legislation-stresses-spending-on-roads-bridges.html
U.S. congressional negotiators
agreed yesterday to maintain current transportation spending for
27 months, refocusing federal dollars on highways and giving
states more power to set their own priorities.  Members of a House-Senate conference committee reached a
deal three days before the latest temporary extension of
existing legislation expires. The final  measure , which both
chambers must approve, will come up for a Senate vote tomorrow,
said Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. The Senate
may act after the House votes, he said.  Republicans said the bill would free states from
questionable federal mandates and get projects built quicker.
Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat who is chairwoman
of the House-Senate conference committee, said in a statement
that Republicans met the Democratic-led Senate half way.  “The bill is funded at current levels, and it will protect
and create 3 million jobs,” Boxer said. “Our country needs the
kind of economic boost that this bill offers.”  Without a long-term bill or another extension of previous
law, U.S. authority to collect the 18.4-cents-a-gallon gasoline
tax and spend on highways and transit would run out June 30,
cutting off money to states for programs funded by the U.S.
 Highway Trust Fund  such as safety and repairs. Thousands of
construction and government workers would probably be idled.  Besides transportation-related programs, the legislation
poised to clear Congress by the end of the week will include
money to keep student-loan  interest rates  from doubling and a
reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program. Flood
insurance programs expire at the end of July.  Keystone Dropped  The deal came together after conferees dropped two
Republican-backed provisions, one requiring approval of the
Keystone XL oil pipeline from  Canada  to the U.S. Gulf Coast and
another barring the federal government from regulating coal ash
as hazardous waste, said Oklahoma Senator  James Inhofe , the
senior Republican negotiating from the Senate.  Inhofe said he didn’t anticipate that the absence of the
Keystone and coal-ash provisions would threaten Republican
support for the bill in the Senate.  “Keystone and coal ash are really sort of one-shot
deals,” he told reporters.  Representative  John Mica , the chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said the bill would
cut red tape and attract more private financing for projects.  The measure fulfilled his goals of getting funding for as
long a period as possible and ending the practice of earmarking,
in which lawmakers set aside money for pet projects in their
states or districts, he said. The last transportation overhaul,
passed in 2005, carried 6,300 earmarks, he said.  Spending Extension  “The public just cannot wait,” said Mica, a Florida
Republican who negotiated for the House. “We had to provide
some stability. A six-month extension would have been a disaster
at this point in our economic situation.”  The compromise measure would extend current levels of
spending on highways, bridges and mass transit through the end
of fiscal 2014, Mica said.  The money to pay for the transportation projects will come
from the Highway Trust Fund and an infusion of general taxpayer
cash, Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said in a
statement last night. The general tax money will be fully offset
by changes to tax law, including one that stabilizes pension
interest rates and another that raises company premiums for the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.  Bicycle Paths  The final package funding the highway bill and the student
loan rate provision will cost $27.2 billion, Baucus said.  House Republicans also had objected to a U.S. policy that
sets aside between 1 percent and 2 percent of gasoline-tax
revenues for non-road projects.  States will be able to elect not to spend federal highway
money on items such as pedestrian walkways, bicycle paths and
roadside wildflowers, according to a fact sheet House leaders
distributed yesterday.  Representative Peter DeFazio, an Oregon Democrat, said
Boxer had eased his concerns that the bill would erode
environmental protections and states’ ability to fund non-road
projects such as bike lanes. States will have the option to
spend the money on other things as well, he said.  “Some unenlightened states, like  Texas , will do that,”
DeFazio told reporters. “States like mine will continue to
invest in alternate modes.”  Accelerated Approval  Speeding environmental reviews was one of the main sticking
points in talks between the House and Senate.  House Republicans ,
including many of the 84 members in their first terms, focused
on cutting the length of time it takes to complete highways and
bridges built with U.S. funds, estimated at an average of 13
years, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  House and Senate negotiators compromised on ways to
accelerate approval of federally funded projects, said
Representative Reid Ribble, a Wisconsin Republican charged with
negotiating that part of the bill with the Senate.  “We came toward them on a few things and they came toward
us on a few,” Ribble told reporters. “It actually worked the
way it was supposed to.”  While some fiscal conservatives won’t support spending more
than the income of the Highway Trust Fund, most of them would
agree to the funding levels conferees settled on, Ribble said.
He predicted the House would pass the bill tomorrow.  “I think we’ll do well on the Republican side,” Ribble
said.  ‘Planting Flowers’  The highway measure will reduce the number of projects
funded and “streamline the regulatory process,” House Speaker
 John Boehner  told reporters yesterday. He said the measure
allows “us to focus our highway dollars on fixing America’s
highways, not planting more flowers around the country.”  Lawmakers combined the highway bill with a one-year freeze
for government-subsidized student loan rates. Otherwise, those
interest rates would double to 6.8 percent on July 1. The rate
freeze’s cost is estimated at $5.9 billion.  About 7.4 million students stand to save an average of
$1,000, and President  Barack Obama  has made this a priority
since his  State of the Union  address, White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said in a statement.  “We hope that Congress will complete the legislative
process and send a bill to the president as soon as possible,”
Carney said. Lawmakers leave at the end of this week for a
weeklong July 4 recess.  Concessions Concerns  Environmental groups and transportation advocates were
watching to see if Senate Democrats made too many concessions on
so-called enhancement projects used to supplement roads, said
Kevin Mills, vice president of policy and trail development at
the Washington-based Rails-to-Trails Conservancy.  “They’ve been tremendously cost-effective,” said Mills,
whose group advocates for the conversion of abandoned railways
into bike paths. “We’re concerned there not be backtracking on
these vital programs.”  Still, dropping the Keystone and coal ash provisions gave a
victory to environmental groups and Democrats who had said the
proposals threatened the environment and public health.  Republicans said the Keystone project would create
thousands of jobs and lower U.S. dependence on foreign oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  