-- Hungary Set to End Stalemate to Start IMF Bailout Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-28T08:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/hungary-set-to-end-seven-month-battle-to-start-imf-bailout-talks.html
Hungary  is on the brink of breaking
a deadlock to start bailout negotiations with the  International
Monetary Fund  after a seven-month stalemate that has made its
currency the world’s most volatile.  The IMF agreed to start aid talks as soon as legislators
approve proposed changes to a disputed central bank law, which
has blocked talks since December, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a letter to Hungarian leaders, distributed to
reporters yesterday. Parliament will vote on the amendments by
July 12, government negotiator Mihaly Varga said. The forint,
stocks and bonds gained and Hungary’s default risk fell after
the announcement.  “This is clearly a positive,” Simon Quijano-Evans, head
of emerging-market research for  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  at  ING Groep NV (INGA) , said by phone from  London . “There’s
room for more yield and spread compression for bonds.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  requested the aid in November
as the country’s credit grade was cut to junk and the forint
fell to a record against the euro. Preliminary talks broke down
in December after Hungary passed a law that the IMF and the
European Union said may curb central bank independence.  Bonds, CDS  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rose 2
basis points to 8.03 percent after dropping 3 basis points
yesterday. It was as high as 10.8 percent on January 4, which
prompted the government to announce a drive to obtain a bailout
to reduce borrowing costs. The cost of insuring against non-
payment on Hungary’s debt with credit-default swaps for five
years fell to 520 basis points, the lowest since May 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The forint weakened 0.7 percent to 286.6 per euro by 9:34
a.m. in Budapest after paring its loss to 0.1 percent yesterday.
It has risen 9.9 percent against the euro this year, the best
performance in the world behind the Colombian peso. The
benchmark BUX stock index has advanced 6.6 percent this month
and rose 0.1 percent to 17,005.64 today.  Hungary  expects to sign a bailout agreement on a  credit
line  of “close to” 15 billion euros ($19 billion) by the end
of October at the latest, Reuters reported, citing Varga. An
accord may be completed “any time from mid-August until the end
of October,” Varga told Reuters, adding that the government is
seeking a flexible credit line rather than a standby agreement
from the Washington-based lender.  Orban’s Pledge  The government submitted amendments to the central bank law
on June 21. The proposed changes affect the handling of
information on foreign-currency reserves, the powers of the
rate-setting Monetary Council, the number of policy makers, the
dismissal of MPC members and the governor of the central bank,
according to the amendments.  Orban also pledged not to enlarge the rate-setting Monetary
Council and to refrain from naming a third vice president to the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank before the end of President Andras Simor’s
term in March.  “The proposed amendments and commitments address our key
concerns,” Lagarde said in her June 25 letter to Varga and
Simor. The IMF’s local representative office confirmed in an e-
mail that the lender sent a letter to the government. “Once the
proposed amendments are adopted, the Fund will be ready to enter
into negotiations on a joint IMF/EU program together with our
European partners.”  Parliamentary Vote  The amendments will be approved by Parliament on July 12 at
the latest, opening the way for aid talks from the middle of
next month, Varga said. Hungary is waiting for the opinion of
the  European Central Bank  before approving the amendment, Varga
said.  “It’s definitely good, supportive and confirms the
assumption that this government is finally accelerating the pace
of multilateral negotiations,”  Luis Costa , a London-based
emerging-market strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said by phone
yesterday. “If there’s no massive delay following the voting
it’s fair to believe the country will have a package secured by
the beginning of the fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  