-- Union Carbide Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Bhopal Plant
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/union-carbide-wins-dismissal-of-suit-over-bhopal-plant.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Union Carbide won
dismissal of a lawsuit alleging polluted soil and water produced
by its former chemical plant in Bhopal,  India , injured area
residents, one of at least two pending cases involving the
facility known for the 1984 disaster that killed thousands.  U.S. District Judge John Keenan in  Manhattan  ruled on June
26 that Union Carbide and its former chairman, Warren Anderson,
weren’t liable for environmental remediation or pollution-
related claims made by residents near the plant, which had been
owned and operated by a former Union Carbide unit in India.  Keenan asked the parties to submit papers on “the effect
of this ruling, if any” upon a companion case pending before
him, one filed by owners of property near the Bhopal plant.
Richard Lewis, a lawyer for the plaintiffs in the dismissed
case, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday
on the ruling or whether he would appeal.  A gas leak from the Union Carbide plant killed an estimated
22,000 people, according to an Amnesty International-
commissioned study. Dow acquired Union Carbide in 2001, about 16
years after the accident and 10 years after the Indian Supreme
Court approved a $470 million settlement paid by Union Carbide
and its India unit.  The plaintiffs in the  New York  case claimed negligence and
public and private nuisance, and sought punitive and
compensatory damages as well as medical monitoring. They alleged
they sustained injuries from exposure to soil and drinking water
polluted by hazardous waste produced by Union Carbide India Ltd.  Years of Litigation  The ruling follows years of litigation over the plant. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York in 2008 reinstated  claims  that
were dismissed by a lower court against the unit of Midland,
Michigan-based Dow Chemical. The appeals court ruled the judge,
Keenan, didn’t give the plaintiffs enough notice to respond to
the company’s motion to dismiss.  Union Carbide said yesterday in a statement that, after the
1984 disaster, Union Carbide India “obtained permission from
the government to conduct clean-up work at the site.”  Ten years later, Union Carbide sold its stake in the Indian
unit, which later changed its name to Eveready Industries India,
Ltd., Union Carbide said, adding that in 1998, the state of
Madhya Pradesh took over responsibility for the site and
remediation efforts. Eveready isn’t involved in the litigation.  ‘Court Decision’  “The court decision not only dismisses plaintiffs’ claims
against UCC, but also clarifies that UCC has no liability
related to the plant site and further acknowledges the matter of
site ownership and liability as being the responsibility of the
state government of Madhya Pradesh,” the company said.  E-mails after regular business hours seeking comment on the
ruling from Eveready India’s media address and Tehnaz Punwani,
of its investor relations department, weren’t immediately
returned. Eveready said on its website that Union Carbide India
was acquired by an Indian company belonging to the Williamson
Magor Group, eventually becoming  Eveready Industries India Ltd. (EVRIN)   Its present business “is manufacture and marketing of fast
moving  consumer goods  and has no connection with the pesticides
business of Union Carbide.” The company lists batteries,
flashlights and packet tea among its products.  “Eveready is neither responsible for the pollution as
reported, nor is it liable for the cleanup of the toxic
material,” the company said on its website.  Liable For Injuries  The plaintiffs sought to hold Union Carbide and Anderson
liable for injuries because they were “direct participants” in
the activities that resulted in the pollution. The litigants
said the company and Anderson worked in concert with the India
subsidiary “to cause, exacerbate, or conceal the pollution.”  In his ruling, Keenan said that when the federal appeals
court reinstated the case and sent it back to him, it directed
that there be “limited” proceedings about discovery, or the
exchange of evidence and information between parties prior to
trial.  “Plaintiffs embarked on a discovery expedition that was
worthy of Vasco de Gama,” Keenan wrote in his order granting
the motion to dismiss. “More than two years and 12,000 pages of
discovery later, defendants renewed their motion for summary
judgment as to all theories of liability.”  The accident at the Union Carbide pesticide plant on Dec.
3, 1984, released methyl isocyanate gas into the streets of
Bhopal, the capital of Madhya Pradesh in central India.  Union Carbide estimated that 3,800 people were killed by
the leak. The study by  Amnesty International , a human-rights
group, showed 7,000 perished within days and another 15,000 died
later from exposure to the gas.  The case is Sahu v. Union Carbide, 04-cv-08825, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  