-- United Warns Pilots on Sick Days as Claims Seen to Rise
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-27T20:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/united-warns-pilots-on-sick-days-as-claims-seen-to-rise.html
United Airlines (UAL)  pilots, who are
pressing the company for a new contract, were warned by their
union against misusing sick leave after the carrier noted an
“abnormally high” rate of such reports.  Absences exceeded usual levels during the weekend,  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based airline, said
today. She wasn’t able to say immediately whether parent United
Continental Holdings Inc. was able to cover the vacancies with
reserve pilots or had to cancel flights.  The Air Line Pilots Association has asked U.S. mediators to
declare an impasse in talks for a joint contract, which is still
in the works after the company was created in the 2010 merger of
United and Continental airlines. United won a federal court
order in 2008 barring its pilots union from supporting a work
slowdown that forced cancellation of almost 330 flights.  “Improper use of sick leave or decisions that impact
operations in order to pressure the company threaten everything
we have been trying to accomplish in recent months,” Jay
Heppner, chairman of the ALPA group for pilots at the pre-merger
United, said  on the union’s website . “Any such activity must
stop.”  While an impasse declaration would move the union closer to
a strike, pilots would need additional clearance from federal
mediators to stage a walkout. Talks are under way this week
between the union and the world’s largest airline.  United Continental rose 0.6 percent to $23.97 at the close
in  New York . The  shares  have climbed 27 percent this year.  Labor Rules  Airline unions are barred from striking or conducting work
slowdowns without following  specific steps  outlined in the
 Railway Labor Act . In the past,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  have won court orders blocking such
actions by pilots.  United cited the increase in sick-day claims in a June 24
letter to its 12,000 pilots. McCarthy said today in an e-mail
that the airline was “reviewing the situation and taking steps
to protect our customers and operation.”  United’s union sent pilots a statement yesterday outlining
actions its members should take when calling in sick.  American trimmed its July flight schedule by about
1 percent as pilots at the bankrupt carrier took sick days at a
“higher-than-normal” rate. That followed a 1.5 percent
pullback in June flying, spurred by the retirements of more
pilots than had been expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  