-- Murdoch’s Humble Day Reaps $5 Billion for His Shareholders
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-27T20:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/murdoch-s-humble-day-reaps-5-billion-for-news-corp-investors.html
Almost a year after  News Corp. (NWS) ’s
phone hacking scandal broke, Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  has bowed
to the unthinkable: splitting off his beloved newspapers.
Investors couldn’t be happier.  News Corp. (NWSA)  shares have gained $5 billion in value since
revelations last year that journalists at one of Murdoch’s U.K.
newspapers hacked into the voice-mail account of a murdered
schoolgirl. The scandal forced the company to abandon its bid
for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and close News of the
World, its troubled tabloid. News Corp. stock initially
plummeted 25 percent, and led to what the 81-year-old Murdoch
called his “most humble day” testifying before a U.K.
parliamentary committee.  The pressure on the U.K. business eventually persuaded
Murdoch to accept a split, said a person with knowledge of the
matter who sought anonymity because the deliberations are
private. The stock surged 8.3 percent yesterday to almost a
five-year high. BSkyB added 2.7 percent in  London  on speculation
that Murdoch might be able to relaunch his offer.  “For shareholders, this past year has been a win-win,”
said Lawrence Haverty, a  fund manager  at  Gamco Investors Inc. ,
which holds more than 5 million News Corp. Class A shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The hacking scandal
ended up being “the moment of all buying opportunities.”  Voice Mail  Since the story of News Corp. staff intercepting voice mail
left for schoolgirl Millie Dowler was published in the  Guardian
newspaper  on July 4 last year, the New York-based company’s
market value has swelled by $5 billion, or 11 percent. Investors
say a split could boost the stock another 32 percent.  The market-cap gain understates the return for investors,
who have seen a 20 percent increase in the share price, to a
close of $21.76 yesterday in  New York . News Corp. adopted a $5
billion  buyback  plan in the wake of the scandal and doubled the
size of the program in May. The company has repurchased 256.7
million Class A shares at a cost of $4.57 billion, according to
a filing yesterday.  News Corp. shares  increased an additional 2.5 percent to
$22.31 today in New York.  Centerview Partners , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are advising News Corp. on the breakup, according
to people with knowledge of the matter. JPMorgan is working with
the company on the  capital structure , credit ratings and
financing for the publishing company, one person said.  ‘A Conflict’  For Murdoch, who built his global company on the success of
newspapers in  Australia , the U.K. and the U.S., the publishing
business had been sacrosanct, even as the profit from that
segment of his empire dimmed in comparison with the returns from
the company’s Hollywood studio, its broadcast network and pay-TV
properties such as Fox News Channel. Ultimately, though, he was
persuaded that they had to go.  “I don’t think most corporate shareholders want to have
exposure to U.K. newspaper assets,” said  Alex DeGroote , a
London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon. “But I think Rupert
Murdoch wants the assets, so there’s a conflict between what
shareholders want and what Rupert wants.”  One reason investors may have won is the rising influence
within the company of Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey , whom
Murdoch said earlier this year is ready to assume the role of
CEO if necessary.  Power Shift?  Since that time, Carey has taken on a more high-profile
role as the face of the company. His off-handed statement in
February that News Corp. would consider divesting its publishing
properties under certain conditions sparked a wave of
speculation among analysts and outside observers for indications
of a shift.  Carey and Chief Financial Officer David DeVoe were key to
convincing Murdoch that a split would result in a better
valuation for the entertainment group while also allowing him to
keep control of his newspaper business, said a person familiar
with the matter.  Murdoch resisted the breakup idea until a few months ago,
said the person. One of his concerns was that the newspaper
business wasn’t strong enough to stand on its own and needed
more technology investment, another person said. Murdoch now
sees a separate publishing company as a way to spend more on the
business without shareholders arguing that funds should go to
the entertainment group, this person said.  Announcement Soon?  An announcement of the breakup may come by tomorrow,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation. Carey
would remain with the entertainment businesses, two people said.  Murdoch, who controls the Wall Street Journal, the New York
Post and the Australian, is contemplating the breakup after the
hacking scandal last year forced him to pull out of the 7.8
billion-pound ($12 billion) bid to buy the remaining 61 percent
of BSkyB. British media regulator Ofcom is now considering
whether News Corp. should be allowed to keep its current stake.  Using cash to buy back stock instead of BSkyB has benefited
shareholders, Haverty said.  A separation of the publishing business is unlikely to
change Ofcom’s investigation into whether News Corp. is “fit
and proper” to own a broadcast license, said  David Bank , a
media analyst at RBC Capital Market in New York.  Different Pockets  “Murdoch will still own the newspapers in a split and that
shouldn’t change ownership attribution as far as Ofcom is
concerned,” Bank said. “If you move newspapers from one pocket
to another, it’s still in your pockets.”  News Corp. got its start in 1954, when Murdoch took over
the Adelaide News newspaper in Australia. Four years later, he
acquired the broadcast license rights for the town’s first
television station.  During the next 50 years, Murdoch built his empire through
acquisitions and investments such as the $1 billion used to
start BSkyB in 1990, creating what would become the U.K.’s
biggest pay-TV service. Through it all, Murdoch defended the
newspapers against investors who pointed to declining
circulation and advertising revenue as a drag on profits.  While Murdoch closed the News of the World Sunday newspaper
in July, he replaced it this year with a Sunday edition of the
Sun tabloid.  Charlie Beckett , director of media at the  London School  of
Economics, said Murdoch’s interest in the newspaper business
isn’t shared by News Corp. investors.  ‘Almost Uninterested’  “The most important shareholders, certainly the
institutional shareholders, are almost uninterested in the
strategic value of newspapers,” he said.  Carey said in February that executives had discussed a
breakup after the scandal spread. “There certainly is an
awareness” that News Corp. would trade at higher multiples if
it didn’t own newspapers, Carey said.  Publishing contributed about 18 percent of News Corp.’s
operating income in the 2011 financial year, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Cable network programming, while smaller
in revenue, generated 57 percent of earnings.  In the nine months ended March 31, News Corp.’s publishing
unit generated a profit of $458 million, an operating margin of
less than 8 percent of revenue, according to the company’s
earnings report in May. The cable, film and television units
produced a combined $4 billion in profit, a margin exceeding 25
percent.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Ethics Panel  While Murdoch has defended the newspaper business, the
investigations and Parliamentary trials in the wake of the
scandal have taken their toll.  Murdoch and his son James were required to appear before
the U.K. Parliament and an inquiry into media ethics called for
by Prime Minister  David Cameron  to explain how illegal practices
were allowed to go on for years and why executives feted top
politicians on yachts, Christmas parties, weddings and private
jets.  Appearing before U.K. Parliament in July, Murdoch said it
was the “most humble day of my life.”  News Corp. shareholders in October lodged a protest vote
against Murdoch and his sons, following an annual meeting at
which investors called for governance changes and an end to
voting practices that cement the family’s control.  Murdoch’s son James, 39, said in April he felt compelled to
step down as chairman of BSkyB after becoming a “lightning
rod” for criticism because of his involvement overseeing News
International.  Following News Corp.’s decision to considering splitting
into two publicly held units, shareholders are now looking on
the bright side.  The two parts of News Corp. would be worth $67 billion to
$77 billion, according to reports from Davenport & Co. and BMO
Capital Markets. The entertainment divisions could command $52
billion, based on a sum-of-the-parts analysis by Gabelli & Co.  “This would be a nice bonanza,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst at  Wunderlich Securities . “Despite the phone hacking
issues, News Corp. retains a huge global media franchise and a
compelling valuation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  