-- Turkey Yields Fall to 8-Month Low on Funding Cost, Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-27T14:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/turkey-yields-fall-to-8-month-low-on-lower-funding-cost-rates.html
Turkey  bond  yields  fell to the
lowest in more than eight months on bets of a rate cut this year
and an upgrade in sovereign  credit rating . The  central bank 
extended funding at its minimum policy rate for an 18th
consecutive day, lowering borrowing costs.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt slid for a second day,
down 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 8.65 percent
at the close in Istanbul, the weakest level since Oct. 18.  Turkey’s  inflation  rate slipped to 8.3 percent last month
from a three-year high of 11.1 percent as the central bank
raised the average cost of funding to 9.8 percent in May from
8.3 percent in April. Oil slumped 28 percent from this year’s
peak in February, helping the  current-account deficit  contract
for a sixth month in April. Capacity utilization slid to 74.6
percent in June from 76.7 percent a year earlier, according to a
central bank report June 25.  “We believe that the central bank will cut policy rates in
the last quarter of the year with more favorable inflation
conditions,” Bora Tamer Yilmaz, vice president at Halk
Securities in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note. Capacity
utilization data shows the economy failed to gain momentum in
the second quarter, he said.  The government expects economic growth to retreat to 4
percent this year from last year’s 8.5 percent, the fastest
among major economies after  China  and  Argentina . Two-year cross-
currency swaps declined to 6.89 percent, the lowest level since
Oct. 19 and down from 8.19 percent May 15, signaling traders are
betting on a rate cut. Turkey meets almost all of its energy
needs through imports.  Cheaper Borrowing Costs  The central bank lent 1 billion liras ($552.3 million) at
5.75 percent in its one-week repurchase agreements auction
today. The provision of liquidity at the minimum funding rate
for the 18th straight day is the longest stretch since March.  The bank executes its monetary policy through a rates
corridor introduced in October. It adjusts borrowing costs
between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent daily to control credit
growth and the current-account deficit while reining in
inflation.  The benchmark bond yields have fallen 66 basis points in
the second quarter, extending the decline in the previous three
months.  “Bond yields are falling fast with the central bank
increasing its funding and the cost of funding in the market
falling,” Onur Bayol, an Istanbul-based fixed income and
currency trader at Denizbank AS, said in e-mailed comments.  Ratings Upgrade Bets  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Turkey’s credit rating
to one level below investment grade June 20. The move to Ba1 had
“two main drivers: the significant improvement that we’ve
observed in Turkey’s public finances and our observation that
the government has improved its shock absorption capacity,”
Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said from  London  after the ratings
action.  “Expectations of an upgrade from a rating agency is
supporting today’s purchases in the  bond market  in addition to
expectations that inflation will fall in the next two months and
we will close this year around 7,” Murat Yardimci, head of
trading at ING Bank, in Istanbul said in e-mailed comments.  Fitch Ratings  ranks Turkey at BB+, one step below
investment grade with a stable outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the outlook on Turkey’s debt to stable from positive on May 1,
maintaining its BB rating, two steps below investment grade.  The lira depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8128 per dollar,
paring its loss in the second quarter to 1.7 percent,
outperforming all the other emerging-market currencies in
 Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East  after the Icelandic krona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  