-- Vale Gets Permit to Expand World’s Largest Iron-Ore Mine
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2012-06-27T21:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/vale-gets-permit-to-expand-world-s-largest-iron-ore-mine.html
Vale SA (VALE3)  received a preliminary
environmental license for its $8 billion project to double
output at Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore mine, in
northern  Brazil .  The Serra Sul project will add 90 million metric tons of
capacity, about the same as current installations at Carajas are
capable of producing, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. The unit, slated to start operations in
the second half of 2016, includes a mine and a mill to process
the mineral.  The world’s biggest iron-ore producer received the permit
at a time Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is reviewing a
$21.4 billion investment plan as economic growth in  China ,
Vale’s biggest buyer, is forecast to slow. The project will
allow Vale to boost total output 30 percent, while cutting costs
and improving the average quality of its ore, Itau BBA’s Marcos Assumpcao said today.  “The granting of the environmental license for the Serra
Sul project reduces investor concerns regarding Vale’s growth
prospects,” Assumpcao, a Sao Paulo-based analyst at Itau, said
in a note to clients. It’s “a positive trigger for Vale.”  Boosting Production  Vale will invest 16.5 billion reais ($7.9 billion) to
develop the mine and 23.5 billion to build a railway and a port,
Ferreira said on a conference call with journalists today. The
addition of the Serra Sul mine will help Vale boost its iron-ore
production to 230,000 tons a year by 2017, he said.  Serra Sul will increase Vale’s market value by about 10
percent, or $10 billion, Assumpcao said.  Vale may sell bonds to help finance the project, Ferreira
said. The project will produce high-grade ore with an average
66.5 percent iron content, the company said.  Vale dropped 0.2 percent to close at 38.84 reais in  Sao
Paulo . The shares have climbed 2.7 percent this year, compared
with a 6.4 decline in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  