-- Vartan Gregorian Helps Celebrate Twain, Melville: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/vartan-gregorian-helps-celebrate-twain-melville-d-c-.html
Vartan Gregorian, president of
Carnegie Corporation of  New York , hovered over a rare edition of
 Mark Twain ’s “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” Monday night at
the Thomas Jefferson Building of the  Library of Congress .  The occasion was a reception for the opening of the
library’s “Books That Shaped America” exhibition, which
showcases 88 works of U.S. literature written between 1751 and
2002.  Fragile copies of “Gone with the Wind,” “The Grapes of
Wrath,” and “The Scarlet Letter” sit in glass cases in the
second-floor room. More than 2,000 people wandered through the
exhibition on its first day.  Librarian of Congress James Billington said that Russian
literature is his favorite, but the exhibition’s copy of Herman
Melville’s “Moby-Dick” holds a special place in his heart. He
remembered the impact the work had on him as a college student.  The list of titles was determined by curators and scholars
at the Library of Congress, which has an online survey so
visitors can weigh in on the list.  Carnegie is the reception’s major sponsor. Gregorian
recalled his days as the head of another scholarly institution,
the  New York Public Library . When he was having a bad day, he
said, the sight of hundreds of researchers toiling in the
library’s vast reading room would lift his spirits.  Carnegie employees who made the trip from New York such as
Jeanne Donofrio, chief of staff and operations, and Patricia
Aquino-Macri, an executive assistant, had a laugh seeing “the
other Carnegie,” Dale, in the exhibition for his “How to Win
Friends and Influence People.”  While trading book stories, guests ate short-rib sliders
and sausage skewers, and sweets from dessert tables with vibrant
floral centerpieces.  The exhibition will remain at the Library of Congress
through Sept. 29, and will serve as a preface to the  National
Book Festival , which runs Sept. 22-23 on the National Mall.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Jim
Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 