-- Vietnam Warns China to Halt Oil Bids in Exxon-Awarded Area
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-28T05:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/vietnam-warns-china-to-halt-oil-bids-in-area-awarded-to-exxon.html
Vietnam ’s state-run oil explorer
warned China to halt efforts to develop disputed areas of the
 South China Sea  that Hanoi’s leaders have already awarded to
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Gazprom.  Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, also known as PetroVietnam, will
ask China National Offshore Oil Corp., the government-owned
parent of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , to cancel an invitation for foreign
companies to explore nine blocks, Chief Executive Officer Do Van Hau told reporters in Hanoi yesterday. PetroVietnam and its
partners will continue exploring in the area and asked foreign
companies not to bid for the nine blocks, he said.  PetroVietnam will “unwaveringly oppose” any foreign
companies that sign contracts with China to explore for oil in
the nine areas, Hau said. “The Vietnamese government will not
allow any implementation of these exploration activities.”  The tender threatens to escalate tensions after Chinese
vessels last year cut the cables of a PetroVietnam survey ship
and chased away a boat in waters delimited by the  Philippines .
The blocks are the southernmost put out for bid by  China  in
about two decades, according to Arthur Ding, a research fellow
at the Institute of International Relations in  Taiwan .  “This is one way for China to assert its maritime
territory,” he said by phone. “There’s probably more to come.
Domestic pressure was building up so they had to do something.”  The state-run company deployed China’s first deep-water
drilling rig last month near disputed islands. The blocks,
covering an area of 160,124 square kilometers, are available for
exploration and development with foreign companies this year,
according to a June 23  statement  on the company’s website.  Gazprom, Exxon  China’s blocks overlap with Vietnamese areas that have been
awarded to Exxon, Moscow-based  Gazprom (OGZD) , India’s Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , according to a PetroVietnam
map shown to reporters in Hanoi.  Exxon referred calls to U.S.-based spokesman Patrick
McGinn, who didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail sent after
office hours.  The invitation for bids came as Vietnam’s parliament passed
a law reasserting its sovereignty over the area. China summoned
Vietnam’s ambassador June 21 to protest the move, with Vice
Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun saying Vietnam’s actions weren’t
“conducive to peace and stability.”  Not Disputed  China hopes Vietnam will “not take actions that will
amplify or complicate the dispute,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said yesterday in Beijing. “At the same time, Vietnam
should stop its activities that infringe upon China’s rights and
interests.”  The area “lies entirely within Vietnam’s 200-nautical mile
exclusive economic zone and continental shelf,” Luong Thanh
Nghi, a spokesman for the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , said in
comments posted on its website June 25. “This is absolutely not
a disputed area.”  The region is estimated to have as much as 30 billion
metric tons of oil and 16 trillion cubic meters of gas, which
would account for about one-third of China’s oil and gas
resources, according to the Xinhua News Agency. China had 2
billion tons of proven oil reserves and 99 trillion cubic feet
of natural gas reserves in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  estimates.  The Philippines and Vietnam have increased defense ties
with the U.S. while rejecting China’s map of the South China Sea
as a basis for joint development. China this week repeated its
call to shelve disputes in favor of working together to exploit
the resources.  ‘Hopeful’ Diplomacy  “We support a peaceful process,” U.S. Assistant Secretary
of State  Kurt Campbell  told a forum in  Washington  yesterday,
according to a transcript of his remarks. “Behind the scenes
we’ve seen some recent diplomacy that is hopeful.”  The location of the blocks indicates that China claims the
maritime spaces within its so-called nine-dash map of the sea, a
development that will further alarm claimant states, according
to Clive Schofield, director of research at the Australian
National Centre for Ocean Resources & Security.  “There are highly likely to be future clashes should there
be actions taken by any of the countries concerned to try and
explore within those blocks,” he said. “The designation of
blocks is in a sense a proxy way of states trying to reinforce
their jurisdictional rights.”  In 1992, China awarded Crestone Energy Corp. a block off
Vietnam’s southern coast that is now  owned  by Houston-based
 Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR)  Talisman, an oil and gas producer
with operations in  North America , the  North Sea  and  Indonesia ,
owns the rights for Vietnam.  More Patrols  Routine patrols in the area by China’s maritime
surveillance ships coupled with China National Offshore’s
enhanced ability to operate in deeper waters has emboldened the
country to assert its claims in the area, according to Gary Li,
head of marine and aviation forecasting at Exclusive Analysis
Ltd., a London-based business advisory firm.  “The Chinese in the next six months are very likely to
demonstrate to potential partners their ability to muscle in on
these blocks,” he wrote. “So expect more patrols, high profile
propaganda announcements and puff pieces on Cnooc personnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Hanoi at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  