-- Vietnam Calls on Cnooc Parent to Scrap Oil Exploration Bids
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-27T05:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/vietnam-calls-on-cnooc-to-scrap-bid-to-explore-oil-off-coast-1-.html
  Vietnam  called on  China  National
Offshore Oil Corp., the state-owned parent of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , to
cancel an invitation for foreign oil and gas companies to
explore nine blocks in disputed waters of the South China Sea.  Seeking bids for the exploration areas is an illegal act
that “seriously violated” Vietnam’s sovereign rights, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs spokesman Luong Thanh Nghi said in comments
posted on the ministry’s website yesterday. The company should
“immediately cancel” the invitation, he said.  China’s tender may lead to more tension in the waters after
its surveillance ships last year moved to thwart efforts by
Vietnam and the Philippines to explore for oil and gas in one of
the world’s busiest sea corridors.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  are among companies that have
signed deals to explore the area.  The location of the blocks indicates that China claims the
maritime spaces within its so-called nine-dash map of the sea, a
development that will further alarm claimant states, according
to Clive Schofield, director of research at the Australian
National Centre for Ocean Resources & Security.  “There are highly likely to be future clashes should there
be actions taken by any of the countries concerned to try and
explore within those blocks,” he said. “The designation of
blocks is in a sense a proxy way of states trying to reinforce
their jurisdictional rights.”  Drilling Rig  Cnooc deployed China’s first deep-water drilling rig last
month near disputed islands to assert Beijing’s territorial
claims. The company said the blocks, covering an area of 160,124
square kilometers, are available for exploration and development
cooperation with foreign companies this year, according to a
June 23 statement on its website.  The  area  “lies entirely within Vietnam’s 200-nautical mile
exclusive economic zone and continental shelf,” Nghi said.
“This is absolutely not a disputed area.”  China’s oil exploration in the  South China Sea  is “normal
corporate activity” and complies with international law,
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a regular briefing in
Beijing yesterday.  The invitation for bids came as Vietnam’s parliament passed
a law reasserting its sovereignty over the area. China summoned
Vietnam’s ambassador June 21 to protest the move, with Vice
Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun saying Vietnam’s statement wasn’t
“conducive to peace and stability.”  Defense Ties  The disputed waters are estimated to have as much as 30
billion tons of oil and 16 trillion cubic meters of gas, which
would account for about one-third of China’s oil and gas
resources, according to the Xinhua News Agency. China had 2
billion tons of proven oil reserves and 99 trillion cubic feet
of natural gas reserves in 2010, according to  BP Plc. (BP/)   The Philippines and Vietnam have increased defense ties
with the U.S. while rejecting China’s map of the South China Sea
as a basis for joint development. China yesterday repeated its
call to shelve disputes in favor of working together to exploit
the resources.  The Philippines has set a July 31 deadline to develop two
areas in the South China Sea claimed by China. Vietnam objected
in March to Cnooc’s plans to invite bids for Block 65/24, which
sits 1 nautical mile from the disputed  Paracel Islands .  China ousted Vietnam from the 30 islets and reefs that
comprise the Paracels in a 1974 battle in which 71 soldiers were
killed. The countries also dispute the Spratly Islands further
to the south, an area near where fellow claimant the  Philippines 
is seeking to develop offshore exploration blocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  