-- Villas-Boas Is in Advanced Talks With Tottenham: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-27T07:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/villas-boas-is-in-advanced-talks-with-tottenham-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Advanced Talks  Andre Villas-Boas is in advanced negotiations to become
Tottenham Hotspur manager, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Villas-Boas, who’s always been the first-choice of Spurs
Chairman  Daniel Levy , can move to another English club after
July 1 under the terms of his March departure from Chelsea, the
Telegraph said, adding that Levy and Villas-Boas are hopeful of
reaching an agreement.  Sigurdsson Swoop  Tottenham is the favorite to sign Icelandic international
midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson from German club Hoffenheim, the
 Daily Express reported .  Sigurdsson had looked set to join former manager  Brendan Rodgers  at Liverpool following a loan spell at Swansea, though
is now expected to move to Spurs for 8 million pounds ($12.5
million), the newspaper added.  Villa Signing  Aston Villa  is set to sign Feyenoord midfielder Karim El
Ahmadi for 2.5 million pounds following talks with the Morocco
international, the  Sun reported .  “I was close to signing a new deal with Feyenoord when
Villa came along,” the Sun cited El Ahmadi as saying. “I’m at
the age when I want a new challenge. The Premier League is the
best in the world, and I didn’t need to think long about it.”  Bid Rejected  Manchester United  is increasing its efforts to sign Porto’s
James Rodriguez after having a 30 million-pound bid rejected,
the  Daily Mail reported .  United manager Alex Ferguson had Rodriguez watched
repeatedly last season and has made the Colombian forward, who
can operate on either flank or as a striker, one of his top
targets, the Mail added.  Chelsea Changes  Chelsea winger Florent Malouda has begun negotiations with
Brazilian club Vasco da Gama, the  Sun reported .  Malouda, who has a year left on his Chelsea contract, would
be the fourth player to leave the Blues since the end of last
season after Didier Drogba,  Salomon Kalou  and  Jose Bosingwa , the
Sun added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  