-- Vivendi Credit Ratings Under Threat Unless It Cuts Debt
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-06-27T12:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/vivendi-rating-under-threat-unless-it-cuts-debt-fitch.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s debt ratings may be
threatened unless the French media and telecommunications
company shows it can reduce its liabilities, two ratings
services said, adding pressure on Chief Executive Officer Jean- Bernard Levy to come up with a plan beyond cutting costs.  Fitch Ratings, confirming its BBB rating -- the second-
lowest investment grade -- and a stable outlook, said today the
rating “would come under pressure” if there was no clear
expectation of the Paris-based company’s ratio of adjusted net
debt to earnings staying below 2.5 times in the “medium” term.
The ratio was 2.3 times at the end of March. Moody’s Investors
Service warned of ratings pressure yesterday.  Shareholders want Levy, more than seven years at the helm,
to come up with a strategy to revive a stock that is trading
near its lowest level in nine years. Vivendi failed to shed
light on its plan after a meeting of top executives last
weekend. Levy, 57, told a private gathering of investors in
 London  yesterday he would focus on cutting costs at the French
wireless unit SFR, people with knowledge of the matter said.  “Vivendi’s rating would come under pressure if there is no
sign of deleveraging in 2013,” Fitch said today.  Since April, analysts at Fitch,  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s have written notes about Vivendi’s limited debt
headroom, citing the  Universal Music  Group division’s
acquisition of parts of EMI Group and pressure on earnings at
SFR because of increased competition in the French phone market.  London Meeting  Fitch’s report today also cited potential legal damages
related to a $956 million verdict this week in a U.S. lawsuit
over Vivendi’s 2001 purchase from  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  of a stake
in USA Networks Inc. Moody’s also cited the ruling, saying it
“adds to rating pressure at a time when the company’s debt
level is high and it grapples with a number of operating
challenges.” Vivendi said it would appeal the ruling.  The company’s net debt increased to about 12.5 billion
euros ($15.6 billion) by the end of March, nearing the level
reached a decade ago when former CEO Jean-Marie Messier’s
acquisition binge left the company close to bankruptcy. Still,
Vivendi’s earnings have also risen, suggesting its ability to
service debt is better than back then.  CEO Levy, who had been scheduled to meet with investors
yesterday and give a speech at a media conference organized by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in London, spoke instead via
videoconference from a remote location, according to people with
knowledge of the meeting, who asked not to be identified because
the event wasn’t public. Levy confirmed Vivendi’s full-year
forecasts and reiterated his commitment to the BBB  rating  by
Standard & Poor’s, said a person who attended the gathering.  Universal-EMI Deal  The cost of insuring Vivendi bonds using credit-default
swaps increased as much as 4 basis points, or 2 percent, to 203
basis points today, according to Bloomberg prices. Since the
beginning of the year, that cost has risen about 14 percent.
Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Vivendi fell 0.5 percent to 13.36 euros at 2:03 p.m. in
Paris. At 17.2 billion euros, Vivendi’s market capitalization
compares with almost 40 billion euros in total value of its
various businesses, not counting net debt, according to April
estimates by Morgan Stanley analysts. The investment bank values
SFR alone at 12.9 billion euros, and Brazilian phone unit GVT at
5.2 billion euros.  ‘When Appropriate’  Vivendi also owns Universal Music, a phone company in
Morocco and a stake in  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)   European regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on a
bid by Universal Music to acquire EMI’s recorded-music business,
which they have said would create a company “almost twice the
size of the next largest player” in  Europe . Universal may not
be sufficiently constrained by smaller competitors, customers’
buying power or illegal music downloads, the EU said when it
opened an in-depth probe in March.  Levy is poised to detail plans to SFR unions next week
about how he will cut operating expenses by about 350 million
euros in 2013, on top of the 450 million euros budgeted for this
year, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Jean-Louis Erneux, a spokesman for Paris-based Vivendi,
declined to comment, as did Patrick Burton, a spokesman for
JPMorgan in London.  Shareholders had expected details of Vivendi’s strategy
after the annual gathering of top executives last weekend.
Vivendi said June 25 it would communicate its plans “as and
when appropriate.”  Telecom Lessons  As SFR fights back competition from  Iliad SA (ILD) , the
discounter that began selling wireless packages in January, the
Vivendi unit is looking for ways to stop customers from leaving.
Levy said last month that “strategic vision” for the division
will come from Michel Combes, the  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive
who will lead SFR starting on Aug. 1.  Levy has also been working on plans to reduce costs at SFR,
although disagreements with the phone unit’s executives on how
to go about reducing spending have slowed the process, people
with knowledge of the matter said.  French companies must inform labor unions about plans to
reorganize, including staff moves or job cuts, which often lead
to protracted negotiations between management and employees.  Firings in the telecommunications industry have proved
especially complicated.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , SFR’s main competitor
and the country’s biggest phone operator, was rocked two years
ago by a streak of employee suicides which unions blamed on
stress caused by a reorganization aimed at making the company
more competitive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  