-- Wall Street Wins Neither With Obama Nor Romney Amid Glare
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/wall-street-wins-neither-with-obama-nor-romney-amid-glare.html
Campaign season has been rough on
 Wall Street , with President Barack Obama demonizing Bain Capital
Partners LLC when challenger  Mitt Romney  was its leader, and
Romney himself bringing unwanted scrutiny to private equity.  Wall Street has decided overwhelmingly to back Romney so
far. The Republican has collected $9.4 million from the
investment and securities industry, according to the Washington-
based Center for Responsive Politics. Obama has amassed $3.4
million, hurt by comments about “fat cat bankers” and an
advertising campaign against Romney’s private-equity record.  “I grew up middle class, and now I’m part of the 1 percent
and I shouldn’t feel bad about that,” said Anthony Scaramucci,
a former Obama supporter and current Romney backer who runs
hedge-fund investor SkyBridge Capital LLC. “I don’t subscribe
to the president’s anti-business rhetoric -- we should be a
country based on class movement, not class warfare.”  Bankers and traders may see little relief even if Romney
wins. With a record U.S. deficit, rising unemployment and an
anti-rich mood born of the  Occupy Wall Street  movement, the
former Massachusetts governor may be forced to raise taxes on
the wealthiest Americans and go back on his campaign promise to
repeal the Dodd-Frank Act, the 2010 law meant to bring more
regulation to banks.  “Given where the congressional elections are going, it’s
not clear he’s going to be able to move in any direction,” said
 Stan Collender , a managing director at Washington-based public-
relations firm Qorvis Communications and a former federal budget
policy director at two international accounting firms.  Political Gridlock  “A President Romney would have the same kind of problems
that a President Obama has had,” he said. “The ability to
repeal Dodd-Frank will be just as limited next year as it is
this year.”  The potential for continued gridlock hasn’t stopped
billionaire hedge-fund managers  Daniel Loeb ,  Paul Tudor Jones 
and  Ken Griffin  from switching their allegiances to Romney this
election. Four years ago, Wall Street executives were among
Obama’s biggest backers, collectively donating $16 million to
his campaign.  The swings in support have been extreme. Chicago-based
Griffin contributed $4,600 to Obama in 2008 and helped raise
more than $50,000 for his campaign. This time he’s contributed
more than $2 million to two Republican Super-PACs.  “Mitt Romney understands that the private sector is the
source of economic growth and job creation,” Griffin said in
November when he announced he would back Romney. “His ideas can
help get America’s economy moving again and start putting people
back to work.”  No Apology  Obama’s campaign managers made a conscious decision not to
apologize to potential donors for his criticism of private
equity, even behind the scenes, according to several backers who
asked not to be identified because the talks were private. The
administration figured any loss in contributions from the
financial-services industry could be made up with money from
grassroots fundraising, Hollywood celebrities and technology-
company moguls.  “Mitt Romney has actively fundraised off the fact that he
would repeal Wall Street reform and let Wall Street write its
own rules again, regardless of the consequences for middle class
families,” said  Ben LaBolt , an Obama campaign spokesman. “The
president believed it was necessary to take steps to ensure that
the financial crisis that crashed our economy and threatened the
security of the middle class isn’t repeated -- and most
Americans agree with him.”  Workforce Cuts  In May, the Obama campaign began a series of ads
criticizing Romney’s record as a co-founder and chief executive
officer of Boston-based Bain Capital.  One Web video, a mini-documentary that lasts almost six
minutes, focused on SCM Office Supplies Inc. of Marion, Indiana,
where 350 factory workers got fired after Bain Capital-owned
American Pad & Paper LLC bought the company in 1994. The
company, known as Ampad, filed for bankruptcy in 2000.  “Bain and Mitt Romney did not care about us as workers,”
one former employee says in the ad.  “Through more than a generation of investing, Bain Capital
has been focused on growing great companies and improving their
operations,” Bain said in a statement issued through spokesman
Alex Stanton. “We understand that in a political campaign some
may distort our investment activity by cherry-picking a few
negative situations while ignoring our overall track record.”  ‘Nauseating’ Attacks  Cory Booker, the mayor of Newark, New Jersey, called
attacks on private equity “nauseating.”  Steven Rattner , who
founded a buyout firm and later worked on Obama’s bailout of the
auto industry, also defended the business. Former president Bill Clinton, who served as a senior adviser to investor  Ron Burkle ’s
Yucaipa Cos., said Romney’s business record is “sterling.”  Romney’s presence in the race also is bringing scrutiny to
the beneficial tax treatment given to private-equity firms and
to some hedge funds.  Under current law, a manager’s profits from a private-
equity fund, known as carried interest, are considered  capital
gains  and therefore taxed at 15 percent. The Private Equity
Growth Capital Council, a trade group for the industry, spent
about $4.65 million lobbying to keep this tax treatment, and on
issues such as Dodd-Frank, even in the face of sluggish economic
growth and mounting pressure to cut the U.S. deficit.  The industry group this year produced a series of six
videos called “Private Equity at Work” that are designed to
highlight the industry’s role in expanding companies, and it set
up 49 visits this year between private equity-owned companies
and members of Congress or their staffs.  Because Romney’s earnings come from funds run by Bain and
other investment vehicles, his tax rate in 2010 was 13.9
percent, according to documents his campaign released earlier
this year.  Carried Interest  Both candidates have pledged to pursue broad reform of the
U.S. tax code, which is likely to include a reconsideration of
carried interest and capital gains, Purple Strategies LLC’s
Richard Keil said.  “Regardless of who wins, if there’s any attempt at
comprehensive tax reform, it’s impossible to imagine that
changes to carried interest aren’t part of the original draft or
an amendment,” said Keil, whose Washington-area firm was
founded by a group of Republican and Democratic strategists.  Another promise Romney may not be able to keep is the
repeal of the 2,300-page Dodd-Frank law that Obama signed two
years ago. Since then, bankers have been fighting the
regulation’s provisions, which include stricter capital
requirements and the so-called Volcker Rule that bars deposit-
taking banks from making wagers with their own money.  Obama’s Backers  The lobbying effort was gaining traction until May, when
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported a $2 billion-plus trading loss
from a portfolio of credit derivatives.  Jamie Dimon , the bank’s
CEO, was called to Washington twice to testify before Congress
and the losses have prompted talk among lawmakers about capping
the size of Wall Street firms.  Obama still has a few hedge-fund and private-equity
managers who have come out to support him.  Tony James , president of private-equity and real estate
giant  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , hosted Obama in May at his apartment
on New York’s Fifth Avenue. Blackstone executives including
 Jonathan Gray , real estate chief, and Joan Solotar, the head of
external affairs, were on hand, according to people familiar
with the event.  Marc Lasry , founder of Avenue Capital Group LLC, held a
well-publicized party for Obama in early June. About 50 people
came to his apartment, paying $40,000 for a 90-minute question-
and-answer session with Obama and former President  Bill Clinton .
“It’s not every day you get to be in a room with two
presidents,” the e-mail invitation said.  If Obama ends up winning in November, Wall Street can take
comfort that there will be few surprises from the president in
his second term.  “They’ve seen everything they’re going to see from
Obama,” said  Peter Morici , an economics professor at the Robert
H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland in
 College Park .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Josh Friedman at 
 jfriedman25@bloomberg.net ;
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  