-- Walter Haefner, World’s Oldest Billionaire, Dies at 101
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-06-27T19:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/walter-haefner-world-s-oldest-billionaire-dies-at-101-1-.html
Walter Haefner, the world’s oldest
billionaire, who gained his riches from importing cars to
 Switzerland  and then becoming the biggest shareholder of U.S.
software-maker  CA Inc. (CA) , has died. He was 101.  Haefner died on June 19 “after a long and fulfilled
life,” according to a statement on the website of Amag
Automobil und Motoren AG, the Swiss car dealership he founded.  Haefner was the oldest person with a net worth exceeding $1
billion and the third-richest Swiss, with $4.3 billion,
according to  Forbes  magazine. His death makes  David Rockefeller ,
97, the U.S. banker and grandson of Standard Oil founder  John D.
Rockefeller , the eldest billionaire, with $2.5 billion.  An entrepreneur, Haefner sold wood-gas-powered cars during
World War II. After shifting his focus to software in the 1970s,
he acquired what became a 24.8 percent stake in Islandia, New
York-based CA, the world’s second-largest maker of mainframe-
computer programs.  He “saw the promise in a digital future,” Sam Wyly, the
Dallas-based businessman who built a fortune in technology and
retailing, wrote about Haefner in his 2008 book, “1,000 Dollars
and an Idea: Entrepreneur to Billionaire.”  Haefner also was a breeder and rider of thoroughbreds. One
of his horses, Go And Go, won the 1990  Belmont Stakes  in Elmont,
 New York . He owned a share of Secretariat, the 1973 Triple Crown
winner, William Nack wrote in his 1988 book, “Secretariat: The
Making of a Champion.”  Scholarship Student  Walter Haefner was born in Zurich on Sept. 13, 1910. He was
raised with his six siblings by his mother Elise, while his
missionary father August Wilhem spent much of the time in  Tibet .
Haefner enrolled in the University of Zurich and the University
of Lyon in France with the aid of a scholarship from the City of
Zurich, according to Bilanz magazine.  Haefner founded Amag in January 1945 on Zurich’s lakefront.
The company grew to become Switzerland’s biggest car dealership
and main importer of Volkswagen, Seat, Skoda and Audi vehicles,
according to its  website .  In the early 1960s, Haefner moved Amag’s accounting and
payroll to an  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  system and
then started Automation Center AG, a computer services firm,
Forbes  reported  in 2000. He got into the U.S. computer services
business in 1976 with the purchase of a majority stake in
Dallas-based Wyly, which later renamed itself Uccel Corp.  Computer Illiterate  CA, then known as Computer Associates International Inc.,
bought Uccel in 1987 and Haefner received a chunk of its stock.
His CA holdings, described in a June 10, 2011, proxy  statement 
on the company’s website, were worth $2.4 billion in August
2011. He never learned basic computer skills, according to
Forbes.  Haefner developed a passion for thoroughbreds after his
first ride on a racehorse in Paris in 1959, Nack wrote in
“Secretariat.”  “I loved it, the sensation of speed on a horse,” Haefner
said, according to the book.  In 1962, he won the European cup for amateur riders,
according to Forbes. That same year he bought Moyglare Stud Farm
in Ireland.  Haefner had a daughter, Eva-Maria Bucher, and a son, Martin
Walter Haefner, who became chairman of Amag’s holding company
 Careal Holding AG .  The senior Haefner lived with his fourth wife,  France , in a
six-bedroom house in Kuesnacht, outside Zurich, that he bought
in 1948, according to Bilanz.  “I’m a simple man, who has simple pleasures,” he told
Forbes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  