-- Watson Is First British Woman in Wimbledon Third Round in Decade
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-27T14:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/watson-is-first-british-woman-in-wimbledon-third-round-in-decade.html
For a change, it’s not just Andy Murray British tennis fans are cheering on at  Wimbledon .  Heather Watson ’s 6-1, 6-4 defeat of Jamie Hampton of the
U.S. has made her the first British woman to advance to the
third round of Wimbledon since  Elena Baltacha  in 2002.  Watson told reporters after her match she’d been telling
herself not to double-fault as she served on her third match
point.  “You’re not supposed to say it, but for me it helps,” the
20-year-old said. “As soon as that last point is over for me,
it’s kind of like an explosion of happiness, relief of the
match, all that tension’s kind of gone and it’s setting in.”  After the 100th-ranked Hampton hit a forehand into the net,
Watson screamed and jumped around Court 2, applauded by Fed Cup
coach Judy Murray and representatives from Britain’s Lawn Tennis
Association.  Watson’s win came as the Prince of  Wales  and the Duchess of
Cornwall visited the All England Club, watching six-time
champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  beat Fabio Fognini of
 Italy  from the royal box at Centre Court. It was Prince
Charles’s first visit to Wimbledon since 1970.  Two days ago, Watson set another record, becoming the first
British woman to win a match in Centre Court at Wimbledon since
Jo Durie in 1985 when she beat Iveta Benesova of the Czech
Republic.  Watson, who grew up on the island of Guernsey in the
 English Channel , trains at the Nick Bollettieri Academy in
Bradenton,  Florida .  Wild Card  The 103rd-ranked Watson is one of three British women still
in the tournament. Baltacha yesterday beat Italy’s Karin Knapp
in three sets to move to the second round. Baltacha, who is
ranked 101st, cried in the arms of Judy Murray after being told
she had been granted a wild card to play at London 2012 and
would become an Olympian. Her soccer player father Sergei
competed for the  Soviet Union  at the 1980 Moscow Olympics.  Murray’s straight-sets win over Russia’s Nikolay Davydenko
yesterday marked the most successful Wimbledon start for Britain
since 2006, when seven U.K. players made it to the second round.
Anne Keothavong and James Ward also won their opening rounds
yesterday, making five so far.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  