-- Women Who Want It All Should Conceive a Business
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-06-27T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/women-who-want-it-all-should-conceive-a-business.html
She should have it all. That’s the
message of one of the top-grossing movies this past week,
Pixar’s “Brave.”  The heroine princess shoots straighter arrows than the
guys, rides better than knights and puts her mother in her place
by turning her into a bear. In the end, the princess saves the
day by persuading the king to abolish arranged marriage and
recognize female power.  In recent weeks, the real-life equivalent to Pixar’s
animated story has been playing itself out. Anne-Marie Slaughter, an eminent scholar, has also bested the competition
in credentials and quality of her work. Yet in serving at the
State Department as the first female director of policy
planning, Slaughter found it difficult, even with a supportive
husband, to do her job and care for her sons. She reported it
all in a lengthy Atlantic magazine article.  Slaughter offered a  short version  of her solutions to the
 Associated Press : increase the number of female politicians and
change the culture in government and companies. “We need to
change our social policies more fundamentally with good day
care, school that ends the same time work ends and really
providing for more integrated work and school life,” Slaughter
said.  Process Jobs  In her description of the skewed work-life balance at the
State Department,  Slaughter  speaks truth to power. There are
diplomats at Foggy Bottom who miss baseball games, know their
children only through Skype, and nonetheless endure the contempt
of colleagues who put in even more hours. But that is not
because these diplomats are women. No one at the State
Department has it all, not even Secretary  Hillary Clinton .  Life at the State Department is tough because  the jobs  are
mostly process-oriented. They involve interacting with
colleagues: writing memos to other people in government,
responding to memos, setting internal policy and reacting to
mysterious arbitrary demands from multiple parties. That takes a
lot of time.  The same holds for jobs at inward-turned corporations.
Developing and sustaining corporate culture is a goal at many
companies -- the golf retreats, the executive teamwork matter a
lot, or even most. Any process-oriented company demands face
time. This also  holds true  for jobs that are about internal
teams -- crafting a deal, say, at an investment house, before
you go out to make the sale.  But there is another kind of work, in which women may excel
even during the child-rearing stage. That is the results-
oriented job. If you are supposed to produce or sell 100 widgets
a week, and you produce or sell 101, you win. If your job is to
produce great ideas for the outside marketplace of ideas, and
you do that yourself, you win, too -- no one will care how many
children you have or when you get the job done. The key is that
the market provides irrefutable evidence of your success. Such
work is just as hard as the process-oriented kind, but more
rewarding, and allows more flexibility.  Women who deliver results as measured by the external
marketplace can run into trouble when they rise in government
departments or corporations, for the higher jobs frequently
demand more process. Sometimes being No. 2 means being available
to translate and transmit the chief’s shifting wishes. Sometimes
high-level jobs require intense interaction with other company
departments. If your company makes screws for the widgets you
sell, you have to get the screws from the other department. That
eats time.  Failure Protection  But every company features a different results-to-process
ratio. For women choosing employment, this ratio is as much
worthy of scrutiny as the work-life balance. Women already study
such general dynamics, as has been documented by the scholar
 Boris Groysberg . In a  book  on executive talent, “Chasing Stars,”
he says women conduct more research about companies before
accepting a job offer.  Encountering a culture or process that gives them
difficulty, women protect themselves against failure. “Women in
a male-dominated profession appeared to nurture stronger
external (and therefore portable) professional relationships,”
Groysberg finds.  The easiest way out of the land of process is obvious:
start your own company, where results matter even at the top, or
set yourself up to sell outside, rather than sell inside.  More women are doing that than in the past, according to a
 study  by the Commerce Department’s Economic and Statistics
Administration. From 1997 to 2007, women-owned businesses in the
U.S. grew by 44 percent, or twice as fast as those owned by men.
The percentage of startups led by women that sought  venture
capital  increased to 20 percent in 2011 from 12.6 percent in
2000, according to the University of  New Hampshire ’s  Center for
Venture Research.   Continuing that growth depends on the availability of
capital to women. The will is already there. “It’s important to
know that women who leave high positions almost always do so in
order to find more satisfying alternatives, not to opt out,”
says  Sally Helgesen , co-author of “The Female Vision: Women’s
Real Power at Work.” The only place some of us differ with
Slaughter is on solutions: She wants more regulation; others
want more capital.  My own experience is that women who wish to rise high
within the process-oriented company can. But the women tend to
succeed more often before having children, or when their
children have grown, or if they have no children. During the
small-child or even teen phase, women perform better when
performance is measured by external result. These jobs or
projects can be lonely -- writing a book, as Slaughter has, for
example. These pursuits deprive women of office camaraderie. But
they compensate in other ways.  In other words, women can have it all, but  not usually  at
the same moment. Sometimes you have to live serially. To imagine
otherwise is to live a cartoon.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Europe’s banking union  and
 restoring U.S. fisheries ;  Caroline Baum  on why  Washington can’t
fix the economy ;  Ezra Klein  on the tectonic shift in the
 Republican approach to health care ;  Brian Barry  on why  Romney
shouldn’t avoid the inequality debate ; Richard J. Carroll on why
 some tax cuts work and others don’t ; Jane S. Shaw on how  Mitch
Daniels  can  shake up higher education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 