-- WTO Asked by U.S., EU to Rule on China’s Rare Earth Restrictions
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-27T14:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/wto-asked-by-u-s-eu-to-rule-on-china-s-rare-earth-restrictions.html
The U.S., European Union and Japan
asked the  World Trade Organization  to resolve disputes over
China’s limits on exports of rare-earths materials used to make
goods including car batteries and clean-energy technologies.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office today requested that
the Geneva-based trade arbiter form a dispute settlement board,
after negotiations with China this year failed to produce
results. Similar requests were made today by the EU and Japan,
according to the statement.  China supplies about 90 percent of the world’s rare earth
minerals, and the EU and Japan joined the U.S. in a March WTO
complaint saying the nation places unfair restrictions on the
exports. The materials are used to make goods such as  Boeing Co. (BA) 
helicopter blades,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  mobile phones and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  wind turbines.  “It is vital that U.S. workers and manufacturers obtain
the fair and equal access to raw materials like rare earths that
China specifically agreed to when it joined the WTO” in 2001,
U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said today in a statement.  China may act to block the first request for judges to
investigate. A second request can’t be blocked.  China has said it curbed exports of the rare earths to
conserve the minerals and protect the environment. The
restrictions give Chinese manufacturers a competitive edge and
the ability to affect global prices, according to the U.S.  The request for a dispute settlement board covers China’s
exports of rare earths, tungsten and molybdenum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  