-- Yields Fall as Rand Gains on Rates Outlook, Gordhan Reassurance
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-27T14:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/yields-tumble-as-rand-gains-on-rate-speculation-policy-outlook.html
South African bonds gained, driving
yields to record lows, and the rand surged as Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  reassured investors on policy changes amid
speculation the central bank will cut rates as growth slows.  Yields on South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
tumbled as much as nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 7.28 percent, the lowest since they were issued in August
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes yielded
7.30 percent as of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand gained 0.5
percent to 8.3930 per dollar, the best performance out of 16
major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  Gordhan, in an interview at the ruling  African National
Congress  conference, said the government is committed to
attracting investment and will keep the  budget deficit  under
control. Gordhan also said downside risks to South Africa’s
growth outlook were worsening, adding to speculation the central
bank will cut rates to stimulate growth. Yesterday, President
 Jacob Zuma  called for “dramatic” policy changes to address
poverty, unemployment and inequality.  “Bond yields are moving on the general theme that the
 Reserve Bank  may be looking to cut rates,” Victor Mphaphuli,
who helps manage the equivalent of $18 billion in fixed-interest
investments at Stanlib Asset Management Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said by phone. Gordhan’s policy reassurances “definitely
helped” support the rand, he added.  Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus has kept the benchmark
rate unchanged at 5.5 percent for a record 19 months as
inflation topped the central bank’s 6 percent ceiling. Investors
are betting she’ll follow  Brazil , China and  India  in switching
to stimulate the economy after the government cut its growth
forecast for this year to 2.7 percent.  Inflation Rate  The central bank forecasts that  inflation  will slow to an
average of 5.5 percent in 2013 from 6 percent in the second
quarter. The bank’s mandate is to keep inflation within a 3 to 6
percent range.  Forward-rate agreements starting in December have dropped
29 basis points this month to 5.23 percent. The rate is 37 basis
points below the three-month Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate,
indicating traders see a near-75 percent probability of a 50
basis-point rate cut by the year-end.  “If you look at the FRAs, the market is really pricing in
a rate cut,” Mphaphuli said. “Inflation has been coming down
more than the market expected, and that is quite a positive.”  Proposals being considered by the ANC this week include a
50 percent windfall tax on mining companies, export levies on
coal and iron ore, and capital-gains taxes on the transfer of
mineral prospecting rights. The government has yet to make a
decision on those matters, Gordhan said.  “A lot of what is being said at the ANC conference is just
smoke and mirrors,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow
sales at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  