-- Zumtobel Cuts Dividend, Scraps Outlook as Austerity Bites
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-06-27T16:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/zumtobel-cuts-dividend-scraps-outlook-as-austerity-bites-1-.html
Zumtobel AG (ZAG) , an Austrian maker of
industrial lighting, cut its dividend by more than half and
threw out its revenue growth outlook because of economic
uncertainty and austerity programs, particularly in  Europe .  Zumtobel lowered its dividend to 20 cents a share, from 50
cents a year earlier, after net income declined 69 percent to 16
million euros ($20 million) in the year ended April 30, the
Dornbirn, Austria-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts had expected net income of 20.5 million euros,
according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profit was hurt by the the company’s components unit, where
revenue declined 6.7 percent. Zumtobel in January removed the
management of the unit and is searching for a new head.  “In view of the increasingly negative economic outlook,
previous growth assumptions for the professional lighting
industry no longer appear realistic,” Chief Executive Officer
Harald Sommerer said in Vienna today. “We have therefore cut
our medium-term revenue forecast for average growth of 10
percent per year for the coming years.”  That growth forecast was based on the lighting industry
growing an average of 4 percent annually through 2020, which no
longer is likely, Sommerer said.  Shares  gained  1.3 percent to 7.797 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, snapping seven days of declines and
narrowing this year’s loss to 27 percent.  “In anticipation of weak results the share price has
fallen 25 percent in the past few days to 7.5 euros,” Berenberg
analysts William Mackie and Maggie Paxton wrote in a note to
investors, adding that the “disappointment” of today’s
earnings “already is priced in.”  Zumtobel said it expects revenue and the margin for
earnings before interest and tax to increase in the current
financial year, which ends April 30, 2013. Sommerer declined to
specify the rate of improvement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  