-- Zynga Tumbles as Game Development Costs Crimp Profit
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-27T19:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-27/zynga-tumbles-as-game-development-costs-crimp-profit-correct-.html
(Corrects percent and year of sales projection in 17th
paragraph of story published on Feb. 15.)  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer of
games on  Facebook Inc. (FB) , fell the most since its initial public
offering after an earnings report yesterday showed product-
development costs weighed on profit in the fourth quarter.  Zynga tumbled 18 percent to $11.80 at the close, the
biggest drop since it began trading Dec. 16. Before today, the
stock had gained 44 percent since its initial public offering.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 34 percent to $67.8 million in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier as expenses climbed, the San
Francisco-based company said yesterday in a statement.  Zynga, which raised $1 billion in its initial public
offering, is trying to maintain its grip on social-networking
gamers by creating new titles and features. Research and
development costs jumped more than eightfold to $444.7 million
last quarter, the company said. Sales and marketing expenses
almost tripled to $112.2 million.  “The fact that R&D went up more than we expected is not a
good sign,” said Benjamin Schachter, an analyst at  Macquarie
Capital  in  New York  who has a “neutral” rating on Zynga.
“They are continuing to spend more money to create games.”  Zynga invested in a new technology infrastructure called
“Cloud Z” and hired experts in areas such as mobile gaming,
Chief Operating Officer John Schappert said in an interview.  “Our expenses and costs are in line with our growth
plans,” Schappert said. “We’re investing for growth in our
business.”  Sales Gain  Zynga makes money by selling virtual goods within its games
-- say, a gun in “Mafia Wars” or a tractor in “FarmVille.”
Sales rose 59 percent to $311.2 million in the fourth quarter.
Analysts had predicted $301.1 million on average, according to a
 Bloomberg survey . Excluding some costs, profit was 5 cents a
share, higher than the 3-cent estimate.  The company posted a  net loss  attributable to common
shareholders of $435 million, or $1.22 a share, compared with a
profit of $16.1 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier. The results
included $510 million of compensation expenses for stock issued
to employees, which weren’t recognized until the IPO.  Bookings, or the total value of virtual goods sold in the
quarter, were $306.5 million, up 26 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2010. The company expects 2012 bookings of $1.35
billion to $1.45 billion. Zynga’s reported revenue includes
virtual items sold prior to the quarter and amortized over their
expected life.  Friend of Facebook  The shares got a bump earlier this month when Facebook
filed for its own IPO. Facebook, the world’s biggest social
network, said in its S-1 filing that it relies on Zynga for 12
percent of its revenue, reassuring investors in the gaming
company. Facebook takes a 30 percent cut from purchases of
virtual goods within Zynga games.  Zynga’s rally raised expectations for the earnings report,
making it harder for the company to impress investors, said
 Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. in
 Dallas .  “The Wall Street expectations had become way too high and
there was too much optimism that had been built into the stock
price, particularly since the filing of Facebook’s S-1,” Bhatia
said.  The company did get a boost last quarter from newer games,
which helped the company make 6.1 cents from the average daily
user, up from 5.5 cents a year earlier, said Atul Bagga, an
analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in  San Francisco .  More Engaging?  “That is basically telling you that the newer games they
are launching are more engaging and better, and its users are
going to spend more money than they would in the past,” said
Bagga, who recommends buying Zynga’s stock.  “Hidden Chronicles,” released last month, has become
Zynga’s third most popular game, with 30.2 million monthly
users, according to  research firm AppData . It ranks behind two
more established games, “CityVille” and “Texas HoldEm
Poker.”  Social games will generate $5.33 billion this year, an
increase of 39 percent since last year, according to Lazard. By
2015, the market could grow to $8.98 billion. Zynga operates six
out of the seven top games on Facebook, according to AppData.  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  has been Zynga’s chief rival in social
games, with its “Sims Social” game attracting 20.9 million
monthly users. Rovio Entertainment Oy emerged as a competitor
this week, when it released a version of its popular “Angry
Birds” game for Facebook.  Zynga’s “growth will be weighted towards the back half of
the year,” the company said in the statement. That suggests
that its most significant new products won’t be released until
the summer, said  Colin Sebastian , analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co. in San Francisco.  “It’s good that they are trying to constrain expectations
here, given the run-up in the stock and some uncertainty about
how new games will perform,” Sebastian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  