-- 
Australia Treasurer Says Carbon Price Essential to Economy

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-06T04:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/australia-treasurer-swan-says-carbon-price-essential-to-health-of-economy.html
Introducing a carbon price to tackle  climate change  is “essential to the health and prosperity” of  Australia ’s economy as countries such as China take steps to
curb greenhouse gas pollution, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “The longer we delay, the bigger the damage to the
environment and to the economy,” Swan said today on Australia’s
Channel Nine television. “We’ve got to make a start because if
we don’t, the consequences over time are horrendous.”  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to set a
carbon price starting in July 2012 in preparation for a trading
system that could begin as early as 2015. The opposition
Liberal-National coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , vowed to fight
the plan, saying it would add to household electricity bills.  Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of its power from renewable
energy sources like wind and solar by 2020. Countries including  China  are being more active than Australia, Swan said.  Setting a carbon price to encourage Australian businesses
to reduce their emissions will drive investment in renewable
energy technologies, the treasurer said.  “A few large polluters will pay a price to emit carbon and
that money will be used to assist households and industry,”
Swan said in the television interview today. “If you listen to
Mr. Abbott, you would think the government was going to go out
there and take the money out of people’s pay packets.”  Climate Debate  Climate change is a “debate we can win,” Swan said.
Australian Infrastructure Minister Anthony Albanese, speaking on
Channel Ten’s “Meet the Press” program earlier today, said
introducing a price on carbon is “critical.”  “A carbon price is absolutely essential to the health and
prosperity of our economy,” Swan said. “The Chinese are taking
dramatic action to reduce their emissions. It’s not true to say
other countries are not moving. We are getting left behind.”  The worst natural disasters in Australia’s history,
including flooding and Cyclone Yasi that hit Queensland state,
will have the biggest economic impact in the first quarter of
this year, Swan said in his e-mailed notes today.    BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s biggest steelmaker, has
called the government plan “economic vandalism” and said it
would reduce the company’s competitiveness as it battles high
raw-material costs and the stronger Australian dollar.  Alcoa
Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, said it supported a
“carefully designed” price that doesn’t damage the industry.  LNG Exports    Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , developer of the A$14 billion
Pluto liquefied natural gas project in Australia, said its
“trade-exposed” exports should be excluded from any climate
change proposal because there isn’t an international accord on
pricing greenhouse gas emissions. The government plan should
reflect the role LNG plays in lowering emissions, the Perth-
based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Gillard’s  Labor Party  needs the support of four non-party
lawmakers to pass laws in parliament. A multiparty climate
change committee, formed after a request from the Greens party,
released a framework document on reducing emissions on Feb. 25
that didn’t fix a carbon price or give a level of compensation
to be paid to companies and households.  Gillard vowed to revive the climate-change plan after she
replaced  Kevin Rudd  last year. Rudd’s popularity as prime
minister plummeted after he shelved his cap-and-trade proposal.  “There will be some difficult conversations to come,”
Gillard said on Feb. 24.  Abbott today called Gillard’s plan a tax that “won’t
necessarily help the environment,” according to a transcript.
“But it certainly will hit everyone’s cost of living.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  