-- 
Australia’s Prime Minister Departs for U.S., Due to Meet Obama

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-05T03:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/australia-s-prime-minister-departs-for-u-s-due-to-meet-obama.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  left for a nine-day trip to the U.S. to discuss economic
recovery and security with President Barack Obama.  Gillard, who two days ago cited concerns about “burdens”
the high Australian dollar placed on the economy, travels to the
U.S. for the first time as leader. She is due to meet Obama in
the White House March 7, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  the
following day and on March 9 will become the first Australian
leader in nine years to address Congress, her office said.  Gillard replaced  Kevin Rudd  in June 2010, and her  Labor
party  went on to form a minority government in August after the
closest election in 70 years. Two days ago, she said the high
dollar placed strain on the parts of the economy outside a
mining boom that is driven by a surge in Chinese demand.  The nation’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, in December reached its highest level against its U.S.
counterpart since 1982, and has strengthened 12 percent in the
past year.  “For this current resources boom, we anticipate that it
will be sustained for a long period of time,” Gillard, 49, said
in a March 3 Canberra interview. “We have very strong demand
from growing economies like  China  for our resources.”  Australia’s economic growth accelerated to a quarterly pace
of 0.7 percent in the final three months of last year, a
government report showed on March 2. The nation is benefitting
from its strongest terms of trade, a measure of income from
exports, since the early 1950s, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net . 