-- 
Bank of China May Consider Fund Raising to Boost Capital

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-05T04:33:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/bank-of-china-may-consider-fund-raising-to-boost-capital-1-.html
  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s
third-largest lender by market value, may consider fund-raising
plans to boost supplementary capital as new regulatory
requirements will put constraints on lenders.  A requirement by  China ’s banking regulator that lenders
assign a higher risk weighting to local government loans will
have a negative impact on Bank of China’s capital ratio,
President Li Lihui told reporters while attending the National
People’s Congress in Beijing today.  Chinese banks raised about $72 billion from sales of stock
and convertible bonds last year, after a record expansion of
credit in the past two years. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission said Feb. 23 it is drafting new capital regulations
based on the Basel III agreement and plans to announce them as
soon as possible.  “We expect the growth in total social financing and bank
lending, including  Bank of China ’s, to be lower than last
year,” Li told reporters. Regulatory measures and the central
bank’s reserve ratio rises are putting “relatively big”
constraints on banks, he said.  Bank of China has no plan to sell shares to replenish its
core capital this year, Li said. He didn’t give details on the
fund-raising consideration to boost its supplementary capital.
The Beijing-based lender’s tier-1 core capital adequacy ratio
stood at 9.35 percent by the end of September and its overall
capital ratio was 11.73 percent.  Capital Adequacy Ratio  The country’s “systemically important” lenders may be
subject to an overall capital adequacy ratio of as high as 14
percent when their credit growth is judged excessive, a person
with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 28. Other lenders
would need to meet a 13 percent threshold, the person said. The
minimum ratio, used to gauge banks’ ability to withstand
financial stress, is currently 11.5 percent for big banks.  Lenders including China Minsheng Banking Corp. and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  have announced plans to sell
more than 80 billion yuan ($12 billion) of shares and 70 billion
yuan of subordinated bonds this year.  Minsheng Bank plans to complete its additional share sale
in  Hong Kong  in June or July, Chairman Dong Wenbiao said today
at the congress. The lender last month announced a plan to raise
up to 20 billion yuan from convertible bond sale in  Shanghai  and
sell as many as 1.65 billion new shares in Hong Kong.  New Loans  Bank of China advanced 620 billion yuan of new yuan-
denominated loans last year, and lending “may be slightly
lower” than last year, President Li said.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. is also targeting slower credit
expansion this year, according to its President Yang Kaisheng.  Bank of China aims to lend no more than 40 percent of this
year’s target for new loans in the first quarter, and lending in
the first two months was “very reasonable and balanced,” Li
said.  “Appropriate loan growth is a very important precondition
to banks’ sustainable growth,” he said.  China is tightening its monetary stance after three years
of accommodative policies flooded the economy with $2.7 trillion
of new loans and fueled inflation to an almost two-year high.
The central bank has raised  interest rates  and pushed the ratio
of deposits banks must set aside as reserves to the highest in
more than two decades.  Bank of China is subject to a reserve ratio requirement of
19.5 percent and hasn’t been selected for a differentiated
requirement, Li said, adding that he doesn’t see much room for
more increases in reserve ratios.  Xia Bin, an academic adviser to the central bank, said
today more increases in the reserve ratio will hurt lenders.  --Zhang Dingmin, Eva Woo,  Michael Wei , Winnie Zhu, Luo Jun.
Editors: Tan Hwee Ann,  Richard Dobson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  