-- 
FIFA's Sepp Blatter Says F.A. Could Have Banned Rooney Over Wigan Elbow

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-05T16:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/blatter-says-f-a-could-have-banned-rooney-over-wigan-elbow.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said the
English Football Association would have been within its rights
to sanction Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  over an
elbowing incident in a Premier League match last week.  The F.A. said it couldn’t retrospectively take action,
which may have included a suspension, because referee Mark
Clattenburg had already given a foul when Rooney clashed with
Wigan’s James McCarthy. He didn’t see the elbow.  “They can use video evidence in the discipline and control
committee,” Blatter told a news conference in Newport,  Wales 
today. “If there's violence, the national association can 
intervene and punish a player -- this is permitted at the 
discretion of the national association."  The F.A.’s decision not to take measures against Rooney
meant he could play in league leader United’s match with
champion Chelsea on March 1. The England striker opened the
scoring in that match, which United lost 2-1.  F.A. Chairman David Bernstein, who sat next to Blatter at
the press conference, said he was convinced the F.A. had acted
correctly. He said associations can take action based on video
evidence if the referee hadn’t seen the incident during play,
adding the governing body could only under ’’exceptional’’
circumstances bring additional sanctions to a decision made by a
referee on the field.  “I’m very clear that my view is correct, I’ve been
properly advised on this,” Bernstein told reporters. “If the
referee states he has seen the incident the F.A. is not able to
make decisions except in exceptional circumstances.”  Halfway Exceptional  Former Manchester City defender Ben Thatcher received an
eight-match suspension after he led with an elbow and fractured
Portsmouth midfielder Pedro Mendes skull. The Portuguese needed
oxygen and Greater Manchester Police would have opened an
inquiry into the incident if action hadn’t been taken, the F.A.
said.  “If you open the door to ‘halfway exceptional’ the
floodgates will open,” Bernstein added. “I think that has more
merit than meets the eye, the basis of the primacy of the
referee staying in place has some merit even though that will
upset fans sometimes and quite understandably.”  FIFA’s rule 77 states “sanctioning serious infringement
which have escaped the match officials’ attention” and national
associations can rectify “obvious errors in the referee’s
disciplinary decisions.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  