-- 
China Targets 8% Growth This Year as Wen Vows to `Decisively' Curb Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-05T01:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/china-targets-8-growth-this-year-wen-pledges-to-decisively-curb-prices.html
  China ’s government will target 8
percent economic growth this year and “decisively” curb
increases in prices that may threaten social stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in his state-of-the-nation report.  “We cannot allow price rises to affect the normal lives of
low-income people,” Wen said in a report to the annual meeting
of the National People’s Congress in Beijing today. He confirmed
a goal of holding inflation to 4 percent for the full year.  Wen, 68, needs to tame inflation, boost incomes and narrow
the gap between rich and poor to maintain social stability and
strengthen support for the Communist Party’s 61-year rule. In
the past two weekends, the government has deployed hundreds of
police in Beijing and Shanghai after Internet calls for so-
called Jasmine protests, inspired by revolts in the Middle East
and North  Africa .  “The top concerns for the public are issues such as
inflation, property prices, and  income distribution ,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays Capital , said
before today’s meeting. “Corruption is also on the list.”  The  budget deficit  may be 900 billion yuan ($137 billion),
or 2 percent of gross domestic product, Wen said. He
confirmed that the nation is maintaining a “proactive” fiscal
policy and a “prudent” monetary policy.  Top Priority  “Inflation expectations have increased” and controlling
price is the top economic priority, Wen said. The government
will manage liquidity, ensure agricultural production and use
price controls when needed, he added.  The premier had already disclosed an annual growth target
of 7 percent for the nation’s five-year plan, running from 2011
to 2015, down from the previous 7.5 percent. The goals are
routinely surpassed, with  China’s economy  expanding an average
11 percent over the past five years, adding jobs and boosting
incomes.  The premier will read his report to more than 4,000
delegates gathered at the Great Hall of the People, alongside
Tiananmen Square, for a meeting first held in 1954 to approve
government policies. Members of the congress include Zong Qinghou, the billionaire chairman of Hangzhou Wahaha Group and
China’s richest man.  Bubble Risks  The world’s second-biggest economy faces heightened
inflation and asset-bubble risks and banks may be saddled with
more bad loans after a record expansion in credit drove China’s
recovery from the financial crisis. Consumer prices rose an
annual 4.9 percent in January and food prices jumped, even after
the central bank increased  interest rates  and banks’
reserve requirements.  “The main challenge for controlling inflation is the
property price bubble stemming from overly loose monetary
conditions relative to asset prices,” economists led by Peng Wensheng at China International Capital Corp. Ltd. said in a
March 2 report.  Besides tackling price pressures, the government aims to
cut dependence on exports and investment and boost  consumer
spending , a shift that could help to ease global economic
imbalances blamed for the financial crisis.  Wealth Gap  “Expanding domestic demand is a long-term strategic
principle,” Wen said in the report. Methods for boosting
consumer spending will include subsidies for urban low-income
earners and farmers and continued incentives for rural purchases
of home appliances, he said. The government will also encourage
private investment.  A stronger Chinese currency would also boost consumption,
the U.S. government says. Another step may be raising the
threshold for income tax from 2,000 yuan per month, a plan
already approved by the State Council.  On Feb. 27, Wen pledged to punish abuse of power by
officials and narrow the wealth gap, comments that coincided
with public security operations in Beijing and  Shanghai  to
prevent protests after an open letter called for “jasmine”
rallies, named after the January uprising in  Tunisia  that
overthrew President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  China’s Gini coefficient, an income-distribution gauge used
by economists, has climbed to near 0.5 from less than 0.3 a
quarter century ago, according to Li Shi, professor of economics,
School of Economics and Business at Beijing Normal University.
University. The measure ranges from 0 to 1, and the 0.4 mark is
used as a predictor by analysts for social unrest.  The wealth gap is at levels not seen outside of Africa,
Credit Suisse Group AG said in an August report. The average
full-year income in the countryside last year was 5,919 yuan
($900), according to the statistics bureau.  “The new five-year plan will be more about quality of
growth,” Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets, said before today’s report. “The government is
going to pay more attention to sustainable growth, environment,
better distribution of income, rather than pure GDP pursuit.”  --Zhang Dingmin, Zheng Lifei, Michael Forsythe, Sophie Leung,  Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung  in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei  in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  