-- 
China's Key Aim is Taming Prices as Wen Vows to Narrow Widening Wealth Gap

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-05T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/china-s-key-aim-is-taming-prices-as-wen-vows-to-narrow-widening-wealth-gap.html
China will target inflation as the
top economic priority this year and narrow the gap between rich
and poor as the government seeks to maintain social stability,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  told lawmakers in Beijing.  “We cannot allow price rises to affect the normal lives of
low-income people,” Wen said in his state-of-the-nation report
to the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress
yesterday. “We will reverse the trend of a widening income gap
as soon as possible.”  Wen, 68, confirmed targets of 4 percent for full-year
inflation and 8 percent for economic growth, as the Communist
Party seeks to maintain support for its 61-year rule. In the
past two weekends, the government has deployed hundreds of
police in Beijing and Shanghai after Internet calls for so-
called Jasmine protests, inspired by revolts in the Middle East
and North Africa.  “Inflation is a potential trigger point for social
discontent,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group in Hong Kong who formerly worked for the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the  World Bank . The government
needs to boost lending and deposit rates by 0.75 percentage
point by year-end, as well as raising wages and giving subsidies
to the poor, he said.  Land Seizures, Food  Wen identified illegal land seizures,  food safety , house-
price increases and corruption as top public concerns and said
institutional changes are needed to end the excessive
concentration of power. The government will “decisively” counter
inflation and make it the “top priority in macroeconomic
control,” he said.  The  budget deficit  may be 900 billion yuan ($137 billion),
or 2 percent of gross domestic product, 150 billion yuan less
than targeted for 2010, Wen said. He confirmed that the nation
is maintaining a “proactive” fiscal policy and a “prudent”
monetary stance.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index rose to a four-month high on
March 4 as investors anticipated moves to boost consumption. The
government aims to cut dependence on exports and investment and
raise  consumer spending , a shift that could help to ease global
economic imbalances blamed for the financial crisis.  “Expanding domestic demand is a long-term strategic
principle,” Wen said in the report. Subsidies for urban low-
income earners and farmers and continued incentives for rural
purchases of home appliances may boost spending, he said.  Private Investment  Wen also pledged to encourage private investment, including
in infrastructure, public utilities and financial services.  The premier had already disclosed an annual growth target
of 7 percent for the five-year plan running through 2015, down
from the previous 7.5 percent. Based on 2010 prices, gross
domestic product should exceed 55 trillion yuan ($8.37 trillion)
by the end of the period, Wen said. The U.S. has a more than $14
trillion economy.    China ’s growth goals are routinely surpassed, with the
economy expanding an average 11 percent over the past five years,
adding jobs and boosting incomes.  Wen read his report to more than 4,000 delegates gathered
at the Great Hall of the People, alongside Tiananmen Square, a
meeting first held in 1954 to approve government policies.
Members of the congress include Zong Qinghou, the billionaire
chairman of Hangzhou Wahaha Group and China’s richest man.  Inflation Risks  The world’s second-biggest economy faces heightened
inflation and asset-bubble risks and banks may be saddled with
more bad loans after a record expansion in credit drove China’s
economic recovery.  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.9 percent in January and
food prices jumped, even after the central bank increased  interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements. Wen pledged a
“comprehensive audit” of local-government debt, after a surge
in borrowing linked to the stimulus program from late 2008.  To control inflation, the government will manage liquidity,
ensure agricultural production and use price controls when
needed, Wen said. Officials will curb real-estate speculation
and “adjust and improve” property tax policies, he added.  “The main challenge for controlling inflation is the
property-price bubble stemming from overly loose monetary
conditions relative to asset prices,” economists led by Peng Wensheng at China International Capital Corp. Ltd. said in a
March 2 report.  Public Security  On Feb. 27, Wen pledged to punish abuse of power by
officials and narrow the wealth gap. His comments coincided with
public security operations in Beijing and Shanghai to prevent
protests after an open letter called for “jasmine” rallies,
named after the January uprising in  Tunisia  that overthrew
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  China’s leaders are seeking to maintain stability as the
world’s most populous nation shifts from a predominantly rural
to mostly urban society. During the five years through 2015, the
level of urbanization will rise to 51.5 percent from 47.5
percent, Wen’s report said.  “Private companies will have huge business opportunities
during the process,” Wang Jianlin, the billionaire chairman of
property developer Dalian Wanda Group, said at the congress.  The divide between rich and poor is at levels not seen
outside of  Africa , Credit Suisse Group AG said in an August
report. The average full-year income in the countryside last
year was 5,919 yuan ($900), according to the statistics bureau.  Spending Power  The nation’s Gini coefficient, an income-distribution gauge
used by economists, has climbed to near 0.5 from less than 0.3 a
quarter century ago, according to Li Shi, professor of economics,
School of Economics and Business at Beijing Normal University.
The measure ranges from 0 to 1, and the 0.4 mark is used as a
predictor by analysts for social unrest.  Government moves to boost incomes and spending power may
include raising the threshold for income tax from 2,000 yuan per
month, a plan already approved by the State Council.  A stronger Chinese currency would also bolster consumption,
the U.S. government says. Wen’s report said the government will
improve “the exchange-rate mechanism,” while  Yi Gang , the head
of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, told reporters
at yesterday’s meeting that the yuan’s rate “has never been
closer to equilibrium.”  Chinese companies can accept annual yuan appreciation of 3
percent to 5 percent, Bank of China Ltd. President Li Lihui said
at the meeting. The yuan closed at 6.5686 per dollar on March 4.
Li also said lending growth will cool this year because of
government constraints.  --Zhang Dingmin, Zheng Lifei, Michael Forsythe, Sophie Leung,  Kevin Hamlin ,  Michael Wei , Eva Woo, Feiwen Rong. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst, Peter Hirschberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung  in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei  in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  