-- 
Copper Demand in China May Grow 7% This Year on Growth, Jiangxi's Li Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-05T09:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/copper-demand-in-china-may-grow-7-this-year-on-growth-jiangxi-s-li-says.html
Copper demand in  China  may grow by 7
percent this year on strong economic growth, said Jiangxi Copper
Co., as the country’s largest producer boosts output.  “China’s economic growth and investment will keep demand
at a healthy level,” Li Yihuang, chairman of Jiangxi, said in
an interview in Beijing today without elaborating. The company
will lift production capacity to 1 million metric tons, up from
900,000 tons last year, he said. China is the largest buyer of
the metal.  Copper touched a record $10,190 a ton last month after
surging 30 percent in 2010 as the global economy recovered from
the worst recession since World War II. Demand is proving to be
resilient to the high prices and there hasn’t been any slowdown
from China,  Chile ’s Mining and Energy Minister  Laurence Golborne 
has said.  “As China continues to improve infrastructure and its
power grid, it will support the demand for copper,” said  Helen
Lau , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “The forecast is actually
realistic and in line with our expectations.”  A decline in imports of refined material last year may
result in higher shipments in 2011, according to Peter Hickson,
UBS AG’s global basic materials and commodities strategist, Jan.
18. Imports of copper, including the refined metal, alloy and
products, were little changed at 4.29 million tons in 2010,
according to customs data.  Strong Growth  Demand for copper is surging as the nation plans to build
more homes, autos and appliances and upgrade  power-grid 
networks. China’s government will target 8 percent economic
growth this year and “decisively” curb increases in prices
that could affect social stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in
his annual state-of-the-nation report today.  Copper for three-month delivery closed 0.2 percent lower
yesterday at $9,895 a ton on the London Metal Exchange.  “Copper sales on the  spot market  right now are rather
weak, but for the year, copper will be in short supply,” said
Jiangxi’s Li, who spoke ahead of the meeting of the National
People’s Congress.    China’s economy  expanded 10.3 percent in 2010, the fastest
pace in three years, statistics bureau data show, compared with
growth of 9.2 percent in 2009. After Japan reports gross
domestic product for the fourth quarter on Feb. 14, comparative
data may show China was the second-biggest economy last year.  In nominal terms, gross domestic product is more than 100
times bigger than in 1978, when Communist Party leader  Deng
Xiaoping  began rolling out free-market policies. While China
outstripped Germany in 2007 and the U.K. and France in 2005, the
economy remains less than half as big as that of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu Xiao in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  