-- 
Egypt Yields Hit Two-Year High as Bourse Closure, Probe Sends GDRs Sinking

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-06T22:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/egypt-gdrs-hit-post-crisis-low-as-bourse-debacle-threatens-pariah-status.html
  Egypt ’s borrowing costs are rising
to the highest in more than two years and stocks listed overseas
are tumbling as the Cairo exchange’s five-week shutdown and new
rules on shareholder disclosure keep investors away.  The  Ministry of Finance  sold 3 billion pounds ($509
million) of bonds yesterday, 1.5 billion pounds less than
planned, as yields on 266-day notes climbed 31 basis points from
the last auction to 12.47 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Global depositary receipts of  Commercial International
Bank Egypt SAE (CBKD)  sank 15 percent in London last week to the lowest
level since July.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (OTLD)  traded 5.2 percent
below its Jan. 27 close, when the Egyptian Exchange shut down.  Egypt’s bourse delayed indefinitely the reopening planned
for yesterday citing the resignation of Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik in a March 3 statement. Regulators said last week they
may require investment funds to disclose their shareholders as
part of a probe of officials linked to ousted president  Hosni Mubarak . The new rules and the bourse’s closure are deterring
foreign funds and may spur selling when trade resumes, according
to F&C Asset Management Plc and ING Investment Management.  “The fact that Egypt’s market is not open today is a very
big negative, especially as we do not have an idea of when it
may reopen,” Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of
investment at Royal Capital PJSC, which is 44 percent-owned by
United Gulf Bank BSC, an investment bank in Bahrain, said in an
interview yesterday.  ‘Pariah’  The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  plunged 16 percent in its last
two trading sessions before the closure. Investors have
protested outside the bourse in Cairo to demand that trades in
the final days be canceled and that shares be suspended in
companies with links to the former Mubarak regime.  The U.S.-traded  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF (EGPT)  has lost 6.2
percent in two weeks even as the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose 1.5 percent.  Egypt risks becoming “a pariah of an investment
destination,” said Jeff Chowdhry, the London-based head of
emerging-market equities at F&C, which oversees about $163
billion worldwide. “If they value foreign investment in their
stock market, they should get that market open immediately and
take off any restrictions in terms of having too cumbersome
administrative requirements.”  The bourse extended its suspension on Feb. 14 because of
worker protests disrupting bank operations, exchange spokesman
Hisham Turk said at the time. The exchange said on Feb. 22 it
would have to put off opening in order to implement rules to
limit daily share price moves. It postponed a planned reopening
on Feb. 28 after investors facing losses criticized exchange
chairman Khaled Seyam at a news conference, calling for an
extension of the closure.  Disclosure Rules  The  Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority,  the bourse’s
regulator and the main clearing house, said on its website on
March 2 that it may require brokerages and fund managers to
disclose the owners of financial assets traded in the country as
part of a probe of officials linked to Mubarak.  The Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF, an exchange-traded fund
in  New York  that holds Egyptian shares, rose 19 percent between
Jan. 28 and Feb. 14, three days after Mubarak’s fall. It has
since lost 9 percent as the Egyptian bourse remained closed.
Orascom Telecom rebounded 12 percent before losing 10 percent.  The EGX30 may drop another 10 percent when it eventually
reopens, said Slim Feriani, London-based chief executive officer
of Advance Emerging Capital Ltd., which manages $750 million in
frontier and developing nation stocks including Egyptian shares.  MSCI Membership  “It’s difficult for people like us as international
investors to do much in these markets, no matter how much they
fall in the next few days or weeks,” Feriani said in a phone
interview. The outlook for Egypt’s economy and companies is too
uncertain to make investment decisions, he said.  Foreigners hold about $13 billion in Egyptian shares,  Barclays Capital  said in a Jan. 18 report, and account for
almost 25 percent of trading.  If the market is closed for 40 days or more, MSCI Inc. may
begin investor talks to determine whether to remove Egypt from
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, Frank Nielsen, the company’s
executive director for equity and applied research, said in a
telephone interview from New York on March 1.  Argentina  removed
from the index in 2009, when it was reclassified as a frontier
market, according to  MSCI’s website .  New Cabinet  Prime Minister-designate Essam Sharaf may announce the full
list of his cabinet by the end of the week, spokesman  Magdy Rady 
told reporters on March 5. Economic growth will slow to about 4
percent in this fiscal year through June, from an earlier
forecast of about 6 percent, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said.  “On Egypt I’m really disappointed on the way it’s been
handled,” said Fadi Al Said, a Dubai-based senior investment
manager at ING Investment Management, which oversees about $518
billion worldwide. His ING L Invest Middle East & North Africa
fund has beaten 88 percent of peers in the past year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. “I hope that the market will
open up soon and let’s get over with this cleanout, because this
will create massive opportunities,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 