-- 
Facebook Is Said to Resume Talks With Skype on Video-Calling Partnership

-- B y   A s h l e e   V a n c e ,   B r a d   S t o n e ,   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/facebook-is-said-to-resume-talks-with-skype-on-video-calling-partnership.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest
social-networking company, is holding talks with  Skype 
Technologies SA about offering Web video calls to its 500
million users, two people familiar with the discussions said.  Video calling between friends on Facebook was first
discussed by the two companies last year, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks were
private. The feature wasn’t offered in an October update to
Skype, which did include voice calling between Facebook friends.  As Web users adopt new ways of communicating, such as video
and mobile messaging,  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook has
added features to give members more ways to keep in touch.
Bringing video calls to its social network would ramp up
competition with Apple Inc., which introduced the feature on its
iPhone in June, and with Google Inc., which offered Web calling
through Gmail in August.  Video calls accounted for more than 41 percent of all Web
calling between Skype users in the second half of last year, the
company said in January. Luxembourg-based Skype registered with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in August to sell
its shares to the public.  “Last year, we announced the integration of Facebook in
Skype, so people can keep up to date with their Facebook friends
through News Feed in Skype and even call and SMS their Facebook
friends on any phone from Skype,” Facebook said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. “With regards to any further integration, we
don’t comment on rumor and speculation and have nothing to
announce at this time.”  Jennifer Caukin, a spokeswoman for Skype, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco , at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  