-- 
Goal-Line Technology May Be Used at 2014 Soccer World Cup, FIFA Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-03-05T16:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/goal-line-technology-may-be-used-at-2014-soccer-world-cup-fifa-says.html
Goal-line technology may be used to
adjudicate contentious calls at the 2014  World Cup  if trials are
successful, the president of soccer’s governing body said today.  Sepp Blatter, speaking at an annual meeting of the sport’s
rule-making body, the  International Football Association Board ,
in Newport,  Wales , said trials by 10 companies had so far failed
to meet criteria, which include being able to deliver a result
to the referee within a second.  “If it works definitely, the board will say yes to the
technology,” Blatter told a news conference. “If the board
says yes,” then there should be no problem to have it in 2014,
he said.  IFAB, which just a year ago turned its back on the idea of
technology, was forced to revisit the issue after match
officials failed to spot a valid goal by England’s  Frank Lampard 
at the 2010 World Cup.  Last June, television replays showed Lampard’s shot clearly
bounced over the line in Bloemfontein,  South Africa . England
went on to lose the game 4-1 to  Germany .  Blatter told reporters two days later it would be
“nonsense not to reopen the file on technology.”  Even if the technology is proven to work there’s no
guarantee that it will be implemented. The eight members of the
rule-making body will have to agree to adopting it.  “We are now in the position where they want to look at the
technology in different environments and then we will make a
decision in March next year,” said Alex Horne, chief executive
of  England ’s Football Association. “That’s why next year’s
meeting will be so important.”  Hawkeye Innovations  Hawkeye Innovations Ltd., a U.K. company which makes
equipment used to review line calls in tennis, has twice been
involved with trials for FIFA. It didn’t take part in February’s
trials because the conditions didn’t simulate matches.  Munich-based Cairos Technologies AG has proposed the
introduction of a microchip that could determine if a ball had
crossed the goal line.  Blatter said new tests would be carried out later this year
in matches, without specifying where and when. IFAB also agreed
to extend the trial of using five officials at the 2012 European
Championship in Poland and Ukraine. If the tests are successful
there they may also be introduced at the World Cup.  IFAB banned the use of neck warmers, also known as snoods,
in matches. They have become popular with players including
Manchester City striker  Carlos Tevez . The board also ruled that
if players wear tights during games they must be the same color
as their shorts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Newport, Wales on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  