-- 
Goldman Sachs Ex-Director Rajat Gupta Conspired With Rajaratnam, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/gupta-rajaratnam-s-brother-are-co-conspirators-u-s-says.html
  Rajat Gupta , a former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director, and Raj Rajaratnam’s brother, Rengan, each
conspired in insider trading with the Galleon Group LLC co-
founder, the U.S. said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is slated to go on trial March 8, as the
central figure in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider
trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is
accused of making $45 million from confidential information
leaked by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He may
spend as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of fraud.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter yesterday told
U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in Manhattan, who is
presiding over the case, that the government has evidence that
Gupta, 62, twice passed inside information to Rajaratnam in
2008, once about a $5 billion investment  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
made in Goldman Sachs and later about the  New York  securities
firm’s earnings.  “Mr. Gupta is a conspirator with Mr. Rajaratnam to share
inside information about Goldman,” Streeter said. The
prosecutor won the judge’s permission yesterday, over objections
by Rajaratnam’s lawyers, to let the jury hear wiretapped
telephone conversations between the defendant and his brother,
as well as conversations between Raj Rajaratnam and Gupta.  Neither Gupta nor Rajaratnam’s brother has been criminally
charged. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed an
administrative action against Gupta March 1 alleging he tipped
Rajaratnam about the Berkshire Hathaway investment and earnings
at  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also a director.  FBI-Recorded Call  Defense lawyers tried unsuccessfully to convince the judge
that an FBI-recorded telephone call between Raj Rajaratnam and
Gupta on July 28, 2008, shouldn’t be allowed as evidence because
it’s “hearsay.”  “The government intends to submit evidence that there is
such a conspiracy,” Streeter said in court. “The government is
going to show that on at least two occasions, Mr. Gupta attended
Goldman Sachs board meetings and within literally minutes of
attending those meetings, he called Mr. Raj Rajaratnam,”
Streeter said. He said Rajaratnam bought hundreds of thousands
of Goldman Sachs shares after one of those calls.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , has called the allegation
“baseless” and said his client lost $10 million he had
invested in a fund managed by Rajaratnam. He said Gupta had
never deviated from a “lifetime of honesty and integrity.”  “Mr. Gupta’s 40-year record of ethical conduct, integrity
and commitment to guarding his clients’ confidences is beyond
reproach,” Naftalis said in a statement. “Mr. Gupta has done
nothing wrong and is confident that these unfounded allegations
will be rejected by any fair and impartial fact finder.  ‘Got Good News’  Streeter said Gupta called Rajaratnam after a September
2008 Goldman Sachs board meeting about the investment by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway, and the next day investigators
recorded conversations between Rajaratnam and Galleon employees.  “He said the night before he ‘got good news about
Goldman,’” the prosecutor said.  On the night of an October 2008 Goldman Sachs board
meeting, Gupta tipped Rajaratnam that about the firm’s financial
results and a quarterly loss, Streeter said. Four minutes after
the market opened the next day, Rajaratnam sold off all of his
Goldman Sachs shares, the prosecutor said.  “Mr. Rajaratnam tells his employee he was told by a board
member at Goldman Sachs that Goldman Sachs was losing,”
Streeter said.  ‘Powerful Evidence’  After court yesterday, Rajaratnam declined to comment. His
lawyer,  John Dowd , said he hadn’t decided whether he will call
Gupta as a defense witness. Dowd said in court papers filed
yesterday that Gupta has given the SEC “powerful evidence that
Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam did not engage in  insider
trading .”  Asked about the government’s labeling Gupta a co-
conspirator in the alleged insider trading scheme, Dowd said,
“I think it’s an attempt to smear a possible witness.”  Gupta stepped down from Goldman Sachs’s board last year and
resigned from Procter & Gamble this week. Gupta is the former
managing director of McKinsey & Co., the consulting firm, and is
currently the firm’s senior partner emeritus  Current and former prosecutors testified at a hearing in
the case last year that the SEC probe of Galleon began as an
insider-trading probe of Sedna Capital Management LLC, a fund
operated by Rengan Rajaratnam, a former Galleon employee.  Andrew Michaelson, one of the principal SEC lawyers
investigating the case who is now a prosecutor on the criminal
case, testified that in September 2006 the agency opened an
insider-trading probe focusing on Galleon because Raj Rajaratnam
and Rengan Rajaratnam “appeared to be exchanging non-public
information,” prosecutors said.  Blankfein Agreed  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  has
agreed to be a prosecution witness in next week’s trial,
according to a person briefed on the matter.  Blankfein, 56, may not testify because prosecutors
typically line up potential witnesses before a trial who aren’t
later called, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Prosecutors said yesterday that the U.S. will call Diane
Wehner, a special agent with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
as their first witness. Streeter said the government’s second
witness will be Anil Kumar, a former partner at McKinsey & Co.,
who has pleaded guilty in the case.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment. Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan , declined to comment.  Jim McCarthy , a
spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to comment.  Holwell told lawyers in the case that he would submit a
questionnaire to potential jurors and question them in court
next week for possible bias against prosecution or defense.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal courtt ;
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  