-- 
Libyan Rebels Battle Qaddafi's Forces for Control of Oil Port, Main Cities

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-06T20:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/libyan-rebels-claim-another-oil-hub-in-day-of-clashes-with-qaddafi-forces.html
Fighting between Libyan rebels and
troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  intensified as the opposition
advanced west from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward the leader’s
hometown of Sirte.  Rebel fighters battled Qaddafi’s troops today as they
approached Sirte, 230 miles east of the capital, Tripoli,
according to Khaled el-Sayeh, a coordinator between the
opposition’s military forces and its interim ruling council in
Benghazi. The rebels were attacked by aircraft as they advanced
on the loyalist stronghold, the  Associated Press  said. There
were no immediate reports of casualties.  State television reports that Qaddafi’s troops had
recaptured the oil town of Ras Lanuf overnight were false and
designed to “bring down the morale of the youths,” el-Sayeh
said. The rebels today remained in control of the port, which
regime forces shelled with rockets and artillery, the AP
reported.  Battles during the past two days have become more deadly as
the rebels moved along the Libyan coast toward Tripoli and
government troops attempted to retake the rebel-held cities of
Misurata, about 90 miles east of Tripoli, and Zawiyah, to the
west. Oil last week rose to the highest since 2008 as the
fighting intensified in  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer.  Rebel Successes  Opposition forces drove pro-government troops back to the
outskirts of Misurata late today, Abu Moad, a resident, said by
telephone. Earlier, Qaddafi’s forces broke through the rebel
lines, he said.  Both cities remained in opposition hands after being
shelled by Qaddafi’s forces, said rebel council spokesman
Abdulhafid Ghoga at a news conference in Benghazi. Libyan state
TV accused rebels of using civilians as human shields.  In Washington, Senators  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts ,
Democratic chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
and  John McCain  of  Arizona , senior Republican on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, pressed for establishment of a no-fly
zone over Libya even though Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
warned last week that would require a sizable operation.  “I have great respect for Secretary Gates and the
outstanding job that he has done,” McCain said on ABC’s “This
Week” program. “We can’t risk allowing Qaddafi to massacre
people from the air.”  U.K. Team Detained  Libyan rebels detained and sent home eight members of what
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  in a statement called a
“small British diplomatic team.” The group consisted of one
person carrying a diplomatic passport and seven members of the
U.K. Special Forces, according to Al Jazeera.  Hague said the team was sent to “to initiate contacts”
and had  “experienced difficulties.” He said another team will
be sent “in due course.”  Rebel council spokesman Ghoga said
the group would “welcome” a U.K. delegation in the future.  Rebels yesterday took control of Ras Lanuf, 400 miles east
of Tripoli, where they shot down two helicopters and a fighter
jet. The  BBC  showed  video  of rebels at the crash site for the
jet and celebrating in the city.  The town has a tanker terminal that exports about 200,000
barrels of oil a day. It also contains  Libya ’s biggest refinery,
with a capacity of 220,000 barrels a day, more than half the
country’s total output, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  Crude oil for April delivery increased $2.51 to $104.42 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 4, the
highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. The contract rose 6.7
percent last week, the third straight advance, and is up 30
percent from a year ago.  Gunfire in the Capital  Heavy machine-gun fire broke out in Tripoli before dawn,
the AP reported. State television, which described renewed
gunfire later in the day as celebrations for important
victories, broadcast live footage from Tripoli’s main Green
Square, showing several thousand Qaddafi loyalists, some waving
green flags and posters of the man who has ruled the north-
African country for more than four decades.  In Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city in the rebel-held
east of the country, a council of opposition leaders held its
first formal meeting yesterday. The country’s former justice
minister, Moustafa Abdel Jalil, was named head of the group.  High Morale  “The morale is very high, but Benghazi is subject to a
media war and there is an infiltration of Qaddafi loyalists,”
Hamza Emad el-Din, an Egyptian doctor who entered Libya late
last month said by telephone today from the city.  Emad El-Din said he was referring to conflicting reports of
rebel and loyalist gains and to an explosion at an ammunition
dump near the city on March 4. Twenty-four people died in the
blast, the local Yosberides newspaper reported on its website,
citing an unidentified medical worker.  A spokesman for the opposition army forces, Abdullah al-
Mahdi, yesterday said 6,000 people have died since the uprising
began in mid-February, without saying how he obtained this
figure. The  United Nations  estimated that 1,000 people had died
as of Feb. 26.  The opposition’s interim council yesterday named Omar
Hariri, Ali al-Issawi and Mahmoud Jibril to a three-member
steering committee, Ghoga, a council spokesman, told reporters
late yesterday.  New Leadership  Hariri, who conspired with Qaddafi in the 1969 coup that
overthrew Libya’s king, was jailed in 1975 for his role in a
failed effort to topple the Libyan leader. Al-Issawi, who quit
last month as Libya’s ambassador to  India , was one of the first
government officials to break with Qaddafi, and Jibril is the
former head of a leading Libyan research organization.  Mohammed Abdul-Rahman Shalgham, the Libyan UN ambassador
who broke with Qaddafi last month, will be the council’s
representative at the world body, Al Jazeera reported. Issawi is
expected to arrive in Cairo today to begin lobbying the global
community to recognize the council’s legitimacy, Al Jazeera
said.  “The interim council’s goal is to avoid a leadership
vacuum,” Naeem Gheriany, a nuclear scientist and Libyan-
American activist, said in a telephone interview from  Washington 
yesterday. “It’s a challenging task, but the council’s members
are credible and have a lot of support from diplomats and
Libyans who are able to speak freely.”  Gheriany, a member of Libya’s opposition abroad who has
been in exile since 1980, said that Libyans won’t “accept
anything short of a complete end” to Qaddafi’s regime.  Refugee Crisis  More than 150,000 people, most of them foreign workers,
have fled Libya to neighboring Egypt and  Tunisia  since Feb. 19,
creating a crisis in the border areas, the UN refugee agency
said on March 1. The U.S., U.K. and  France  said they were
 sending aircraft  to deliver humanitarian aid and to help
evacuate refugees.  Four U.S. military flights today transported 328 evacuees
from Tunisia, according to State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley , in a message on Twitter.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest in a wave of popular
uprisings in the Middle East in the past two months that have
toppled Tunisia’s former leader, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, and
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  In Yemen today, at least 52 people were wounded in anti-
government protests today, according to  Al Jazeera . The violence
came as tens of thousands of protesters continued their calls
for the immediate resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.
The U.S. State Department updated its travel warning for Yemen,
authorizing the departure of embassy families and non-essential
personnel and saying the “ability to assist U.S. citizens in
the event of a crisis in Yemen is very limited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  