-- 
Obama Says Budget Shouldn’t Cut Programs That Help Create Jobs

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-05T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/obama-says-budget-shouldn-t-cut-programs-that-help-create-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  called on
lawmakers from both parties to work together on a budget that
reduces the deficit without cutting programs that will be needed
to create jobs.  In his weekly radio and Internet address, Obama said the
government has to be “smart” about its approach to spending.
If cuts are too great in areas such as education, he said,
“we’d be risking the future of an entire generation of
Americans.”  “We’ve got to come together to put America back on a
fiscally sustainable course, and make sure that when it comes to
the economy of the 21st century, our children and our country
are better-prepared than anyone else in the world,” he said.  Obama taped the address in Miami, where he was visiting a
high school to promote the importance of “highly skilled”
workers to economic growth.  Obama has named Vice President  Joe Biden  to lead
administration negotiations with Republicans and Democrats in
Congress on  government spending  for the rest of the 2011 fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30. The government is operating under a
stopgap spending measure that expires March 18.  “We need to come together, Democrats and Republicans,
around a long-term budget that sacrifices wasteful spending
without sacrificing the job-creating investments in our
future,” Obama said.  The president described as “very good news” yesterday’s
government figures that showed the U.S. jobless rate
unexpectedly falling to 8.9 percent in February, the lowest
number in almost two years, and employers adding 192,000 jobs.  Republican Address  In the Republican address, U.S. Representative Diane Black
of  Tennessee  said the  unemployment rate  is still too high and
blamed Obama’s policies for not doing enough to spur hiring.  “The policies of the past haven’t worked,” she said.
“What we need is a new approach.”  Black said government needs to get “out of the way” of
prosperity by cutting spending and reducing regulation. She said
Obama’s budget proposal still spends too much money and
increases the deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  