-- 
Mongolia Shortlists 6 Groups to Develop Tavan Coal Field

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-05T09:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/mongolia-shortlists-6-groups-to-develop-tavan-tolgoi-coal-field.html
Mongolia shortlisted six groups from
an initial 15 applications to develop the central-west part of
the Tavan Tolgoi coal field, said Baasangombo Enebish, executive
director of the state-run Erdenes MGL LLC.  The groups are  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  Vale SA (VALE5) ,  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , a venture between Mitsui & Co. and China’s  Shenhua Group , and the Russia-Japan-Korea consortium led by OAO
Russian Railways, Enebish said in an interview in Ulan Bator
today. Erdenes MGL, which owns the asset, will begin talks with
the companies and plans to pick one to three winners within four
months, he said.  The western side of the central area of Tavan Tolgoi holds
more than 1 billion metric tons of coal, 68 percent of which can
be used for steelmaking and the rest as fuel in  power plants ,
Enebish said. The central-east side will be developed by a unit
of Erdenes MGL, which plans to make an initial public offering
to international investors by next year, he said.  “It depends on the negotiations, but we see no reason for
delays,” Enebish said. “We’d like to clarify all issues with
the west part before the IPO,” he said.  Mongolia is pushing ahead to develop its biggest coal
resource after seven years of talks as commodity prices surge
and demand from steelmakers in  Asia  is exacerbated due to supply
disruptions from  Australia . The entire Tavan Tolgoi area holds
more than 6 billion tons of coal, one of the world’s biggest
untapped sources of the mineral, Enebish said.  Mongolia wants the winner to help build infrastructure
around Tavan Tolgoi, including transportation, to boost further
development in the area, he said.  Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, the unit that will offer stock to
foreign investors, will receive royalties from companies that
develop the west side, Enebish said. The central-east side of
Tavan Tolgoi also has more than 1 billion tons of coal, 75
percent of which is coking coal, he said.  Mongolia plans to export coal from Tavan Tolgoi to  China ,
Japan and  South Korea , Enebish said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  