-- 
PBOC Deputy Governor Yi Gang Says Yuan Is Closest on Record to Equilibrium

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-05T02:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/pboc-deputy-governor-yi-gang-says-yuan-is-closest-on-record-to-equilibrium.html
The yuan’s  exchange rate  is the
closest to “equilibrium” as it has ever been, Chinese central
bank deputy governor Yi Gang said.  Bolstering domestic consumption, restructuring the economy
and reducing surpluses will help the currency reach equilibrium,
Yi, who is also head of the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, said at the opening of the annual session of the
National People’s Congress in Beijing today. The “yuan exchange
rate has never been closer to equilibrium,” Yi said.  “This is a fair value concept,” Liu Li-gang, an economist
with Australia & New Zealand Banking Group, said in  Hong Kong .
“But I do not view the yuan as close to its equilibrium value.
There is still a large appreciation needed in the medium term.”    China ’s currency has advanced 3.5 percent against the
dollar since a two-year peg was relaxed on June 19, as nations
including the U.S. called for the Chinese government to allow a
faster pace of appreciation. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner  reiterated March 3 the yuan is “substantially
undervalued,” putting other countries at a competitive
disadvantage.  The yuan gained as much as 0.1 percent to 6.5665 per dollar
yesterday, before closing at 6.5686 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.5654 on Feb. 21, the strongest level since China unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Cross Border Transactions  Yi said equilibrium will be reached “soon.”  China plans to expand cross-border use of the yuan for the
2011-to-2015 period, according to the draft of the 12th Five-
Year Plan released today at the NPC. The government also plans
to improve its foreign exchange management, and broaden the
channels of use for its foreign exchange reserves.  “This will pave the way for a more flexible exchange
rate,” said ANZ’s Liu. “It’s in China’s interest to let the
yuan appreciate in order to help dampen the effect of imported
inflation.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in his annual state-of-the-nation
report that the government will target 8 percent economic growth
this year and “decisively” curb increases in prices that could
affect social stability. He reaffirmed that the nation is
maintaining a “proactive” fiscal policy and a “prudent”
monetary policy.  Wen is encouraging greater use of China’s currency for
international trade and investment to reduce reliance on dollars
as the  Federal Reserve  prints money to support the  U.S. economy .
Cross-border yuan trade settlement was 506.3 billion yuan ($77
billion) last year, the People’s Bank of China said Mar. 2.  --Eva Woo, Sonja Cheung. Editors: Tan Hwee Ann, Chua Kong Ho.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7574 or
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  