-- 
Treasuries Decline as Jobs Growth, Inflation Weigh on Fixed-Income Demand

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-05T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/treasuries-decline-as-jobs-growth-inflation-weigh-on-fixed-income-demand.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year notes
halting a three-week rally, as signs of faster job growth and
more inflation added to speculation the economic recovery is
building momentum, damping demand for fixed-income assets.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, touched 253 basis points yesterday, the
most since July 2008, after a report showing the largest monthly
job gains since May. Weekly losses were tempered as Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  sent troops to recapture western towns,
adding to concern political turmoil in the oil-producing Mideast
and North Africa will spread and escalate.  “The economic numbers are clearly getting stronger and
inflation is turning the corner and heading higher, which is
weighing on the Treasury market,” Donald Ellenberger, who
oversees about $6 billion as co-head of government and mortgage-
backed securities at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh. “Still,
we have underlying tension between stronger growth and higher  oil prices  due to the uncertainty in the Middle East that is
capping any selloff.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.49 percent in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625
percent security maturing in February 2021 was at 101 3/32.  Thirty-year bond yields rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 4.6 percent.  Yield Curve  The yield curve, or the difference between 2- and 10-year
Treasury notes, reached 283 basis points yesterday, the widest
since Feb. 21.  The Labor Department said payrolls rose by 192,000 in
February, after a 63,000 increase in January. Payrolls were
projected to climb 196,000, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey, with estimates ranging as high as
297,000.  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 8.9 percent,
the lowest level since April 2009. The jobless rate was
projected to rise to 9.1 percent from 9 percent, according to
the survey median.  Growth Pace  “We are moving in the right direction, but it wasn’t
stellar given what we’ve seen from recent reports,” said
Jeffrey  Cleveland , senior economist at Payden & Rygel in  Los
Angeles , which manages $56 billion. “If the report was stronger
we would see a flatter curve and some sense in the market that
the  Federal Reserve  would start to prime to exit, but we are
still seeing relative steepening.”  The Treasury announced plans to sell $32 billion of 3-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-
year bonds next week.  “If rates creep up over 4 percent, I would be
incrementally buying interest rates,” Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset
manager, said in a March 3 interview from New York with
Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker.  Ten-year yields also surged as European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said interest rates may be
increased at the next meeting. He told reporters in Frankfurt
March 3 that inflation risks have moved to the “upside.” The
ECB left its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1
percent.  Fed Numbers  There’s a 33 percent chance the Fed will raise U.S.
interest rates from almost zero in December, compared with 47
percent a month ago, according to CME Group Inc. exchange
futures. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and central bank policy
markers focus on  core inflation , rather than an official target.  “The ECB news may be resetting expectation with likely
timing of global central banks becoming more restrictive,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in  New
York . “It may mean little for the Fed, but you may see people
bring forward their expectations for Fed tightening if data
continues to come in better.”  The Fed’s Beige Book report said labor markets improved
throughout the country early this year, driven by increasing
retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing. The central
bank’s March 2 report was prepared in advance of the policy-
making Federal Open Market Committee meeting March 15.  Central Bank Buys  The Fed bought $24 billion of Treasuries this week and has
purchased $397.6 billion of  U.S. debt  as part of its $600
billion acquisition plan to support the recovery that runs
through June. The central bank plans to buy $16 billion to $22
billion of Treasuries next week and issue an updated buying
schedule on March 10.  Fed policy makers are signaling they favor an abrupt end to
in Treasury purchases in June, jettisoning their prior strategy
of gradually pulling back on intervention in bond markets.  “I don’t see a lot of gain to reverting to a tapering
approach,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters
March 3. “I don’t think that is necessary,” Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said last month.  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.8 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  