-- 
Saudi Government Says Demonstrations, Marches Prohibited by Kingdom's Laws

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-05T15:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/saudi-government-says-demonstrations-marches-prohibited-by-kingdom-s-laws.html
  Saudi Arabia ’s Interior Ministry
said that demonstrations, marches and sit-ins are “strictly”
prohibited under the kingdom’s laws, the Saudi Press Agency
said, citing an unidentified official at the Interior Ministry  Protests “contradict” Islam and the values of society,
the Riyadh-based news service cited the official as saying. They
harm public interest, infringe on the rights of others, spread
“chaos” and lead to bloodshed, the official said.  Public demonstrations are usually prohibited in Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter and an absolute
monarchy ruled by six kings since it was established in 1932.
Websites have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March
11 and March 20 in Saudi Arabia, according to  Human Rights
Watch .  Other Middle Eastern governments have been the target of a
wave of protests this year, inspired by the popular uprisings
that forced out the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt . In  Bahrain,
home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, mainly Shiite protesters
are demanding free elections and a constitutional monarchy.  Bahrain, like Saudi Arabia, has a Shiite community that
complains of discrimination by Sunni rulers. The Saudi Shiites
make up about 10 to 15 percent of the population.  Shiite Protests  Shiite Muslims in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia held
two demonstrations on March 3 to call for the release of
prisoners. About 100 people staged the first protest in the
Shiite Muslim village of Awwamiya in the kingdom’s Eastern
Province. A similar number of people later demonstrated in the
city of Qatif under strong police presence.  A third demonstration, demanding the release of Sheikh
Tawfiq al-Amir, was held yesterday in al-Hofuf in the Eastern
Province, according to Tawfiq al-Saif, a prominent Shiite
activist from the eastern region, and a second activist, who
declined to be identified for security reasons. Al-Amir, a
Shiite Muslim cleric, was arrested on Feb. 27 after he called
for a constitutional monarchy and equal rights,  Human Rights
Watch  said in a statement on its website.  More than 100 activists, writers and academics warned  King Abdullah  of “the prevalence of corruption and nepotism” and
the “widening gap between state and society,” according to an
e-mailed copy of their petition statement on Feb. 27. They
called on the king to move the country towards a constitutional
monarch.  Awwamiya, a village north of Qatif on the kingdom’s  Persian
Gulf , was the scene of much larger demonstrations in 2009 after
police sought to arrest Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr, who had said
in a sermon that Saudi Shiites may be able to seek a state of
their own in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 