-- 
Saudi Stocks End Longest Losing Streak Since 1996 After State Purchases

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-03-05T15:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/saudi-stocks-end-longest-losing-streak-since-1996-after-state-purchases.html
Saudi stocks rose for the first time
in three weeks, rallying the most in more than two years, after
the finance minister said the Arab world’s largest economy is
benefitting from higher  oil prices  and in “excellent” shape.    Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker, surged 9.1 percent, and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s biggest lender, jumped 7.6 percent. The  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX) , climbed 7.3 percent, the steepest gain since
November 2008, to 5,709.91 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The
gauge snapped a 13-day losing streak, the longest selloff since
a similar period ended July 18, 1996.  The rise in oil prices will boost the “strong condition” of
the kingdom, Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf told Al Arabiya
TV. Stock prices in Saudi Arabia, which holds about 20 percent
of the world’s proven oil reserves, are attractive now and the
Saudi Public Pension Agency bought shares last week, he said.
The state-run General Organization for Social Insurance also
purchased stocks, according to Ajeej Capital’s Fuad Aghabi.  “Assaf’s comments have had the biggest impact on the
market,” said Aghabi, Ajeej Capital’s investment director in  Riyadh .  Stocks tumbled across the region last week, sending the
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of Persian Gulf shares to the lowest
level since 2009 and propelling the Saudi benchmark down the
most in two years, on concern the turmoil in  Libya  will spread
through the Middle East.  Discount Valuation  “With my trust in this economy and this country, I also
seized the opportunity” and bought shares, Finance Minister Al
Assaf said. “I am a long term investor.”  The benchmark index for Saudi stocks traded at 13.5 times
reported earnings at the close on March 2, a 23 percent discount
to the average price-earnings multiple of 17.5 over the past
four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stocks are “attractively valued and the moves by
government agencies signal continued confidence,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad Capital in Riyadh.  Oil rose 2.5 percent to a 29-month high yesterday. Crude
oil for April delivery increased to $104.42 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 26,
2008.  Saudi Basic, also known as Sabic, advanced the most since
May, rising to 93 riyals. The relative strength index for the
stock closed last week at 16.8. A reading below 30 indicates a
stock will rise, according to some technical analysts.  Sabic ‘Oversold’  “Oversold Saudi petrochemical companies, which enjoy
advantages over international rivals, are attracting much
attention after the spike in oil prices,” said Amro Halwani, a
senior trader at  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  in Riyadh.    Al Rajhi , the kingdom’s biggest publicly traded lender by
market value, rebounded from the lowest level since August 2009,
rising to 70.75 riyals.  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , the second
largest lender in the kingdom, rose the most in five years,
gaining 9.8 percent to 48.40 riyals.    Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , the second-biggest phone company by
market value, climbed 7 percent, the biggest gain since December
2008, to 46 riyals.  National Shipping Co. of Saudi Arabia gained the most since
November 2008 after saying it will sign four shipbuilding
contracts valued at 1.5 billion riyals ($411 billion) with
Hyundai Mipo Dockyard tomorrow. National Shipping jumped 8.8
percent to 14.30 riyals.  Demonstrations  Shiite Muslims in the eastern province of  Saudi Arabia  held
two demonstrations on March 3 to call for the release of
prisoners, a rare event in the world’s top oil exporter. Saudi
Arabia’s Interior Ministry said that demonstrations, marches and
sit-ins are “strictly” prohibited under the kingdom’s laws, the
official Saudi Press Agency reported, citing an unidentified
official at the ministry.  “Comments from the Minister of Finance today helped turn
concern about domestic unrest,” said Ajeej Capital’s Aghabi.
“It remains to be seen if the sentiment will continue to be
positive as the week progresses.”  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  