-- 
U.K.’s Osborne Signals Cut in Fuel Taxes as Price of Oil Rises

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-05T16:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/u-k-s-osborne-signals-cut-in-fuel-taxes-as-price-of-oil-rises.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  signaled a possible cut in fuel taxes to help
consumers as the rising cost of oil pushes the cost of gasoline
to record highs.  “I know how hard the rises in world oil prices are hurting
families in Britain,” Osborne told the conference of his  Conservative Party  in Cardiff, Wales today. “I know people feel
squeezed. I hear you. I won’t take risks with economic
stability, or wreck the public finances. But I promise you I am
doing everything I can to find a way to help.”  Crude oil in New York yesterday rose to a 29-month high on
concern that turmoil in  Libya  will spread to other north African
and Middle Eastern energy exporters, curbing shipments. The
average cost of unleaded gasoline in the U.K. has climbed above
1.30 pounds ($2.10) a liter. More than 80 pence of that is tax.  Osborne, who will set out his fiscal plans in his annual
budget on March 23, gave no details in his  speech  about how he
plans to reduce the cost of fuel. Still, he singled out a
planned 1 penny rise in fuel duty slated to take effect next
month by the previous Labour government. The duty on gasoline
and diesel is currently 58.95 pence a liter and value-added tax,
a 20 percent sales levy, is charged on the total price.  Duty Cut  The Treasury said yesterday it will seek permission from
the European Union to cut road-fuel duty by 5 pence per liter
for remote areas of the country.  Rural motorists are hit hardest by high fuel prices because
distribution costs are higher and drivers rely on their own
vehicles for transportation. Duty would be reduced in areas such
as the Scottish islands and the Isles of Scilly, off southwest  England , the Treasury said.  Osborne said his budget will be “unashamedly pro-growth,
pro-enterprise and pro-aspiration,” and will “look at the
planning delays, the new regulations, the bureaucracy and the
costs that hold business back and stop jobs being created.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  