-- 
U.S. Housing May Not Recover Until 2014: Survey

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-05-18T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/housing-in-u-s-may-not-recover-until-at-least-2014-homeowner-survey-says.html
More than half of U.S. homeowners and
renters say housing won’t recover until at least 2014,
reflecting a deepening pessimism about the real estate market,
according to a survey by Trulia Inc. and RealtyTrac Inc.  The survey, taken in April, found that 54 percent of
respondents don’t expect a recovery for at least three years, up
from 34 percent in November, the two real estate data companies
said today. Those who see a turnaround by the end of next year
fell to 15 percent from 27 percent.  The housing market is weakening as near record-low  interest
rates  and falling prices fail to boost demand after the
expiration of a federal tax credit for homebuyers last year.
Values will come under more pressure as 1.8 million properties
that are delinquent or in foreclosure are added to the inventory
of unsold homes, according to a March estimate by CoreLogic
Inc., a real estate information firm in  Santa Ana ,  California .  “Demand remains weak, loans are increasingly difficult to
qualify for and the shadow inventory of several million
distressed properties is weighing down the market,”  Rick
Sharga , senior vice president at RealtyTrac in Irvine,
California, said in a statement. “All of these things need to
improve before housing can recover.”  The rebound will be a “long and gradual process,” said
Pete Flint, chief executive officer of San Francisco-based
Trulia. “We have another 18 months until we start to see signs
of  price stability  in the housing market,” he said in the
statement.  Government Response  According to the survey, 45 percent of respondents said the
government isn’t working hard enough to prevent foreclosures.
Seventeen percent said too much is being done, 16 percent
believe the government’s response is appropriate and 22 percent
said they aren’t sure.  The Treasury Department’s main foreclosure-prevention
program, called the Home Affordable Modification Program, has
resulted in about 587,000 permanent loan modifications, short of
its goal of up to 4 million.  House Republicans  say the program, which pays banks and
mortgage servicers to lower borrower payments, hasn’t done
enough to help struggling homeowners, and voted to abolish it. A
coalition of 50 state attorneys general negotiating a settlement
with mortgage servicers began to fracture in March after seven
of its Republican members objected to a proposal to force
lenders to consider reducing loan balances for some homeowners.  Touched by Crisis  Hopes for a quick real estate recovery are waning as more
homeowners are affected by the foreclosure crisis. A third of
respondents have or know somebody who has stopped making
payments, walked away from a mortgage, applied for a loan
modification or have lost a home through foreclosure or short
sale, according to today’s report.  U.S. foreclosure filings fell to the lowest level in three
years in the first quarter amid a lender backlog in processing
paperwork, RealtyTrac said on April 14. Foreclosure processing
slowed after the state attorneys general and federal regulators
began separate investigations last year of the mortgage-
servicing industry for the use of faulty documents and
signatures to seize properties.  Christopher Mayer, senior vice dean at the  Columbia
Business School ’s Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate in New
York, said he expects the market to bottom early next year with
the hardest hit states, including  Nevada ,  Arizona , and  Florida ,
taking longer.  “When this eventually turns, I think this is going to turn
more quickly than people think,” Mayer said. “There’s a lot of
pent-up demand.”  4% Decline  Moody’s Analytics forecasts that  home prices  will bottom
out by September, with a decline of about 4 percent from
December 2010 in the S&P/Case-Shiller index of values in 20
cities. The index will rise slowly through 2012, though growth
won’t reach about 5 percent until the following year, according
to Andres Carbacho-Burgos, associate director at the  West
Chester , Pennsylvania-based risk-management consultants. Prices
nationwide won’t regain the 2006 peak until about 2022.  The Trulia and RealtyTrac survey was conducted by  Harris
Interactive  from April 15 through April 19 and included 2,018
U.S. adults. The sample included 1,257 homeowners, 906 of whom
currently have a mortgage, and 704 renters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 