-- 
Universal Music Said to Be in Talks With Def Jam Chairman to Form Venture

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-05T23:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-05/universal-music-said-to-be-in-talks-with-def-jam-chairman-to-form-venture.html
(Corrects Reid role in cosmetics line in seventh paragraph.)    Universal Music Group , working to
keep Island Def Jam unit Chairman Antonio “L.A.” Reid, has
offered to create a jointly owned business with the executive,
three people with knowledge of the situation said.  Reid may be able to take several artists from among those
he has signed, who include teen pop star Justin Bieber, Rihanna
and Usher, the people said. Universal, owned by  Vivendi SA (VIV) , may
name a Def Jam replacement. Reid hasn’t agreed to the plan, said
the people, who sought anonymity because the talks are private.  Universal Music Chief Executive Officer Lucian Grainge, who
took over in January, proposed the venture to keep a seasoned
hand to guide some of the industry’s hottest acts, the people
said. Grainge, who will run Universal from Los Angeles, hired
Barry Weiss from Sony Music to run East Coast operations, adding
a management layer above New York label chiefs who had reported
directly to former CEO  Doug Morris .  Weiss exits Sony in April. Universal, with 7,000 employees,
has been seeking to reduce costs under Grainge, firing 60
administrative workers in January.  Vivendi, based in Paris, has said it is seeking to save 100
million euros ($139.9 million) in annual costs at  Universal
Music . Of the cuts, 62 million euros have been accomplished, one
person said.  The discussions with Reid have been complicated by the
departure of Morris, who was named CEO of Sony Music this week,
said one of the people. Morris’s move to Sony potentially gives
Reid more options, one person said.  Reid’s contract with Universal Music expires in 2012, one
of the people said. In 2008 he led Universal Music’s investment
in Le Metier de Beaute, a cosmetics line that’s carried in  Neiman Marcus  and Bergdorf Goodman and other retailers. The new
company would involve a merchandising element, said the person.  Bieber Sales  The outcome of the discussions could have an impact on
stars including Bieber, the 17-year-old sensation on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube who was signed by Reid in 2008.  All four of Bieber’s albums have made Billboard’s top 10,
and two of them have reached No. 1, according to Nielsen
SoundScan. His concert documentary “Never Say Never,”
distributed by Viacom Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures , has grossed
$64.6 million at the U.S. and Canadian box office since its
release on Feb. 11, according to Box Office Mojo.  Laura Swanson, a spokeswoman for Reid, declined to comment,
as did Melissa Victor, a publicist for Bieber.  Vivendi, which also controls video-game maker  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , lost 1 cent to 19.89 euros yesterday in Paris.
The shares are down 1.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  