-- ‘Occupy’ Group Loses Bid to Compel U.S. to Issue Courthouse Rally Permit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-19T23:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/-occupy-group-loses-bid-to-compel-u-s-to-issue-courthouse-rally-permit.html
A group calling itself “Occupy the
Courts” lost a bid to force the U.S. to issue a permit for a
rally outside a  New York  federal courthouse tomorrow.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan today denied a last-minute
request by the group and by Jarret Wolfman, an organizer of the
rally, for a court order compelling the U.S. General Services
Administration to allow it to take place tomorrow outside the
courthouse, on Pearl Street in lower  Manhattan .  “Mr. Wolfman, go and demonstrate to your heart’s content,
but not outside the Pearl Street entrance on the federal side,”
Kaplan told Wolfman at the end of a hearing in the same
courthouse today.  The event, intended to coincide with similar protests
outside 120 U.S. courthouses in 46 states, was planned to begin
in the plaza outside the Daniel Patrick Moynihan U.S. Courthouse
between 4 and 6 p.m. tomorrow, then move to a march and rally at
nearby  Foley Square . Organizers said they want to call attention
to a 2010 Supreme Court decision that made it easier for
corporations to spend money in election campaigns.  “The purpose of the day of action is to mark the second
anniversary of the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) ’s infamous Citizens United
v. Federal Election Commission decision that opened the
floodgates to unlimited corporate money in elections,” Occupy
the Courts said in a complaint filed with the court last night.  Permit Denied  The suit was filed against two U.S. General Services
Administration officials, Wesley French and Joanna Rosato. The
GSA denied the rally permit on Jan. 13, citing a conflict with
the swearing in of new citizens and a ceremony to seat a new
judge, Occupy the Courts said in the complaint.  Kaplan ruled that the area outside the courthouse, which he
said is a potential terrorist target, isn’t a public forum. As a
result, the government may impose restrictions on free speech if
they are reasonable and content-neutral, he said. Kaplan said
that no permit has ever been issued for a demonstration outside
the courthouse. He cited the government’s security concerns in
refusing to order a permit.  Kaplan said that Occupy the Courts has adequate alternative
locations for the rally, including the sidewalk in front of a
nearby federal courthouse, which is currently closed for
renovations.  ‘Considering Options’  “We’re considering our options,” Gideon Oliver, a lawyer
representing Occupy the Courts, said after the hearing. “The
organizers of tomorrow’s protest will have to take the court’s
decision into account and determine where and how they’ll end up
protesting.”  Wolfman, asked after the hearing what he planned to do in
response to Kaplan’s ruling, said “I don’t know yet.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s office, which represented the government in the case,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Wolfman v. French, No. 12-CV-443, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in Manhattan federal court at 
 Ithomas15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at    mhytha@bloomberg.net  