-- AB Foods Revenue Rises on Primark, Sugar
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-01-19T08:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ab-foods-revenue-rises-on-exceptional-primark-sugar-sales.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , the
U.K. sugar producer that owns Primark clothing stores, said
revenue gained 12 percent in its fiscal first quarter on
“exceptional” retail sales and rising sugar prices in Europe.  Revenue in the 16 weeks ended Jan. 7 was helped by
“particularly strong trading” during the holiday season, the
London-based company said today in a statement. Sugar sales
surged 21 percent and Primark revenue rose 16 percent.  “Primark is well-positioned relative to other apparel
retailers for 2012,” Robert Waldschmidt, an analyst at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said in a Jan. 12 report. “While margins
suffered in 2011, Primark gained share.”  Sales at the sugar division, the company’s second-biggest
contributor to profit, were boosted by higher prices in  Europe .
Primark opened nine new stores during the year, including
three in  Germany , and said it plans to open three more in
 Spain  in March.  “We have an appetite to grow Primark on the continent,”
Finance Director John Bason said in an interview.  AB Foods rose  0.4 percent to 1,142 pence at 8:20 a.m. in
London, extending the stock’s 12-month gain to 5 percent.  While currency shifts didn’t affect sales growth, AB Foods
said it absorbed higher cotton prices rather than passing them
on to shoppers, which narrowed operating profit margins.  AB Foods, which doesn’t disclose sales figures for stores
open more than a year, said revenue on that basis for Primark
was “good.”  Primark Christmas  Primark had “a strong Christmas after a slow start in the
autumn,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec Securities in
London, said in an interview. He estimated that same-store sales
rose 3 percent.  The company forecast UK sugar production of 1.25 million
tons this year, compared with just less than 1 million tons last
year. “The UK is in very good shape,” Bason said.  The company is the world’s second-largest sugar producer
after expanding in Spain and  Portugal  with the acquisition of
Azucarera Ebro in 2009. AB Foods controls Illovo Sugar Ltd., the
largest maker of the commodity in  Africa , and makes cane and
beet sugar in China.  AB Foods said sugar cane yields in China continued to be
hurt by last year’s drought, while beet sugar production in the
northeast of  China  should be “significantly ahead” of last
year due to additional planting. Sugar prices are still “well
above” historic averages, the company said in the statement.  “China is getting into its stride here,” Bason said in
the interview. “We moved into a profit in 2011 and we’re
building on that this year.”  The company,  which makes  Twinings tea and the Ovaltine malt
drink, reported a 4 percent revenue increase at its grocery
unit, aided by sales of tea in the U.S. and Ovaltine in
developing markets.  Sales at AB Foods’ ingredients unit rose 2 percent, and
revenue at the agriculture division gained 22 percent, fueled by
sales of sugar beet feed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  