-- Able Planet Plans Hearing Aid Alternative for Aging Population
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2012-01-19T14:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/able-planet-plans-hearing-aid-alternative-for-aging-population.html
 Ever since electric hearing aids were introduced around the
turn of the last century, they have been too expensive for
most aging Americans. Scores of inventors have tried to
commercialize lower-cost hearing devices, but their products
often come up short, amplifying low-frequency sound and making
it difficult to hear voices.  Now a Colorado headphone manufacturer called Able Planet
plans to launch a new line of affordable amplification
devices, beginning in March. The first new product, the
Personal Sound AMP, is smaller than a dime and fits into the
ear with a band to hold it in place. At $800 a pair, the AMP
is meant to be an alternative to hearing aids, which can cost
several thousand dollars. Only 9 percent of U.S. seniors
making less than $50,000 a year own hearing aids, according to
2010 survey by medical devices research firm Parks Associates.  Intended for anyone with mild to moderate hearing
loss, the AMP employs patented technology called Linx DSP that
converts sound from an analog coil into digital signal
processing. It enhances the soft and medium sound typically
produced by speech and music, making communication possible in
noisy environments, and can be dialed up or down by briefly
placing a hand over the ear.  Chief Executive Officer Kevin Semcken, who bought Able
Planet six years ago when it was struggling with debt and
multiple design lawsuits, is leading the push into the hearing
device market. While the company has derived much of its
revenue from sales of its consumer stereo headphones, this
isn't the company’s first foray into hearing loss technology.
In fact, Able Planet was founded specifically to produce
hearing devices. But the high cost of research and development
of personal sound devices proved prohibitive during the
recession.  In 2011, the company had $30 million in revenue, 90
percent from its consumer electronics, which are sold online
and in retailers like Costco nationwide, as well as in Mexico
and  Japan . The 50-employee Wheat Ridge, Colo., business has
been competing against industry leaders such as Bose, Monster
Cable Products, and Sony in the more than $900 million
domestic market for stereo headphones. Able Planet captures
about 1 percent of that market, says Ben Arnold, an audio and
video industry analyst at market research firm NPD Group.  Semcken, 52, a serial entrepreneur and private investor
who has built and sold seven medical technology
companies, spoke recently with Bloomberg.com contributor Karen
E. Klein for this as-told-to Entrepreneur’s Journal:  I found Able Planet at a technology show in 2005. The
founders were struggling with lawsuits and solvency but they
had filed initial patents. I asked them to build me two
headsets, one with their patented audio technology and one
without it. I have a hereditary 30 percent hearing loss in my
left ear. When I tested the headsets, they were playing Dean
Martin’s “You’re Nobody ’Til Somebody Loves You.” I could not
hear the high-frequency cymbal beats in my left ear, but when
they switched to Linx, the cymbals moved in my head like they
were turning a balance wheel from speaker to speaker.  I said, “Oh my God, this thing works!” I bought the
company in January 2006 with my partners at HealthTek
Ventures. Instead of selling high-priced hearing aids through
audiologists at hearing aid centers controlled by very large
corporations, I decided to disrupt the business. The majority
of people with hearing loss have mild to moderate loss so they
can’t communicate fully in a noisy environment. They’re at one
end of a table where people are having fun, telling jokes, and
they’re smiling and participating the best they can, but they
can’t hear the joke. I wanted to get those people sitting
up, hearing and in the game without having to pay $3,600 for a
pair of hearing aids.  I can look at a product and say, “Is it
cheaper, faster, better? I can sell that.” I wouldn’t ever
launch me-too technology; that’s boring. It has to add
something significant that the market can approve. In 1994, I
started HealthTek Ventures with some partners to invest in
health-care technology. I invest my own money and I only do
deals that I run myself. I control the decisions where I have
experience and release control on other decisions to the
people I’ve worked with and trust.  [At HealthTek] I see probably 60 deals a month and most
of them suffer from founder-itis. The founders are technical
people who don’t have good financial training and they never
recognize their own limitations. They burn through their
investors’ money, they don’t hit milestones, and by the time
they get to Series B [investment rounds], they’ve already lost
the company. I knew a CEO who would take four of us out to
dinner and he’d dump $1,500 without thinking twice. I put
startup money in $1 million tranches and set milestones, so we
have to prove the technology or get into clinical trials
before we open the next tranche.  [Able Planet] won the Best of Innovation Award at the
2006  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  against Motorola
and Bose and all these monster corporations -- and we
literally had five people in our company. Top retailers like
Best Buy and Costco came to us about selling our patented
technology, so we began developing consumer headphones with
the strategy of funding R&D on the audiology side with the
revenues from our general sales.  In 2009, we had our bank line of credit disrupted at the
height of the recession. I haven’t ever defaulted on a loan
but the bank we were using got in trouble because they had
loans to early-stage companies that went bankrupt. If it
wasn’t for private investors, Able Planet would not have made
it. At least half of our expenses come from attorneys and
product development because innovative design and winning
awards are what drive our company.  Last year, 2011, was our first full year of
profitability. In this first quarter of 2012, we’ll be moving
into Costco stores in the U.K. and securing manufacturing
agreements for our personal sound amplification devices. In
the next couple of years, I’m moving Able Planet to an exit.
It will probably be a public company, and that’s the point
where I leave. I don’t want to be a big-company CEO. What
drives me is getting people with hearing loss off the
sidelines and into the game. Disruptive technologies are
beautiful ways of getting that done.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net 
