-- Advanced Plasma’s Trash-to-Power Plans in U.K. Need $618 Million
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-19T12:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/advanced-plasma-s-trash-to-power-plans-in-u-k-need-618-million.html
Advanced Plasma Power Ltd., a
developer of waste-to-energy technology, is talking to as many
as 15 investors to raise as much as 400 million pounds ($618
million) for projects that turn trash into power.  The London-based company is speaking to private equity
investors and infrastructure funds in the U.K., U.S.,  Europe  and
the  Middle East  and already has three “agreements in
principle” in place, Rolf Stein, chief executive officer of
Advanced Plasma, said without elaborating in a phone interview.  Advanced Plasma is working with “a number of the leading”
U.K. waste management companies he didn’t name to deliver as
many as 10 projects that use waste from British homes and
businesses to generate electricity and heat. The facilities are
expected to have 160 megawatts of total capacity.  The U.K.’s goal is to get at least 15 percent of its energy
from renewable sources by 2020, a sevenfold jump from 2008. The
Department of Energy & Climate Change  estimates  as much as half
the total figure may be generated from biomass, which includes
wood chips, municipal waste and straw.  “We are hoping to attract 50 percent senior debt into the
projects at financial close but this will be dependent on market
conditions including Basel III constraints at the time of each
close,” Stein said of the capital-adequacy rules.  “The Green Investment Bank could certainly have an
important role to play here,” he said of the bank that will
fund clean-energy projects, helping spur investment in the
industry, and move the U.K. toward a lower-carbon economy.  Green Bank Pledge  Britain has pledged to put 3 billion pounds into the Green
Bank that could leverage a further 15 billion pounds of private
investment. The  bank’s priorities  through 2016 will include
commercial and industrial waste processing, recycling and energy
generated from waste. The bank needs European Commission
approval before it can start, and should have full borrowing
powers from 2015.  Financial closure for the first of Advanced Plasma’s
projects is expected at the end of this year, and on all 10
facilities in two to three years, the executive said. The equity
requirement for the projects could be less than 400 million
pounds should earlier facilities be refinanced and later
projects have a higher level of debt, he said.  The technology developer might consider an initial public
offering next year, Stein also said. “Whilst I can’t speak for
all shareholders, for the majority an initial public offering is
unlikely to be an exit strategy at this time and we probably
wouldn’t look to raise much money from it.”  A share sale would instead provide the company with
liquidity to structure some “interesting” deals and perhaps
some development capital. Advanced Plasma in May joined with
Group Machiels to build a project at a landfill site in  Belgium 
that will dig up underground trash and turn it into power. The
company isn’t looking to pursue similar facilities in the U.K.
as there’s “ample need” to first address the issue of
diverting residual waste from landfill, Stein said.  “We do see landfill mining as an important part of the
energy and resource landscape of the future however,” he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  