-- Afren Says Okoro Find in Nigeria Can Support Own Oil Project
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   M a r k   B a r t o n
-- 2012-01-19T10:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/afren-says-okoro-find-in-nigeria-can-support-own-oil-project-1-.html
Afren Plc (AFR) , the U.K. explorer focused
on  Africa  and  Iraqi Kurdistan , said the latest Okoro East oil
discovery is large enough to be developed as a separate project,
boosting resources in  Nigeria .  Afren discovered 549 feet (167 meters) of so-called net oil
pay in the well and penetrated “the previously unexplored
deeper zones” in the Okoro field, the company said Jan. 17. The
main Okoro field is producing about 20,000 barrels of oil a day,
said Afren Chief Executive Officer Osman Shahenshah.  “This discovery means that potentially there is another
Okoro field and beyond,” Shahenshah said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television, declining to give details of the find’s
potential reserves. “We will be testing over the next three or
four weeks, but clearly it’s large enough there as a project on
its own.”  Afren, based in  London , has been targeting about 25 million
barrels of oil equivalent resources in Okoro East, according to
a November  presentation  posted on its website. The Okoro Setu
field held 19.5 million barrels of oil reserves as of Dec. 31,
2010, according to the  website .  Afren shares rose to a five-month high after the Okoro East
discovery announcement. The shares rose 0.8 percent to 127 pence
in London trading at 10:42 a.m. local time.  The tests “will give us an idea of pressures, flow rates,
crude quality and so forth,” Shahenshah said. “Okoro has been
a great field, it’s been producing for 40 years now ahead of
expectations always.”  Amni International Petroleum Development Co  is Afren’s
partner in the Okoro project. The Okoro field holds 21.4 million
barrels of oil equivalent reserves, according to Amni’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin and  Mark Barton  in London at   egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  