-- Alstom Forecasts Rebound in Orders on Emerging-Market Growth
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-01-19T12:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/alstom-forecasts-rebound-in-orders-on-emerging-market-growth.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  predicted a rebound in
orders this quarter, with an Israeli power-equipment project and
demand for rail cars in  Latin America  allowing the French
manufacturer to stick to profitability goals.  Alstom has more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of
announced contracts yet to be booked in the full year through
March, the Levallois-Perret, France-based company said today.
Alstom shares rose the most in more than three years.  The company is forecasting “marked progress” in fourth-
quarter sales, helped by renewable-energy products and services
to power utilities, Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said.
His comments were more optimistic than remarks by  Siemens AG (SIE) 
Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser, who said a week ago that
meeting this year’s target has become more of a challenge.  “We expect the fourth quarter to be the best of the
current year,” Kron said on a conference call. “We have a
number of projects that we expect to book before the end of the
year, and that’s particularly true in thermal power.”  Alstom jumped as much as 13 percent to 27.93 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since Nov. 24, 2008, and was up 12 percent
at 1:32 p.m. in Paris.  Forecast Intact   Alstom’s  operating margin , which narrowed to 6.7 percent of
sales in the six months through September, should be at the
lower end of a 7 percent to 8 percent range in the current
financial year, Kron reiterated today.  Free  cash flow  will probably be positive in the second
half, though that won’t be enough to offset the cost of disputes
with customers, lower sales and expenditure on new plants in
 India  and  Russia  that will lead to negative cash flow for the
full year, the CEO said.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term  credit
rating  by one level on Jan. 17 to Baa2 with a negative outlook
because of “material negative trends in working capital
levels.” Free cash flow may be negatively affected for an
extended period, the rating company said.  “We have increased actions on cash monitoring,” as
“money is a scarce resource everywhere,” Kron said. “There is
no concern about the balance sheet” and no need for Alstom to
raise equity, he said, adding that the company will pay a
dividend for the current year.  Competitors  Alstom is the third-largest power-equipment maker, trailing
 General Electric Co. (GE)  of the U.S. and Munich-based  Siemens (SIE) . The
French company also competes with companies such as Siemens and
Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on railway rolling stock, and with
Siemens and  ABB Ltd (ABB) . on power-transmission markets.  Orders dropped 11 percent to 4.89 billion euros in the
fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31, Alstom said. Sales fell 7.1
percent to 4.87 billion euros and missed the average  analyst
estimate  of 5.03 billion euros.  The hydroelectricity market in China is “difficult because
of the lack of orders, which is not structural,” said Kron,
adding that it intensifies competition in that country and
elsewhere in  Asia . The power-transmission market “has
stabilized” and remains “tough.”  The French company is cutting  jobs  in  Europe  and in the
U.S., where demand from utilities and debt-laden governments is
struggling to recover. At the same time, it’s investing and
forging partnerships in faster-growing countries such as  Brazil ,
India,  China  and Russia to tap rising infrastructure needs.  “The previously hoped for U.S. and European power recovery
is likely to be delayed further in an environment of slowing
growth, said James Moore, an analyst at Redburn Partners, in a
note. ‘‘On the positive side the company has a strong installed
base, is re-entering the attractive gas market and valuation is
exceptionally undemanding.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  