-- Americans Won’t Welcome Online-Piracy Crackdown: Joe Karaganis
-- B y   J o e   K a r a g a n i s
-- 2012-01-19T00:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/americans-won-t-welcome-online-piracy-crackdown-joe-karaganis.html
This month, Congress is expected to
move forward on controversial legislation, the Stop Online
Piracy Act (SOPA) in the House and the Protect Intellectual
Property Act (PIPA) in the Senate, both aimed at halting online
copyright infringement.  The shorthand version of the controversy pits Hollywood
against the Internet, with the studios pleading for more power
to shut down overseas pirate sites. Internet companies, in turn,
are warning that those powers may stifle innovation, open the
door to online censorship, and even break the  addressing  system
that makes the Internet work. Just this week, the White House --
a major supporter of increased enforcement -- acknowledged these
concerns.  Much of the Internet sector is late to this debate. The
online enforcement push has been under way since the mid-1990s.
 Penalties  for infringement have increased. Law-enforcement
agencies have been reorganized -- twice. New international
treaties have been adopted. And the studios and Internet service
providers have hammered out plans for large-scale  online
enforcement  against individuals.  SOPA and PIPA are just the next steps in this larger
enforcement agenda. Whatever happens to them, online enforcement
will remain a very slippery slope, with attendant risks of
censorship, surveillance, and the loss of due process. Because
nothing in SOPA or PIPA is likely to stop piracy, there will be
strong pressure to keep sliding.  War on Piracy  Are Americans ready for this escalating war on piracy?
The truth is, they have rarely been asked. My team at The
American Assembly, a public-policy institute based at  Columbia
University , set out to correct that. In August, we commissioned
a random phone  survey  of 2,303 Americans, ages 18 and older, to
find out. (It was supported by a Google Inc. research award. The
company made no contributions to the research design, had no
power to approve the questions and wasn’t involved in the
analysis or presentation of the results.)  We learned that most people want to obey the law. But when
values conflict, strong majorities rank privacy, free speech,
fear of government intrusion, and yes, sharing among family and
friends ahead of copyright protection. In other words, our
results show an emerging ordering of values online. Here are the
details:  First, a lot of Americans are casual pirates. Among the
respondents, 46 percent said they had, at some point, bought,
copied or downloaded unauthorized music or video. This figure
reaches 70 percent among people age 18 to 29.  But hard-core piracy is rare: Less than 2 percent had
acquired most or all of a large collection that way. (For our
purposes, “large” means more than 1,000 music files or 100 video
files.)  We found that only 52 percent supported penalties for
downloading copyrighted material, and limited this support to
warnings and fines. Of those in favor of fines for illegal
downloads, the amounts were quite small: 75 percent backed fines
of less than $100 and 32 percent less than $10.  Only 2 percent of respondents came anywhere near the
$80,000 and $22,500-per-song fines leveled against Jammie
Thomas-Rasset and Joel Tenenbaum in civil cases brought by the
 record companies . (The final outcomes in both cases are still
pending.)  Other commonly proposed penalties, such as bandwidth limits
and disconnection of copyright infringers by service providers,
were very unpopular, garnering only 28 percent and 16 percent
support, respectively. Both, notably, are present in a recent
“six-strikes” agreement between the studios and service
providers, a deal that sets up a private system for warning and
punishing infringers.  ‘Six Strikes’  When we asked who should have the power to adjudicate
charges of infringement, 54 percent of respondents said courts
should. That’s sensible -- and absent from the “six-strikes”
agreement.  On the main issue in the SOPA/PIPA debate -- whether
service providers,  search engines  and other Internet
intermediaries should block infringing content -- we found that
small majorities of Americans supported blocking (53 percent to
61 percent, depending on the wording).  There are also a lot of buts. Support drops to 40 percent
if the government does the blocking. It falls to 36 percent if
legal content is accidentally blocked, and declines to a mere 26
percent if surveillance of Internet use is required. There is
general agreement that SOPA/PIPA would do all three.  Why this divergence between support for blocking infringing
content but not for the likely consequences of the blocking?
The results suggest that practices and attitudes are adjusting
to a world in which distribution is cheap, copying is easy and
sharing is possible -- but the legal means for doing all of this
have lagged. Users are also adjusting to a world in which there
is vastly more media, not less, competing for limited attention
and money.  In our view, arguing about whether copying a song is like
stealing a car is academic. In practice, few people consider
them the same.  Want some good news? Of the 30 percent of Americans who
have copied or downloaded digital-music files free of charge, 46
percent said they now do so less often because of the emergence
of streaming music services. And this was before last year’s
launch of Spotify Ltd. in the U.S., which signed up 250,000 paid
subscribers in its first six weeks. Among video downloaders, the
comparable figure -- the “Netflix effect” -- is 40 percent.  In other words, there is a way to reduce piracy without
breaking the Internet or sacrificing civil liberties. It’s
called business innovation. To be fair, many in the
entertainment industry say this is too facile an answer. They
want to know whether the new models will be as profitable as the
old ones. And fundamentally we can’t know. But we should accept
that the answer may be no. Studios have made a lot of money off
the DVD boom, but there was a movie business before the DVD, and
there will be one after. Markets provide no guarantees, and
neither should Congress.  (Joe Karaganis is vice president of The American Assembly,
a public-policy institute based at Columbia University. The
opinions are expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Joe Karaganis at  joe.karaganis@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  