-- America’s Dirty War Against Manufacturing (Part 2): Carl Pope
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/america-s-dirty-war-against-manufacturing-part-2-carl-pope.html
So who really lost Detroit? Why did
the U.S.  auto industry ’s domestic  market share  decline from 71.1
percent in 1998 to 44.8 percent in 2009? Why does the U.S. now
produce fewer cars than  China ? And what does this story tell us
about the overall causes of decline in American manufacturing?  The conventional wisdom is that wages and union contracts
simply made American cars too expensive. During the auto-
industry collapse of 2008, the news media bombarded the public
with data about how much higher labor costs are in Detroit
factories compared with those in non-unionized Southern states.
The New York Times  reported , for example, that at GM “the
average worker was paid about $70 an hour.”  Trouble is, that figure was wrong.  In 2007, the average hourly wage in a unionized  Detroit 
auto plant was $29. The average hourly wage in a non-unionized
Toyota plant in  Kentucky ? $30. In Japan, Toyota paid assembly-
line workers about $22 an hour. True, that’s less expensive. But
when you consider that wages make up about 10 percent of a car’s
cost, it becomes clear that wages are not the reason for
Detroit’s struggles.  As for that $70-an-hour figure, it’s the sum of the hourly
wage plus the cost of retiree health-care benefits and pensions.
U.S. auto companies have carried these costs like a ball and
chain.  Society’s Burdens  Detroit for years complained that, unlike German and
Japanese competitors, it couldn’t make money on small cars. But
U.S. automakers never explained why. As automation and
competition shrank Detroit’s workforce, its labor costs didn’t
shrink with it. Not because of wages, but because of retiree
health care and pensions -- burdens that are borne by society,
not manufacturing plants, in every other advanced country. That
disparity, the result of policy decisions made in Washington
rather than wages negotiated by the  United Auto Workers , was the
source of most of the labor-cost advantage enjoyed by foreign
companies.  That wasn’t all that went wrong in Detroit, of course. A
decade ago I met with then-UAW President Steve Yokich to urge
him to partner with environmentalists and automakers to develop
fuel-efficient vehicles that could compete with those from Japan
and Germany. Yokich took me to the window of his office in
Solidarity House. Pointing outside, he said, “What do you notice
about the parking lot?”  “They’re all American vehicles?” I answered.  “Look again. Almost no SUVs. My guys know crap when they
make it.”  Yokich understood Detroit’s ruthlessly short-term business
model -- put lots of cheap sheet metal on an outmoded truck
chassis and layer on a gargantuan markup. He conceded that
Nissan and Daimler would soon start making fuel-efficient,
technologically sophisticated SUVs that would steal that market
segment, too. Japanese companies were more innovative in part
because they enjoyed much cheaper capital; the real  interest
rate  in  Japan , suffering through its lost decade, was 0 percent.
But for the Big Three, the SUVs being designed in  Tokyo  and
Stuttgart would be “next year’s problem.”  Bob Lutz, the former head of GM, says it was neither
uncompetitive wages nor unions that drove the Big Three into
decline. It was a management with its eye focused on the bottom
line and the short term. That, he says, is the “creeping
malignancy that transformed the once powerful, world-dominating,
American economy from one that produced and exported to one that
trades and imports.”  Trade Deal Effects  When federal fuel-economy rules required Detroit automakers
to produce some fuel-efficient cars, they decided to make them
in places like  Mexico  because two decades of trade deals, under
Republicans and Democrats, protected American banks,
agriculture, drug companies and Hollywood -- but not
manufacturing. (Gas-guzzling trucks, intriguingly, continued to
enjoy tariff protection -- one reason Detroit made so many.)  The final nail in Detroit’s coffin was also hammered by
 Washington . It was gasoline priced at almost $4 a gallon. For
decades, the U.S. government let the Saudis manipulate the
market -- periodically flooding it with cheap oil to discourage
the U.S. from making serious efforts to reduce our demand for
oil, which, ironically, is the only way to ensure cheap oil. The
auto industry treated oil spikes as a routine market
perturbation, ignoring the possibility that gasoline might
permanently become more expensive. When global demand pushed gas
beyond $2.50 a gallon, bankruptcy soon came barreling toward
Detroit.  The forces that devastated U.S. auto manufacturing
undermined industry after industry: steel, tires, televisions,
computers, home appliances. All suffered from dubious  tax
policy , legacy health-care costs, trade negotiators who put
overseas investors ahead of Midwestern factories, inadequate
workforce training, decaying infrastructure. Manufacturing
employment, which had climbed steadily since World War II,
suddenly began declining in 1980.  The financial crisis that began in 2008 transformed decline
into collapse. In the first 18 months of the crisis, more than 2
million jobs -- 15 percent of remaining manufacturing employment
-- were lost. Very few have come back. Meanwhile, U.S. wages had
been falling relative to those in  Germany  and Japan.  Former Intel CEO  Andy Grove  warns that the whole “scaling”
process by which innovation led to mass production has broken
down in the U.S. As he put it in a 2010  essay  in Bloomberg
Businessweek, “How America Can  Create Jobs ,” both politicians
and business leaders bought into a “general undervaluing of
manufacturing -- the idea that as long as ‘knowledge work’ stays
in the U.S., it doesn’t matter what happens to factory jobs.”  Lack of Commitment  Even when the federal government made attempts at a smart
manufacturing jobs policy, it lacked commitment. The research
and development tax credit, first passed 30 years ago, has never
enjoyed permanent status. It has expired once and been extended
for short periods 15 times. Taxpayers pay for the credit, and
lose the revenue, but companies don’t build factories to take
advantage of it because they can’t be sure it will be around by
the time a factory is complete.  Likewise, some U.S. CEOs told themselves they were leading
global corporations; it didn’t matter if they made their stuff
in Detroit or  Shanghai . They bet on one version of globalism. It
turned out the Chinese had a very different idea. Cars are
indeed being made in Shanghai, but increasingly by companies led
by executives named Wu or Chen.  Conservatives in Congress like to say that government
shouldn’t pick winners and losers. Yet for three decades the
U.S. government picked manufacturing to be a loser -- time and
time again putting the interests of favored industries ahead of
factories and the people who work in them.  It’s not too late. The U.S. is still one of the two largest
manufacturing countries in the world, and manufacturing is the
bright spot in our export picture. But we must recognize that if
public policy consistently shortchanges manufacturing, a broad-
based recovery of the American middle class will remain beyond
our reach. In the next part of this series, I’ll discuss how to
bring U.S. manufacturing back.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the  Sierra Club . The
opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and  3  of the series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@sierraclub.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 