-- AMR Risks Losing Control of Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/amr-risks-losing-control-of-bankruptcy-exit-as-suitors-circle.html
American Airlines parent AMR Corp.
risks losing control of its ability to exit bankruptcy as an
independent carrier after three possible suitors emerged within
two months of its Chapter 11 filing.  The outside interest means AMR may need to move sooner than
planned on steps such as reworking labor contracts to cut costs,
said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst. The third-
largest U.S. airline must craft a restructuring plan that can
win over creditors who may receive alternative offers, he said.  “This could expedite some of the more difficult
decisions,” Keay said in an interview from New York. “AMR is
going to have to prove to its creditors that its stand-alone
exit plan adds more value than a bid by a competitor, and that
is likely to be difficult.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and TPG Capital
are assessing possible bids for  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR,
people familiar with the matter have said. They’re circling an
airline that has moved at a slower tempo since its Nov. 29
Chapter 11 filing than rivals did when they were in bankruptcy.  AMR has hired advisers and filed papers to keep or reject
certain planes, including some of its oldest jets, and spare
parts. It hasn’t matched the speed of former United Airlines
parent UAL Corp., which asked for $2.4 billion in union
concessions two weeks after filing in 2002.  Delta moved to void its pilot contract after six weeks in
court protection. Northwest Airlines Corp., which entered
Chapter 11 on the same day as Delta in 2005, went to a judge a
month later to impose new labor terms if it couldn’t reach
agreement on $1.4 billion in annual savings.  ‘More Efficient’  American expects to leave bankruptcy “a leaner, more
efficient and far more competitive airline,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton  wrote in a column this month in the airline’s
in-flight magazine, without elaborating.  Sean Collins , a
spokesman, said AMR isn’t commenting on its strategy.  “At this point, it’s really up to American to come up with
the plan of reorganization that makes people happy,” said
 William Swelbar , an aviation  research  engineer at  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology . “But the possibility of other options
is going to be in the back of the creditors’ minds, and value is
in the eye of the beholder.”  Companies filing for Chapter 11 protection have exclusive
rights for as long as 18 months to submit a restructuring plans.
AMR also entered bankruptcy with $4.1 billion in cash, a U.S.
airline record, and is financing its operations instead of
borrowing from a third party that might exert pressure for
speed.  ‘Pace and Velocity’  “They have the luxury of not having a lender dictate the
pace and velocity of the case,” said  Jay Sakalo , a bankruptcy
attorney with Bilzin Sumberg Baena Price & Axelrod LLP in Miami.
“They have more flexibility.”  At the same time, winning support early from the unsecured
creditors committee is important, Sakalo said. That group will
have a say in major decisions outside American’s usual business,
including whether to shrink, terminate pensions or merge with
another airline. Its nine members include  Boeing Co. (BA)  and unions
for American’s pilots, flight attendants and ground workers.  “The creditors committee is willing to look at any plan
that would make American successful,”  Laura Glading , president
of the  Association of Professional Flight Attendants , said in an
interview.  Moelis & Co., a New York-based investment bank advising the
committee, declined to comment, said  Andrea Hurst , a
spokeswoman. Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways spokesman, and Delta’s
 Betsy Talton  also declined to comment, and a message left for
TPG wasn’t returned.  Airline Veterans  None of the possible suitors is a stranger to airline
acquisitions. TPG’s past investments in the U.S. industry
include Continental Airlines Inc. US Airways mounted a hostile
offer for Delta in bankruptcy five years ago, and Delta agreed
to acquire Northwest less than a year after both carriers left
Chapter 11.  Wolfe Trahan’s Keay drew a lesson from  US Airways ’
unsuccessful bid for Delta: It came more than a year into the
latter’s bankruptcy, when an exit strategy was already taking
shape. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways or Delta probably would
move sooner against American rather than later, when its plans
are firm, he told clients in a Jan. 13 note.  Max Newman , an attorney at Butzel Long in  Bloomfield Hills ,
 Michigan , said too many issues remain unresolved at AMR, such as
new labor contracts and the future of employee pensions, for
suitors to act quickly.  ‘Unlikely to Commit’  “Without knowing the cost structure, they’re unlikely to
commit themselves too deeply to any actual numbers,” Newman
said. “They’re sticking up their hands and saying, ‘We want to
be involved in a process,’ but I think the process is first
going to be labor contracts.”  Negotiations with pilots, attendants and mechanics, baggage
handlers and other airport ground workers had been under way for
as long as five years when American filed for Chapter 11. AMR
sought to boost productivity and trim spending to erase what it
said was an $800 million labor-cost disadvantage to competitors.  The first glimpse of American’s finances in bankruptcy is
due this month, when the airline plans to start monthly reports
to the court, said  Tim Smith , a spokesman.  It would be a “critical error for anybody to rush in with
a checkbook any time soon,” said  Vicki Bryan , a debt analyst
with New York-based Gimme Credit LLC.  “All American has been able to do is make the easy
choices, to get rid of the old planes,” Bryan said. “The hard
decisions are yet to be made.”  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  