-- Hang Lung Properties Underlying Profit Rises on China Mall Rental Growth
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-01-19T08:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/hang-lung-properties-underlying-profit-rises-on-china-mall-rental-growth.html
Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the Hong
Kong developer of shopping malls in other parts of China, said
half-year underlying profit rose 29 percent after reporting
higher rents from its Shanghai properties. The stock surged.  Profit excluding revaluation gains and deferred taxes was
HK$1.65 billion ($213 million) in the six months ending Dec. 31,
compared with HK$1.28 billion a year earlier, Hang Lung said in
a filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. That compares with
the HK$1.7 billion median estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Sales rose 22 percent to HK$3.07 billion.  Hang Lung, which has opened four shopping centers outside
of Hong Kong, is scheduled to complete at least one mall in
 China  every year until 2015 as Chairman Ronnie Chan seeks to tap
spending power among the country’s growing middle class. The
 shares  declined 39 percent in 2011, the worst performer in the
seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, on investor concerns
about rising competition in China’s retail property market.  “After the correction, valuations appear more attractive
at current levels,” Raymond Nagai and Sunny Tam, analysts at
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a report
yesterday. “We hope the company can do better for the upcoming
malls, and help restore investors’ confidence on their China
expansion strategy.”  Shares Climb  Hang Lung’s shares  jumped  9.7 percent to HK$26.50 at the 4
p.m. close in Hong Kong after earnings were announced, the
biggest increase since April 2, 2009. The gain extended the
advance since the start of the year to 20 percent, compared with
the 13 percent rise in the property gauge.  Profit from its investment properties in China rose 15
percent to HK$1.07 billion, on rental growth from its two
 Shanghai  malls and contribution from the August opening of the
shopping center in the eastern Jinan city. Rents from Hong Kong,
including those from the Standard Chartered Building and Hang
Lung Centre, increased 8 percent to HK$1.23 billion, the company
said today.  Hang Lung plans to open its new mall in Shenyang in the
fourth quarter, where rents are expected to be 60 percent higher
than its other retail center in the northeastern Chinese city,
Chan told reporters in Hong Kong today. He aims for a 7 percent
annual return for its next project in the city.  The company said its office building in Shanghai is fully
occupied. Shanghai rents should post “double-digit” gains in
2012 and 2013, Chan said, adding that commercial leasing rates
in the country haven’t grown as fast as they used to.  ‘Very Uncertain’  China’s property industry remains “very uncertain,” Chan
said, adding that the real estate market may deteriorate further
if the government intensifies its curbs.  Hang Lung , which hasn’t bought land in Hong Kong in at
least 10 years as it shifted its focus to other parts of China,
has held off selling most of its HK$6 billion of completed
residential units, mainly in the West Kowloon district. Chan
said the management is patient about the city’s property market,
which hasn’t entered its “darkest phase.”  Hong Kong  home prices  have slid more than 4 percent since
June, after gaining more than 70 percent in the previous 2 ½
years on record low mortgage rates and an expanding economy
driven by mainland Chinese tourists and corporate finance
activities by China companies.  ‘Financially Capable’  Hang Lung, the fourth-biggest developer by value in the
 Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , had cash and deposits with banks of
HK$23.7 billion at the end of 2011, compared with HK$24.6
billion six months earlier.  The company, which is investing more than HK$40 billion in
China, bought a site in the southwestern Kunming city in
September, its first land purchase in the country since May 2009.
Chan said, in August, the company is “financially capable” of
doubling its initial investment in China to tap the country’s
growing luxury spending.  Including gains from the value of real estate held for
investment, Hang Lung’s net income fell 26 percent to HK$2.52
billion from HK$3.42 billion a year earlier.  The company, which is changing its financial year end date
to Dec. 31, will pay a final dividend of 36  Hong Kong  cents for
the latest half-year period. It paid an interim dividend of 17
cents for the same period a year earlier. Hang Lung is the first
of Hong Kong’s builders to report its earnings in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 