-- Anglo Platinum Falls on Surprise Full-Year Profit Drop: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-01-19T15:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/anglo-platinum-falls-on-surprise-full-year-profit-drop-johannesburg-mover.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum unit,
the largest producer of the metal, was the biggest loser among
the 40 largest companies trading on Johannesburg’s bourse after
posting an unexpected retreat in full-year profit.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , based in the city, said
earnings excluding one-time items probably fell as much as 34
percent to 12.77 rand ($1.60) a share from 19.35 rand a year
earlier, compared with the  median estimate  for adjusted earnings
of 23.77 rand of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The stock slumped 3.2 percent, the most since Nov. 1, to
549.99 rand by the close. That’s the biggest retreat among the
companies in the  FTSE/JSE Africa Top 40 Index .  The decrease “is primarily as a result of the impact of
the one-off accounting charge for the broad-based community
development transaction” of 1.07 billion rand, the company,
also known as Amplats, said in a statement. The “high number of
safety stoppages resulting in lower production, as well as high
industry cost inflation, particularly for labor and
electricity,” also eroded profit, it said.  Basic earnings per share will be 60 percent to 70 percent
lower than the 39.09 rand of a year earlier, Amplats said,
adding it will release full statements on or about Feb. 13.  The announcement “disappoints,” SBG Securities Ltd. said
in a note, adding its 22.48-rand estimate didn’t account for a
one-time charge of 4 rand a share.  Stake for Communities  Amplats said Nov. 7 it will place a 2.33 percent stake
worth about 3.5 billion rand into two trusts to raise money for
communities near its mines in South Africa, the nation with more
than three-quarters of known global reserves of platinum.  Amplats has struggled to contain costs over the last eight
years, HSBC Holdings Plc, which has a “ neutral ” rating on the
stock, said in a November note. In that time, its per-unit costs
moved from being on a par with main rival  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to being 28 percent higher in 2010. The company is
Citigroup Inc.’s least-favored South African platinum producer,
the bank said on Jan. 17. It is also the bottom pick, together
with  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , at SBG, the firm said in a Jan. 16 note.  Amplats lost 36 percent in Johannesburg trading in the past
five years, compared with Impala’s 10 percent decline.  Chief Executive Officer Neville Nicolau in July maintained
his target of refining and selling 2.6 million ounces for the
year, even after eight deaths in the first half led to mine
stoppages and curbed a planned surge in output. Production in
the first half rose 17 percent to 1.17 million ounces at
Amplats, which also mines palladium and rhodium.  First-half costs climbed 13 percent from a year earlier as
gains in electricity, diesel, explosives, steel and wages
“materially” exceeded consumer-price inflation, Nicolau told
investors at the time. Amplats agreed in September to increase
workers’ pay by between 8.5 percent and 10 percent.  National electricity utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., which
supplies 95 percent of  South Africa ’s power, increased average
prices by about a quarter this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  