-- Manning-Led Giants Take ‘Road Warrior’ Mentality to San Francisco Playoff
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-19T18:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/manning-led-giants-take-road-warrior-mentality-to-san-francisco-playoff.html
Eli Manning and Tom Coughlin can
gain a place in National Football League history this weekend
when the  New York Giants  take their “Road Warrior” mentality
to  San Francisco  to play for a spot in the  Super Bowl .  The Giants upset the defending-champion  Green Bay Packers 
in the second round of the playoffs last week at  Wisconsin ’s
Lambeau Field, an extension of the road success the team had in
its postseason run to the Super Bowl title after the 2007
season. The Giants’ championship rings from that season have an
inscription on the side that reads, “Eleven straight on the
road.”  The Giants (11-7) are 2 1/2-point underdogs in the Jan. 22
game in San Francisco for the National Football Conference
title. If they upset the 49ers, Manning would have five road
playoff victories, the most for an NFL quarterback. Coughlin,
65, would tie Hall of Famer Tom Landry with seven postseason
road wins, the most for a coach.  “There’s a battle readiness you don’t see in the league,”
 Steve Young , the Hall of Fame quarterback with the 49ers and now
an NFL analyst for ESPN, said of the Giants in a telephone
interview. “You don’t see these road warrior teams, and that’s
got to be a compliment to the coach.”  The Giants and  Philadelphia Eagles , each 5-3, were the only
NFC teams to have a better record this regular season in road
games than at home. The Giants haven’t had a losing record in
road games since the 2004 season, when Manning was a rookie and
Coughlin was in his first season with the Giants.  New York is the only team to win on the road through the
first two rounds of the playoffs.  Coughlin Mindset  “It’s just the concept of us against the world, I guess,”
Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  told reporters yesterday. “You
don’t have anything else to fall back on except your teammates.
That goes a long way with building trust, with building that
belief in the fact that, regardless of who we go face, we can
come out victorious. That’s just a mindset that has been
instilled in us ever since Coach Coughlin has been here.”  The 49ers (14-3) have an 8-1 record at home this season,
including last week’s 36-32 playoff victory against the New
Orleans Saints.  The Giants have won each of their past four games -- all to
keep their season alive -- by at least 15 points. It’s the first
time they’ve had four straight victories by that margin since
the end of their 1986 championship season.  The Giants were 7 1/2-point underdogs at  Lambeau Field  a
week ago, when they ended the Packers’ 13-game home win streak.
Manning, Coughlin and the Giants also won on their trip to Green
Bay following the 2007 season, beating the Packers for the NFC
championship before upsetting the undefeated  New England
Patriots  in the Super Bowl.  Aiming for Landry  Coughlin is 6-4 in postseason road games, including two
wins when he coached the Jacksonville Jaguars, and last week’s
victory moved him ahead of Joe Gibbs for second behind Landry,
who won two Super Bowl titles in 29 years with the  Dallas
Cowboys .  “There’s some ability he has to laser focus a football
team when it’s most important, kind of Knute Rockne almost,”
Young said, comparing Coughlin to the former Notre Dame coach
who won six national titles and gained fame for his ‘Win one for
the Gipper’ speech. “To me,  Tom Coughlin  is constantly able to
draw out the most from these guys.”  Manning, 31, has four postseason road wins, tying him with
Roger Staubach, Len Dawson, Jake Delhomme, Mark Sanchez of the
 New York Jets  and  Joe Flacco  of the Baltimore Ravens. Flacco
also has a chance to add to his total this weekend when the
Ravens visit New England in the American Football Conference
title game.  Manning didn’t talk to the media yesterday after leaving
practice early with a stomach virus. He rejoined the team on the
practice field today.  “There’s nothing like going into a stadium and what’s left
of the fans at the end of the game is your fans,” Giants
linebacker Michael Boley told reporters. “There’s nothing like
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  