-- Tanzania Power Utility Seeks $257 Million Loan From Citibank, Other Banks
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-01-19T14:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/tanzania-power-utility-seeks-257-million-loan-from-citibank-other-banks.html
Tanzania’s state-owned power utility
said it’s in talks with a group of lenders including  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s domestic unit for a 408 billion-shilling ($257 million)
loan to fund electricity generation.  The discussions may conclude this week, William Muhando,
managing director of Tanzania Electric Supply Co., said in an
interview today in Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital.  “The money is needed to fund emergency power projects that
we undertook last year to meet demand,” Muhando said. “We expect
to conclude negotiations with a group of financiers led by
Citibank today or tomorrow.”  Tanzania,  East Africa ’s second-biggest economy, had an
electricity deficit of 264 megawatts last February following a
drop in hydropower generation after a drought. The resulting
power outages caused a slowdown in economic growth to 6.4
percent in the third quarter of 2011 from 6.7 percent a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Jan. 17.  Tanesco, as the utility is known, is also pursuing
financing for new generation projects to be commissioned this
year, Muhando said. The government is expected to complete an
agreement with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to fund a 100-megawatt gas-
fired plant in Dar es Salaam, estimated to cost $165 million, he
said.  “This and another 70-megawatt plant fired by heavy  fuel oil 
in Mwanza have been contracted to Jacobsen Elektro AS,” the
Norwegian power-plant builder, Muhando said. In addition, the
utility is seeking 83 million euros ($107 million) for a 70-
megawatt plant in the northern region of Tanga, he said.  Loss  Tanesco expects to report an annual loss of 200 billion
shillings for year 2011 and the same amount for this year
because of the drought, Muhando said.  “We made a profit of 15 billion shillings in 2010, and 5
billion shillings in 2009,” he said. “But the low water levels
caused a loss in 2011, and this will continue this year.”  Tanesco last year entered into a power-purchase agreement
with  Washington , D.C.-based Symbion Power LLC to produce 125
megawatts of electricity using both gas and Jet-1 fuel, as one
of the emergency projects. The company also contracted Glasgow,
U.K.-based  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  to produce 100 megawatts using diesel,
and boosted production at heavy fuel oil-fired generators run by
Independent Power Tanzania Ltd. to 100 megawatts from 20
megawatts.  The 408 billion-shilling loan will be used to pay for fuel
used until December 2011 and for a charge demanded by power
generators when their plants aren’t running at full capacity,
Muhando said.  Power Output  Electricity output in Tanzania is currently 700 megawatts,
matching demand, “which means the impact of any shortfall is
significant,” he said.  The talks on the loan are concluding a week after the
country’s energy regulator approved a 40 percent increase in
electricity powers. Tanesco had applied for prices increase by
155 percent. The utility was hoping to use a “cost-reflective”
tariff as a bargaining chip for the loan, as it would guarantee
a specified amount of revenue, Muhando said.  A 155 percent increase in tariffs would have raised income
to 359 shillings per kilowatt hour from 141 shillings per
kilowatt hour currently, the power utility told the regulator in
an application for the adjustment.  “We understand it is going to be an average hydrology year,
meaning there will be water to generate electricity at the
hydropower dams,” Haruna Masebu, director-general of the Energy
and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority, said in a Jan. 12
interview. “We also cannot increase the tariff so much because
that could cause inflationary pressures.”  Tanzanian Inflation  Tanzanian inflation accelerated to 19.8 percent in
December, as energy and food costs increased.  Tanesco is revising its budget for 2012 to reflect a “non-
cost-reflective” power tariff, and will postpone projects whose
return on investment is long-term, Muhando said.  “We shall postpone some projects in rural electrification,
and concentrate on those that bring returns in at most two
years,” he said.  In the event that the loan raised is less than the amount
required, the utility expects to receive a government subsidy,
Muhando said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 