-- Apple Unveils IBooks 2 to Help Boost IPad Usage in Schools
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-01-20T00:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/apple-unveils-ibooks-2-to-boost-ipad-usage.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced a service to
make digital versions of textbooks available on the iPad and
beef up the education content for the tablet computer as it
gains popularity in classrooms.  The service, called iBooks 2, will help make textbooks more
interactive with videos, animations and search features,  Phil Schiller , Apple’s senior vice president of product marketing,
said today at an event in New York. More than 1.5 million iPads
are being used for educational purposes, he said.  With students, school districts and universities snapping
up iPads, Apple teamed up with publishers, including  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP) , to build interactive schoolbooks so the tablet can replace
heavy tomes that have long weighed down backpacks. The new
service, built with involvement from Apple’s co-founder  Steve Jobs  before his death, is designed to kick-start the nascent
electronic-textbook business so a broad range of authors can get
material to students in a digital format.  “Technology has a place in improving education,” Schiller
said at the event held at New York’s Guggenheim Museum.  The e-textbooks demonstrated by Cupertino, California-based
Apple have video, interactive pictures and features for
highlighting texts and creating flash cards. Publishing partners
include  Pearson Plc (PSON)  and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, which, along
with McGraw-Hill, account for 90 percent of textbook sales,
Apple said.  Jobs Secured Deals  Jobs, who died in October, took a personal role in securing
the publishing deals. He met with Terry McGraw, McGraw-Hill’s
chairman and CEO, last year to gain the publisher’s cooperation
in the project, according to Vineet Madan, senior vice president
of new ventures and strategic services for McGraw-Hill Education
in  New York .  “In that meeting they agreed on a similar approach and it
made sense for us to try and work with them,” Madan said.
“We’ve been trying to push digitalized learning for years now,
so Apple stepping into it more directly will create more
awareness about what’s possible with technology and learning.”  The titles announced by the publishers focus on
kindergarten through 12th grade students, with most priced at
$14.99 or less. Apple is collecting 30 percent from each sale,
according to Genevieve Shore, London-based Pearson’s chief
information officer.  Publishers can sell the digital textbooks at a lower price
because rather than selling a print copy that’s used for four or
five years, digital versions are sold on an annual basis to each
new batch of students, Madan said. A print book costs $65 to $85
each, Madan said.  Tight School Budgets  School districts in  California ,  Nevada , New York,  New
Jersey  and  Texas  are among those that have allocated funds to
use the iPad in classrooms. Advocates of student use of the iPad
say its interactive features, such as games and quizzes, are
more engaging than textbooks for modern students.  One challenge is many school districts are strapped for
money to buy the iPads needed for the content, Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research.  “Some teachers that didn’t get a raise last year or saw
their colleagues laid off are going to question the priorities
of purchasing iPads,” Epps said.  As part of its new program, Apple introduced software tools
called iBooks Author to create e-textbooks with videos and text
imported from other document files. IBooks Author will be free.  ITunes U  Apple also announced new features for teachers to publish
curriculum for free, an extension of its iTunes U program that
the company said has been used by 1,000 colleges and
universities. The material lets teachers create complete online
courses, with syllabuses, e-textbooks, teacher notes or videos.  “These enable anyone, anytime to take courses for free,”
Schiller said.  Education is one piece of how the iPad became the fastest-
selling consumer-electronics product in history. As of
September, Apple had sold about 40 million iPads, generating
$25.3 billion in sales. The iPad is Apple’s second-best selling
product, behind the iPhone and ahead of Mac personal computers
and iPod music players.  E-textbooks today haven’t taken off because most of the
material is replicas of print versions, said Forrester’s Epps.
By adding new tools so the material will be more interactive and
customized for the tablet, Apple can help jump-start adoption,
she said.  Quality Content Needed  “For Apple, the end goal is to sell more devices,” she
said. “Sales will only go up as the amount of quality content
increases.”  Still, today’s announcement isn’t expected to have any
material impact on Apple’s share price, even if it will aid
sales of the iPad to educators, according to  Gene Munster , an
analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. Apple fell less than 1 percent
to $427.75 at the close in New York.  Not all education companies agreed to join Apple’s effort.
 Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ’s education division decided
against making its material available through Apple after being
approached by the company last year, said Bill Goodwyn, the head
of Discovery’s education unit. Apple’s model would harm
Discovery’s relationship with school districts, which pay the
media company for training and support services to implement
digital learning tools, he said.  “I don’t just want to sell a book and move on to the next
school district,” Goodwyn said. “With every digital textbook
there is huge professional implementation that goes along with
it. The implementation part is critical.”  Another hindrance is that the digital material would only
be available on Apple’s iPad and not other technology that
schools may be using, Goodwyn said.  Small Market  The textbook-publishing market is valued at $10 billion by
the  Association of American Publishing . Inkling Systems Inc. and
Kno Inc. produce software to make textbooks more interactive and
appealing with features such as videos, audio, 3-D pictures and
quizzes. Chegg Inc., a popular textbook-rental service,
announced a new e-textbook offering yesterday.  The e-textbook market is still small. On college campuses,
even as the latest best-sellers have become popular for devices
such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle reader, digital textbooks were
just 2.8 percent of total textbook sales in 2010, according to
the  National Association of College Stores .  “If you look at what iTunes has done for music, if iBooks
2 and iBooks Author can do that for publishing it’s a big
deal,” said Forrester’s Epps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  