-- Apple Says Kodak Loan Terms Should Shield Disputed Patents
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-19T22:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/apple-seeks-clarifying-language-on-patents-in-kodak-loan-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  asked a bankruptcy court
to attach “clarifying language” to any order approving
financing for  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)   Apple said in a filing today the order should indicate that
no security interests or liens will attach to patents that Apple
owns and has asserted claims on until the court resolves the
ownership dispute between it and Kodak.  “Apple does not oppose Kodak’s acquisition of postpetition
financing as a general matter,” the maker of the iPhone and
iPad said in court papers. “However, Kodak cannot grant
security interests in and liens upon patents that Kodak does not
own.”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed to provide $950 million in financing
to help Kodak operate during bankruptcy, the photo company said
today in a statement. Kodak is seeking permission to borrow as
much as $700 million on an interim basis, court papers show. The
loan must be approved by a bankruptcy judge.  A group of noteholders has also filed an objection, saying
there should be “significant restrictions” on Kodak’s ability
to borrow and spend.  Kodak, the photography pioneer that introduced its $1
Brownie Camera more than a century ago, filed for bankruptcy
today after consumers embraced digital cameras, a technology
Kodak invented and failed to commercialize.  Assets, Debt  The Rochester, New York-based company, which traces its
roots to 1880, listed assets of $5.1 billion and debt of
$6.8 billion in Chapter 11 documents filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Manhattan .  Apple has claimed it is the true owner of the image-preview
patent that is the subject of infringement claims lodged against
Apple and Research in Motion Ltd. The Cupertino, California-
based company contends that it developed a digital camera in the
early 1990s that it shared with Kodak, and that Kodak then
sought the patent on the technology. Kodak has denied the
allegations.  The U.S. International Trade Commission rejected the
ownership arguments in a case that’s still pending at the
Washington agency, and it’s an issue in a civil suit that’s on
hold in federal court in Rochester.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  