-- Stocks Gain on Bank Profits, U.S. Economy as Euro Climbs on Bond Auctions
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-19T21:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/asian-stocks-oil-gain-as-imf-to-expand-lending-resources-gold-declines.html
U.S. stocks rose for a third day as
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  posted a profit and jobless claims slid,
while European equities and the euro climbed as French and
Spanish borrowing costs decreased at auctions.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.5 percent to
1,314.5 at 4 p.m. in New York, its highest closing level since
July 26, and the Nasdaq-100 Index reached an almost 11-year
high. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 45.03 points,
or 0.4 percent, to 12,623.98. The euro strengthened 0.8 percent
to $1.2967, a two-week high. Treasuries fell, sending the 10-
year note’s yield up eight basis points to 1.98 percent. Oil
slipped, while nickel and lead rose more than 2 percent.  Bank of America climbed the most in the Dow, while Morgan
Stanley and  EBay (EBAY)  Inc. also rallied after reporting better-than-
estimated results. Initial U.S. jobless claims plunged to the
lowest level in almost four years. France and  Spain  sold 14.6
billion euros ($18.8 billion) of bonds, with both nations’
funding costs falling in the first sale of medium and long-term
debt since S&P downgraded their ratings.  “We’re in a fragile economy, we’re not going to have
robust growth, but it’s going to take a lot of things to derail
us,” Richard Weeks, the Vienna, Virginia-based managing
director and partner at HighTower’s VWG Wealth Management, said
in a telephone interview. His firm oversees about $20 billion.
“You’ve seen big corporations navigate through very difficult
times.”  The  S&P 500  has gained 4.5 percent this year, the best
start to a year since 1997, as U.S. economic reports and
speculation that  China  will loosen monetary policy outweighed
concern that downgrades for European nations would worsen the
debt crisis.  VIX (VIX)  Retreats  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
benchmark gauge of U.S. options prices known as the VIX, fell
below 20 for the first time since July amid lower demand for
protection against losses in equities.  Credit Suisse Group AG’s  Andrew Garthwaite  lifted his 2012
forecast for the S&P 500 to 1,400, citing the  European Central
Bank ’s refinancing plans for banks as a “potential game
changer.” Garthwaite, the London-based global equity strategist
at the firm, had previously estimated the S&P 500 would reach
1,340 at the end of 2012. His new forecast pushes the average
projection of 12 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg to 1,349,
implying a 7.3 percent gain for the year.  Bank of America  rose 2.4 percent as the second-largest U.S.
lender by assets swung to a quarterly profit of $1.99 billion
and increased its Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of a bank’s
ability to absorb losses, to 9.86 percent from 8.65 percent in
the third quarter.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  rallied 5.4 percent after
reporting a narrower fourth-quarter loss than analysts estimated
on gains in  stock trading .  Earnings Season  EBay, the largest Internet marketplace, climbed 3.9 percent
after reporting fourth-quarter sales and profit beat estimates,
helped by a campaign to promote its retail offerings and broader
use of the PayPal payment service. Eastman Kodak Co., the
photography pioneer that introduced its $1 Brownie Camera more
than a century ago, tumbled 46 percent in over-the-counter
trading after it filed for  bankruptcy protection  from creditors
and was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange.  Earnings have topped analysts’ estimates at 63 percent of
the 35 companies in the S&P 500 that reported from Jan. 9
through the start of trading today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Analysts project that earnings for companies in
the index increased 4.6 percent in the period, which would mark
the slowest growth in more than two years.  ‘Downward Pressure’  “There’s good news out there but at some point there are
going to be more issues to deal with,”  John Manley , who helps
oversee $209.1 billion as chief equity strategist for Wells
Fargo Advantage Funds in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Investors have very little confidence in long-term
profit growth. There’s a sense that there’s still more downward
pressure on the economy than upward.”  Initial  jobless claims  fell by 50,000 to 352,000 in the
week ended Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, Labor
Department figures showed. The  median  forecast of 41 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey projected 384,000. Other reports
showed builders began work on fewer houses than forecast in
December, while the cost of living  in the U.S. was little
changed last month for a second month.  U.S. equities briefly pared gains this morning after the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
rose to 7.3 from 6.8 in December, trailing the median forecast
for a reading of 10.3.  Crude oil slipped 0.2 percent to settle at $100.39 a barrel
after the Energy Department said gasoline use dropped to 8
million barrels a day last week, the lowest level since
September 2001. Stockpiles of the motor fuel climbed 3.72
million barrels to 227.5 million, a 10-month high.  Copper Rallies  Copper rose to a 17-week high in New York, gaining 1.3
percent to $3.8005 a pound, on speculation China may ease credit
controls as growth slows, potentially bolstering demand
prospects in the world’s largest user of the metal.  Almost seven shares gained for every two that fell in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which rose 1.2 percent to close at the
highest level since August. Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-
largest lender, surged 15 percent after saying it’s more than
halfway toward its goal of plugging a capital gap without using
 government aid . Alstom SA rallied 14 percent after the world’s
third-largest power-equipment maker said orders will be
“strong” in the fiscal fourth quarter.  European Bonds  Germany’s 10-year bund yield increased eight basis points
to 1.86 percent, while the rate on  Italy ’s 10-year debt fell
five basis points to 6.37 percent. The euro strengthened against
13 of 16 major peers, climbing more than 0.9 percent against the
Australian,  New Zealand  and Japanese currencies.  Klaus Regling, head of the 440 billion-euro ($567 billion)
euro-area bailout facility, is confident the fund’s reach can be
increased as much as fourfold even after it was downgraded by
S&P, his spokesman said. Options on leveraging the European
Financial Stability Facility will be in place soon, Christof
Roche said today by phone from Luxembourg.  With about 250 billion euros of the facility’s resources
still to be committed, leveraging the fund by a factor of four
would yield a buffer of as much as 1 trillion euros to help
shield Spain and Italy from the debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1.2 percent, set for
its third consecutive gain and the highest close since October.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 1.7 percent.  China will let  larger lenders  increase new loans by a
maximum of about 5 percent from a year earlier, according to two
people at state lenders who have knowledge of the matter. The
banking regulator is delaying implementing the most stringent
capital adequacy ratios and may lower risk weightings for loans
to small businessmen and companies, four people said separately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  