-- Asos Gains Most Since 2004 as Global Sales Surge:  London Mover
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-19T16:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/asos-third-quarter-sales-rise-on-retail-growth-outside-u-k-.html
Asos Plc (ASC) , the U.K.’s second-largest
online clothing retailer, rose the most in eight years in London
trading after third-quarter retail sales increased 46 percent,
helped by growth abroad.  Revenue in the three months ended Dec. 31 rose to 146.5
million pounds ($226 million) from 100 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said today. International
sales surged 93 percent, leading the shares to jump 18 percent.  Asos has started websites for  Australia , Spain and  Italy  to
tap global demand for online fashion and to meet its target of 1
billion pounds of annual revenue by 2015. The company bounced
back after a second quarter that trailed analysts’ estimates due
to discounting and pressure on spending by younger customers
from higher education fees.  “With the business continuing to perform well through
these challenging economic times, we remain confident about the
outlook and expect our full-year results to be in line with
market expectations,” Chief Executive Officer Nick Robertson
said in a statement.  Asos closed at 1,760 pence in  London , the highest since
Sept. 15. The percentage gain was the biggest since March 2004.  In the U.S. and other markets outside the European Union,
third-quarter sales more than doubled and the retail gross
margin widened 3 percentage points from last year. Group
revenue, including postage and packaging income as well as
contributions from third parties, jumped 45 percent to 150.5
million pounds, the company said.  iPhone Application  U.K. sales rose 10 percent. That market is still “very
challenging” even after revenue accelerated from the 1 percent
growth rate in the second quarter, Robertson said in a phone
interview. Asos has introduced iPhone and iPad applications to
lure its target customers, who are between 16 and 34 years old.  “We are encouraged that the U.K. has returned to more
robust levels of sales growth,” wrote Wayne Brown, an analyst
at  Collins Stewart  with a “buy” recommendation. “However, the
main engine of growth is international.”  Asos will add marketing teams in Australia and the U.S.
within three months to tap growth in those markets, Robertson
said. The company is also preparing to start websites in  Asia 
next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  