-- Australian Job Market’s Worst Year Since ’92 Boosts Rate-Cut Bets: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-19T04:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/australian-employment-unexpectedly-falls-currency-drops-on-rate-cut-bets.html
Australia unexpectedly lost jobs for
a second straight month in December, capping the nation’s worst
year for employment in almost two decades and weakening the
local currency as traders raised bets on interest-rate cuts.  Falling part-time employment stalled job growth last year,
with total payrolls posting little change in the year through
December, its worst annual performance since 1992. The
 unemployment rate  held at 5.2 percent for a second straight
month in December as full- and part-time positions combined
posted the biggest drop since April.  “Domestic business conditions are tough,” said  Savanth Sebastian , an economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s largest lender. “Over the next few months, the ongoing
uncertainty about the global environment is likely to ensure
businesses remain cautious and as such hiring intentions will
continue to be scaled back.”  Traders priced in an 88 percent chance Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  next month will make a third
consecutive rate reduction for the first time since 2008 as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis weakens global trade and growth.
Signs of weakening demand are emerging across the Asia-Pacific
region, with New Zealand today recording an unexpected decline
in consumer prices.  New Zealand consumer prices dropped 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, when they advanced 0.4 percent, government data
showed, giving the central bank scope to hold rates at a record-
low. A separate report showed  consumer confidence  rose this
month from December, with the index reading at the highest in a
year.  Stocks Rise  Asian stocks rose today, spurring a record start to the
year for the MSCI  Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , and  South Korea ’s won
strengthened amid signs China will relax credit controls. The
MSCI gauge advanced 0.8 percent as of 1:34 p.m. in  Tokyo , poised
for the highest close since Nov. 9.  The Philippine central bank may cut rates today for the
first time since July 2009. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will
reduce the rate it pays lenders for overnight deposits by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent, according to 13
of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest expect the
benchmark to be left unchanged at 4.5 percent.  The Conference Board’s  China  leading economic index, which
captures prospects for the next six months, rose the most in
three months in December, adding to signs the slowdown in the
nation’s growth is stabilizing as the government eases monetary
policy.  Job Cuts  Australian data showed the number of people employed fell
by 29,300 last month after a revised 7,500 drop in November,
exceeding the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 23
economists for a 10,000 increase.  The number of  full-time jobs  advanced by 24,500 in
December, and part-time employment plunged by 53,700, today’s
report showed. The participation rate, a measure of the working-
age population, dropped to 65.2 percent in December, the lowest
level since May 2010, from 65.5 percent a month earlier.  Australia ’s dollar weakened, trading at $1.0393 at 3:34
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0423 before the release and $1.0437
yesterday in  New York . Investors are pricing in 107 basis points
of rate cuts over the next 12 months, up from 103 points, a
Credit Suisse Group AG Index showed.  Leading indicators of Australian employment have been
weaker as pessimism about the global economic outlook deepens.  Weaker Demand  A closely watched government measure of job vacancies
dropped 3.3 percent in the three months to November, retracing
all of the gains in the prior period.  Help-wanted notices fell in December for the fifth time in
six months as the bout of global financial turmoil worsened, an
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd . report released three
days ago showed.  UBS AG analysts said in a Jan. 13 report that Australian
banks may scrap 7,000 jobs in the next two years as the nation’s
lenders cut costs that account for 58 percent of expenses to
offset the weakest credit growth since World War II.  The focus on employment costs at banks, which are among
major employers in the biggest cities of Sydney and  Melbourne ,
mirror the challenge faced around the world by lenders battling
slower revenue growth amid weak household and business
confidence. ANZ Bank, the third biggest in Australia by market
value, is preparing to cut as many as 900 jobs in coming months,
the union that represents bank workers said last week.  Global Slowdown  The  World Bank  this week lowered its global growth forecast
by the most in three years, saying that a recession in the euro
region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets 
such as India and  Mexico .  The global economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based
institution said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain.  Austria, Portugal and  Poland  will release producer prices
data today, while Ireland may say consumer prices based on a
harmonized European Union measure rose 1.3 percent in December
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  European Central Bank  will
also release its monthly bulletin today.  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.1 percent after holding steady
in November, according to the median forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Labor Department data today. The
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Philadelphia may say manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region picked up in January.  U.S. Housing  Other reports may also show U.S. homebuilding is still
lagging. Builders probably broke ground on fewer homes in
December, and permits, a sign of future construction, were
probably little changed, according to the Bloomberg survey
median ahead of Commerce Department data.  Australia’s central bank reduced its overnight cash rate
target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, with Stevens
citing “considerable turbulence” in financial markets and an
increased chance of a “further material slowing in global
growth.” The RBA’s holds its next policy meeting Feb. 7.  “The fact that the unemployment rate is still broadly
steady tells you that we’re still in reasonable shape,” said
Paul Bloxham, chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney
and a former central bank official. “This is consistent with
the idea that the RBA will be cutting rates next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  