-- Axa Said to Be in Talks With Ace to Buy HSBC’s Non-Life Insurance Business
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-20T01:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/axa-ace-said-in-advanced-talks-to-buy-hsbc-insurance-business.html
Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
insurer, and Zurich-based  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  are among final bidders for
 HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc’s non-life insurance operations, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Bupa Insurance Ltd., a U.K. health care group, is bidding
for HSBC’s medical insurance business in  Asia , said one of the
people, who declined to be identified as talks are private. Axa
and Ace are in discussions to buy the entire non-life unit, two
people said. The business may be valued at about $1 billion in a
sale, according to one of the people.  HSBC and ING Groep NV are among European banks selling
assets as lenders try to adjust to stricter global capital rules
and an economic recovery fizzles. That’s providing an opening
for insurers like Axa and Ace to speed up expansion in Asia,
where economic growth is outpacing Europe and the U.S.  Sydney-based  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  is also considering a
bid for the business, one person said.  Bidders are negotiating with HSBC on how profits will be
distributed from policies that are sold through the London-based
bank’s branch network, the people said. A buyer may be chosen in
late February, according to one person.  Gareth Hewett, a spokesman for HSBC in Hong Kong, declined
to comment on the sale process. Spokespeople at Axa, Ace and
Bupa also declined to comment. An outside spokesman for QBE
Insurance declined to say whether the company has made a bid.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, reported $1 billion of “net
written insurance premiums” for its non-life business last year,
down from $1.1 billion in 2009, according to its latest  annual
report . Net premiums in Asia accounted for about a third of the
total, while  Latin America  made up 42 percent, the report showed.  Axa Profit Target  Axa, led by Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries, is
betting on Asia and scaling back in some developed markets as it
aims for 10 percent annual growth in operating earnings per
share through 2015. The Paris-based insurer is targeting annual
operating profit of more than 6 billion euros ($7.7 billion) by
2015, up from 3.9 billion euros last year.  Ace last year bought Malaysia-based Jerneh Insurance Bhd.
and New York Life Insurance Co.’s Hong Kong and South Korean
life units. The company is “open to seeking additional
acquisitions,” CEO Evan Greenberg said during an October
conference call. He indicated that Ace may try to buy insurance
operations that financial companies are seeking to sell.  ING, the Dutch company under European Union orders to
divest its insurance operations, may draw bids from rivals
including AIA Group Ltd. for the business, people with knowledge
of the matter said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  