-- Bangladesh Army Says Forces Foiled an Attempt to Topple Hasina Government
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-01-20T03:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bangladesh-army-says-forces-foiled-an-attempt-to-topple-hasina-government.html
Bangladesh ’s army foiled an attempt
by former and serving officers to oust Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed’s government, a military spokesman said.  “Instigated by some non-resident Bangladeshis, some
serving and retired officers with extreme religious views have
tried to create disorder in the army,” Brigadier General
Muhammad Masud Razzaq said in a statement yesterday. The
conspiracy was a bid “to topple the system of democratic
governance through the army,” Razzaq said.  Bangladesh, which has has had three major army coups and
two dozen smaller rebellions since its independence from
Pakistan in 1971, is aiming to boost growth to 8 percent in the
next two years. Heightened concern over military intervention
adds to the risk of political instability in the region, with
the army and elected leadership in  Pakistan  locked in a showdown
over coup allegations.  Bangladesh’s history of military intervention makes it
“vulnerable to these coup attempts,” said Ataur Rahman, a
political science professor at Dhaka University.  Still, “a coup with an Islamic militant orientation would
be a surprise,” Rahman said in a telephone interview from the
capital. While researching the officer corps, Rahman said he had
“not found that Islamic militant views or socialization are
widespread.”  Hasina was elected in December 2008, ending two years of
military-backed emergency rule, on a program of combating
terrorism, cutting food prices and raising  living standards .
More than half of the country’s 166 million people live on less
than $1.25 a day, according to the  Asian Development Bank .
Growth in the year ended June 30, was 6.7 percent.  2009 Mutiny  A border security force, the Bangladesh Rifles, mutinied in
2009 over guards’ pay and working conditions. The rebels killed
63 army officers before the military suppressed the revolt and
arrested hundreds of force members over subsequent months.  “Political tensions have continued over the trials of the
rebels,” Rahman said. The government tried 666 members of the
border guards in a single proceeding in June, convicting all but
nine in a process that the New York-based group  Human Rights
Watch  said failed to meet international standards for a fair
trial.  Pakistan’s Supreme Court yesterday postponed until Feb. 1 a
contempt of court hearing against Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  that could result in his dismissal. Gilani is facing
charges that he defied a court order to pursue corruption cases
against President Asif Ali Zardari.  Monsoon Flooding  The Pakistan government also faces a Jan. 24 hearing by
judges investigating an alleged request by Zardari’s
administration in May for U.S. assistance against a possible
military coup. The claim has triggered the biggest confrontation
between Pakistan’s generals and elected leaders since army rule
ended four years ago.  About a third of Bangladesh, the world’s seventh most
populous nation, floods during the annual monsoon, hampering
development. The government says it will try to spend $10
billion, or 11 percent of its gross domestic product, over a
decade to increase power capacity and attract investment from
abroad. The country’s labor costs are lower than India and
 China , drawing companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
International Business Machines Corp.  “Political stability has helped the economy,” Mustafa K.
Mujeri, director general of the Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies, a Dhaka-based policy research organization,
said in a telephone interview. “News of the failed attempt in
the army to destabilize the government is unlikely to have a big
impact on the economy,” Mujeri said. “It’s an isolated
incident.”  Hasina is the daughter of former President Sheikh Mujibur
Rahman, who was assassinated in 1975 during a military coup four
years after he led a war of secession from Pakistan. Hasina and
her chief rival Khaleda Zia of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party
have dominated the country’s politics for more than a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  