-- Bank of America Investment Bank Loses Again Under Montag
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-19T18:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bank-of-america-investment-bank-posts-second-loss-under-montag.html
Bank of America Corp.  reported a
second consecutive loss at its investment bank as trading chief
Thomas K. Montag grappled with the European sovereign-debt
crisis.  Montag’s global banking and markets division, which
includes trading and underwriting operations, posted a $443
million fourth-quarter loss, following a $302 million loss in
the preceding three-month period, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based bank said today in a statement. The unit had a $669
million profit in the fourth quarter of 2010.  The results echoed those of rivals  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which reported
declines in trading and investment banking amid investor concern
that the most indebted European nations may default. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said Dec. 6 that investment-
banking results had improved from the third quarter, when
revenue plunged more than 70 percent.  “It’s the nature of the beast in the investment-banking
and trading businesses to experience quarterly volatility,”
said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee . “During the fourth quarter we still had
uncertainty in Europe, a correcting stock market and a potential
of a U.S. recession. Investors and corporate managements were in
a derisking attitude, so not many potential  investment-banking 
deals actually got closed.”  Annual Profit Plunges  Montag, promoted to co-chief operating officer last year,
had sought to rebound from the third-quarter loss, which was the
first posted by the bank’s markets division since the takeover
of Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009. Improving on that performance
“wouldn’t be a hard standard to overcome,” Moynihan said last
year.  The division’s annual profit plunged to $2.97 billion from
$6.3 billion in 2010. Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S.
lender by assets, gave Montag $15.2 million in bonuses that
year, a reward that exceeded Moynihan’s or that of Goldman Sachs
CEO  Lloyd Blankfein . The firm hasn’t yet disclosed the 2011
bonus for Montag, a former head of trading at Goldman Sachs.  Moynihan is conducting a company-wide review to cut costs
called Project New BAC. After mapping out a plan for the retail
unit and back-office operations -- which includes eliminating
about $5 billion in annual costs and 30,000 jobs -- the CEO has
turned his attention to Montag’s division, where more staff cuts
are expected. The review will continue through March, the bank
said last year.  Montag’s division had been credited by analysts for
bolstering the bank’s profit as CEO Moynihan tries to contain
costs from faulty mortgages. Bank of America has committed about
$40 billion for refunds, lawsuits and foreclosures.  ‘Results Were Weak’  “Trading was strong in the first part of the year, but
with the issues in  Europe , the U.S. downgrades, the downgrades
of our company and changes in client risk appetite, results were
weak in the second half, especially in the third quarter,”
Moynihan said today on a call with analysts. “We need that
business to come back or we’ve got to do more in expenses.”  The fourth-quarter results at the investment bank missed
the estimates of some analysts, including the $291 million
profit predicted by  Moshe Orenbuch  of Credit Suisse Group AG.
 David Trone , a New York-based analyst with JMP Securities LLC,
had estimated a $579 million profit. Mosby had said the unit
would lose about $300 million.  Trading Revenue Declines  Bank of America’s fourth-quarter trading revenue declined
44 percent from a year earlier to $1.38 billion, and tumbled 50
percent from the previous three-month period, including
accounting adjustments. Citigroup’s trading revenue fell 9.8
percent from the prior year while JPMorgan’s dropped 18 percent.  Excluding the so-called debt-valuation adjustments, Bank of
America’s trading revenue declined to $1.9 billion from $2.4
billion in the fourth quarter of 2010 and increased from $1.1
billion in the third quarter.  Revenue from fixed-income, currency and commodities trading
fell 57 percent from the year-earlier period to $723 million and
dropped 60 percent from the third quarter, including the
adjustments. This reflected “ongoing concerns over the euro-
zone sovereign-debt crisis, economic activity and political
uncertainty,” the bank said.  Excluding the adjustments, fixed-income revenue tumbled 26
percent from the prior year to $1.2 billion, according to the
bank. Stock-trading revenue fell 16 percent from the same
quarter in 2010 when the same adjustments were excluded.  Investment-Banking Fees  Fees from investment banking, which includes advising
clients on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales of
shares and bonds, declined 35 percent from the prior year to
$1.1 billion, the company said. The market was “challenging”
because of the European crisis and the fallout from  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, the bank said.  Bank of America remained the second-biggest underwriter of
U.S. corporate bonds in the quarter as overall issuance fell 17
percent to $230.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JPMorgan held the top position and Citigroup came in
third.  Bank of America slid two places to seventh among
underwriters of global initial public offerings behind  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as the amount of share offerings plunged to
230 from 398 a year earlier, the data show. Shares sold amounted
to $25.4 billion, compared with $124.2 billion in the same
quarter in 2010, according to the data.  ‘All the Fun’  Former CEO Kenneth D. Lewis said in October 2007 he would
cut 3,000 jobs and scale back investment-banking operations
after the lender was hit with about $2 billion of write-downs
and trading losses in the third quarter of 2007. Lewis wished to
weed out units that post four or five annual profits and “give
it all back” in one year, he told analysts.  “I’ve had all the fun I can stand in investment banking,”
Lewis said. “So to get bigger is not something I really want to
do.”  Under Lewis, Bank of America agreed to buy investment bank
Merrill Lynch for about $50 billion in stock in 2009. Moynihan
replaced Lewis on Jan. 1, 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  