-- U.K. Asked to Probe ’Unsustainable’ Investments
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-01-19T16:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bank-of-england-urged-to-probe-risk-at-pollution-industries-1-.html
Climate Change Capital Ltd. said it
joined a group of more than 20 investors, academics and
environmental campaign groups urging the  Bank of England  to
probe the U.K’s exposure to investments in “unsustainable” and
“high-carbon” industries.  Banks, funds and institutional investors may end up with
“stranded assets and poor returns” because of investments in
industries with high  carbon emissions , the groups said today in
a letter to Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  that was e-
mailed by Climate Change Capital. Signatories include Aviva
Investors Chief Executive Officer Paul Abberley.  “The depth and breadth of our collective financial
exposure to high carbon, extractive and environmentally
unsustainable investments could become a major problem as we
transition to a low carbon economy,” the letter’s authors said.
Five of the 10 biggest companies in the U.K.’s benchmark stock
index, the FTSE 100, were “almost exclusively high-carbon” in
July, they said.  The value of U.K. pensions could be at risk because of
investments that may lose value as “policy and technology work
consistently over time to reduce returns in high carbon areas
while supporting low carbon ones,” according to the letter.  It urged policy makers on the Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee to assess the risks and devise options for
addressing any threats identified.  Other signatories include Conservative Party lawmaker Zac Goldsmith; Solarcentury Holdings Ltd. Chairman Jeremy Leggett,
Penny Shepherd; the U.K. Sustainable Investment and Finance
Association; and  David King , former chief government scientific
adviser and now director of Oxford University’s Smith School of
Enterprise and the Environment.  The U.K. heads of the environmental groups Greenpeace and
WWF also put their names to the text.  A spokesman for the central bank confirmed it had received
the letter and offered no further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  