-- BofA Says Loan Repurchase Claims Rise to Record $14.3 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-19T20:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bank-of-america-says-loan-repurchase-claims-rise-to-record-14-3-billion.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, said unresolved demands from
investors who accuse the company of selling defective mortgages
rose to a record.  Outstanding claims jumped 22 percent in three months to
$14.3 billion as of Dec. 31, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank said today in a  presentation . The increase was fueled by
disputes with Fannie Mae and private investors who are
submitting demands for compensation on the grounds that they
were misled about the quality of mortgage securities.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is seeking
to limit costs tied to mortgages sold by Countrywide Financial
Corp., which Bank of America bought in 2008. The lender told
Fannie Mae, a so-called government-sponsored enterprise, last
year that it won’t cooperate with what Moynihan’s company deemed
a new policy that banks must repurchase loans if an insurer
drops coverage.  “With respect to Fannie, there’s a disagreement as to
exactly what should come back, and to the extent that there’s a
disagreement, you will see the GSE numbers go up,” Chief
Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said today during a
conference call. “At this point, we believe our position is
correct and we’ve accrued for what we owe.”  The total of outstanding claims rises when investors submit
new demands and falls when their requests are rejected or paid.
Outstanding claims were $11.7 billion as of Sept. 30, which
includes loan disputes covered in an $8.5 billion deal with bond
buyers that’s being challenged in court. The quarterly peak last
year was $13.6 billion.  Inconsistent Views  Bank of America had a $15.9 billion liability set aside for
the claims as of Dec. 31 after adding a $263 million provision
in the fourth quarter. The bank said it can’t project how much
more might be needed to resolve disputes with  Fannie Mae  because
the firm’s demands “remain inconsistent with our interpretation
of our contractual obligations.”  “If people are more aggressive in what they put in those,
there will be more impasse, and we’ll deal with it over time,”
Moynihan said today in a conference call.  Moynihan settled some disputes with Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac  in a $3 billion agreement announced last year, part of about
$40 billion in costs from faulty mortgages. Further losses to
resolve disputes with trustees for private investors could be $5
billion beyond what the company has set aside, the bank has
said.  The total for outstanding claims will drop if the $8.5
billion deal wins court approval, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for Bank of America. The trustee for the debt in the
case is  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   New Claims  “The outstanding claims remain elevated as the approval
process for the Bank of New York settlement continues,”
Dubrowski said in an e-mail. Some of the bank’s reserves include
funds for claims that haven’t yet been submitted, he said.  New claims climbed 28 percent to $4.85 billion from the
third quarter, fueled by loans originated in 2006 and 2007. The
figure is a 16 percent drop from the $5.75 billion in new claims
in the last three months of 2010.  Bank of America today posted fourth-quarter net income of
$1.99 billion, compared with a loss of $1.24 billion a year
earlier, as the firm sold assets to build capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  