-- Bank of America Swings to Fourth-Quarter Profit as Lender Rebuilds Capital
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bank-of-america-swings-to-fourth-quarter-profit-as-lender-rebuilds-capital.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, swung to a fourth-quarter profit as the
company sold assets and built capital faster than expected.  Net income of $1.99 billion, or 15 cents a diluted share,
compared with a loss of $1.24 billion, or 16 cents, a year
earlier, according to a statement today from the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based firm. While results were boosted by one-
time gains on asset sales and reserve releases, the company
advanced 2.4 percent in New York trading as investors focused on
the stronger balance sheet.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is cutting
holdings, expenses and staff while raising capital to meet
demands from regulators for a larger cushion against losses. So
far, $50 billion in assets are gone, and Moynihan’s Project New
BAC will eliminate at least 30,000  jobs  as the firm seeks to
save $5 billion annually. He’s also aiming to quell disputes
over faulty mortgages that have cost the bank about $40 billion.  “The biggest shock in the quarter was, nobody improves
their Tier 1 common ratio by 121 points in 90 days,” said
 Thomas Brown , CEO of Second Curve Capital LLC, in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop,” with Betty Liu.
“It’s going to survive, and its  capital ratios  are a lot
stronger today than we all thought yesterday.” Brown has owned
Bank of America shares and is a Bloomberg contributing editor.  More Capital  Tier 1 capital , a measure of the ability to absorb losses,
surged to 9.86 percent from 8.65 percent in the third quarter,
beating the lender’s December forecast of about 9.2 percent.
Revenue gained 11 percent from the same period in 2010. For all
of 2011, Bank of America said it earned $1.4 billion, compared
with a $2.2 billion loss in 2010, as revenue dropped 15 percent.  Bank of America rose 16 cents to $6.96 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, leading the Dow Jones Industrial  Average (INDU) , and advanced as
much as 7.2 percent during the day.  Moynihan cited a “gradually improving economy” for a
13 percent rise in commercial and industrial loan balances.
Consumer real estate posted a $1.46 billion loss, narrower than
a year earlier. Global banking and markets swung to a net loss
of $433 million from net income of $669 million. Revenue in the
unit declined 31 percent, primarily driven by lower sales and
trading revenue and investment banking fees.  One-Time Items  The quarterly results were aided by one-time pretax gains
including $2.9 billion from selling most of its  remaining stake 
in China Construction Bank Corp., $1.2 billion on an exchange of
preferred securities, and $1.2 billion on sales of debt
securities. The company put aside 43 percent less for credit
losses, or about $2.2 billion less than a year earlier.  Expenses tied to bad mortgages included $1.5 billion for
litigation and $263 million for buying back soured home loans
from investors. A year earlier, the bank booked a $2 billion
impairment at the home-loan unit.  “There’s a lot of one-time charges and gains in there,”
 Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
 Virginia , said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “On a core
basis, it looks like they came in below our numbers. On one side
people like the capital position, but the earnings side to us,
it was kind of weak.”  Stripped of one-time items, the results add up to a
quarterly loss of about 18 cents a share, according to a
research note from  David Trone  at JMP Securities LLC in  New
York , who has a “market perform” recommendation on the shares.
“We would expect performance to fade today as investors process
the segment results, which were generally disappointing.”  Asset Sales  Bank of America is selling assets deemed risky by
regulators and stockpiling earnings to comply with new
international rules on capital meant to protect against a future
financial crisis. The company won’t ask regulators for
permission to increase its dividend or share buybacks this year,
Moynihan said today during a conference call.  The bank’s target is to reduce so-called risk-weighted
assets to $1.75 trillion by the end of this year, a $50 billion
improvement from an earlier goal. Lowering riskier holdings
means the bank has to retain less capital to meet new standards.  “The amount of income related to the risk-weighting is
totally upside down” for some assets the firm will unload,
Chief Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said during a
conference call with reporters. “I don’t see significant
changes from a profitability perspective as we look to get rid
of a lot of these assets.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  supplanted the bank as the biggest
U.S. lender by assets last year. Bank of America’s  divestments 
during the year included 23.5 billion shares of China
Construction, a Canadian credit-card business and private-equity
stakes in the biggest U.S. Pizza Hut franchisee and hospital
operator HCA Holdings Inc.  Second Place  The bank doesn’t need to be the biggest, according to
Moynihan, who said in September he wants his company to be more
focused. Moynihan also decided to scale back the firm’s mortgage
operations, shuttering a correspondent unit that accounted for
half of loan volume in the first six months of 2011. In the
fourth quarter, Bank of America’s real estate unit reported a
74 percent decline in loan originations.  By doing so, the lender will accumulate fewer mortgage
servicing contracts -- one of the assets it’s been selling
because the new regulations compel banks to hold more capital if
they own riskier assets.  Rivals may already be taking up the slack in mortgage
lending.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the No. 4  U.S. bank  by assets,
posted a 20 percent rise in fourth-quarter income to $4.11
billion as new home loans rose 35 percent from the prior three
months. U.S. Bancorp, ranked fifth by deposits, said profit
advanced 39 percent to $1.35 billion.  Trading Declines  Earnings dropped at the biggest New York-based banks as
trading slumped in the last three months of 2011. Earnings fell
23 percent to $3.73 billion at JPMorgan, while  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
the No. 3 bank, said income slid 11 percent to $1.17 billion.  “Can they grow?” said Robert Hagstrom, a portfolio
manager at Legg Mason Funds Management in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I know they’re undervalued, I know they’re trading
at a big discount to what they’re worth, but what I’m trying to
figure out is, where does the growth come from here?”  Moynihan’s success may hinge on how well he deflects future
costs of refunds, writedowns and lawsuits stemming from faulty
mortgages and foreclosures -- most of them inherited in the 2008
takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. They total about $40
billion since 2007, and another $12 billion to $32 billion may
lie ahead, according to a Citigroup estimate.  Those expenses helped send the lender’s stock plunging
58 percent in 2011, the worst showing in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average. Bank of America’s 25 percent gain this year
has led the 30-company Dow as investors bet that an improving
U.S. economy will buoy earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  