-- BankUnited Stops Sale Process After Bids Said to Come in Low
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bankunited-stops-sale-process-after-bids-said-to-come-in-low.html
BankUnited Inc. (BKU) ,  Florida ’s second-
biggest bank, decided to remain independent after receiving
takeover offers that fell short of the board’s expectations.  The bank considered strategic alternatives as part of a
preliminary process and will instead focus on building its
business in Florida, Miami Lakes-based BankUnited said yesterday
in a statement. Offers for the bank came in too low, said people
with knowledge of the situation, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  BB&T
Corp. (BBT)  were among companies in discussions to buy the lender,
people with knowledge of the matter said this week.  BankUnited was among U.S. lenders that failed during the
housing market’s collapse, prompting regulators to seize its
operations and sell most of them in 2009 to a group of private-
equity investors including Chief Executive Officer John Kanas.
The group pumped about $900 million into the lender and got the
FDIC to agree to absorb losses on some mortgage assets before an
initial public offering.  BankUnited had asked for offers by Jan. 17, telling
potential buyers it aimed to reach a sale agreement within about
two weeks, people said earlier this week.  Donna Butler, a BankUnited spokeswoman, declined to comment
on offers for the lender. Maria Leung, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based TD Bank, declined to comment. Cynthia Williams at
BB&T declined to comment.  “They were likely looking for a very big price,” said Ken Thomas, a Miami-based banking consultant and economist. “It is
one of the two premium franchises in South Florida.”  BankUnited’s Reach  BankUnited has more than  $11 billion  of assets and said in
yesterday’s statement that deposits grew to $7.4 billion in the
fourth quarter. It had 95 branches at year-end. The bank is
Florida’s second-biggest by deposits after Jacksonville-based
EverBank Financial Corp., according to data compiled by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  BankAtlantic Bancorp (BBX)  is the
other premium franchise in South Florida, Thomas said.  Blackstone Group LP, Carlyle Group LP, WL Ross & Co. and
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC still hold  stakes  in
BankUnited totaling more than 50 percent, based on regulatory
filings compiled by Bloomberg. The investors raised about $900
million in an IPO last January, triple what the bank had
registered to sell.  The stock fell  3.8 percent  to $24.95 at the close yesterday
in  New York , giving the bank a market value of $2.43 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 