-- Bankinter Quarterly Profit Jumps as Loan Margins Increase
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-19T17:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bankinter-quarterly-profit-jumps-as-lending-margins-increase.html
Bankinter SA (BKT) , a Spanish mortgage
lender, said fourth-quarter profit jumped as the bank boosted
revenue by increasing lending to companies.  Net income rose to 34.2 million euros ($44 million) from
1.71 million euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based lender said
in a filing to regulators today. The average  estimate  of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 35.2 million euros.  Bankinter said it’s trying to increase lending to companies
and seeking more business with wealthier customers to boost
margins while its insurance unit contributes more to earnings.
The lender met Chief Executive Officer Maria Dolores Dancausa’s
target of boosting full-year profit by 20 percent to 181.2
million euros.  “Instead of reducing the book and in order to increase the
margins of the lending book, we are accelerating the process of
changing our mix, reducing the rate of residential mortgages and
increasing our focus on corporate clients,” Gloria Ortiz,
Bankinter’s financial director, said on a webcast today.  Bankinter rose 6.7 percent, the biggest jump since Sept.
26, to 5.21 euros at the close of trading in  Madrid , valuing the
company at 2.49 billion euros.  Net interest income climbed 35 percent to 149.2 million
euros in the fourth quarter from a year earlier as lending rose
2 percent, the lender said.  Margin Increases  The client  margin , or the difference between what the bank
earns on loans and pays for customer funds, jumped to 0.83
percentage points from 0.57 points a year earlier as Bankinter
reduced the weighting of residential mortgages in its loan book
to 52 percent from 54 percent.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending climbed to 3.24
percent in December from 3.12 percent three months earlier, the
bank said. The bank closed the year with 484 million euros of
foreclosed assets, including 103.8 million euros of land assets,
of which 75 percent are covered by provisions, Bankinter said.  Dancausa criticized the government’s December announcement
to make banks increase their contributions to the deposit-
guarantee fund as it prepares to restructure the banking system.  Bankinter and other banks that didn’t do “anything crazy”
during  Spain ’s real-estate boom shouldn’t be made to pay for the
“binge,” she said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  