-- Banks Flush With ECB Cash Outperform Sovereigns
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-01-19T05:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/banks-flush-with-623-billion-ecb-cash-beating-sovereigns-credit-markets.html
Banks are beating euro governments
in credit markets by the most since July as European Central
Bank loans stave off punitive borrowing costs for lenders such
as  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and UniCredit SpA facing debt downgrades.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers now
costs 104 basis points less than the Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments. That compares with a 28
basis-point gap at the end of November and a record 118 in July.
Historically, it costs more to insure banks than governments.  The ECB’s 489 billion euros ($623 billion) of three-year
 loans  are a lifeline for lenders competing with governments to
borrow about $2 trillion this year as they seek to refinance
maturing bonds and bills, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While banks based in euro-area countries that still
have top credit grades are able to issue unsecured bonds,
lenders from nations whose ratings have been lowered, or face
cuts, are frozen out.  “The ECB offered the banks a guaranteed source of
liquidity,” said Nigel Sillis, who helps oversee about $53
billion as director of fixed income and currency research at
Baring Asset Management Ltd. in  London . “They’ve used it in big
size and that’s taken the worst of the liquidity risk out of the
market.”  More Loans  The ECB plans to hold another three-year longer-term
refinancing operation, or LTRO, at the end of February. That may
total 1 trillion euros should the central bank loosen collateral
requirements, according to Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist
at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.  Bank bonds have rallied in the cash market since the LTRO
announcement. The difference in relative yields between the EUR
Corporates, Banking index and a gauge made up of Austrian,
Finnish, French, German and Dutch government bonds is 371 basis
points. The gap between the two indexes peaked at a 31-month
high of 440 basis points on Nov. 30.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate debt
risk fell to the lowest in five months.  Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA)  sold
$800 million in bonds. Cinven Ltd. will fund its purchase of
patent business CPA Global with 430 million pounds ($663
million) of loans.  Credit Market Stress  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, rose for a second day, adding 0.38
basis point to 35.19 basis points as of 5:08 p.m. in  New York .
The measure widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
government debt and narrows when they buy assets such as
corporate bonds and stocks.  The cost to protect U.S. company debt fell as the
 International Monetary Fund  proposed a $500 billion expansion of
its lending capacity, easing concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis
may escalate.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 109.5 basis points
in New York, according to data provider CMA. That was the lowest
level since August 15, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Default Swaps Fall  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined for a fifth day,
decreasing 0.7 to 162.4, CMA prices show. In the Asia-Pacific
region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  dropped 3 basis points to 197.5 as of
8:35 a.m. in  Singapore , Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices show.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, with 181 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The world’s biggest
maker of  jet engines  sold $4 billion of notes on Jan. 4.  Grupo Bimbo Bonds  Bimbo, the world’s largest bread maker, sold $800 million
of 10-year notes to yield 270 basis points, or 2.70 percentage
points more than similar maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Mexico City-based baker last issued
debt in June 2010, when it sold $800 million of 4.875 percent of
senior unsecured notes due in ten years, Bloomberg data show.  Yields on investment grade corporate bonds in the U.S. have
fallen to 3.74 percent, compared to 4.41 percent the last time
Grupo Bimbo issued a bond, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
rose for the 14th time in 15 sessions, gaining 0.1 cent to 92.27
cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, reached the
highest level since Aug. 5.  Cinven, the London-based buyout firm, hired HSBC Holdings
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to underwrite and arrange its
funding, which includes 310 million pounds of senior loans in
pounds and euros, and 120 million pounds of mezzanine debt, said
the two people with knowledge of the transaction.  CPA Buyout Loan  The owner of the Pizza Express restaurant chain said
yesterday it agreed to buy CPA from  Intermediate Capital Group
Plc. (ICP)  The senior debt includes a six-year  term loan  A paying
interest at 500 basis points more than benchmark lending rates,
and a seven-year term loan B with interest margin of 550 basis
points, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the information is private. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed for a third
day, declining 5 basis points to 432 basis points or 4.32
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  Ratings Pressure  Bank credit ratings are under pressure after S&P cut the
sovereign grades of nine nations across  Europe  on Jan. 13,
stripping France and  Austria  of their top AAA ratings, cutting
 Italy  to BBB+ and reducing  Portugal  to BB, or two levels below
investment grade.  Credit-default swaps on French government debt dropped 22
basis points to 202 basis points, according to CMA, since the
ECB cash went to banks on Dec. 22. During the same period, swaps
on BNP Paribas, the nation’s biggest lender, dropped more than
40 basis points to 242 basis points.  The French downgrade may affect the senior debt of banks
such as BNP Paribas and Societe Generale SA as New York-based
S&P reviews the sovereign’s ability to support its lenders,
according to a Morgan Stanley note this week. In Italy, the
change will probably push the most junior subordinated debt of
UniCredit and  Banca Intesa SpA (ISP) , the country’s second-largest
bank, down to a BB+ rating, the analysts wrote.  ‘Not a Solution’  “There’s been a definite sense of relief in the market
since the LTRO,” said Alberto Gallo, a credit strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “It’s helped to buy
time, but it’s not a solution because the banks still have wider
problems.”  Among the issues that can’t be solved by the LTRO is
capital. The European Banking Authority, which found a 115
billion-euro shortfall in its most recent stress tests, has
given lenders until June to find cash or face nationalization.  “Capital raisings are obviously positive for the banks,”
said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd.
in London.  Lenders have also been supported by the  Federal Reserve 
pumping about $90 billion into the global financial system
through its emergency swap lines since November, when  interest
rates  on the loans were cut to promote borrowing.  That’s helped push European banks’ borrowing costs in
dollars down to 78 basis points below the euro interbank offered
rate, the lowest since Aug. 8. The spread between three month
euro Libor and the overnight index swap, a measure of banks’
readiness to lend to each other, has declined to 84 basis points,
the least since Oct. 31, from as much as 1 percentage point at
the end of November.  Lowering Borrowing Costs  While the ECB and Fed intervention has reduced the risk of
a bank defaulting, lenders and their sovereigns remain tightly
intertwined. A web of crossed share- and bond-holdings links
European banks to one another, increasing the risk problems at
one lender will quickly infect others, while banks’ holdings of
sovereign debt are “a multiple of equity,” according to Gallo.  Markit’s financial index of credit-default swaps has
tumbled more than 100 basis points since the end of November to
248 basis points, while the sovereign benchmark has declined
about 25 to 358. Both are down from record highs that month.  “There’s a limit to how much banks can decouple from
sovereigns,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. “Banks will almost certainly
follow sovereigns in downgrades. It’s a foregone conclusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  