-- Barcelona Rallies to Win 2-1 at Real Madrid in Spanish Cup Quarterfinal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-01-19T00:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/barcelona-rallies-to-win-2-1-at-real-madrid-in-spanish-cup-soccer-match.html
Barcelona rallied from a goal down
to win 2-1 at Real Madrid last night in the opening game of
their quarterfinal in Spanish soccer’s Copa del Rey.  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored for Real at Santiago Bernabeu
stadium before  Carles Puyol  and  Eric Abidal  got Barcelona’s
goals in the second half. The two-game series concludes at
Barcelona’s Camp Nou on Jan. 25.  It’s the fifth time  Jose Mourinho ’s Real has failed to beat
Barcelona at home since the Portuguese became coach of the nine-
time European champion in 2010.  “You always think that run is coming to an end but we
played a very good game,” Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola told a
televised news conference. “In the end, we had a lot of
chances” to score, Guardiola said.  Real beat European champion Barcelona in last year’s final
of the Copa del Rey, the domestic cup competition. Barcelona
beat its archrival on the way to winning the Champions League
last season, and also won the Spanish league title.  Ronaldo gave Real the lead after 11 minutes, rounding off a
counterattack by firing his shot through the legs of stand-in
Barcelona goalkeeper Jose Manuel Pinto.  Barcelona’s  Alexis Sanchez  headed a cross from Cesc Fabregas against the top of the crossbar and  Lionel Messi  had a
shot pushed out of the bottom corner of the goal by Real
goalkeeper Iker Casillas before the interval.  Mental Lift  Puyol dived unchallenged to head in a corner to make it 1-1
three minutes after half time.  “To beat Barcelona you can’t do that, you can’t make any
type of defensive mistakes,” Mourinho told a news conference.
The goal gave Barcelona a psychological lift and hit Real’s
confidence, he added.  Abidal made it 2-1 after 77 minutes, controlling a chip by
Messi with his chest and guiding the ball past Casillas.  Real’s Pepe trod on the hand of Messi in one of several
off-the-ball incidents that wasn’t seen by the referee. Real’s
Fabio Coentrao pushed the world player of the year as they got
up from the turf.  “With the tension, the nerves and everything that’s in
play, it’s difficult to avoid sometimes,” Real director Emilio Butragueno told Canal+ television.  Mourinho said Pepe would be liable for punishment by the
club if he trod on Messi on purpose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  