-- Bearish Bets on Suzuki India Unit Near 8-Month High on Sales
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-01-19T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bearish-bets-on-suzuki-india-unit-near-8-month-high-on-sales.html
Futures traders are the most bearish
on Suzuki Motor Corp.’s Indian unit in eight months on concerns
higher borrowing costs and increased competition from rivals
will damp sales.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ’s futures settled at 1,116.4
rupees yesterday in Mumbai, a 13.6-point discount to the
underlying stock that’s near the widest since May, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Open interest totaled 11,632, near a two-
month high, the data show.  Maruti, which sells almost half the cars in the country,
said Jan. 2 that total sales for the April to December period
slid 17 percent to 773,361 units as a record run of increases in
funding costs cooled consumer demand and a workers strike in
November disrupted output. The company may next week report the
smallest quarterly net income in three years, according to the
 median estimate  of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Falling monthly sales will continue to be a drag on the
stock going forward,” Siddarth Bhamre, head of derivatives at
Angel Broking Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai. The stock price
may drop as much as 10 percent from current levels, he said.  Maruti shares rose 2.6 percent to 1,129.95 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close yesterday, set for a 16 percent gain this week,
after the company raised prices. The stock still has the lowest
 consensus  rating among four-wheeler producers in the 30-member
BSE India Sensitive Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
stock sank 35 percent in 2011, its biggest loss in three years.  “Cash-based buying by long funds is supporting the stock
currently but there is not much support for futures,” Angel’s
Bhamre said, adding he advised clients to take short positions,
or bets prices will fall, after the current rally plays out.  Fuel Costs  Passenger-car sales in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy shrank
2 percent in the April-December period, from a 32 percent gain a
year earlier, as record gasoline prices and higher  interest
rates  damped demand for cars in a nation where about 80 percent
of purchases are funded by loans, data from the Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers show. SIAM previously called for
sales growth of between 2 percent and 4 percent in October.  The company may say Jan. 23  profit  in the quarter ended in
December plunged 61 percent to 2.22 billion rupees ($44 million)
from a year ago, according to the Bloomberg survey. Net income
sank 60 percent to 2.4 billion rupees in the September quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  