-- Shlaes: Bernanke’s Housing-Market Meddling Tarnishes Trust
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bernanke-s-housing-market-meddling-tarnishes-trust-amity-shlaes.html
In 2009, an economist named Paola Sapienza came up with an image to describe the challenge the
 U.S. economy  faced after the financial crisis. The economy was
like a board game, Sapienza, a professor at  Northwestern
University , told me. Especially like the old favorite
“Monopoly.”  Despite the name, “Monopoly” isn’t really about antitrust.
It’s about trust. Trust and commerce, Sapienza said. If people
want to buy properties, if renters pay their rents and the bank
acts predictably, then the game will move merrily forward, and
hotels will replace houses on the board.  But if the bank can’t be trusted -- if it cheats or proves
too erratic -- there is a problem. The players walk away from
the table.  The same holds true on the great American game board. Trust
that everyone is playing by the rules, more or less, is
critical. Around the same time she first talked about
“Monopoly,” Sapienza and a colleague,  Luigi Zingales  of the
 University of Chicago , set about trying to measure the elusive
sentiment of trust. They launched a  survey , formally known as
the Chicago Booth/Kellogg School Financial Trust Index.  In December 2008, they found that only 20 percent of
Americans said they trusted the financial system. That rate
climbed in successive “waves” of the survey to 26 percent in
January 2011. But the index has bobbed up and down since then,
and in Wave 12, in September, the trust level had  dropped back 
to 23 percent, other positive signs in the economy
notwithstanding.  Housing Problems  To many people, housing is one reason why trust in the
financial sector remains so stubbornly low. U.S. home prices
have fallen 33 percent since their peak before the recession.
Declining home values have diminished  consumer confidence  and
curtailed spending. About 12 million homeowners owe more on
their mortgage than their house is worth. Many people are losing
their homes, and the foreclosure process is a costly mess.  If only we could straighten these problems out, the
housing market could recover and the rest of the economy would
follow. Or so the logic goes.  One proponent of the Houses Ueber Alles theory is Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who recently published  a white
paper  on how housing-market fixes, especially involving
mortgages, could restore growth. This is the moment, Bernanke
and his Fed colleagues posit, that policy makers should “help
reconcile the existing size and mix of the housing market.”
Regulators and banks should consider a “broad menu of loan
modifications.” Conversion to rentals from ownership may be
appropriate. Mortgage servicers should get “incentives to pursue
alternatives to foreclosure.” The paper recommends that
regulators and lenders “tailor” vulnerable contracts.  In other words, details of paper contracts written years
ago matter less than the immediate challenge of lifting burdens
from the shoulders of borrowers. The lender’s contractual right
to  foreclose  is subordinate. In Bernanke’s assessment, the rest
of the economy will take heart once people get help with houses.
It’s time for a new kind of Fed intervention, or Fed-inspired
intervention, in residential mortgages.  Given Bernanke’s background, it makes sense that he’s
taking this angle. Bernanke got to the Fed partly because of the
quality of his academic work on underwater mortgages of the
early 1930s and their role in the Great Depression.  Perhaps, though, houses are not themselves the key to
recovery. Houses are actually props. What matters more than
houses, whether on the game board or in the real economy, is the
general reliability of contracts, and whether the legal culture
will enforce them in the future.  In others words, the kind of trust Sapienza and Zingales
are chasing.  Gaming the System  That’s why Bernanke’s suggestions to help individuals in
2012 may prove perverse, tightening the very credit market he
seeks to loosen. When borrowers hear they may get a break, they
spend less time hunting down the monthly payment due and more
time studying up on the break on the government website. Instead
of playing the game, Americans will learn to game the system.  A recent study  by Sapienza on the rise of so-called
strategic defaults suggests that is already happening. Her
pollsters found that 35 percent of mortgage defaults in 2010
were by families that could afford, by their own admission, to
make the monthly payment. That rate was up from 25 percent in
2009. Lenders who see even solvent borrowers -- partners they
had assumed to be safe credit risks -- walk away from their
commitments will tighten qualifications for the next borrower.
Everyone will postpone transactions until they know a better
deal isn’t available in 2013.  The more general problem is that the Fed -- the bank, in
game terms -- has been playing so prominently in the first
place. Even if the new paper is only recommending what other
authorities have already said, its very publication represents
another signal from the Fed that it will keep its hand
perpetually and unpredictably in the game, even in periods of
recovery like the current one. Monopoly works best when the bank
has no discretion: It pays $200 as you pass Go, and otherwise
mostly keeps quiet.  Remember, our economy is growing,  joblessness is dropping 
and  interest rates  are low, which should help the residential
sector. The sad probability is that today’s low prices reflect
what houses are actually worth. The Fed needs to get out of the
housing business, and indeed, the rest of day-to-day commerce.
And it needs to spend more energy on building the trust that
Sapienza tries to quantify.  There’s a genuine danger that we’re morphing from a country
built on deals and honor into one populated by casino
capitalists. That would make a good topic for a white paper.  (Amity Shlaes is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  