-- Billionaires Join U.S. in Drawing Putin’s Ire as Election Campaign Starts
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-19T09:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/billionaires-join-u-s-in-drawing-putin-s-ire-as-kremlin-campaign-starts.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  berated U.S. influence at a Moscow radio station and
blamed billionaire oligarchs for souring the investment climate
as campaigning for presidential elections kicked off.  At a meeting with local media heads yesterday, Putin also
criticized opposition leaders for a lack of dialog after tens of
thousands of people protested against alleged violations during
parliamentary elections won by his party last month.  Putin plans to return to the Kremlin after four years as
premier in a March vote and needs 50 percent backing to avoid a
runoff. Rather than engage with the leaders of  Russia ’s biggest
demonstrations since he came to power, Putin is seeking to
appeal to his core support to ensure success, according to Jenia Ustinova, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York .  “It appears that Putin has settled on a strategy of
shoring up his base and is increasingly unlikely to pivot toward
a progressive platform or a compromise with the opposition,”
Ustinova wrote in a note yesterday, before the prime minister’s
remarks. “Putin does not necessarily need to make inroads with
the protesters to win the presidential election.”  Russia’s Micex stock index was little changed today at
1,493.12 at 1:29 p.m., after three days of gains. It’s fallen
from 1,517.89 on Dec. 5, when protests against the previous
day’s parliamentary vote began.  ‘Negative Attitude’  Oligarchs who profited in “unfair” sales of state assets
in the 1990s and bought foreign sports clubs and  luxury goods 
fuel a “negative attitude toward business” that “doesn’t
promote a favorable climate,” Putin said.  Billionaires  Mikhail Prokhorov , 46, and  Roman Abramovich ,
45, own the New York Nets basketball team and Chelsea Football
Club, respectively. Prokhorov is also running for president.  A program on the Ekho Moskvy radio station appeared to
support U.S. intentions to house parts of a missile-defense
system in eastern Europe, a plan Russia is fighting, Putin said,
adding that this was done in part with Russian taxpayers’ money
as Ekho Moskvy is state-owned.  “The Americans won’t give us access,” Putin said at the
meeting in Novo Ogarevo, outside Moscow. “They don’t even let
their NATO partners in  Europe  access the control system.”  New U.S. Ambassador Michael McFaul came under criticism in
state television after meeting opposition activists two days
ago. In a special report broadcast Jan. 17, a Channel One
commentator said McFaul, a longstanding Russia expert, was
aiming to promote democratization and revolution.  Ambassador Meetings  McFaul in a blog posting said he and visiting U.S. Deputy
Secretary of State  William Burns  had met with senior Russian
officials and civil society leaders. “It’s a policy we call
dual track engagement. We learned a lot from listening to these
leaders,” he said.  Putin, 59, is facing the biggest challenge to his rule
since he replaced the ailing President  Boris Yeltsin  on Dec. 31,
1999. Challengers in the presidential race, for which
registration ended yesterday, are backing demands for new
parliamentary elections after December’s polls sparked mass
protests in Moscow and other Russian cities.  Addressing the unrest, Putin accused opposition figures
Boris Akunin and Dmitry Bykov, both writers, of ignoring
opportunities to meet.  “We’ve invited them but they don’t come,” he said. “What
do they want? I’m ready to meet them and talk. I’ve invited them
more than once.”  ‘Self-Congratulatory Platform’  The writers said later that they are ready to meet with
Putin, Ekho Moskvy reported.  There are no specific plans for a meeting and the prime
minister’s schedule is tight,  Dmitry Peskov , his spokesman, said
today by phone.  Since the parliamentary election vote, Deputy Prime
Minister Vyacheslav Volodin has replaced Kremlin ideologue
Vladislav Surkov, while  Sergei Ivanov , another deputy premier,
has taken over as head of the presidential administration.  “Hard-line loyalists were appointed to key posts in recent
weeks, while Putin himself unveiled a populist, self-
congratulatory campaign platform,” Ustinova wrote. While his
tactics may be enough for a first-round victory in March, they
“will do little to address underlying political tensions, or
pacify the protest constituency.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  last month proposed legislation
to make it easier to register parties and run for president. The
changes will take full effect in 2016 and 2018, when the next
parliamentary and presidential elections are scheduled.  ‘Expanding Freedoms’  “Russia’s growth over the next decades means expanding
freedoms for each of us,” Putin wrote in a Jan. 16 article in
the Izvestia newspaper and posted on his website.  The prime minister has close to the 50 percent backing
needed to win the presidential vote in the first round,
according to the latest poll published by the state-run All-
Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion .  Putin would get 48 percent, compared with 10 percent for
Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , 9 percent for  Vladimir
Zhirinovsky  of the nationalist Liberal Democrats and 5 percent
for Sergei Mironov, a former ally of the premier who leads the
Just Russia opposition party, according to the Jan. 7-8 survey
of 1,600 Russians. The margin of error was 3.4 percentage
points.  Putin’s United Russia party inflated its share of last
month’s Duma vote to about 50 percent from 30 percent and even
“major fraud” can’t bring about a first-round victory,
Zyuganov said Jan. 11. Putin has every chance of winning without
a runoff, Peskov, said Jan. 17.  The next street protest is planned for Feb. 4 in downtown
Moscow. As of yesterday evening, more than 19,600 people had
signed up to attend via the organizers’ Facebook Inc. page.  “I don’t see any willingness by Putin to change the
political system,” Just Russia’s Mironov said in a Jan. 17
interview. “He believes monopoly of power is good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  