-- Birmingham Ousts Wolves, Brighton Wins F.A. Cup Soccer Penalty Shootout
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-19T00:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/birmingham-ousts-wolves-brighton-wins-shootout-in-english-soccer-f-a-cup.html
Birmingham won 1-0 at Premier League
club Wolverhampton Wanderers and Brighton beat Wrexham 5-4 in a
penalty shootout after a 1-1 draw to complete the fourth-round
lineup in English soccer’s F.A. Cup.  Birmingham will visit  Sheffield United  for a place in the
last 16, while Brighton will host Newcastle. Fixtures will be
played Jan. 27-29.  Wolves, who are 16th in the 20-team Premier League, have
now failed to win in nine games. Birmingham, which is seventh in
the second-tier Championship, hasn’t lost in seven starts.  Last night’s game, watched by 10,153 people at Wolves’
29,000 capacity Molineux stadium, remained scoreless until a
74th-minute corner. Wade Elliott turned a downward header by
 David Murphy  onto a post as he lay on the turf about two yards
(1.8 meters) from the goal. Elliott then put the ball into the
net, still from a sitting position, after a melee following the
rebound.  Wolves’ best chance to draw level came two minutes from the
end. Birmingham goalkeeper Colin Doyle dived to save at the feet
of  Steven Fletcher  and then made a follow-up save to tip Stephen Hunt’s shot from the rebound over the crossbar.  Wrexham’s Andy Morrell opened the scoring for the home team
at the Racecourse Ground in the 23rd minute. Wrexham, which
plays in the minor leagues, held the lead until the 77th minute,
when Ashley Barnes tied it for Championship club Brighton 11
minutes after coming onto the field as a substitute.  With no further goals in regulation play or 30 minutes of
extra time, the game went to a shootout. Wrexham’s Dean Keates
missed with the first penalty kick and Brighton scored all five
of its spot kicks to seal the win.  The replays followed a goalless draw between Wolves and
Birmingham on Jan. 7 and a 1-1 tie between Brighton and Wolves
the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 