-- BlackRock Fourth-Quarter Net Income Falls 16% as Markets Drive Fees Lower
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-01-19T21:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/blackrock-fourth-quarter-net-income-falls-16-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
asset manager, said fourth-quarter profit fell 16 percent as
market swings eroded fees.  Net  income  decreased to $555 million, or $3.05 a share,
from $657 million, or $3.35, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. BlackRock cut 3.4 percent of
its workforce in the quarter, after adding 900 employees
throughout the year, bringing the total number of employees to
about 10,100 as of Dec. 31.  BlackRock, which saw investment advisory fees fall by 4.5
percent to $1.86 billion, joins Northern Trust Corp. in reducing
headcount as market volatility and interest rates near zero
reduce income. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, 59,
after expanding into passive products such as exchange-traded
funds in 2009, is adding to multi-asset strategies and hedge
fund-like mutual funds as investors have turned away from
traditional holdings such as stocks.  “The ETF business was their best-performing business in
the quarter,” Daniel Fannon, an analyst in the San Francisco
office of Jefferies & Co., said in an interview. “Earnings were
generally better than expected,” said Fannon, who had estimated
that BlackRock would earn $2.91 per share during the quarter,
excluding certain one-time items.  BlackRock’s revenue fell 11 percent from a year earlier to
$2.2 billion. Performance fees, earned by funds for beating
certain benchmarks, decreased 55 percent to $147 million.  Fink Is Bullish  Assets under management at BlackRock declined 1.3 percent
from a year earlier to $3.51 trillion, as  global stocks  fell 9.4
percent last year amid the European sovereign-debt crisis.
Assets increased 5 percent compared with the prior quarter.  Fink said during a conference call today with analysts and
investors that he expects market volatility to continue in 2012
as lawmakers in  Europe  struggle to contain the debt crisis and
the U.S. faces a presidential election. Fink said he is bullish
on global equity markets because of improving balance sheets at
corporations worldwide even as investors have fled stocks.  “Corporations in the  United States  and many cases in
Europe have never been stronger,” Fink said today. “The amount
of de-risking that has been done worldwide, leads me to have,
despite all this uncertainty, a more positive overview.”  BlackRock fell 0.1 percent to $187.54 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The  shares  have lost 2.1 percent in the 12 months through
today, compared with an 18 percent decline in the 20-member S&P
index of asset managers and custody banks.  Jobs in 2012  BlackRock didn’t say how many jobs it cut during the
quarter. Based on the year-end headcount, a 3.4 percent
reduction would translate into about 350 positions. The asset
manager doesn’t have any plans to eliminate jobs in 2012 and
will have some headcount growth, Fink said today.  Northern Trust, the third-largest independent U.S. custody
bank, said yesterday it will eliminate about 700 jobs to join
larger rivals Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and State Street
Corp. in cutting costs as record-low  interest rates  hobble
profit.  Investors have fled actively managed funds, while putting
money into lower-cost  index funds  and ETFs. Investors pulled
$9.4 billion from active funds in 2011, while putting $76.4
billion into passive funds, according to data compiled by
Morningstar Inc. In the 12 months ended in November, ETF assets
increased almost 13 percent to $1.05 trillion, based on data
from the  Investment Company Institute , the trade group for the
mutual-fund industry.  Active Versus Passive  BlackRock’s index-tracking equity products attracted $21
billion in investor deposits during the quarter, while the
active stock funds lost $8.2 billion to withdrawals. Bond index
products attracted about $24 billion, and active fixed-income
funds had redemptions of $14.1 billion.  “Even if part of your business is facing challenges, it
doesn’t mean other parts can’t be doing relatively better,”
Robert Lee, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in  New
York , said before the earnings were announced. “They have the
ability via the ETF business or the index business to benefit
from some of the trends you could argue are eating away at more
traditional equity flows.” Lee rates BlackRock “outperform.”  Excluding certain one-time items, BlackRock earned $3.06 a
share, compared with the $2.98 average estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  BlackRock, which acquired  Barclays Global Investors  in
December 2009 to add ETFs to the actively run stock and bond
funds it oversees, said in July that redemptions related to its
takeover of the Barclays Plc unit had come to an end.  Series of Acquisitions  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, has built the firm
through a series of  acquisitions , including the 2006 purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit. BlackRock acquired the
hedge fund-of-funds business of Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The
company last year expanded the alternatives division, which
manages  hedge funds , real estate funds and private-equity
strategies.  BlackRock isn’t looking at any “large-platform”
purchases, although the firm is considering smaller acquisitions
to fill product gaps, Fink said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  