-- Boeing Job Grab Shows Peril of Offering Tax Dollars for Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/boeing-job-grab-shows-peril-of-offering-tax-dollars-for-growth.html
Using $43 million in taxpayer money
to build a training center for aerospace workers was a good idea
for Wichita, Kansas, the self-styled “Aviation Capital of the
World,” said Dave Unruh, a Sedgwick County commissioner.  It remains money well-spent, Unruh said, even after  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s Jan. 4 decision to close its 2,160-employee plant in
Wichita, the county seat. Hundreds of those jobs will move to
 Texas  and Oklahoma. He favors putting up as much as $100 million
more as a “closing fund” to draw new employers.  “We ought to be run out of office if we don’t respond,”
said the Republican, a commissioner since 2003. “We have a
community DNA for aviation assets and we’re going to compete.”
Still, Unruh didn’t know where the money would come from.  That fund may serve only as a down payment, since the bar
to attract new and expanding businesses keeps rising for state
and local governments. Boeing, the world’s biggest aerospace
company, won incentives estimated at more than $700 million in
2009 to build a $750 million factory in South Carolina. At least
$200 million will go to aid employers expanding in New Jersey,
under a bill signed this month by Governor  Chris Christie .  Illinois , which Moody’s Investors Service rates lower than
any other state, agreed in May to provide $100 million in
payroll credits to Motorola Mobility Inc. over the next decade
to keep the company based in the state. Last month, lawmakers
guaranteed $15 million in state tax breaks for Sears Holdings
Inc. to retain its headquarters. Sears subsequently announced
plans to shut in more than 100 locations.  Pressure on States  “State officials feel like they have to go on playing the
incentives game even when budget pressures are severe,” said
Phil Mattera, research director for Good Jobs First, a nonprofit
organization in  Washington . The group promotes “corporate and
government accountability in economic development and smart
growth for working families,” according to its website.  Illinois lawmakers last January approved record increases
in personal and corporate-income taxes. On Dec. 13, they passed
rate rollbacks for exchange operators  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , both based in  Chicago , after threats of
relocations. A study by Bloomberg Rankings said the state’s
pension system had assets to cover just 45 percent of promised
benefits in 2010, less than the median of almost 75 percent.  Long History  A more than 80-year history in Wichita, where Boeing built
planes used in World War II’s Normandy invasion, wasn’t enough
to compete against tax credits and newer facilities in Oklahoma
City and San Antonio. Losing Chicago-based Boeing’s plant, which
modifies military aircraft such as B-52 long-range bombers, may
mean $1.5 billion in wages that won’t go to Kansas workers over
10 years, said Jeremy Hill, the Wichita State University Center
for Economic Development and Business Research director.  While incentives don’t hurt, business leaders often put
more weight on such things as wage rates and profitability,
according to Sam Staley, who teaches politics and urban planning
at Florida State University in Tallahassee. He has studied the
issue for more than 25 years.  “Big companies make these location decisions on much
bigger issues than what most local politicians understand,”
Staley said. He’s also a research fellow with the Los Angeles-
based Reason Foundation, a nonprofit organization that promotes
libertarian principles, according to its website.  Strategic Motives  “When a Boeing decides to close a plant with hundreds or
thousands of people, it’s rarely because of tax incentives,”
Staley said in a telephone interview. “It’s more about
realigning strategic policies and determining where they believe
the most efficient deployment of resources will be.”  In response to questions about Boeing’s pullout, Jarrod
Bartlett, a company spokesman, said: “The primary reason to
close the Wichita operation is that our current work is winding
down and we don’t have enough future work or prospects for more
work to justify the size of the facility.”  “Incentives weren’t a factor in our decision to close,”
the Kansas-based spokesman said. “We made a business decision
based on our current and future work.”  Such calculations are the norm rather than the exception,
Staley said.  “The overall business climate of a state is much more
important than individual tax incentives,” he said. Still, he
added, “If states offer these things, then companies are going
to take them.”  Will Apply  Boeing will eventually apply for incentives under existing
programs in Oklahoma and Texas, Bartlett said.  Since 1998, Texas and San Antonio have spent more than $12
million on facilities, tax abatements and other incentives to
attract 2,500 Boeing jobs. No incentives were used to spur the
company’s latest move, according to Rene Dominguez, the city’s
economic development director.  Oklahoma (STOOK1)  offers tax credits of as much as $12,000 a year
for new aerospace engineering jobs, half for the company and
half for the worker, said Dustin Pyeatt, a Commerce Department
spokesman.  Kansas  doesn’t offer a similar program, according to
Dan Lara, a Commerce Department spokesman.  “It’s a story of if they come, they can leave and you are
always at risk,” said J. Mac Holladay, an economic development
consultant in Atlanta who has led industry recruitment efforts
in three states. “Wichita is a very good example that American
manufacturing companies are taking a real, hard look at their
productivity numbers.”  Backfire Risk  While incentive advocates say defense facilities in
Huntsville, Alabama, and automotive assembly plants in
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Greenville, South Carolina, have helped
transform local economies, the subsidies can backfire.  North Carolina  approved a $242 million package in 2004 for
a  Dell Inc. (DELL)  factory in Winston-Salem that was expected to house
1,900 jobs. Five years later, Dell said it was closing the
plant, which had peak employment of 1,100, to simplify the
business and improve efficiency.  Massachusetts provided $58 million in subsidies to attract
an 800-employee  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLRQ)  wafer factory on the former
Fort Devens army base. The plant shut less than three years
later in 2011 while the company sought bankruptcy-court
protection, citing competition from  China .  “States had already gotten competitive before the
recession, but with jobs so hard to come by nowadays, incentives
are getting more expensive,” said Bill Alloway, executive vice
president of the Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, an
Austin group that studies state fiscal issues.  Boeing’s Past Incentives  States provided 20 incentive packages that each topped more
than $100 million in 2010 and 2011, with Boeing receiving $2
billion from Washington state and $706 million from South
Carolina, said Kenneth Thomas, a University of Missouri at
Kansas City political scientist who has written three books on
incentives.  “A report by the National Governors Association in 1994
said that giving a lot of incentives was bad policy, but there
shouldn’t be federal control because the states would quit doing
it on their own,” Thomas said by telephone. Instead, annual
spending on employer incentives by states and local governments
since 1995 has climbed more than 80 percent to a combined value
of about $47 billion, he said.  The emergence of more fiscally conservative Republican
governors such as  Rick Scott  of Florida and Nikki Haley of South
Carolina won’t slow the growth of incentives, Florida State’s
Staley said. The programs have proven popular since Mississippi
in 1936 enacted the first state-sponsored economic development
incentives, a measure called  Balance Agriculture With Industry ,
according to Michael LaFaive, a director at the Mackinac Center
for Public Policy in Midland, Michigan.  Politics Rule  “Cutting ribbons for new buildings is more important than
the actual net impact of job creation,” Staley said. “These
programs persist for political reasons.”  In Wichita, Boeing said a $35 billion Air Force fuel-tanker
contract -- the largest Pentagon award ever -- would sustain the
plant for at least seven years, according to U.S. Representative
Mike Pompeo, a Republican whose district includes the city. That
was in February. In November, Boeing said it was studying the
operation’s viability as the U.S. reins in defense spending. On
Jan. 4, the company said it would close the site and move some
of the jobs to other locations.  “We used to fight outsourcing of work to other countries,
but now we’ve got to battle insourcing, where other states are
vying to compete for Boeing,” said Bob Brewer, Midwest director
of the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in
Aerospace, which represents 600 Boeing workers in Wichita.  Defense-Spending Outlook  President Barack Obama is proposing $487 billion in defense
budget cuts over the next decade, forcing suppliers such as
Boeing to make difficult decisions, said Todd Tiahrt, a former
congressman from Wichita who advises the manufacturer as a
consultant.  The Air Force should block Boeing’s closing in Wichita for
breaching its contract, said Pompeo, a graduate of the U.S.
Military Academy and Harvard Law School who calls himself a
“free market believer.”  “Boeing could have told the Air Force they were going to
build this tanker in St. Louis or Washington state or San
Antonio, but they didn’t,” said Pompeo, a first-term Republican
who was a supplier to Boeing for 10 years through his former
company, Thayer Aerospace. “They said they were building it in
Kansas.”  Corporate Obligation  “Fortune 50 companies have an obligation,” Pompeo said.
“When you tell people things, you do them the right way. That’s
a traditional Kansas concept. Boeing didn’t do that.”  Tiahrt, Pompeo’s predecessor in Congress, prefers that
Kansas respond to Boeing’s decision by reducing taxes and
regulations. Republican Governor Sam Brownback on Jan. 11 called
for trimming the state personal-income levy to 4.9 percent from
as high as 6.55 percent for anyone earning more than $15,000 a
year, while eliminating deductions for mortgage interest and
charitable contributions.  Cutting income taxes to better compete may hurt the state’s
ability to pay for schools, roads and public safety, Unruh said.
“Kansas doesn’t have oil and gas like Texas or a tourism
economy like Florida,” he said, citing two competitors that
lack personal-income levies.  Boeing sold its commercial operations in Wichita in 2005,
creating the supplier now known as  Spirit AeroSystems Holdings
Inc. (SPR)  and hadn’t requested city-backed industrial revenue bonds
to support development since 2007. “Maybe we should have seen
that as a tipoff,” said Unruh, a Republican whose family has
owned an automotive repair business in the area since 1947.  Committed to Aerospace  Wichita’s commitment to aviation is evident from incentives
of more than $60 million offered to Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) 
and, separately, Hawker Beechcraft Corp., a Wichita-based
planemaker co-owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Canadian
private-equity firm  Onex Corp. (OCX) , Unruh said. Bombardier employs
2,288 in the city, while Hawker has about 4,000 workers.  As for the community’s 230,000-square foot aerospace
training center, which opened in 2010, $20 million more will be
invested this year and next to buy equipment and run training
programs organized by Wichita Area Technical College, according
to a 2011 report by John Dieker, a  Bombardier (BDRBF)  vice president.  Hawker considered moving its headquarters to Louisiana
before receiving $40 million in incentives from Kansas, $5
million from local government and contract concessions from
union employees in December 2010, Chief Executive Officer Bill Boisture said in a Jan. 6 interview in Wichita. The company,
which has posted annual losses since 2008, is fighting the U.S.
Air Force over a $355 million contract award to  Brazil ’s  Embraer
SA (EMBR3)  for light attack aircraft.  “If I’ve got the best product and I’ve got a 25 percent
lower price, we don’t have to build the plane somewhere else
except Wichita,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Wichita at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  