-- BP, Anadarko Should Be Held Liable Before Trial, U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-01-19T19:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bp-anadarko-should-be-held-liable-for-gulf-spill-before-trial-u-s-says.html
BP Plc (BP\) , Transocean Ltd. and  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  should be found liable before trial for
violations of federal pollution laws stemming from the April
2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill , lawyers for the U.S. argued today
at a hearing in federal court in New Orleans.  The  Justice Department  is asking U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to find the companies violated the Clean Water Act on
the basis of so-called strict liability because they were
operators of the doomed project. Barbier, who’s overseeing much
of the spill litigation, has scheduled a nonjury trial for Feb.
27 to determine liability and apportion fault for the disaster.  A ruling by Barbier against the companies would mean they
couldn’t fight allegations of Clean Water Act violations at the
trial and would allow the U.S. to seek fines of as much as
$1,100 from each company per barrel of oil spilled. The
government has also asked Barbier to find Anadarko and
Transocean liable under the Oil Pollution Act, a separate
environmental law, for cleanup costs and damages.  BP (BP/)  already
accepted responsibility for those costs.  Made Admissions  “They have admitted they are owners. They have admitted
they discharged oil into the Gulf of Mexico,” Steven O’Rourke,
a Justice Department attorney, told Barbier today. “Each should
be punished according to his own culpability.”  Referring to the Clean Water Act fines, Barbier asked, “So
one could be penalized for $1,100 [per barrel] and another
defendant higher?”  “Yes, sir,” O’Rourke replied.  The judge said he wouldn’t rule today.  “Interesting arguments,” Barbier said. “Interesting
issues. I will take this under advisement.”  Even if Barbier does rule for the U.S. on its bid for a
pretrial decision, the question of gross negligence, which will
determine whether the companies are subject to enhanced fines
under the Clean Water Act, will be considered at trial.  If Barbier denies the U.S. motion, he’ll determine at trial
which companies can be held liable and thus subject to fines.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
The accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its
partners, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
exploded, and Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the well.  Responsible Parties  The U.S. sued BP, Transocean and Anadarko in December 2010,
alleging violations of federal pollution laws. The Clean Water
Act allows the government to seek per-barrel spilled fines of as
much as $1,100 on a finding of strict liability to $4,300 for
gross negligence. The Oil Pollution Act holds responsible
parties liable for damages, cleanup and restoration costs.  Strict liability is a legal term for automatic
responsibility.  The government estimates that 4.1 million barrels were
spilled before the well was capped. BP set aside $3.5 billion
for  Clean Water Act  fines, assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own
estimate of 3.2 million barrels, according to an annual report
extract posted on the company website.  BP, Anadarko and Transocean argued that they should be able
to defend themselves at trial against the federal claims.  Barbier shouldn’t grant the government’s motion on
pollution responsibility before trial, Andrew Langan, a BP
lawyer, said at today’s hearing.  “We think this can ought to be kicked down the road,” he
told Barbier.  Top of Rig  “Anadarko cannot be held liable for penalties under the
Clean Water Act,” David Salmons, a lawyer for the company said.
Anadarko had no control over the operation, he said. Salmons
said the discharge of oil began from the top of the rig.  “I think Transocean will disagree with you,” Barbier
said. “I think they will say it began down in the well.”  “What matters is when it enters the marine environment,”
Salmons said.  Transocean isn’t a responsible party under the Oil
Pollution Act or liable for penalties under the Clean Water Act,
because the discharge was below the water’s surface, Kerry
Miller, the company’s attorney, said.  “The source of this discharge was the Macondo well,”
Miller told Barbier. “That is where it came from.”  “Under the Clean Water Act, the lessee or permittee is
liable,” which means Transocean doesn’t have exposure to that
law’s penalties, he said.  ‘Undisputed Facts’  An owner or operator of a mobile offshore drilling unit can
only be a responsible party under the Oil Pollution Act if the
discharge is on or above the water’s surface, Transocean said in
a Jan. 9 filing.  “The undisputed facts submitted by the  United States  do
not establish any above-surface discharge,” the company said.  The U.S. said in court papers that oil came from the
Deepwater Horizon in addition to the well, making the company
liable for violations of federal pollution laws.  Transocean is liable by law under OPA because it was an
owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon rig, the government
said. The Deepwater Horizon was a vessel for the purposes of OPA
and a responsible party under that law means anyone owning,
operating or chartering a vessel, the U.S. said in a Dec. 8
filing.  The companies “are liable as a matter of law, because
there is no genuine dispute as to the material facts on which
their liability rests,” government lawyers said.  The owner or operator of any vessel is subject to Clean
Water Act penalties, O’Rourke, the government lawyer, said at
the hearing todeay.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  