-- Brazil Futures Yields Decline as Central Bank Signals More Cuts
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-19T14:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/brazil-interest-rate-futures-yields-drop-as-central-bank-signals-more-cuts.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell to a one-month low after the central bank
signaled it would maintain its pace of interest-rate cuts at a
policy meeting yesterday.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 tumbled nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.9 percent at 11:43
a.m. in Sao Paulo. It earlier touched 9.88 percent, the lowest
since Dec. 22. The real rose 0.1 percent to 1.7653 per  U.S.
dollar , from 1.7670 yesterday.  Policy makers cut borrowing costs by 50 basis points for a
fourth straight meeting yesterday, bringing the benchmark rate
to 10.5 percent, to shield the second-largest emerging market
from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The central bank, in a statement
identical to that after the previous meeting, said a “moderate
adjustment” was consistent with reducing inflation to its 4.5
percent target in 2012.  “They are not signaling any kind of significant change in
direction,” said  Alberto Ramos , senior Latin America Economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York . “Basically, they’re
preserving all the flexibility they wanted to. There’s no signal
that they’re close to reducing the pace of rate cuts to less
than 50 basis points.”  Unanimous Decision  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously to cut the benchmark Selic rate by 50 basis points
from 11 percent, as forecast by all 67 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Traders are anticipating policy makers will reduce
the rate to as low as 10 percent by May, according to futures
yields.  “The unchanged wording in the statement shows the central
bank’s preference for the continuity of the current easing pace
of 50 basis points beyond the next meeting,”  Ilan Goldfajn ,
chief economist at Itau Unibanco Holdings SA, wrote in a note to
clients today. A “restrictive external scenario and low growth
in the domestic economy” support Itau’s expectation that the
Selic will fall to 9 percent in 2012, he wrote.  The 0.1 percent gain in the real today compares with a 0.3
percent advance in the Mexican peso and 0.8 percent increase in
the Chilean currency.  The real is underperforming most emerging-market currencies
amid speculation the government may act to weaken the currency,
said Italo Abucater, head of  currency trading  at ICAP Brasil.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is
studying measures to stem gains in the real, which has
outperformed all major currencies since the start of the year, a
government official familiar with internal discussions said
yesterday.  The government may act at anytime to stem the gains, said
the official, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the
issue.  “We’re waiting to see what the government may do,” ICAP’s
Abucater said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “The currency still has
positive flows as a result of overseas borrowing in the first
two weeks of January. There’s an excess of dollars in the  spot
market .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  