-- Bristol, AstraZeneca Diabetes Drug Fails to Win FDA Backing
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bristol-astrazeneca-diabetes-drug-fails-to-win-fda-backing-1-.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  failed to win U.S. clearance to sell the first
in a new class of experimental diabetes pills as regulators
sought more data on the medicine’s safety.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is seeking data from
current studies of the treatment, dapagliflozin, in adults with
 Type 2 diabetes  and may require new clinical trials to better
assess the risks and benefits, the companies said today in a
statement. Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , and London-based
AstraZeneca remain committed to the drug, they said.  The decision reflects the heightened regulatory scrutiny of
diabetes pills since  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia was tied to
heart attacks in 2007 and was later forced off the market in
 Europe  and restricted in the U.S. Advisers to the FDA said in
July dapagliflozin’s benefits don’t outweigh risks of bladder
and breast cancer. The FDA in October delayed a ruling by three
months while asking the companies to submit more trial data.  “While not a major financial contributor for either
company, dapagliflozin’s delay will likely be viewed as a
setback nonetheless,”  Tim Anderson , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in a report to clients today.
He rates both stocks  “market perform.”   Analysts predict dapagliflozin sales of $562.7 million in
2016 for Bristol-Myers and $164.5 million for AstraZeneca,
according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  New Class  AstraZeneca  lost  1.3 percent to close at 3,070 pence in
 London . Bristol-Myers  fell  3 percent to $32.71 in New York.  The drug would be the first in a new class of treatments
called SGLT2-inhibitors that work by letting patients excrete
excess blood sugar in their urine.  Johnson & Johnson ,  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY) , Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, and  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  are
among companies pursuing similar drugs.  The FDA decision adds to the pressure on AstraZeneca to
develop new medicines. The company, the U.K.’s second-biggest
drugmaker, announced on Dec. 20 the end of development of
olaparib for ovarian cancer and said another drug for depressive
disorder failed to meet the main goal of an advanced study.  AstraZeneca needs new products to replace revenue after two
of its biggest-selling drugs, Nexium for ulcers and
antipsychotic medication Seroquel, lose patent protection by
2014. Nexium and Seroquel generated a total of $10.1 billion of
sales last year and accounted for 20 percent of revenue,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Big Hole’  “There’s really not much there in the pipeline that’s
particularly compelling,” said Mark Belsey, an analyst at
WestLB AG in London, by e-mail. “It still feels like there’s a
big hole in terms of new products.” He has a “reduce” rating
on AstraZeneca shares.  While FDA staff members said dapagliflozin is effective in
reducing blood sugar, they focused on safety concerns in a
preliminary  review  of the drug on July 15. The agency had been
scheduled to decide on the drug by Jan. 28.  Nine cases of bladder cancer occurred in male patients who
took dapagliflozin in clinical trials, compared with one case
among people treated with a placebo, FDA staff said in their
report.  Breast cancer  occurred in nine patients who took the new
drug, and one in the control group.  The agency reviewers also cited possible liver risks among
dapagliflozin’s “unexpected safety issues,” and found that the
drug’s effectiveness waned in patients with moderate or severe
kidney impairment.  New Trial  Given cancer risk and liver toxicity, it’s unlikely
AstraZeneca will conduct another costly clinical trial, Belsey
said.  AstraZeneca is evaluating the FDA’s letter, said Esra
Erkal-Paler, a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca, in a telephone
interview today.  “It’s quite likely we will try to meet with the FDA within
the next three months,” she said. Regarding a new clinical
trial, “we need to wait and talk with the FDA to see what the
next appropriate step is that we need to take.”  An estimated 346 million people worldwide have diabetes,
and 90 percent have the Type 2 form, according to the  World
Health Organization . Diabetes occurs when the pancreas doesn’t
produce enough insulin or use it effectively to regulate blood
sugar. Over time the elevated levels of blood sugar can damage
nerves and blood vessels and can increase the risk of  heart
disease , stroke and kidney damage.  Dapagliflozin has been shown in studies to help patients
lose weight and lower  blood pressure . Older diabetes drugs
either reduce blood-sugar levels or increase production of
insulin, a hormone needed to convert sugar into energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  