-- Bristol-Myers Hepatitis C Pills Clear Virus Without Injections
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bristol-myers-hepatitis-c-pills-clear-virus-without-injections.html
Combining two experimental  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  pills cleared the hepatitis C virus in 36
percent of patients not helped by a standard treatment, in a
small study testing a new approach against the liver disease.  The study is the first to suggest that difficult  hepatitis
C  cases may be cured without using the injected drug interferon,
said  Anna Lok , the lead study author and director of hepatology
at the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor. Interferon, a
mainstay of existing treatment, causes unpleasant side effects
including fatigue and flu-like symptoms.  Drug companies including Bristol-Myers,  Merck & Co. ,  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) , and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. are racing to
come up with interferon-free treatment. The new results in 21
patients show that such a therapy will be possible, Lok said.  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, plans to take the drug
into a final stage trial in  Japan , the company said yesterday in
a statement.  Oral treatments with fewer side effects would vastly
increase the number of patients treated, according to an
 editorial  in the New England Journal of Medicine, where the
study was published yesterday.  “We are on the threshold of a treatment revolution that
will greatly improve the effectiveness of HCV therapy,” wrote
Raymond Chung, a gastroenterologist at  Massachusetts General
Hospital  in  Boston . He called it “a watershed moment in the
annals of HCV therapy.”  Study Results  The study compared Bristol-Myers’s two pills in combination
with interferon to the pills alone in 21 hepatitis C patients
who weren’t helped by existing therapy. It found that 4 of 11
patients had undetectable virus 24 weeks after treatment with
Bristol’s experimental oral drugs daclatasvir and asunaprevir.  Adding injectable drugs, however, boosted the response
rate. Results showed that 9 of 10 patients who got the two oral
drugs plus interferon and a fourth drug, ribavirin, for 24 weeks
had no detectable virus 24 weeks after stopping therapy.  “The combination of drugs we picked may not be the best,
and we need to tweak it and find the best combination,” Lok
said in a telephone interview from  Ann Arbor .  Interferon and ribavirin combination treatments clear the
virus from only about half of patients with the most common
strain of hepatitis C in the U.S., according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. The new therapies aim
for an all-oral treatment with fewer side effects, improved
clearance rates and shorter time-frames.  ‘Awful Drug’  Interferon is “really an awful drug. It has awful side
effects and patients hate it,” Lok said. “If you’re a patient
with hepatitis C and you have early stage liver disease and
can’t tolerate interferon, there’s hope for those patients.”  The virus infects the liver and is transmitted through the
blood. The CDC estimates that 3.2 million Americans have
hepatitis C, which can cause liver disease and kills from 8,000
to 10,000 people a year in the U.S.  Bristol-Myers sponsored the clinical trial. Part of the
data was presented at the October 2010 meeting of the  American
Association  for the Study of Liver Diseases in Boston.  It isn’t yet known which combination of pills will produce
optimal results, leading to a flurry of recent deals as
drugmakers bolster their portfolios. Bristol-Myers recently
agreed to spend $2.5 billion to buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX) , which is
developing an oral drug called INX-189 for treating hepatitis C.
Gilead, based in  Foster City , California, and the world’s
largest maker of AIDS drugs, also recently paid $10.8 billion
for Pharmasset Inc.  Inhibitex and Pharmasset have “nukes,” or nucleotide
polymerase inhibitors, which are meant to stop the hepatitis C
virus from replicating. These drugs may be used in an all-oral
combination treatment.  Lok said the proof-of-concept trial would trigger other
studies to find out what oral medications best cleared the virus
from the body.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  