-- Oil Grab in Falkland Islands Seen Tripling U.K. Reserves: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-19T17:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/britain-s-oil-grab-in-falkland-islands-seen-tripling-u-k-reserves-energy.html
Thirty years after  Margaret Thatcher 
fought a 74-day war with Argentina over the Falkland Islands,
the prospect of an oil boom is reviving tensions.  Oil explorers are targeting 8.3 billion barrels in the
waters around the islands this year, three times the U.K.’s
reserves.  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  will drill the
Stebbing prospect next month, one of three Falkland wells that
Morgan Stanley ranks among the world’s top 15 offshore prospects
this year. Meanwhile,  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  is seeking $2
billion from a larger  oil company  to develop the Sea Lion field,
the islands’ first economically viable oil find.  “The area is underexplored and highly prospective,” said
New York-based Morgan Stanley analyst Evan Calio. “These could
be like the high-impact wells in Ghana and  Brazil  a few years
ago that opened up a whole host of basins.”  A major drilling success will further raise the political
temperature as Argentina maintains its claim over the U.K’s
South Atlantic territory, 300 miles (483 kilometers) from the
Latin American coast. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
said Britain is taking her country’s resources, while Thatcher’s
successor David Cameron yesterday accused  Argentina  of a
“colonialist” attitude that didn’t account for islanders’
rights.  Cameron has approved contingency plans to bolster U.K.
troops on the islands, and  Prince William , a search and rescue
pilot and the second in line to the British throne, may spend
six weeks there this year, the Times reported today in London.  Not Negotiable  “We want to have a full and productive relationship with
Argentina,” said Foreign Office spokeswoman Sophie Benger in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Whilst the sovereignty of the
Falklands is not up for negotiation, there is still much we can
do together.”  The world’s largest  oil companies  like Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc face a dilemma: whether the potential
of a virgin basin outweighs the risk of a worsening
international dispute. While producers with interests in
Argentina, such as BP Plc, may be put off, others will want to
participate, said Tim Bushell, chief executive officer of
 Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) , who’s looking for drilling partners.  “Big oil companies are used to dealing with political
risks, and bigger ones than some saber rattling by Argentina,”
Bushell said in a telephone interview, declining to name the
companies he’s talking to. “For every BP, there are other major
companies that don’t have an interest in Argentina.”  Shares Rise  Falkland Oil & Gas rose 5.8 percent in London to 50 pence
as of the close. Rockhopper climbed 3.4 percent to 327.25 pence.  The Falkland Island government, which manages the
territory’s mineral rights for the 2,955 islanders, says the big
producers are interested and talking to the companies already
active in the region. Of the five U.K.-based explorers that have
drilled or plan wells, the largest, Rockhopper, has a  market
value  of 899 million pounds ($1.4 billion).  “The Falklands is at a stage where a big company can take
a large share in what could be a big oil province,” said
Stephen Luxton, the Falkland Islands’ director of  mineral
resources . “There is an active program of marketing by the
companies here. There are discussions going on, though we can’t
name names.”  Falkland Oil & Gas  plans to drill the Loligo prospect later
this year, a well targeting 4.7 billion barrels of oil. Named
after a Patagonian squid, it’s the second-most prospective well
planned worldwide this year after one in  Namibia , according to
Morgan Stanley. The company’s Darwin prospect will follow and
ranks sixth on the U.S. bank’s list.  Darwin, Stebbing  Borders & Southern will start drilling the Darwin prospect
by the end of January, which seismic surveys suggest may hold as
much as 760 million barrels of oil and 3 trillion cubic feet of
gas. Stebbing, the target of the company’s second well, may hold
as much as 1.2 billion barrels.  Together, the four wells planned for the Falklands this
year are searching for about 8.3 billion barrels of oil. The
Jubilee field, which was discovered in 2007, propelled  Ghana 
into one of the world’s top 50 oil states. Brazil’s Lula field,
drilled in 2006, holds an estimated 6.5 billion barrels of oil
equivalent.  “There could be significant volumes down there and it
would open up a new hydrocarbon province,” Borders & Southern
CEO Howard Obee said in an interview. If the first two wells are
successful, “we’d like to do a big drilling program, not only
to appraise what we’d find but also drill up additional
prospects. To do that, we’d need quite a bit of money.”  Selling Stakes  While the company will probably be able to sell more shares
to determine the size of a discovery in this campaign, it may
have to sell stakes in prospects to develop them, said Tracy Mackenzie, an analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin in Edinburgh.
Borders & Southern holds a 100 percent interest in its fields.  Rockhopper says its Sea Lion discovery, made in 2010 and
which may have more than 400 million barrels of recoverable oil,
is commercial and will be developed. Chairman Pierre Jungels
said last month that the company is showing drilling data to
potential partners. The company this month ended a 10-well
campaign that lasted two years. It has $100 million in cash
after raising 46.5 million pounds ($72 million) in a share
placing in October.  That’s just a fraction of the $2 billion the company
reckons it will need to get the oil to market. Developers will
have to build a floating production and storage unit to load the
crude onto tankers. Cairn Energy Plc, Premier Oil Plc and Noble
Corp. may be interested in investing, Bank of America Corp.
analyst Alejandro Demichelis wrote in a Jan. 16 note.  Colorful Penguins  Spokesmen for BP, Shell, Premier and Cairn declined to
comment on whether they’re interested in investing in the
Falklands. Exxon and  Noble Energy  didn’t respond to e-mailed
requests for comment.  All the supplies will probably have to come from  Europe ,
about 8,000 miles away. The Falklands consist of two large
islands and more than 700 smaller ones, home to the colorful
penguins that give Rockhopper its name.  Argentina maintains that its sovereignty over the islands
was interrupted in 1833, when British forces occupied the
Malvinas Islands, expelling the Argentine population, an act to
which the people and government of Argentina never consented.
Thatcher sent a  task force  to retake the islands after
Argentina’s military dictatorship invaded the territory on April
2, 1982.  Risk of Failure  Earlier drilling campaigns show the risk of failure in
unproven oil provinces. Shell drilled on the northern side of
the islands in the 1990s and found traces of oil before
abandoning the prospect in 1998 as crude prices fell to around
$10 a barrel. Interest in the region revived as  oil prices  rose
higher than $100 a barrel, though Shell had disposed of its
acreage.  Desire Petroleum Plc (DES) , which has licenses adjacent to
Rockhopper’s, drilled six dry wells in a failed campaign that
ended in April.  Argos Resources Ltd. (ARG) , which also holds licenses
in the region, decided not to use a rig after Rockhopper because
it couldn’t raise enough money.  The global financial crisis has made it harder for oil
explorers to borrow from banks and kept a lid on the amount
companies can raise on the market. The oil and gas index of
London’s Alternative Investment Market, where all five Falkland
explorers are listed, fell 35 percent last year.  That leaves larger companies as the most likely sponsors in
the region, and the government said some of them are already
involved in talks.  “The majors are always going to be interested when a new
basin comes on the map,” Morgan Stanley’s Calio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  