-- Buick Gets Attitude as $35,000 Regal GS Shakes Plodding Image
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/buick-gets-attitude-as-35-000-regal-gs-shakes-plodding-image.html
I grabbed the keys and told my wife
I had an errand to run. We needed eggs.  Actually, we didn’t. There were two dozen in the
refrigerator. What I really needed was an excuse to drive over
rolling hills on a squiggling, wiggling road I’ve been dreaming
of for days.  This is not unusual behavior for me. What was odd was that
the keys were for a $35,310 front-wheel-drive Buick, the Regal
GS, and I was eager to squeeze in another test ride.  General Motors Co. (GM)  is aggressively pushing the Buick brand
in the States. (It does very well in  China .) The entire line has
soft corners, friendly front grills and swell interiors.
Tastefully bland, inoffensively handsome. Former greeting-card
writers must come up with names like the Enclave and Encore.  I get where Buick is going -- solid autos with mid-level
luxury accoutrements -- but they don’t fill any holes in my
heart.  Not that I haven’t tried, spending hours in the LaCrosse
and Regal sedans. Great for somebody, surely, but there’s just
no spark.  The midsize Regal, reintroduced as a 2011 model, is based
on the European Opel Insignia. The base Regal starts at around
$28,000 with a 2.4-liter, direct-injected four-cylinder with 182
horsepower, and 31 miles per gallon on the highway with regular
gas.  Dividing Line  The GS model stands for Gran Sport, the type of auto
appellation that generally overpromises and under-delivers. In
the Regal’s case it turns out to be the dividing line between
nice and quite interesting. The GS has spark, and if it’s less
than perfect, its quirks make the whole shine.  It gets a turbocharged, 2.0-liter, four-cylinder with 270
horsepower and 295 pound-feet of torque. In terms of luxury
sports sedans, that’s modest, with 60 mph arriving in a please-
be-patient 6.7 seconds. The front wheels, rather than the rear
rubber, are driven, which will also give enthusiasts pause. All-
wheel-drive is not offered.  A Cadillac CTS-V sports sedan it is not. Yet the standard
transmission is a six-speed manual, and the front wheels have
larger disc brakes and Brembo calipers. It also gets a special
front suspension designed to minimize the understeer
characteristic of front-wheel-drives.  Sparkling Rims  The GS is dressed in a sharper body kit, too, with an
integrated rear spoiler, mean twin tailpipes and more aggressive
vents on the front face. My test car, which came to $38,155, had
optional 20-inch alloy rims so bright they sparkled. The five
radiating spokes, which each fork into two, are like a stylized
snowflake. They wouldn’t look out of place on an $80,000  Audi. (NSU)   My new favorite road carousels up a narrow valley, and on
my way for those imaginary eggs I sprinted along an S-shaped
road. The turbo comes on early and stays strong, making the GS
seem faster than its 0-to-60 numbers indicate. There were no
spikes or dips in power.  The GS pivoted nicely through a series of undulating turns.
It was eager to turn in, with light brake pressure helping the
car pivot. The reworked suspension is wonderfully sorted,
especially if you don’t overcook corners. Too fast and the car
will plow wide until you come off the gas again and let it
settle. Standard procedure for a front-wheel-drive.  The engine produces a hefty amount of torque for a front-
wheel-drive, but the GS is solid from a hard, standing start, as
I’m reminded by the only stop sign for miles. Oops, I missed the
turnoff to the grocery store. Bygones.  Snow Tires  Since it was winter, my car had snow tires rather than the
optional summer performance rubber. Snow tires are louder and
less supple than regular all-weathers, but didn’t affect
performance except under hard braking, when the front wheels
would warble as the nose dived.  Mostly, though, the GS was fun to drive. The cars pulls
rather than pushes you, and some maneuvers are awkward. But it
keeps you mindful and engaged, paying attention to corner speed
and manually shifting gears.  The GS didn’t overmatch the road, unlike the latest  Porsche
911  or a Nissan GT-R, which slice up double lanes all too
easily. The GS is a more even match between asphalt and machine.
Inside, the seats were black leather with contrasting stitching,
and a black piano finish on the dash broke up the standard GM
plastic.  Messy Buttons  The major failure was the center console and optional
navigation system; such a mess of random buttons.  It has a seven-inch touch screen. That should be the end of
the story. Instead Buick has redundant manual controls
underneath. You’ll find, in no particular order, buttons for
home, source, engine start, RPT navigation, destination,
favorites, configuration, tone, info, traction control.  Quick, you want to change the sport setting? Good luck with
that.  Nonetheless, the Regal GS has spark. Stop by if you want to
see for yourself. We’ve got plenty of eggs.  The 2012 Buick Regal GS at a Glance  Engine: 2.0-liter, turbocharged four-cylinder with 270  horsepower and 295 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 19 city, 27 highway.  Price as tested: $38,155.  Best features: Manual is standard, engaging.  Worst features: Still a front-wheel-drive; the center  console controls.  Target buyer: The driver who wants an American car with a  bit of speed and a dash of luxury.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 