-- Bundesbank Expects to Finalize Lehman Asset Sales by End of 2012
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-19T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/bundesbank-expects-to-finalize-lehman-asset-sales-by-end-of-2012.html
Germany ’s Bundesbank said it aims to
complete the sale of assets inherited after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. by the end of this year.  Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG, the German arm of the defunct
U.S. bank, borrowed 8.5 billion euros ($11 billion) from the
 European Central Bank  through the Bundesbank in 2008. As
collateral, Lehman deposited 33 securities with the Eurosystem,
which comprises the ECB and the national central banks of euro-
area member states, 32 of which were asset-backed structures,
Bundesbank board member Joachim Nagel said in  Frankfurt  today.  The Bundesbank is “very satisfied” with the sales process
and hopes to finalize it “by the end of the year,” Nagel said.
“We will achieve a good result for the Eurosystem. I can say
that we will come relatively close to the 8.5 billion euros.
It’s not possible to exclude a loss in the end though.”  The Bundesbank has sold 28 assets so far and is in the
process of seeking investors for the remaining five, among them
Excalibur Funding No. 1, a Lehman-created vehicle containing
packaged property loans, Nagel said. Excalibur had a nominal
value of 2.16 billion euros in 2008.  The Bundesbank expects to complete the Excalibur sale by
the beginning of February, Nagel said. After receiving interest
and redemption payments, Excalibur had a nominal value of 1.3
billion euros at the end of 2011, he said.  The Financial Times reported today that the Bundesbank is
close to selling half the 1.8 billion-euro Excalibur portfolio
to private equity group  Lone Star , and the two parties are in
the process of negotiating the sale of remaining loans.  The Bundesbank can’t comment on the report because the
transaction hasn’t been completed, Nagel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  