-- Canada’s Dollar Fluctuates as Crude Oil Futures Depreciate
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-19T22:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/canada-s-dollar-strengthens-versus-greenback-for-4th-day-as-stocks-rally.html
Canada ’s dollar was little changed
against its U.S. counterpart as a decline in crude oil countered
a rally in equities.  The currency traded within one cent of parity with the
greenback earlier on demand for higher-yielding assets, as
stocks made the best start to the year in a quarter century. The
Canadian dollar dropped against the euro on speculation it
eight-week advance against the 17-nation currency may be
overdone.  “We’re seeing a lot of euro-Canada dollar going through,”
Philippe Denolf, a currency trader in Montreal at  Laurentian
Bank  of Canada, wrote in an e-mail. There’s “profit-taking from
many types of accounts.”  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie, was little
changed at C$1.0108 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after
touching C$1.0071, the most since Dec. 8. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.93 U.S. cents. It fell 0.8 percent to C$1.3109 versus
the euro.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  added 0.5 percent and the
MSCI World Index of equities in developed nations advanced 0.9
percent. Futures for crude oil, the nation’s largest export,
fell 0.5 percent to $100.61 a barrel in  New York .  Investors should buy the Canadian dollar versus the yen as
the loonie “bears down on parity” with the greenback,
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mail today.  Yen Trade  Galy predicted the Canadian dollar will strengthen to 82
yen by the end of the first quarter. He recommends exiting the
trade if the loonie weakens to 72 yen. The currency rose for a
fourth day to 76.27 yen today. It was as low as 72.16 yen in
October, the weakest level since February 2009.  Government securities  declined today, with the benchmark
10-year  yield  rising five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 2.01 percent. It ended 2011 at 1.94 percent, after
touching 1.837 percent on Dec. 16, the lowest in Bloomberg
records dating to June 1989.  Canadian  government bonds  have lost 0.3 percent this month,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  U.S. stocks are off to the best start in 25 years as
investors speculate Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
done enough to insulate the economy from Europe’s debt crisis.
The  S&P 500  gained 4 percent through Jan. 18, the most since it
rose 10 percent over the first 11 days in 1987, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Lower Still’  “The near-term U.S. dollar-Canada dollar trend appears to
be lower still,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, wrote in an e-mail
message. “As investors rebuild risk positions, the  U.S. dollar 
is likely to slip back.”  Osborne said he’s sticking with his forecast for the
Canadian dollar to weaken to C$1.09 by the end of the first
quarter.  “It is still a crisis and given what we expect to come
down the pike -- more credit problems, a deep recession and more
aggressive European Central Bank easing -- we still think the
underlying euro trend is lower,” Osborne said.  The loonie gained 1.1 percent during the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The U.S. dollar is down
0.9 percent, and the euro fell 1.9 percent.  Ontario will probably sell debt outside Canada to complete
a C$35 billion ($34.6 billion) borrowing program before the end
of its fiscal year in March, according to the head of the
province’s financing arm.  ‘Market Conditions’  Ontario, Canada’s largest province, has sold C$29 billion
this fiscal year, about 80 percent of which has been in Canadian
dollars. That share will “probably” fall to 75 percent as the
province raises about C$6 billion that remains, said Gadi Mayman, chief executive officer of the Ontario Financing
Authority in Toronto.  “There’s a likelihood that we will do something
internationally, that we won’t do it all domestically,” Mayman
said yesterday in an interview. “It will really depend on
market conditions. If opportunities arise internationally, we’re
certainly open to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in  Montreal  at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  