-- Canadian Banks Seek Fund Exclusion Under U.S. Volcker Rule
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-01-19T23:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/canadian-banks-seek-fund-exclusion-under-u-s-volcker-rule.html
Canada ’s five main banks are seeking
exclusions from the so-called Volcker rules in the U.S. for
investment funds sold by the Canadian lenders to clients living
temporarily in the U.S.  “The agencies should adopt an exclusion for Canadian
Public Funds from the proposed definition of ‘covered fund’,”
the lenders said in a statement sent today to agencies including
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Canadian banks sponsor and manage about C$321 billion
($317.3 billion) of the C$773.7 billion Canadian public fund
industry, the lenders said. The banks that wrote the letter are
Bank of Montreal,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Toronto-Dominion Bank.  The proposed rule named for former Fed Chairman  Paul
Volcker , who championed the idea as an adviser to President
Barack Obama, would ban banks from proprietary trading while
allowing them to continue short-term trades for market-making or
hedging. It would also limit investments in private-equity and
hedge funds.  The Canadian lenders say they need an exemption from the
rules as they relate to funds because they sell investment
products to clients who spend part of the year in the U.S., such
as retired “snowbirds” who flee the Canadian winters.  “If Canadian Public Funds are not excluded from the
definition of “covered fund” as requested above, and if these
conditions of the foreign fund exemption are not changed,
Canadian Banks would effectively be precluded from continuing to
sponsor or invest in Canadian Public Funds because they would be
unable to meet the conditions of the foreign fund exemption,”
the banks wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 