-- Canada November Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-19T13:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/canada-november-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's manufacturing shipments report for November
released by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales rose 2.0% in November to $49.6
billion, the fourth increase in five months. The gains
reflected higher sales in the machinery, petroleum and
coal product, and motor vehicle industries.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales rose 1.7%, also the
fourth increase in five months.  Higher sales were reported in 14 of 21 industries,
representing approximately 80% of Canadian manufacturing.
Both durable (+2.4%) and non-durable goods manufacturers
(+1.5%) reported gains.  Manufacturing sales rise  Machinery industry reports largest increase  The machinery industry reached its highest sales level
ever in November, with sales rising 13.4% to $3.4 billion.
The growth was mostly concentrated in the mining and oil
and gas field machinery manufacturing industry, where a
number of companies completed large projects for delivery
to both domestic and international customers.  Sales in the petroleum and coal product industry
advanced 3.9% to $7.6 billion, the fourth increase in five
months. The gains partly reflect higher production
following maintenance and retooling work over the summer
and fall 2011.  Motor vehicle  sales rose in November with manufacturers
reporting a 7.1% increase to $4.1 billion. Sales have
advanced 24.9% since a low-point reached in June 2011.
These gains reflect a partial resolution of the supply
chain problems during the summer and fall 2011.  The overall sales increases were somewhat offset by
declines in the computer and electronic product industry,
down 11.0% to $1.2 billion.  Manufacturing sales advance in most provinces  Manufacturing sales rose in nine provinces in November,
with Ontario,  Alberta  and Newfoundland and Labrador
posting the largest provincial increases in dollar terms.  In Ontario, manufacturers reported a 2.0% increase in
sales to $22.5 billion. The motor vehicle, aerospace
product and parts, and machinery industries were the main
contributors to the gain.  Manufacturers in Alberta reported a 5.9% rise in sales
to $6.4 billion, the largest percentage increase since May
2008. Gains in November were focused in the machinery, and
petroleum and coal product industries.  Sales rose 20.8% to $640 million in Newfoundland and
Labrador, reflecting substantial gains in the non-durable
goods industries. Manufacturing sales in Newfoundland and
Labrador were the highest since July 2008.  New Brunswick  (-4.0%) was the only province with a
decline in sales.  Inventory levels rise again  Inventory levels rose 0.4% in November to $65.1
billion. This is the 14th consecutive month of inventory
growth in Canada.  Inventories were up in 8 of 21 industries, with non-
durable goods posting a 0.8% increase and durable goods
manufacturers reporting a 0.1% rise.  The largest inventory gain was in the computer and
electronic product industry, where a 5.9% increase stemmed
largely from a rise in raw materials.  Food inventories advanced 2.6%, also largely a result
of increases in the inventories of raw materials.  Inventories continue to grow  The inventory-to-sales ratio declined to 1.31 in
November from 1.33 in October. The inventory-to-sales
ratio measures the time, in months, that would be required
to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain at their
current level.  The inventory-to-sales ratio declines  Unfilled orders increase  Unfilled orders increased 1.2% in November to $62.2
billion, the 10th increase in 11 months. The gain in
unfilled orders was led by the aerospace product and parts
industry, where the backlog of orders rose 4.0% to $29.7
billion.  Unfilled orders were also up in the primary metal
(+13.3%) and fabricated metal product industries (+2.0%).  Unfilled orders increase  New orders increase  New orders increased 3.6% in November after declining
3.9% in October. The gain largely reflected a rise in the
aerospace product and parts industry.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  A research paper, Analysis in Brief: "An Overview of
the Lumber Industry in Canada, 2004 to 2010" (11-621-
M2011089, free), profiling the Canadian softwood lumber
industry is now available. The paper reviews the state of
the industry over the past six years and examines key
economic variables such as sales, exports and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  