-- Obama’s Keystone Denial Prompts Canada to Look to China Sales
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   J e r e m y   V a n   L o o n
-- 2012-01-19T19:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/canada-pledges-to-sell-oil-to-asia-after-obama-rejects-keystone-pipeline.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision
yesterday to reject a permit for TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL
oil pipeline may prompt Canada to turn to  China  for oil exports.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , in a telephone call
yesterday, told Obama “Canada will continue to work to
diversify its energy exports,” according to details provided by
Harper’s office. Canadian Natural Resource Minister Joe Oliver
said relying less on the U.S. would help strengthen the
country’s “financial security.”  The “decision by the Obama administration underlines the
importance of diversifying and expanding our markets, including
the growing Asian market,” Oliver told reporters in Ottawa.  Currently, 99 percent of Canada’s crude exports go to the
U.S., a figure that Harper wants to reduce in his bid to make
Canada a “superpower” in global energy markets.  Canada accounts for more than 90 percent of all proven
reserves outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, according to data compiled in the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy. Most of Canada’s crude is produced from
 oil-sands  deposits in the landlocked province of Alberta, where
output is expected to double over the next eight years,
according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  “I am sure that if the oil sands production is not used in
the  United States , they will be used in other countries,”  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the  International Energy Agency , said
in an interview before a speech at Imperial College in  London 
today.  ‘Profound Disappointment’  Harper “expressed his profound disappointment with the
news,” according to the statement, which added that Obama told
Harper the rejection was not based on the project’s merit and
that the company is free to re-apply.  Canada this month began hearings on a proposed pipeline by
Enbridge Inc. to move crude from  Alberta ’s oil sands to British
Columbia’s coast, where it could be shipped to Asian markets.  Environmentalists and Canadian opposition lawmakers
welcomed the Obama administration’s decision. Megan Leslie, a
lawmaker for the opposition  New Democratic Party , said the
Keystone pipeline project was harmful to Canada’s  energy
security .  “What I’m opposed to is continuing the unchecked expansion
of the oil sands,” Leslie said by telephone.  New Flashpoint  Enbridge’s pipeline may now become the new flashpoint
between Harper and the opposition. Harper has said building the
capacity to sell the country’s oil to Asian markets is in the
national interest, and the government will review regulatory-
approval rules for new energy projects so they can be done more
quickly. Harper has also said he will look more closely into
complaints that “foreign money” is being used to overload the
regulatory process.  “We have to have processes in  Canada  that come to a
decision in a reasonable amount of time, and processes that
cannot be hijacked,” Harper said at a press conference Jan. 6
in  Edmonton .  The Keystone decision is the latest of several U.S. moves
that have irked Canadian policy makers. Canada objected to “Buy
American” provisions in the Obama administration’s $447 billion
jobs bill that was blocked by Republicans in Congress, as well
as the restoration of a $5.50 fee on Canadian travelers arriving
in the U.S. by plane or ship.  Approval of Keystone is a “no-brainer,” Harper said in a
Sept. 21 interview with Bloomberg.  Cornerstone of Development  Yesterday’s rejection “certainly introduces new
uncertainties into the economic relationship,” said David Pumphrey, deputy director of the energy and national security
program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
 Washington . “This is a cornerstone of economic development for
the country.”  The denial came before a Feb. 21 deadline set by Congress
after Obama postponed a decision in November. TransCanada said
the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer)  project  would carry 700,000
barrels of crude a day from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on
the U.S. Gulf coast, crossing six U.S. states and creating
20,000 jobs.  “I’m disappointed that Republicans in Congress forced this
decision, but it does not change my administration’s commitment
to American-made energy,” Obama said today in a statement. “We
will continue to look for new ways to partner with the oil and
gas industry to increase our energy security.”  Canadian policy makers said they remain optimistic
TransCanada will eventually be able to proceed.  Still Supporting  Alberta Premier Alison Redford said in a press conference
in Edmonton that it is still “entirely possible” the pipeline
will be built and said it was good news that TransCanada planned
to apply again.  Canada will continue to support  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s plans
to build the Keystone XL pipeline, Canadian Foreign Minister
 John Baird  said, adding that it is in the best interests of both
Canada and the United States.  “We strongly believe that Keystone’s in the best interests
of both countries,” he said. “We’ll continue to be an active
supporter of the project.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  