-- Carnival Halts Some Cruise Marketing, Plans Safety Review After Capsizing
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-20T10:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/carnival-suspends-some-cruise-marketing-on-tv-online-following-disaster.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , owner of the Costa
Concordia cruise ship that ran aground last week, halted
advertising for its Carnival Cruise Lines and announced a review
of safety procedures in the aftermath of the accident.  Carnival suspended broadcast, digital and direct-mail
marketing for its namesake line “for the time being,” Vance
Gulliksen, a spokesman for the Miami-based company, said
yesterday in an e-mail. Eleven people are confirmed dead in the
Jan. 13 accident off the coast of Italy, with about 20 still
missing. Carnival’s unit Costa Crociere SpA yesterday suspended
the ship’s captain, Francesco Schettino, who was placed under
house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the shipwreck.  The world’s largest cruise operator waited almost a week to
suspend advertising after the Concordia, carrying 4,200
passengers and crew, ran aground off  Italy . Airlines and  oil
companies  typically pull television ads following accidents with
fatalities. The wreck occurred at the start of the cruise
industry’s peak booking season.  “We’re not in a position to speak to individual brands’
plans, but they are each actively evaluating their marketing and
advertising efforts,” Gulliksen said. The company is evaluating
marketing across brands and regions, “with each brand being
sensitive to their specific audiences.”  Internal Review  Rescue operations are currently suspended, Mario
Pellegrini, the deputy mayor of Giglio said today. Italy’s Civil
Protection Agency yesterday issued a weather warning for
possible storms on the western coast of Italy, including Giglio,
because of strong wind. Strong winds are currently affecting the
other side of the island, Pellegrini said.  There’s a “high risk” that the 290-meter (951 feet) long
ship, which is lying in an unsteady position, will slip off an
underwater ledge and sink into a 70-meter-deep trough,
threatening to rupture fuel tanks, Environment Minister Corrado Clini said yesterday in Parliament in  Rome .  Carnival cruises depart mostly from the U.S., the Bahamas
and the Caribbean, according to the line’s website. Its Costa
Crociere SpA, the Genoa-based owner of the Costa Concordia,
operates mostly in southern  Europe . The company also owns the
Princess, Seabourn, Holland America, Cunard and P&O for a total
of 10 lines.  Carnival had been increasing television commercials for its
cruise lines, according to data from Nielsen, which tracks U.S.
TV audiences and advertising. Last year, Carnival ran 10,213 TV
ads, a 12 percent increase from 2010.  The company said Captain James Hunn, a retired U.S. Navy
captain and its senior vice president of maritime policy and
compliance, will lead the safety review. Hunn has held senior
positions at Carnival for almost a decade, focusing on
corporate-wide efforts to establish maritime policy standards
and overseeing health, environmental, safety, and security
practices. The company also plans to bring in outside experts.  “This tragedy has called into question our company’s
safety and emergency response policies and procedures, Micky Arison, Carnival’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in
the statement. He said the goal was to “make sure this kind of
accident doesn’t happen again.”  Moldovan Passenger  Italian prosecutors leading the investigation of the
accident may seek to interview Domnica Cemortan, a 25-year-old
Moldovan who has appeared in photographs during the cruise
published by Italian newspapers, Corriere Della Sera reported.  Cemortan told Corriere in an interview published today that
she bought a ticket so she could travel on the ship and spend
time with friends on the crew. She said the captain stopped
briefly, “at least a half an hour” before the accident, at the
table where she was dining with former colleagues. “I’m not
Captain Schettino’s lover,” she told  Corriere,  after hearing
from friends in Italy who told her newspapers were reporting
that she was involved romantically with him.  Costa Crociere said in a statement yesterday that Cemortan
was a registered passenger on the ship. She told Romanian
newspaper Adevarul that she had worked as a crew member on the
ship and went to the bridge to help translate emergency messages
into Russian for passengers as the Concordia was running
aground. When she escaped the ship at 11:50 p.m., an hour after
the evacuation was ordered, the captain was still on the bridge,
she said.  ‘Leaderless’ Rescue  Pellegrini, the deputy mayor of Giglio, told Bloomberg News
the crew lacked a leader during rescue efforts near the island.  Carnival gained 4.5 percent to $31.91 yesterday in  New
York . The stock has  declined  6.9 percent from the $34.28 close
on the day of the accident.  The government plans to declare a state of emergency for
the area at a Cabinet meeting today, as well as approve a
measure that would restrict cruise ships from access to
sensitive coastal regions.  Marine Sanctuary  Costa, Carnival’s Italian unit, has hired Smit Salvage, a
unit of Royal Boskalis Westminster NV, to remove 500,000 gallons
of fuel from the crippled cruise liner. The company will need
two to four weeks to take the fuel off the ship, executives said
on a conference call Jan. 17.  The ship is lying on its side off Giglio, an island of
1,500 inhabitants in winter who survive on fishing and tourism,
located about 14 miles from the Tuscan coast. Giglio lies within
the Santuario dei Cetacei, an area of roughly 87,500 square
kilometers that in 1999 was declared by the governments of
France, Italy and  Monaco  as a sanctuary for marine mammals such
as dolphins and whales.  Carnival has insurance for damage to the vessel, with a
deductible of about $30 million as well as insurance for third-
party personal injury liability subject to an additional
deductible of about $10 million for this incident, according to
a Jan. 16 statement. The company self-insures for loss of use of
the vessel.  Lost Bookings  For the year ending Nov. 30, the loss of the ship will cut
earnings by about $85 million to $95 million, or 11 cents to 12
cents a share, Carnival has said.  The company anticipates other
costs that aren’t possible to determine at this time.  Cruise bookings haven’t dropped notably since the Concordia
capsized off the coast of Italy, an industry executive said,
while calling for a review of safety procedures.  There has been no significant reduction in activity so far
since the Jan. 13 grounding, Christine Duffy, president and
chief executive officer of the Cruise Lines International
Association, said at a briefing in  London  yesterday.  Duffy said large  cruise ships  are safe and called for a
review of regulations by the  International Maritime Organization 
following the investigation into the Concordia incident.
Carnival also said yesterday it supports an industry-sponsored
review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  