-- Carrefour Sees Profit at Low End of Reduced Forecast Range
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-19T17:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/carrefour-keeps-profit-forecast-as-fourth-quarter-revenue-trails-estimates.html
Carrefour SA, (CA)  the world’s second-
largest retailer, said 2011 profit was at the lower end of its
reduced forecast range after fourth-quarter sales declined.  Full-year current operating income fell closer to 20
percent than 15 percent, Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
Carrefour said today in a statement. Quarterly revenue fell 1
percent to 24.2 billion euros ($31.3 billion), compared with the
24.4 billion-euro  average  estimate of five analysts.  Sales were affected by lower discretionary spending,
particularly in Spain, Italy and  Greece , Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Jean Sivignon said today on a call with analysts. Sales
also slid in  France , Carrefour’s largest market, where it’s
cutting prices and overhauling its biggest stores, as well as in
Asia, leaving  Latin America  as the retailer’s sole bright spot
in the quarter.  “The Carrefour business model is inherently flawed given
its overdependence on a dated format and slow-growth markets,”
said Natalie Berg, global research director at  Planet Retail  in
 London . “Rather than directing capital towards indulgent
remodels, money would be more wisely spent ramping up
multichannel functions such as click and collect, in-store
kiosks and e-commerce.”  Shares Fall  Carrefour fell 1.1 percent to 17.27 euros in Paris. The
 stock  is down 39 percent in the past year.  Fourth-quarter sales at stores open a year or more fell 1.9
percent, excluding currency moves and gasoline, Carrefour said.
Macroeconomic conditions are likely to remain “challenging amid
an uncertain environment,” Sivignon said.  The retailer converted 31 hypermarkets to its new format in
the quarter, taking to 81 the number of Carrefour Planet stores
in 2011. The rollout for 2012 will be “pragmatically reviewed
country by country,” Carrefour said.  Carrefour plans “very few” hypermarket conversions in the
first quarter and capital expenditure may be less this year than
last, Sivignon said.  Hypermarket Slump  Fourth-quarter  sales  at Carrefour stores open at least a
year fell 2.8 percent in France and decreased 4.8 percent in the
rest of  Europe , excluding gasoline, the company said. French
hypermarket sales on that basis fell 4.7 percent. Like-for-like
food sales at French hypermarkets declined 3.6 percent, while
non-food sales decreased 7.2 percent.  Carrefour attributed the drop in fourth-quarter hypermarket
sales to weaker discretionary spending and the initial effects
of lower prices and more targeted promotions. The retailer said
it will accelerate the introduction of its “click and collect
drive format” at hypermarkets and supermarkets.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest retailer, said last week it
would open fewer very large stores as consumers prefer online
shopping. Tesco dropped 16 percent on Jan. 12 after it reined in
profit expectations after Christmas sales fell 2.3 percent. Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. is the world’s largest retailer.  Carrefour’s same-store supermarket sales decreased 0.8
percent, excluding gasoline, while  convenience stores  and other
activities rose 3.3 percent on the same basis. About a third of
the convenience network was under the Carrefour banner at the
end of December, the company said.  In Latin America, where a proposal to merge Carrefour’s
Brazilian unit with Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar collapsed in July, same-store sales rose 5.6 percent,
excluding gasoline. Like-for-like sales in  Asia  declined 3.4
percent as mild weather and regulations restricting markdowns
led to a slump in non-food sales, Carrefour said.  Group sales for the year totaled 91.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  