-- McConnell Urges Senate to Shelve Hollywood-Backed Piracy Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-19T23:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/mcconnell-urges-senate-to-shelve-hollywood-backed-piracy-bill.html
The U.S. Senate’s top Republican
urged the chamber’s Democratic leaders to shelve a Hollywood-
backed anti-piracy bill a day after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia
led global online protests against the measure.  “Rather than prematurely bringing the Protect IP Act to
the Senate floor, we should first study and resolve the serious
issues with this legislation,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said in a statement today. The bill faces
a procedural vote on Jan. 24.  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of  Nevada , said he had no immediate comment in
response to McConnell’s statement. Earlier today, Jentleson had
said next week’s vote would proceed as planned.  The movie and music industries and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business-lobbying group, are
backing legislation in the Senate and House as a way to fight
sales of pirated content by non-U.S. websites. Internet
companies say the measures would promote online censorship,
disrupt the Web’s architecture and harm their ability to
innovate.  An Internet protest yesterday led by Google Inc., Wikipedia
and other websites has threatened to unravel bipartisan support
for the anti-piracy legislation, with eight Senate co-sponsors,
including seven Republicans, withdrawing their support or
expressing reservations about the bill.  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, said this week he expects his
panel will resume consideration of the House version of the
Hollywood-backed bill, the Stop Online Piracy Act, in February.  “I am committed to continuing to work with my colleagues
in the House and Senate to send a bipartisan bill to the White
House that saves American jobs and protects intellectual
property,” Smith, who introduced the House bill, said in a Jan.
17 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  