-- Cell C Names Former Vodacom Boss Knott-Craig as Chief Executive From April
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-01-19T12:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/cell-c-appoints-alan-knott-craig-as-chief-executive-from-april-1.html
Cell C (Pty) Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
third-largest mobile-phone operator, appointed Alan Knott-Craig
as chief executive officer, marking the former  Vodacom Group
Ltd. (VOD)  chief’s return to telecommunications.  Knott-Craig, 59, was the founding CEO of Vodacom, the
biggest provider of mobile-phone services to  South Africans . He
left the job in 2008 after a 15-year tenure at the top of the
nation’s first mobile-phone company, now 65 percent-owned by
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  Knott-Craig will start his new job in April.  “Cell C is operating well below potential,” Knott-Craig
said in an interview today in Johannesburg, where the company is
based. His success will be judged by higher profits and an
increased market share at the end of his three-year contract,
Knott-Craig said. Cell C “has got to be much more dominant,
much more savvy,” he said.  Knott-Craig said he will create a  succession plan  and help
the company establish “top-notch” network infrastructure. The
previous CEO, Lars Reichelt, resigned for personal reasons in
July, Cell C said at the time.  Cell C, which is controlled by Dubai-based Oger Telecom
Ltd., has more than 9 million customers, Simon Duffy, chairman
and interim CEO, said in an interview. Knott-Craig brings the
best management skill the company has ever had, said Duffy.
“Alan is bubbling with ideas,” he added.  Cell C’s 11 percent bonds due 2015 fell $0.13 to $95,
increasing the yields by 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 12.84 percent, the highest since Jan. 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  After Knott-Craig left as Vodacom CEO, that company had a
two-year contract with him ending in March 2011, Chairman Peter
Moyo said in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  