-- Chavez Opponents Pledge No Shock Therapy If They Win Election
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-01-19T19:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/chavez-opponents-pledge-no-shock-therapy-if-they-win-election.html
Opponents of Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez  won’t apply “shock” adjustments to reverse
policies such as currency and price controls if they unseat the
self-declared socialist in October’s election, according to two
advisers for the opposition alliance.  Six candidates  competing in an opposition primary next
month will sign a 164-page policy platform Jan. 23 committing
them to a plan of action should they defeat Chavez. The
document, which has not yet been made public, calls for a slow
phasing out of currency controls to prevent capital flight and a
depreciation of the bolivar, said Ronald Balza, the Democratic
Unity Table’s coordinator of economic and oil policy.  An opposition-led government would also honor energy and
mining contracts worth billions of dollars that Chavez has
signed with nations including China, Russia and Cuba, although
the content of those agreements will be studied for their
legitimacy, said Balza.  “You won’t see any shock adjustments,” Balza said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s office in Caracas on Jan. 16.
“Eliminating controls with violent measures won’t resolve the
problems. The state is not going to withdraw immediately and let
the economy run its course.”  Venezuela ’s opposition, after backing a failed coup attempt
against Chavez in 2002 and long split by internal divisions, is
treading carefully in this year’s campaign by avoiding attacks
on the president’s policies that may spook voters from his
working-class base.  Avoid Rioting  Marino Gonzalez, who is coordinating the work of more than
400 experts drafting the platform, said the opposition wants to
avoid a repeat of 1989, when then-President Carlos Andres Perez
relied on advice from the  International Monetary Fund  to end gas
subsidies, raise taxes and devalue the currency. The policies
sparked rioting nationwide that left at least 3,000 people dead.  “We’ve had to learn from our mistakes,” Gonzalez, who
helped oversee social policies during Perez’s second term, said
in an interview in Caracas. “Our task is to implement change
gradually and through negotiation.”  One reason for the caution is that Chavez’s party would
still maintain control of Congress and many of the nation’s
institutions, including the central bank and judiciary, even if
he loses his bid for a third term, said Gonzalez.  Popularity Plunge  Chavez, who was re-elected in 2006 with 63 percent of the
vote, has seen his approval rating plunge over the past two
years as inflation that reached 28 percent in 2011, a  currency
devaluation  and a campaign of expropriations stifle economic
growth. After a two-year recession that lasted longer than any
in  Latin America , the region’s biggest oil exporter grew 4
percent last year, according to central bank estimates.  Support for the president has rebounded in recent months,
as Venezuelans sympathize with his battle for cancer, though
still hovers at about 50 percent, Luis Vicente Leon, president
of Caracas-based pollster Datanalisis, wrote in a column in El
Universal newspaper Jan. 15. Support for Chavez may drop again
once the opposition chooses a single candidate to rally behind,
Leon said.  “This is the first time that the Venezuelan opposition has
created a coherent policy platform aimed at providing voters
with a real alternative,” said  Larry Birns , director of the
Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs. “It’s very
difficult to really believe that the opposition is going to stay
pat and present a united coherent front but if they do this
could signify an important moment in Venezuelan democratic
electoral experience.”  Currency Controls  Currency controls, one of the key obstacles to private
investment, would be maintained under an opposition-led
government, said Balza, who also teaches economics at the
Universidad Central de Venezuela in Caracas.  The government would also reopen  currency trading  through a
parallel mechanism that Chavez shut down in 2010 after blaming
brokerages for speculating on the bolivar and fueling inflation.
Over time, that parallel market would take over and the currency
would be allowed to float freely, Balza added.  An opposition government will seek to tame inflation by
reducing the amount of bolivars circulating in the economy and
by ceasing a practice established by Chavez of borrowing
international reserves from the central bank to fund public
spending, Balza said. The opposition won’t immediately cut
public spending, which has been the main driver of  growth  under
Chavez, he said.  The new government would increase revenue by raising crude
oil  production , he said. This can be done by studying contracts
signed under Chavez and canceling agreements if  oil companies 
are not honoring production targets, he said.  A new government would also seek to lower state oil company
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s participation in joint ventures in
the heavy crude Orinoco Belt from 60 percent to 51 percent in a
bid to free up capital and attract investment, Balza said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  