-- Chertoff Urges Swift Action by Senate on Cybersecurity Measures
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-01-19T22:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/chertoff-urges-swift-action-by-senate-on-cybersecurity-measures.html
Former U.S. Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff and Defense Secretary William Perry
urged Senate leaders to pass legislation to protect hospitals,
 power plants  and other critical sites from cyber attacks.  Chertoff, who founded a security consulting firm in
Washington in his name, sent a letter with Perry and six other
former senior U.S. national security officials to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from Nevada, and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Republican from Kentucky,
calling for swift action.  “The present cyber risk is shocking and unacceptable,”
the former officials wrote. “Control system vulnerabilities
threaten power plants and the critical infrastructure they
support, from dams to hospitals.”  Concern that networks for banks, power companies and
Internet-service providers are vulnerable to hackers rose
following cyber attacks last month against the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s biggest business-lobbying organization,
and geopolitical analysis provider Stratfor of Austin,  Texas .  The National Counterintelligence Executive, an advisory
panel of senior U.S. intelligence officials, blamed China and
 Russia  in a Nov. 3 report for stealing sensitive U.S. economic
and commercial data. The report said the pace of cyber espionage
is accelerating and threatens an estimated $398 billion in
spending on research and development.  “Congress must act to ensure that appropriate tools,
authorities and resources are available to the executive branch
agencies, as well as private sector entities, that are
responsible for our nation’s cybersecurity,” according to
today’s letter.  Legislation Pending  Reid has pledged to take up comprehensive cybersecurity
legislation when the Senate returns from recess next week,
without being more specific.  Reid’s office didn’t return phone calls and an e-mail for
comment. The letter didn’t call for a specific timeline.  Also signing the letter were Mike McConnell, vice chairman
of McLean, Virginia-based Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp.;
Richard Clarke, founder of security consulting firm Good Harbor
Consulting in Arlington,  Virginia ; and former General James Cartwright, who serves on the board of advisers of Chantilly,
Virginia-based TASC Inc., a security services provider.  McConnell served as director of national intelligence and
Clarke was White House cybersecurity adviser under President
 George W. Bush . Cartwright served as vice chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff under Bush and President Barack Obama.  “The stage thus is set for the Senate to take up
cybersecurity legislation,” the letter said. “We urge the
Senate to do so in short order: the rewards of increased
security for our country, particularly our private sector
critical infrastructure, will be rapid and profound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  