-- Chevron Loses Another Bid to Block $18 Billion Ecuador Award
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-20T00:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/chevron-loses-bid-to-vacate-court-order-on-18-billion-ruling.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  lost another bid
before a U.S appeals court for an order blocking enforcement of
an Ecuadorean court’s $18 billion environmental damages verdict.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, had asked a
panel of judges at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  to set
aside its Sept. 19 ruling rejecting a trial judge’s decision in
March that blocked collection of the Ecuadorean judgment. The
company also asked for a rehearing on the merits of its appeal.  In a related decision, U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan 
this month refused Chevron’s request to restrain Ecuadorean
assets that could be seized as part of the Ecuadorean judgment.  Chevron was ordered on Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18
billion in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s
alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the Ecuadorean
jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-
old lawsuit decided by a judge in  Lago Agrio , a provincial
capital near the Colombian border.  ‘Dumped’  Karen Hinton , a spokeswoman for the plaintiffs, said that
Ecuadorean communities affected by the contamination “are one
step closer to justice as a result of today’s ruling.”  “For almost two decades, Chevron has stood in the way of a
comprehensive cleanup of billions of gallons of crude oil and
toxic waste water it deliberately dumped into the pristine
rainforest,” Hinton said in an e-mailed statement. “Thousands
of people have died or suffered as the oil giant and its legions
of lawyers have fought to distract attention from the
overwhelming evidence against the company.”  On Jan. 3, an Ecuadorean appeals court upheld the February
ruling “in all of its parts, including the conviction for moral
reparation or its alternative and costs,” according to the
decision. Chevron can appeal the decision to the next level of
 Ecuador ’s judiciary, a company spokesman said at the time.  Full Opinion  The U.S. appeals panel in September rejected Kaplan’s March
decision blocking collection of the Ecuadorean judgment pending
resolution of a lawsuit alleging that the plaintiffs engaged in
fraud to win the case. The appeals court hasn’t issued a full
opinion in the matter.  Chevron denies wrongdoing in the Lago Agrio lawsuit. The
company says Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former  oil fields , which were taken over by PetroEcuador,
Ecuador’s state-owned oil company. Chevron says it was released
from any future liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador. Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  Chevron filed a claim in 2009 against Ecuador in the
Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague seeking orders that
it has no liability for the environmental pollution and that
PetroEcuador should pay the damage award. In those proceedings,
Ecuador was told in February to prevent enforcement of the
judgment until further order by the tribunal, Chevron said on
Jan. 3.  Chevron Disappointed  Chevron said it is disappointed with today’s decision and
awaits the court’s final ruling.  “Chevron will also continue to prepare to resist any
efforts by the plaintiffs to enforce the judgment in other
countries in the event Ecuador chooses to defy the tribunal’s
order,” the company said in a statement. “Chevron has
uncovered overwhelming evidence of fraud and does not believe
that the Ecuador ruling is enforceable in any court that
observes the rule of law.”  The  San Ramon , California-based company alleged in a U.S.
suit before Kaplan that lawyers for the Ecuadoreans conspired to
fabricate evidence. Attorneys for the Latin American plaintiffs
said the lawsuit is an unjustified attempt to derail the
pollution lawsuit damages.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York ( Manhattan ). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 