-- Chile Nominates Joaquin Vial as Central Bank Board Member
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-01-19T18:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/chile-nominates-joaquin-vial-as-central-bank-board-member-2-.html
Chile ’s government nominated Joaquin Vial, head of South American research at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, to the central bank’s board as policy makers
decide whether last week’s interest rate cut will be a one-time
or the start of a trend.  Vial, whose appointment needs to be approved by Congress,
will take the place of former central bank President Jose De Gregorio, who stepped down in December, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago today. De Gregorio was
replaced as bank president by board member  Rodrigo Vergara .  The government wants Vial to be in place as the fifth board
member by the next interest-rate decision on Feb. 14. Vial may
be less inclined to back further rate reductions after inflation
accelerated in December to the fastest pace since April 2009,
said, Alfredo Coutino, Latin America director at Moody’s
Analytics.  “He’s more of a hawkish economist,” Coutino, who has been
friends with Vial since the 1990s, said by phone from  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “He is going to strengthen the
management of monetary policy in Chile in terms of being
consistent with the inflation target.”  Policy makers unexpectedly reduced borrowing costs last
week for the first time since 2009, even after inflation reached
4.4 percent, breaching the central bank target of 2 percent to 4
percent.  A surge in the price of copper, Chile’s largest export, has
caused some traders to doubt whether policy makers will cut
rates again in February, Jose Miguel Gredilla, a swaps trader at
Banco Santander Chile in Santiago, said today.  Rising Yields  Six-month interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, rose six basis points to 4.67
percent at 2:35 p.m. Santiago time, the biggest increase in two
weeks.  Vial has a PhD in economics from the  University of
Pennsylvania  and was budget director in the government of
President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle from 1997 to 2000. He was
later chairman of BBVA’s Chilean pension fund AFP Provida SA,
where he oversaw about $40 billion in assets.  “Joaquin Vial is a professional with an outstanding
background,” Larrain said. “He is an independent professional
with all the characteristics needed to make an enormous
contribution to the central bank board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  