-- Chile Peso, Swaps Climb as Copper Rises on China Easing Talk
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-01-19T16:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/chilean-peso-extends-gains-as-copper-rises-on-china-easing-talk.html
Chile ’s peso appreciated for a
fourth straight day and  interest-rate  swap yields rose as the
price of the country’s biggest export, copper, climbed to the
highest in four months.  The peso rose 1.1 percent to 490.57 per  U.S. dollar  as of
1:29 p.m. in Santiago from 495.8 yesterday. The six-month swap
rate in pesos rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point,
to 4.67 percent. The two-year swap, or the cost of locking in a
fixed interest rate for two years, climbed five basis points to
4.39 percent.  The six-month rate had been discounting four consecutive
quarter-point cuts to 4 percent, according to Jose Miguel Gredilla, a swaps trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago.
Copper gained as much as 1.8 percent to a four-month high of
$3.8215 a pound on reports that  China , which is the largest
customer for Chile’s exports of the metal, may relax  capital
requirements  for banks.  “Copper is key,” Gredilla said. “Chile receives a lot of
dollars with copper at $3.80. There’s a possibility that the
bank doesn’t cut at its next meeting. The market is now pricing
in that rate cuts may not be as fast as it had expected.”  Were the central bank to hold the benchmark rate at 5
percent at its next meeting on Feb. 14 the six-month and one-
year swap rates would jump 20 basis points, Gredilla said.  The  swap curve flattened  as the 10-year rate fell four
basis points to a three-month low of 4.91 percent.  Confidence Improves  France ’s borrowing costs fell at a bond auction and  Spain 
sold more debt than planned, underscoring improved investor
confidence in  Europe  and helping push the euro to a two-week
high of $1.2927.  “We saw successful Spanish and French bond auctions and
copper broke upward,” said Cristian Donoso, a currency trader
at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “Commodities and emerging-
market currencies are rising.”  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their bets against the currency to $5.2 billion on
Jan. 17 from $5 billion on Jan. 16.  Banco del Estado de Chile, the country’s state-owned
lender, set a yield of 3.49 percent on a $227-million sale of
seven-year inflation-linked bonds, according to data from the
Santiago stock exchange.  The pace of price rises discounted in the inflation
forwards for the next two months increased as commodities
gained. Inflation forwards are discounting 0.1 percent price
rises in February, up four basis points from 0.06 percent
yesterday.  Chilean wholesale gasoline prices will rise this week. The
price of 97-octane gasoline will increase 1.9 percent, state-
owned oil-refiner Empresa Nacional del Petroleo said yesterday.
The price of 93-octane gasoline will rise 0.9 percent.  Public transport costs in Santiago may rise 1.8 percent in
the first week of February because of steeper fuel prices,
adding three basis points to that month’s inflation, economists
at Corpbanca wrote yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  