-- Chinese Issuer, M&A Claims Boost Securities Lawsuits
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-19T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/chinese-issuer-m-a-claims-drive-rise-in-securities-lawsuits.html
Securities class-action lawsuits in
the U.S. increased 6.8 percent last year, led by claims against
companies involved in mergers and acquisitions and Chinese
companies listed on U.S. exchanges through reverse mergers, a
study found.  The lawsuits include M&A claims involving  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Terremark Worldwide Inc. (TMRK) ,  Smurfit-Stone
Container Corp. (SSCC)  and  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT) , and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , according to Stanford Law
School’s Securities Class Action Clearinghouse, which conducted
the study with Cornerstone Research.  M&A-related cases constituted almost 23 percent of the 188
total federal securities class actions filed in 2011,
Cornerstone Research said. That’s unchanged from 2010, when 176
total class actions were filed, according to the study. Overall,
the number of class actions filed last year was 3 percent below
the annual average of 194 filings from 1997 to 2010, the
report’s authors said.  “It’s only the growth of merger-related litigation, which
has historically been brought in state courts, that inflates the
aggregate statistics so that they even approach historic
norms,” Joseph Grundfest, director of the Stanford
clearinghouse, said in an e-mailed statement.  Chinese Issuers  Lawsuits alleging violations of accounting rules and
financial restatements by Chinese issuers comprised more than 17
percent of all federal securities class actions, according to
the report. Twenty-four of the 33 lawsuits against Chinese firms
were filed in the first half of 2011, which Grundfest said may
mean that this type of litigation is subsiding.  “The rapid run-up and subsequent decline of litigation
against Chinese issuers that entered the U.S. market through
reverse mergers suggest that this form of litigation may be
close to having run its course,” Grundfest said.  Lawsuits against Chinese issuers involved  China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) ,  Sino Clean Energy Inc. (SCEI)  and  Deer
Consumer Products Inc. (DEER) , according to Stanford’s clearinghouse.  The cases against Chinese companies account for an increase
last year in class-action lawsuit filings against foreign
issuers. Such filings rose to 36 percent in 2011, compared with
an average of 13 percent of total filings from 2008 to 2010,
Cornerstone Research said.  Financial Crisis  Only three class actions related to the financial crisis
were filed last year, and overall filings against financial
companies comprised 13 percent of 2011’s total, compared with 24
percent in 2010. There were no filings related to auction rate
securities or Ponzi schemes last year.  About one of every 31 companies in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  at the beginning of 2011 was a defendant in a class
action filed during the year compared with an average of about
one in 16 from 2000 to 2010, according to the report.  “The two historically most active sectors of the  S&P 500 ,
financial and health care, had the fewest number of new filings
compared with any year between 2000 and 2010,” John Gould,
senior vice president of San Francisco-based Cornerstone
Research, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  