-- China’s Money-Market Rate Slides From Seven-Month High as PBOC Adds Funds
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-19T10:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/china-s-money-market-rate-slides-most-in-11-months-as-pboc-injects-funds.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell from a seven-month high as the central bank injected funds
into the banking system to alleviate a cash crunch in the run-up
to the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday.  The People’s Bank of China added 183 billion yuan ($29
billion) using 14-day reverse repurchase contracts today, Market
News International reported, citing traders. It pumped 169
billion yuan into the market via such contracts on Jan. 17 and
bill redemptions  released  an additional 477 billion yuan this
month. The  seven-day repurchase rate  snapped a five-day advance.  The rate, a gauge of funding availability in the financial
system, fell 175 basis points to 5.98 percent in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The measure  touched  8.18 percent
yesterday, the highest level since June 2011.  Reverse repurchase contracts are “a short-term solution”
to the cash squeeze, said Pin Ru Tan, a rates strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “These reverse repos will have to be
replaced by a permanent reserve-ratio cut.”  The central bank cut the amount of cash that banks must set
aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 last month as
 Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and economic
growth. The State Council asked that  reserve requirements  for
local financial institutions in the southern province of Guizhou
be lowered to promote the area’s economy, according to a
statement posted on the central government’s website this week.  Cash Injections  The PBOC pumped about 200 billion yuan into some banks by
buying bills from them yesterday, China Securities Journal
reported today, citing interbank market information.  The monetary authority is allowing a limited increase in
first-quarter lending by the five biggest banks and the banking
regulator is weighing a plan to relax  capital requirements ,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Chinese lenders extended 640.5 billion yuan of new loans in
December, compared with 480.72 billion in the same period of
2010, the central bank said on Jan. 9. M2, a measure of the
 money supply , rose 13.6 percent, the biggest increase in five
months.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, decreased eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.05 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  yield  on 3.55
percent government bonds due October 2016 fell four basis points
to 3.01 percent, according to the National Interbank Funding
Centre.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  