-- China No Match for Dutch Plants as Philips Shavers Come Home
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-01-19T09:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/china-no-match-for-dutch-plants-as-philips-shavers-come-home-1-.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  workers
in the Dutch town of Drachten who expected to be fired were
astonished when the site manager said the company was bringing
production of its top-priced electric shavers home from China.  Rob Karsmakers, the factory manager who returned from four
years working for Philips in  Asia , told the baffled crowd that
the  consumer-electronics company  would boost investment in
Drachten, where it employs 2,000 staff.  “A product engineer in  Shanghai  now is just as expensive
as in Drachten,” said Karsmakers, who has overseen the plant
since 2009, in an interview. “But in China, the headcount
turnover is high. That is not sustainable.” Philips, which also
lights the Eiffel tower and the Olympic Stadium in Beijing,
employs a total of 14,000 people in the Netherlands.  The nation, the fifth-largest economy in the euro region,
has expanded its allure as a  manufacturing  powerhouse next to
its dominant German neighbor. The Netherlands leads in areas as
varied as paints and combat uniforms for the U.S. Army.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  uses chips produced by machines from  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  for
its iPhone and iPad, and  TomTom NV (TOM2)  help drivers navigate
unfamiliar roads.  The Dutch  trade surplus  in the first nine months of last
year was the second highest in the euro area behind  Germany ,
Eurostat data show. The Netherlands was the seventh-biggest
export nation in the past five years, according to  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.  Keeping Triple-A  “The Netherlands in particular is a country of trade, it
is how we earn our money,” said Maarten Leen, an economist at
ING. Set up as gateway into  Europe , with five major sea docks
and the Schiphol airport near Amsterdam, the Dutch have managed
to maintain a current-account surplus since 1981, Leen said.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed its AAA long-term credit rating
on the Netherlands on Jan. 13, citing the “sustained and
healthy current account surpluses,” averaging 6.4 percent
between 2005 and 2010. That offset the view of a weaker-than-
anticipated political climate in Europe, it said.  The Dutch have played a leading role in global economic
trade for centuries. The Dutch East  India  Company came to
dominate business in Asia after it was founded in 1602, in the
first ever initial public offering by a company, and traded
spices, metals, textiles or porcelain.  Global Dutch brands today include  Heineken NV (HEIA)  beer,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Unilever NV (UNA) , the maker of Dove soap, Lipton
tea and Magnum ice cream.  Chemicals, Tech  Chemical products such as  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ’s Sikkens paint,
and machinery such as ASML’s lithography systems make up a
substantial part of export growth, on top of the traditional
agriculture products such as flowers, onions and tomatoes.  The chemical and technology industries have shown the
strongest growth in exports since 1996, with volume increases of
4 percent and 5.8 percent per year, respectively, data from
Dutch statistical office CBS show.  “We have a superior infrastructure, with docks in
Rotterdam, Delfzijl and Geleen, and the connection to the
pipeline system for gas and ethylene in the surrounding
countries, in Belgium, Antwerp and the Rhine-area in Germany,”
said Werner Fuhrmann, vice chairman of the VNCI Association of
the Dutch Chemical Industry.  For ASML, its position in the Netherlands is key, as the
company relies on a network of “hundreds of high-tech
suppliers” and research institutes to develop its lithography
scanners, Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink said.  Specialized work “we can do fast and effectively with
partners in the south of the Netherlands,” he said.  Brainport Area  ASML, which has a 80 percent market share in the
semiconductor equipment sector, is part of the Brainport area in
the southern part of the Netherlands, an industrial hub that
combines industries from food, to automotive to design and
technology, including Philips and TomTom.  The company hopes to surpass  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  this
year as the largest player in its industry, Chief Executive
Officer Eric Meurice said yesterday, after the company posted
better-than-expected fourth-quarter numbers. ”Our secret is
that we put a lot of money in R&D and we have linked our
research and development to manufacturing,” he said at a press
conference.  For Karsmakers, bringing manufacturing of the high-end
shavers closer to the research facility in Drachten and serving
the European market, offered a good ”local-for-local”
opportunity, as it would also reduce transport costs, he said.
Philips kept production of its cheaper shavers in China to serve
the Asian market.  Emerging Challenge  The country’s corporate prowess has attracted suitors. In
the past decade, Dutch companies, including ABN Amro Bank NV,
previously the country’s largest bank, and Royal KLM NV, the
national carrier, have fallen into the hands of foreign owners,
leading to widespread controversy in the Netherlands about a
national company sell-out.  Today, the Dutch have other challenges. With the lingering
European debt crisis, and two thirds of exports still dependent
on Western Europe, the country faces a “great challenge” to
match the growth it has seen in the past 15 years,” Leen said,
adding the Netherlands still hasn’t made its mark in emerging
economies, specifically in Asia.  China ’s economy expanded in the fourth quarter at the
slowest pace in more than two years as Europe’s debt crisis
curbed demand for exports and the  property market  was weakened
by measures to rein in  home prices .  With the gravity point of the world economy shifting to
countries like China, India and Brazil, innovation in the
Netherlands should help the country maintain its trade position,
Economics Affairs Maxime Verhagen said in a speech last year at
the Wageningen University in the Netherlands.  The future lies in developing innovative products that help
cut CO2-emissions, tackling the fallout of aging populations,
and the growing demand for food from a growing global
population, Verhagen said, referring to products such as Philips
home healthcare offerings and  Royal DSM NV (DSM) ’s light material
Aircargo containers.  “A big threat for industry in the Netherlands, or even
Europe as a whole, is that governments erode fundamental
innovation and education,” Peter Wennink, CFO of ASML, said in
an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  