-- Cholera Risk Means Mounting Costs for Hapag-Lloyd, Torm: Freight
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-01-19T12:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/cholera-risk-means-mounting-costs-for-hapag-lloyd-torm-freight.html
Hapag-Lloyd AG (TUI1)  and  Maersk Line (MAERSKB)  are
among ship owners facing a $100 billion bill to cleanse ballast
water that spreads diseases such as cholera and invasive species
including mitten crabs, adding to costs as cargo rates slump.  A binding convention drawn up by the  International Maritime
Organization  requires shipping lines to retrofit 60,000 vessels
with gear that kills unwelcome organisms and costs from $200,000
for an offshore-supply craft to $4 million for an oil tanker.  The rules add to pressure on margins at shipping companies
from Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd and  Denmark ’s Maersk to Evergreen
Marine Corp. of  Taiwan , which all posted tumbling third-quarter
earnings.  Waertsilae Oyj (WRT1V)  of  Finland  and OceanSaver AS of  Norway ,
providers of cleaning equipment and filters, expect to benefit.  “It’s right that we shouldn’t move dangerous species around
the world,” said Jan Fritz Hansen, executive vice president of
the  Danish Shipowners’ Association  in Copenhagen, whose members
carry 10 percent of global shipments. “But the limits being set
look very costly and will require substantial investment at a
time when international shipping and trade is in the red.”  Shares of Copenhagen-based  D/S Norden A/S (DNORD) ,  Europe ’s largest
listed commodities line, have dropped 23 percent over the past
12 months.  Torm A/S (TORM) , the continent’s largest publicly traded
shipper of refined oil products, has declined 90 percent. Both
stocks were trading 0.2 percent higher as of 11:39 a.m. today.  Hapag-Lloyd is majority owned by tour operator  TUI AG (TUI1)  and
Maersk, which estimates its installation costs at about $500
million, is a unit of logistics group A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S.  Ballast Rules  The convention, likely to be ratified later this year and
effective 12 months later, aims to clean up seawater used to
stabilize ships by lowering their center of gravity when lightly
laden. Tanks are emptied and thousands of gallons of water
discharged when a heavier load is taken aboard, often on the
other side of the world and in a wholly different oceanic zone.  A requirement for ballast water to be purged even on ships
making short international journeys, such as Denmark to Britain,
is particularly onerous, Hansen said. Less stringent rules may
apply only for trips within a state’s territorial limits.  The IMO, as the London-based United Nations agency for
regulating shipping is known, currently recommends that vessels
minimize contamination by  dumping water  taken on close to shore
in the open ocean, where coastal organisms struggle to survive.
The method isn’t 100 percent effective and could lead to wider
distribution of harmful species, especially to island chains.  Cleaning Contracts  The new convention requires ratification by at least 30
countries accounting for 35 percent of world merchant shipping.
As of Jan. 1, it had been approved by 33 states that represent
26.46 percent of global tonnage, IMO spokesman Lee Adamson said.  About 40 companies are vying to bring cleansing equipment
to the market, with 15 approved to date, according to Tor Atle
Eiken, sales chief at Drammen, Norway-based  OceanSaver ,
established in 2003 to tap demand for ballast treatment, who
says the convention will provide a “major boost” to earnings.  Helsinki-based Waertsilae, the biggest maker of marine
engines, has begun to attract customers for its  BWT 500i  device,
which combines a filter with ultra-violet irradiation, Chief
Executive Officer Bjoern Rosengren said in an interview.  “Ship-owners have been putting off decisions but they’re
now starting to investigate which systems we have on offer,”
Rosengren said in  London  last month. “We intend to capitalize.”  The stock traded down 0.2 percent at 25.99 euros today.  Peru Deaths  Seawater entered regular use as ballast when metal hulls
became commonplace in the 1870s, according to a paper from
Portland State University researcher Ian Davidson published this
month in the international journal “Biological Invasions.”  The first record of an alien marine invasion dates to 1903
in the  North Sea , according to the IMO, with the mass appearance
of an Asian phytoplankton. Since then, a host of species have
been transported, ranging from microbes, eggs, cysts, larvae and
bacteria such as cholera -- with ballast water blamed for an
outbreak that  killed 10,000 people  in  Peru  in the 1990s -- to
larger animals such as the  Chinese mitten crab , whose burrows
are undermining the banks of the Thames and Hudson rivers.  In the U.S., an invasion of  zebra mussels  native to the
 Black Sea  has clogged up water pipes, sluices and irrigation
ditches at a cost estimated at $1 billion over a decade, while
the North American comb jellyfish has travelled in the opposite
direction, wiping out anchovy fisheries in the Sea of Azov.  Health Concern  Scientists began to explore the threat in detail in the
1970s, and by the 1980s countries including Canada and  Australia 
had brought their concerns to the IMO’s Marine Environment
Protection Committee, which issued guidelines in 1991 before
initiating the development of legally binding measures in 2004.  Among the  top 10 shipping nations  by tonnage, only Liberia
and the  Marshall Islands , ranked No. 2 and 3 behind Panama, have
ratified the plan, which Hansen of the Danish Shipowners’
Association reckons will finally win approval by next year.  “Progress on implementing the convention seems sluggish,”
Portland University’s Davidson said in an interview. “Ballast
water dumps whole assemblages of organisms into new environments
and the threats that brings are ecological, economic and to
human health on a local, regional and sometimes global scale.”  Major shipping companies have already begun to align fleets
to the looming requirements, with  Hapag-Lloyd (HPL) ,  Germany ’s top
container line, investing in Mahle GmbH systems that again
combine filters with UV treatment.  Counting Cost  The equipment will be fitted to 10 new Hapag ships with a
capacity of 13,200 containers apiece, due for delivery over 18
months starting in July, with existing vessels to be retrofitted
should an evaluation of its performance prove positive.  Solutions that don’t use polluting chemicals are limited,
pushing up costs, spokesman Rainer Horn said, especially given
flow rates needed to cope with water volumes on the biggest
Post-Panamax ships -- those too big for the  Panama  Canal.  “Hapag-Lloyd takes its responsibilities very seriously
here, and environmental concerns are a top priority, but the
technology costs money and makes a greener product more
expensive,” Horn said in an emailed response to questions.  At  A.P. Moeller-Maersk (MAERSKB) , 700 ships will need to be fitted
out in a process which will have “no payback” and therefore have
“a negative impact on the final result,” said Palle Wredstrom,
project manager for maritime technology.  That’s excluding the expense of new ballast pumps,
generators and higher power consumption, he said, while cleaning
filters will mean a bill of thousands of dollars per ship each
year for the company, which was priced 0.4 percent lower today.  Dry Dock  Refitting thousands of vessels across the industry within
about six years will also put “almost impossible demands on the
supply chain,” Wredstrom said, since installation must be done
between voyages, while tankers will go into dry dock so that any
gas can be pumped out, increasing demand for limited space.  “We do question whether the very speedy implementation is
making this environmental investment overly expensive,” he said.  Norden (DNORD)  anticipates a bill of about $500,000 to retrofit
each of the 45 ships it owns out of a fleet totaling 216 dry-
bulk vessels and tankers, which don’t include the very largest
models, technical director Lars Lundegaard said in a phone
interview. Equipping new craft would cost “significantly less.”  Trade Patterns  The biggest challenge is to settle on the right technology
from the options available, Lundegaard said, with UV rays unable
to penetrate highly silted water and chlorination performing
poorly in the fresh water of rivers and estuaries.  “You have to decide based on your trade patterns,” he said.
“We’ll have to use a combination of different technologies,
because we trade all over the world. By delaying a final choice
a bit longer we should have a better range of solutions.”  Copenhagen-based  Torm (TORM)  will require more costly fire-and
explosion-proof gear for its fleet of 70 tankers.  “Once this equipment enters mass production and there are
more suppliers it will probably fall in price,” spokesman Jakob Risom said by telephone. “But this may not happen before the
implementation date, and the producers know this.”  Portland University’s Davidson says cost issues mustn’t be
allowed to delay measures further.  “Shippers can calculate the price of implementing this, but
I wonder if they know the expense of invasions,” he said. “The
cost of losing fisheries, damaging infrastructure and altering
ecosystems can be long-term and sometimes irreversible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  