-- Christie Will Consider Raising New Jersey Minimum Wage
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-19T18:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/christie-will-consider-raising-new-jersey-minimum-wage-correct-.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor Chris Christie
said he will consider increasing the  minimum wage , though he
wants to be sure the state is adding jobs before doing anything
that might stifle employment growth.  Democratic lawmakers have proposed raising the minimum wage
to $8.50 an hour from $7.25. A $7.25-an-hour job is better than
no job, Christie, a first-term Republican, said at a town-hall
meeting in an Irvington church today.  “What we need to do in this state is get more people
working first,” Christie said. “We’ve got to make sure we get
more people employed, not just more money for people who are
already working.”  New Jersey ’s  unemployment  rate fell by 0.1 percentage point
to 9 percent last month, the lowest since May 2009, the state’s
Labor Department said in a statement today. It remains above the
national level of 8.5 percent.  Christie’s town-hall meeting was his second since he
proposed cutting income taxes by 10 percent across all brackets
during his State of the State speech this week.  Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange 
who has pushed for the minimum-wage increase, sat in a front-row
pew for Christie’s gathering. She said she was glad to see the
governor head into an urban community where just 4.7 percent of
the residents voted for him in 2009. Irvington is in Essex
County, where rents average $1,200 for an apartment, she said.  “I know any job is better than no job, our grandparents
taught us that,” she said in an interview. “But $7.25 is not
going to get you that apartment.”  Democratic lawmakers in  New York  also have proposed raising
the minimum wage. New York’s unemployment rate was unchanged at
8 percent in December, the state Labor Department said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  