-- Christie Wants to End ‘Warehousing’ Drug Offenders by Providing Treatment
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-19T18:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/christie-wants-to-end-warehousing-of-n-j-drug-offenders-1-.html
Governor Chris Christie said he
wants to stop “warehousing” non-violent drug offenders in New
Jersey prisons because the state pays three times more on
incarceration than for addiction treatment.  Each drug offender costs the state $39,000 a year to
imprison, compared with $12,000 for treatment, Christie, a
first-term Republican, told a crowd gathered at a church in
Irvington, a Newark suburb.  “Let’s get people out of the regular jails and put them
for a year in secure facilities where they can actually get drug
treatment,” Christie, 49, said at the public forum. “We need
to teach people how to deal with their addictions, and not have
them dependent on drugs.”  The town-hall meeting was Christie’s second since he
proposed an across-the-board 10 percent income-tax cut in his
annual State of the State speech this week. He also listed
overhauling education and focusing on urban communities as other
2012 priorities.  Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange 
whose district doesn’t include Irvington, said she’ll work with
Christie on the drug-policy changes.  “I’ve been on that soapbox for 30 or 35 years, so I’m not
a newcomer to this discussion,” Oliver said. “This is the
right thing to do and it’s something that has plagued us.”  Oliver, who sat in a front row as Christie spoke at the
meeting, said she’s glad to see him holding one of the forums in
an urban community. Irvington is represented in the Assembly by
Democrats Ralph Caputo and Cleopatra Tucker.  The Democrat, who has been critical of Christie’s tax plan,
said she’s withholding judgment until Christie’s February budget
proposal, to see what effect it may have on school funding and
how he would cover any revenue loss. The governor has said a cut
won’t hurt education funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  