-- Colombia Record Corporate Debt Sales Extending to Barclays on GDP Growth
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/colombia-record-corporate-debt-sales-extending-to-barclays-on-gdp-growth.html
Colombia ’s quickening economic
growth is a signal to  Barclays Capital  Inc. and BCP Securities
LLC that last year’s record corporate bond offerings will extend
into 2012 as companies seek to finance expansion plans.  International sales rose 149 percent to $4.3 billion in
2011, the second-biggest jump among major emerging-market
countries after the Czech Republic, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Issuers led by  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , the country’s
biggest bank, tapped into a rally that cut average  Colombian
dollar bond yields  to 5.32 percent from 6.64 percent at the
start of 2010, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI Broad index shows.  Companies’ financing needs are increasing after a decade of
military victories over guerrillas opened up the countryside to
investment in oil, coal and gold, spurring central bank
forecasts for the fastest economic growth since 2007. Slowing
expansions elsewhere in Latin America and improved security in
the Andean country are helping lure new investors to Colombian
bonds, said  Jim Harper , director of corporate research at BCP
Securities in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “Colombia is one of the darlings of the market,” Harper
said in a telephone interview. “Everything that comes out of
Colombia seems to be well oversubscribed and prices very well.”  High-Grade Market  Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores SA , Colombia’s biggest
banking group by assets, said in a regulatory filing this week
it is meeting with investors to study an overseas bond sale.
State-run power producer Isagen SA said in August that it may
sell as much as $500 million of bonds abroad.  Banco Davivienda
SA (PFDAVVND) , Colombia’s third-largest bank, said that month that it plans
to issue up to $350 million of bonds abroad. Officials from
 Isagen (ISAGEN)  and Davivienda declined to comment further.  Colombian issuance “is going to grow,” said Gustavo Ferraro, head of debt capital markets for Latin America at
Barclays Capital in New York. “Besides the traditional
emerging-market accounts, investors in general are now
interested in Colombia as a player in the high-grade market.”  Colombia was raised to the lowest level of investment grade
by  Standard & Poor’s  in March, Moody’s Investors Service in May
and Fitch Ratings in June amid accelerating growth and improved
security.  Regional Peers  The Colombian government on Jan. 10 sold $1.5 billion of
bonds due 2041 to yield 4.96 percent in its first overseas
offering since July. Investor demand for the securities totaled
about $3.6 billion, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Sales will probably be led by commodities companies and
public utilities, both of which are favored by investors,
Ferraro said.  Colombia’s economy will grow 4.5 percent this year, more
than the region’s 3.7 percent estimated pace, the United Nations
Economic Commission for  Latin America  predicts.  The central bank forecasts the South American country grew
as much as 6 percent in 2011, the fastest pace since 2007.  The economy expanded 7.7 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the most since the fourth quarter of 2006.
 Brazil ’s economy shrank in the third quarter for the first time
in more than two years while growth slowed in Chile and  Peru .  Foreign direct investment  in Colombia jumped to $10.8
billion in the first nine months of last year, more than the
whole-year figures since at least 1994, according to the central
bank. Foreign companies put 60 percent of that money in oil and
mining. The government forecasts foreign direct investment
reached a record $13 billion in 2011.  Energy Investment  “Based on the outlook for Colombia, the opportunity is
there for corporates to continue issuing,” said Paolo Valle,
who helps oversee $1.3 billion of emerging-markets securities,
including Colombian debt, at Federated Investments in
Pittsburgh. “There are very good companies in Colombia that we
would like to see more often.”  The likelihood the central bank will raise  interest rates 
further in 2012 to keep inflation in check will keep Colombian
companies issuing abroad as they seek lower borrowing costs,
said Daniel Velandia, head analyst at brokerage Correval SA in
Bogota.  The 149 percent jump in overseas issuance in local-currency
and dollar-denominated bonds by Colombian companies in 2011
compares with a 24 percent increase in Brazil and declines in
 Mexico , Chile and Peru. In other major emerging-market
economies, the  Czech Republic ’s 298 percent jump is the only one
that outpaces Colombia. Issuance in  India ,  Russia  and  South
Africa  also declined from 2010.  Bond Appetite  Colombia is the only major Latin American economy to have
increased borrowing costs in recent months. The central bank
increased the  overnight lending rate  25 basis points, or a
quarter percentage point, in November to 4.75 percent, citing
“very dynamic” internal demand, loan growth and record housing
costs. A majority of economists in a central bank survey
published Jan. 12 forecast Banco de la Republica will increase
the key rate to 5.5 percent by the end of the year.  Less appetite for higher-yielding assets and smaller
issues, as well as reduced financing needs from Colombian
companies that have already tapped the market, may mean overseas
corporate bonds sales will fall this year, Federated
Investments’s Valle said.  ‘Next Big Thing’  The nation’s upgrade to the lowest level of investment
grade in 2011, which was followed by similar moves for ratings
in companies including Bancolombia and Empresas Publicas de
Medellin SA, known as EPM, led companies to sell debt as they
took advantage of the reduced borrowing costs.  Bancolombia sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds in
international markets on May 24 to yield 6.01 percent. The yield
has since fallen to 5.79 percent. EPM, a regional utility
company, on Jan. 24 sold $675 million worth of 10-year peso-
denominated debt abroad to yield 8.5 percent. The yield on the
securities has declined to 7.66 percent.  The average yield on Colombian corporate dollar bonds at
5.32 percent compares to the 6.17 percent average yield for
 Latin American countries , 6.1 percent for Brazil and 6.29
percent for Mexico, according to JPMorgan’s CEMBI Broad index.  “Everyone is in Brazil by now and people have been doing
Mexico for a while,” said Joe Kogan, a debt analyst with  Scotia
Capital  in  New York . “Investors are always searching for the
next big thing and what we see in Colombia are good
fundamentals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 