-- Colonial Global Infrastructure Fund Sees 10% Returns After Beating Peers
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-01-19T00:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/colonial-global-infrastructure-fund-sees-10-returns-after-beating-peers.html
Colonial First State Global Asset
Management Ltd.’s infrastructure fund expects returns of about
10 percent this year after it beat the industry benchmark in
2011, according to its manager.  “The fund performed very well last year because of the
underlying quality of the sector and our active management of
the portfolio, while some takeover activity certainly helped,”
Peter Meany, the head of global listed infrastructure at
Colonial, who manages over A$1 billion ($1 billion), said in an
interview in Sydney. “We expect more of the same this year.”  Colonial’s infrastructure fund, which invests in listed
utilities, toll roads, mobile towers, and oil pipeline and
storage companies in areas including the U.S.,  Europe  and
Australia, had a total return of 8.6 percent before fees in 2011,
according to a report from the company. That compared with the
industry benchmark, which returned 4.7 percent.  This year, the fund will focus on companies that offer
inflation-protected income and steady capital growth,
particularly those whose prices are already reflecting “worst-
case scenarios,” such as Italy’s  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , Germany’s  E.ON
AG (EOAN)  and France’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and  Vinci SA (DG) , Meany said. It will also
invest in companies located in developed countries with exposure
to emerging markets, such as Rotterdam-based  Koninklijke Vopak
NV (VPK) , and Melbourne-based  Asciano Ltd. (AIO) , he said.  Asciano, Atlantia and Melbourne-based  Transurban Ltd. (TCL)  are
of interest, also because their valuations, assets and
structures may make them attractive as takeover targets this
year, Meany said.  Takeovers  Global pension funds will probably target companies in the
U.S., U.K.,  Australia  and Canada, where there are fewer
restrictions on such buyouts, Meany said. In Europe and emerging
markets, takeovers will more likely come from groups led by
shareholders who already own a significant portion of the
company, he said.  “Many pension funds are below target allocations to
infrastructure, which are scarce assets by nature,” according
to Meany. “So the only way to get to that target allocation is
to be involved in takeovers of the assets that are available,
and the reality is that’s in the listed market.”  Takeovers by pension funds over the past two years have
included two purchases by the California Public Employees
Retirement System of a power cable and London’s Gatwick Airport;
and Australian infrastructure group Intoll Group by the  Canada 
Pension Plan Investment Board.  The California pension has said it plans to spend as much
as $5 billion on infrastructure in the next three years. The U.K.
started a 30 billion-pound ($46 billion) program to attract
investment from pension funds to finance the construction of
roads, railways and other infrastructure projects.  “There’s been a massive underinvestment by governments in
infrastructure,” Meany said. “The private sector is being
called on more and more to be involved in funding those
projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  