-- Commerzbank Halfway to Plugging Capital Hole, Won’t Need Aid; Stock Soars
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-19T10:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/commerzbank-halfway-to-plugging-capital-hole-won-t-need-aid-shares-soar.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest lender, said it’s more than halfway toward its goal of
plugging a capital gap without using  government aid . The shares
surged.  The bank can strengthen capital by 6.3 billion euros ($8.1
billion) by raising funds and reducing risk-weighted assets by
June 30, Frankfurt-based Commerzbank said today. That’s more
than the 5.3 billion-euro shortfall the European Banking
Authority told the lender to plug. The bank said it had
fulfilled 57 percent of that requirement by the end of 2011.  European leaders are demanding banks increase reserves to
bolster confidence after financial companies agreed to accept
losses on Greek  government bonds . Commerzbank, which faces the
highest requirement of six German banks deemed to need more
capital, has been fighting to avoid a taxpayer rescue.  “We stand by our word: we do not intend to make use of
additional public funds,”  Eric Strutz , the company’s chief
financial officer, said in the bank’s statement. “With the
approved set of measures, the bank is showing that it’s able to
meet the capital requirements of the EBA, relying on its own
strength even in a difficult environment.”  The  stock  jumped as much as 15 percent and was 13 percent
higher at 1.60 euros at 11:05 a.m. local time, valuing the
company at about 8.2 billion euros. It was the biggest increase
in Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   Risk-Weighted Assets  Commerzbank said it had boosted capital by 3 billion euros
at the end of 2011 as it reduced risk-weighted assets. That
bolstered core Tier 1 capital, a measure of financial strength,
by about 1.6 billion euros, while so-called regulatory capital
deductions were lowered by 200 million euros.  The lender also had about 1.2 billion euros of retained
earnings in the fourth quarter, which includes income from the
buyback of hybrid equity instruments and excludes potential
further Greek writedowns. Commerzbank said it expects another
1.2 billion euros in retained earnings in the first half.  The EBA told banks last month to raise 114.7 billion euros
in fresh capital by the end of June as part of measures
introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes. Lenders
should look to bolster reserves by cutting bonuses, retaining
earnings or issuing shares, it said.  German banks need to raise 13.1 billion euros, Italian
banks 15.4 billion euros and Spanish lenders 26.2 billion euros
in core Tier 1 capital to satisfy the EBA. The capital
shortfalls include 15.3 billion euros for  Spain ’s Banco
Santander SA and 7.97 billion euros for  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 