-- Commerzbank Jumps as It Says Capital Plan Makes Aid Unnecessary
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-01-19T17:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/commerzbank-jumps-as-it-says-capital-plan-makes-aid-unnecessary.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  jumped the most in
more than two months in Frankfurt after  Germany ’s second-largest
lender said it’s more than halfway to its goal of raising
capital, and can do so without asking for state aid.  The  shares  gained 15 percent to 1.62 euros, the most since
Oct. 27, valuing the company at about 8.3 billion euros ($10.7
billion). It was the biggest increase in Germany’s benchmark DAX
Index.  Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said
today that asset sales, retained earnings and  capital management 
fulfilled 57 percent of its 5.3 billion-euro target by the end
of 2011. European leaders are demanding banks increase reserves
to bolster confidence after financial firms agreed to accept
losses on Greek  government bonds .  “The most important news is that they already reduced
capital requirements by 3 billion euros in the fourth quarter,”
said  Matthew Clark , a bank analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc. in  London .  The bank can strengthen capital by 6.3 billion euros by
raising funds and reducing risk-weighted assets by June 30,
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank said today. That’s more than the 5.3
billion-euro shortfall, the largest of six German banks, the
European Banking Authority told the lender to plug.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government welcomes
Commerzbank’s plan to raise capital, the Berlin-based  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  Capital Requirements  Commerzbank also has a “Plan B” courtesy of  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
Clark said. The German bank is in “constructive talks” with
its largest  shareholder  after the German government over the
option of Allianz converting its non-voting capital of 750
million euros into core Tier 1 capital, Blessing said today.
Such a move would “provide an additional cushion,” Clark said.  In December, the EBA told banks to raise 114.7 billion
euros in fresh capital by the end of June as part of measures
introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes. The
regulator called for lenders to have core Tier 1 capital, a
measure of financial strength, equivalent to 9 percent or more
of their risk-weighted assets after accounting for writedowns on
some European sovereign bonds.  Commerzbank said it reduced risk-weighted assets by more
than 17 billion euros by the end of 2011, boosting core Tier 1
capital by 1.6 billion euros. The company also had about 1.2
billion euros of retained  earnings  in the fourth quarter, which
includes income from the buyback of hybrid equity instruments
and excludes potential further Greek writedowns. Commerzbank
boosted its core Tier 1 capital by 200 million euros with
“efficient” management of its  capital structure , according to
the statement.  Closing the Gap  “We stand by our word: we do not intend to make use of
additional public funds,”  Eric Strutz , the company’s chief
financial officer, said in the statement. “With the approved
set of measures the bank is showing that it is able to meet the
capital requirements of the EBA relying on its own strength even
in a difficult environment.”  Commerzbank had profit after tax of about 1.6 billion euros
last year, according to preliminary figures and international
accounting standards, Blessing said in a copy of a speech to
reporters in  Frankfurt  today.  The bank said it can close the remaining gap with a mix of
measures including a further 17 billion-euro reduction in risk-
weighted assets and 1.2 billion euros in retained earnings.  Asset Sales  Commerzbank also cited 350 million euros in lower
regulatory capital deductions for securitization positions as
the lender winds down some businesses and sells assets. The bank
said it could also raise 250 million euros if employees accepted
more stock as compensation.  The German lender has the option of a capital increase,
Strutz said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  “Our first priority is what we presented today,” he said
in the interview at Commerzbank’s Frankfurt headquarters today.
“This does not include any additional capital measures, so
indeed, I’m not calling it a Plan B, but that would be an option
that would go on top.”  Blessing has spent three years trying to free the lender
from  government aid  needed to survive fallout from the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The German government
owns 25 percent of Commerzbank as a result of the 2008 bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  