-- Concordia Rescue Effort Lacked Leadership by Ship’s Officers, Witness Says
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2012-01-19T12:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/concordia-rescue-effort-lacked-leadership-by-ship-s-officers-witness-says.html
The deputy mayor of Giglio, who
assisted in the rescue of the Costa Concordia after it hit rocks
off  Italy ’s coast, told investigators it took him 20 minutes to
find a senior officer on the ship and that he helped passengers
to safety after it proved difficult to lower lifeboats.  Mario Pellegrini said he arrived near the accident scene
about 11 p.m. on Jan. 13, as the first passengers were escaping
from the vessel. That was more than an hour after  Carnival
Corp.’s (CCL)  Concordia struck a reef and began capsizing.  Pellegrini got to the Concordia after the first lifeboat
reached shore, and was able to climb onto the ship using ladders
that had been lowered. He began helping passengers into
lifeboats after he was unable to find any senior crew members to
coordinate with, he said in a phone interview yesterday.
Pellegrini also gave his account to prosecutors in Grosseto,
Italy who are investigating the accident, he said.  “The evacuation on the right-hand side was pretty
smooth,” Pellegrini, 48, said. “But by the time I got to the
left side, passengers were all crammed together and panicking.
That’s when the ship tilted even more, injuring some people.
Crew members were trying to help but they had no leadership,
they were a bit unprofessional.”  Costa Crociere Chairman Pier Luigi Foschi at a press
conference in Genoa Jan. 16 defended the crew’s performance
during the two-hour emergency evacuation, pointing to examples
of heroism among crew members. He said the ship’s listing
complicated the rescue, making it impossible to evacuate
passengers on both sides. Costa Crociere is a unit of Miami-
based Carnival.  Coast Guard  The Concordia’s captain, Francesco Schettino, told a judge
on Jan. 17 that he steered the ship with 4,200 passenger and
crew off its programmed route and close to Giglio, court
documents obtained by Bloomberg show.  Schettino failed to promptly inform the Coast Guard after
he struck the rocks that ripped a hole in the ship’s hull and is
accused by prosecutors of abandoning the vessel with about 300
people still aboard, Judge Valeria Montesarchio said in her Jan.
16 decision to place him under house arrest. Costa Crociere has
suspended the captain, Marco De Luca, a lawyer for the company,
said in an interview today on SkyTG24 television. A company
spokesman wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Schettino didn’t abandon the ship, his lawyer Bruno
Leporatti has said, and his actions saved many lives, according
to a Jan. 16 statement from the attorney. The captain said he
didn’t leave the Concordia intentionally, the court documents
show.  Schettino was repeatedly ordered by a senior Coast Guard
official to return to the ship. The captain said there was no
way to get back onboard, according to a recording of the
conversations, which has been verified by the Coast Guard.  Captain Onshore  Schettino didn’t make a serious attempt to return to the
Concordia and stood onshore for more than an hour watching the
stranded vessel sink, the judge wrote in her decision. Leporatti
said Schettino was coordinating operations from the shore.  “I couldn’t see the captain,” Pellegrini said. “It pains
me to hear him saying he couldn’t get back. I got on.”  At least 11 passengers from the Concordia died in the
accident and more than 20 are still missing. Rescue operations
resumed this morning after being suspended yesterday when the
ship shifted position. Divers plan to set off more explosives
onboard the ship today to allow them to reach more remote parts
of the ship.  Pellegrini said that when he began helping passengers on
the left side of the ship that the vessel had tilted so far that
lifeboats couldn’t be lowered down to the water.  ‘Unable to Move’  “People had to climb on the hull with a steel ladder,”
set in place by the only Concordia officer Pellegrini
encountered onboard. “It was all oily and slippery, and
children and old people were unable to move on their own.”  The last nine passengers Pellegrini helped, along with
three crew members, were forced to swim in a vertical corridor
full of water, he said.  “It took a long time to take them out,” said Pellegrini,
who helped with the rescue effort until 5 a.m. “I was afraid I
would be trapped too.”  Judge Montesarchio rejected a prosecutor request for the
captain to remain in jail, saying that while the commander had
hesitated in giving the evacuation order, he was not a flight
risk. Prosecutors plan to appeal the judge’s decision to grant
house arrest as soon as today.  Evacuation Order  Schettino “underestimated the damage” and gave the
evacuation order more than an hour after the ship hit the rocks,
delaying rescue operations, according to the court document. The
captain said he made an emergency maneuver after hitting the
rocks to prevent the ship from heading out to sea and sinking,
according to the judge’s written decision.  Domnica Cemortan, a 25-year-old Moldovan, told Romanian
newspaper Adevarul that she was part of the crew and went to the
bridge to help translate emergency messages into Russian for
passengers as the ship was running aground. When she escaped the
ship at 11:50 p.m., an hour after the evacuation was ordered,
the captain was still on the bridge, she said.  The Costa Concordia ran aground after 9:45 p.m. on Jan. 13
within hours of leaving a port near  Rome  to continue a
Mediterranean cruise. The ship’s route was set electronically
before it left, and the cruise liner shouldn’t have been so
close to Giglio, Foschi said Jan. 16. Foschi said the only time
he was aware that one of his company’s ships had been authorized
to sail close to the island was Aug. 9-10, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  