-- Confab Jumps as Tenaris Raises Minority Holders Offer 13%: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-01-19T20:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/confab-jumps-as-tenaris-raises-minority-holders-offer-13-sao-paulo-mover.html
Confab Industrial SA (CNFB4)  jumped the most
in five months in  Sao Paulo  after parent  Tenaris SA (TEN)  raised an
offer to buy out minority shareholders by 13 percent.  Shares in the Brazilian maker of steel tubes  rose  23
percent to 5.65 reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, the
most since Aug. 29. Tenaris, based in  Luxembourg , gained 0.5
percent to 15.61 euros in Milan. Confab is based in Sao Caetano
do Sul, Brazil.  Tenaris, the world’s largest maker of seamless steel pipes,
plans to offer 5.85 reais per share of Confab, or a premium of
about 36 percent to Confab’s 20-trading day volume weighted
average price, according to a statement from Tenaris yesterday
after markets closed. The transaction may reach 1.4 billion
reais ($793 million). Confab’s minority shareholders have agreed
to the revised offer, according to Tenaris.  “This represents a good price for shareholders,
particularly if you are a  long term  shareholder of the
company”, said  Christopher Palmer , who helps oversee $2.5
billion in Latin American assets, including Confab shares, as
director of global  emerging markets  for Henderson Global
Investors Ltd. in  London . “We are hoping some of the technical
issues, which arose during the last offer, don’t arise again.”  The new offer for Confab is 13 percent higher than the 5.20
reais per share Tenaris proposed on Aug. 29. On Nov. 3, Tenaris
withdrew that offer after shareholders requested
“substantially” more and said there would be no second
valuation.  Final Stages  Tenaris is seeking to expand control of Confab as demand
increases for steel pipes used by oil producers including state-
controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) . On Dec. 12, Confab said it is
in the final stages of negotiating a 657 million real contract
to supply pipes and tubes for Petrobras’s Rota Cabiunas offshore
gas pipeline.  Tenaris’s “decision is likely based on a clearer strategy
toward  Brazil , which we view as late but positive,” analysts
from Itau BBA said in a note to clients yesterday. “Since the
Brazilian pre-salt emerged as one of the most prominent markets
for premium seamless pipes and connections around the world, the
country has become a candidate for a more aggressive and focused
approach by Tenaris, given the local content requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  