-- Congress’s Six-Figure Benefits Add to $674 Billion Pension Gap
-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/congress-s-six-figure-benefits-add-to-674-billion-u-s-pension-shortfall.html
Almost 15,000 federal retirees,
including former leaders of Congress, a university president and
a banker, are receiving six-figure pensions from a system that
faces a $674.2 billion shortfall.  About one of every 125 retired federal civilian workers
collects more than $100,000 in benefits annually. They include
physicians, postal workers and presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich , according to data obtained by Bloomberg News under the
federal Freedom of Information Act.  “We don’t want to bash federal employees,” said  Jim Kessler , vice president for policy at Third Way, a Washington-
based research organization. “Still, when you have today’s
economy, public sector jobs look better and better. And there
are some pensions that make you question the system as a
whole.”  About half of all private-sector workers have no  retirement
plan  other than Social Security, according to figures from the
Employee Benefit Research Institute, a Washington-based
 nonprofit  that studies pensions. About 16 percent are in plans
similar to the federal system, which guarantees payouts based on
workers’ earnings. Some private employers offer so-called
defined-contribution plans, including 401(k) plans, in which
benefits depend on employees’ contributions and how they’re
invested.  The federal retirement system has emerged as a cost-cutting
target as the government faces a  budget deficit   exceeding  $1
trillion. A 2010 Congressional Research Service study reported
that U.S. government pension programs had a shortfall of $674.2
billion, mostly due to insufficient funding for workers hired
before 1984.  Employee Contribution  The  U.S. Treasury  pays about $4.9 billion every month for
about 1.8 million retirees, an average of $31,633 annually.
Federal employees contribute $1 of every $14 toward retirement,
according to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility
and Reform, a bipartisan panel created by President  Barack Obama .  Public employees at the state and local levels already have
faced moves to cut future benefits, as officials seek to address
a cumulative pension gap that exceeds $4 trillion. Dallas Salisbury, president of the benefits institute, said in an
interview that federal pensions might be “richer than we can
now afford. Something’s going to have to give.”  The number of current federal employees eligible to retire
and collect a pension will grow to 956,613 by the end of the
2016 budget year, a 35 percent increase from the 707,750 who
could have retired at the end of September, according to a 2008
study by the  Office of Personnel Management .  Roughly 27 Years  Retirees in the database that OPM released to Bloomberg
News had careers that lasted an average of roughly 27 years. The
database is dated Sept. 29, 2011, and doesn’t contain the names
of employees’ survivors who receive benefits. The  Congressional
Budget Office  said in a report last March that in 2010, the U.S.
government paid $69 billion to 2.5 million civilian retirees and
their survivors, and $51 billion to 2.2 million military
retirees and their survivors.  Retired physicians and politicians ranked among those
collecting the largest benefits. The chance of getting a six-
figure pension was best at the Securities and Exchange
Commission, where 9.3 percent of retirees collect at least
$100,000 annually.  Irving K. Jordan Jr., former president of Gallaudet
University in Washington, led the list at $375,900. Gallaudet
gets about $120 million federal funding each year. Jordan didn’t
return a request for comment left with the university
president’s office.  Right Time  Maxey D. Love Jr., of Columbia,  South Carolina , is second
on the list at $322,272 a year. For years, he was president of a
farm credit bank he first joined as a college student, he said.
His salary eventually topped $300,000 a year.  “I’m a fortunate person to have been at the right place at
the right time,” said Love, 78. Shortly after he was hired, the
chance for workers at farm credit banks to stay in the federal
pension system ended, he said.  Because of cost of living adjustments, at least 48,500
retirees are making more now than they did on the federal
payroll. For example, former U.S. Representative Robert Michel,
88, a Republican from Illinois, is collecting $211,452, fourth
on the list and more than any other employee of the
congressional branch. The average of his three highest annual
salaries was $146,875. He retired in 1994 as House minority
leader with 49 years of federal service and is now a senior
adviser in  Washington  to  Hogan Lovells , a  law firm .  “Oh, for heaven’s sake,” Michel said in an interview when
told of his ranking. “I didn’t realize it was up there.”  Lawmakers’ Pensions  Former lawmakers, including some who have become lobbyists
or strategic consultants, also received six-figure pensions,
according to the OPM database. They include former House
Majority Leader  Richard Gephardt  ($106,512 for 28 years of work
as a Missouri Democratic congressman); Senate Majority Leader
Tom Daschle ($105,804 for 33 years as a South Dakota Democratic
lawmaker); Senate Majority Leader  Bob Dole  ($144,432 for 40
years as a Kansas Republican lawmaker); and Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott ($110,352 after 39 years as a Republican
lawmaker from  Mississippi ). Calls to the offices of Gephardt,
Daschle, Dole and Lott weren’t returned.  Edward J. Derwinski had the highest pension of any former
cabinet official, collecting $193,368 annually after more than
36 years of federal work that included 24 years as an  Illinois 
congressman before he became the first secretary of the
Department of  Veterans Affairs . Derwinski, 85, died Sunday.  Former Vice President  The list of former federal employees collecting more than
six figures also includes former Vice President  Dick Cheney 
($125,976 for 28 years of work, including as a Wyoming
congressman, White House chief of staff, and defense secretary).
Cheney didn’t respond to a message requesting comment.  Gingrich, the former House speaker, receives a pension of
$100,200 after 20 years in Congress, according to the data. He
has argued as a Republican presidential candidate that
government employees ought to shoulder more of the burden for
planning their retirements. His campaign spokesman, R.C.
Hammond, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The federal retirement system changed in 1986 to bring
federal workers hired after 1984 into the Social Security system
and make other changes, including offering a thrift savings plan
that resembles a 401(k). The earliest a federal worker can
retire with a full pension is at 55, with 30 years of service.  Three Highest Years  The amount of a federal retiree’s pensions is generally
based on his or her three highest-paying years; the commission
on fiscal responsibility has recommended switching that to five
years as part of a plan to trim benefit costs by as much as $70
billion over 10 years.  “The average American would probably be delighted to trade
plans,” said Joshua D. Rauh, a finance professor at
Northwestern University’s Kellogg School.  The federal pension shortfall is reflected in other levels
of government, such as the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  (Calpers), the nation’s largest. Calpers pays
536,234 retired state workers an average annual pension of
$27,984. California employees contribute between 5 and 11
percent of their salary to retirement.  Like the federal program, California pensions are based on
the top three highest-paying years. State employees with more
than 25 years of service may base their pension on the single
highest year of pay. The California fund currently faces a $51.2
billion shortfall.  “Retirees and employees are going to take some kind of
hit,” Dave Snell, head of the National Active and Retired
Federal Employees Association’s retirement benefits service
department, said in a telephone interview. “Congress is honing
its blade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net 
Frank Bass in New York at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Blau in Washington at 
 rblau1@bloomberg.net  