-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Little Changed in December as Fuel Costs Decreased
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-19T13:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/consumer-prices-in-u-s-little-changed-on-fuel.html
The cost of living in the U.S. was
little changed in December for a second month as stores cut
prices to boost holiday sales and fuel expenses fell,
reinforcing the  Federal Reserve ’s view that inflation will
remain in check.  The unchanged reading in the consumer-price index reported
by the Labor Department today in  Washington  compared with a
median forecast of a 0.1 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 78 economists.  Excluding (CPUPXCHG)  volatile food and fuel
costs, the so-called core rose 0.1 percent as projected.  Retailers from  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  to  Macy’s Inc. (M)  used
discounts to attract customers constrained by stagnant incomes
and property values that keep falling as the housing market
struggles to recover. Less inflation means Federal Reserve
officials have leeway to take additional steps to spur growth
should the economic expansion stumble.  “There are no signs of budding inflationary pressures,”
said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, who accurately forecast prices would
remain steady. “The core index is going to be pleasing to the
Fed.”  Economists’ estimates ranged from a drop of 0.1 percent to
a gain of 0.3 percent.  Annual Gain  Consumer prices increased 3 percent in the 12 months ended
in December, the biggest annual gain since 2007.  The increase in the core gauge followed a 0.2 percent
increase in November and matched the 0.1 percent gain  median 
forecast of economists surveyed. They were up 2.2 percent for
all of 2011, also the most since 2007.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, easing concern that post-
holiday firings were on the rise.  Jobless  claims  plunged by 50,000 to 352,000 in the week
ended Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The  median 
forecast of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected
384,000. A Labor Department spokesman said the decrease
reflected the usual volatility seen during this time of year.  Builders began work on fewer houses than forecast in
December, capping the worst year on record for single-family
 home construction  and signaling recovery in the industry will
take time to develop, figures from the Commerce Department also
showed today. Housing starts dropped 4.1 percent to a 657,000
annual rate last month, reflecting a slump in multifamily units.  Shares Climb  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March rose 0.5 percent to 1,308.3 at 8:48 a.m. in  New York .
 Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note up to 1.93 percent from 1.90 percent late yesterday.  Today’s report showed energy costs decreased 1.3 percent
from a month earlier.  The cost of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
averaged $3.26 in December, down from $3.38 the prior month,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  Food costs increased 0.2 percent, reflecting higher prices
for meats.  The increase in the core measure was driven by increases in
rents and medical care. Falling costs for new and used cars and
clothing limited the gain.  Store Discounts  Chains including Macy’s, Gap Inc. and Target Corp. offered
discounts on already marked-down merchandise in the week after
Christmas. Williams-Sonoma, the owner of the namesake, Pottery
Barn and West Elm home-goods chains, last week said profit may
be less than previously forecast due to holiday price-cutting.  Williams-Sonoma faced “greater challenges” given the
heavy market discounting on nationally branded products, Chief
Executive Officer Laura Alber said in a Jan. 12 statement.  Inflation and pressures to raise prices “were very
limited” at the end of last year, the Fed said in its Beige
Book anecdotal business survey released on Jan. 11. Several
district banks reported that “upward price pressures from
rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,”
the report said.  Policy makers will use the report as a basis for framing
their discussions at their next meeting on Jan. 24-25.  While the labor market is improving, paychecks are failing
to keep up with even limited inflation. Hourly earnings adjusted
for inflation rose 0.2 percent in December.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. Almost
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
ranging from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and
rents.  A report yesterday showed producer prices fell 0.1 percent
in December, while the import-price index, released last week,
declined for the fourth time in the past five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  