-- Copper Gains to 17-Week High as China, Biggest User, May Ease Credit Curbs
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-01-19T18:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/copper-climbs-on-speculation-china-biggest-user-may-relax-credit-curbs.html
Copper rose to a 17-week high in New
York on speculation  China  may ease credit controls as growth
slows, potentially bolstering demand prospects in the world’s
largest user of the metal.  China’s banking regulator is weighing a plan to relax
 capital requirements  for lenders, delaying implementing the most
stringent capital-adequacy ratios, four people with knowledge of
the matter said. Copper imports into China reached a record high
and fourth-quarter economic growth in the country topped
economists’ estimates, figures showed this month.  Looser capital rules “would be key in raising economic
expectations for China, which in turn will drive base-metal
prices higher on the expected incremental demand,” RBC Capital
Markets Ltd. said in a report today.  Copper for March delivery gained 1.3 percent to settle at
$3.8005 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices
reached $3.8215, the highest level since Sept. 20.  Metals prices also got support from U.S. economic data.
Philadelphia-area manufacturing expanded at a faster pace this
month, according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia ,
while Labor Department  figures  showed applications for jobless
benefits dropped to the lowest in almost four years last week.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Richard C. Adkerson said the company’s downstream customers in
the U.S. have a “fairly positive” demand outlook. Phoenix-
based Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded copper
producer, is seeing improvement in demand from the U.S. auto and
construction industries, he said today on a conference call.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, Copper for three-month
delivery rose 1.4 percent to $8,355 a metric ton ($3.79 a
pound).  Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin all climbed in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  