-- Corporate Debt to Surge in Sweden as Bank Credit Dries Up
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2012-01-20T11:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/corporate-debt-sales-to-surge-in-sweden-as-bank-credit-dries-up.html
Sweden’s corporate  bond market  is
poised for a surge this year as companies abandon an “extreme”
reliance on bank loans amid stricter capital rules, said Mats Carlsson, who heads the investment bank Pareto Ohman AB.  “The banks will be more conservative with their lending,
while at the same time there will still be the same demand from
companies,” Carlsson, who became chief executive officer at
Pareto Ohman in July, said in an interview in Stockholm.
“Supply will diminish and demand will grow.”  Sweden’s government wants the country’s lenders to target
more rigorous capital standards than those set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  and has set a deadline that’s
six years earlier than Basel’s 2019 goal. As the cost of bank
credit rises, firms are seeking alternatives. With Swedish
companies now relying on banks for 80 percent of their debt
financing, versus about 30 percent in the U.S., the scope for a
surge in corporate issuance is considerable, Carlsson said.  “There is a lot of room for bonds in  Sweden ,” he said.
“We’re coming from an environment of very cheap lending for the
companies and the issuers, the companies, have to adjust to a
situation where they will have to pay higher interest.”  Martin Gorne, managing director at CorpNordic Sweden AB, a
trustee company, sees “a lot of transactions in the high yield
market” this year and expects to be a trustee in as many as 20
high-yield deals in 2012, he said in an interview.  Debt Issuance  So far this year, Swedish corporates and municipalities
have issued 34.8 billion kronor ($4.9 billion), bringing sales
to 11 percent of the amount sold in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Among the main issuers were Securitas AB,
a security and alarm company, which this month sold 400 million
kronor in three year notes at 3.45 percent interest. TeliaSonera
AB sold 1.1 billion kronor in debt on Jan. 13. The figures only
reflect krona-denominated sales.  “We expect more and more companies to come to the market
for financing and to try to find other financing sources,”
Magnus Nilsson, a Stockholm-based  fund manager  at Catella
Fondforvaltning AB, which manages $1 billion in fixed income
assets, said in an interview.  According to Daniel Sachs, the chief executive officer at
corporate bond investor Proventus, this year will see a greater
demand from Swedish corporates to sell their bonds than there
will be a supply of credit. At the same time, Sweden’s corporate
debt market may face some hurdles to growth as it struggles to
develop the infrastructure needed to attract more investors.  Banks Deleveraging  “There’s no doubt that the banks need to deleverage and
the need for non-bank funding for mid-sized companies is
increasing,” Sachs said in an interview. Still, Sweden’s
corporate bond market “is underdeveloped and needs to develop
in a number of dimensions,” he said.  Sachs said he welcomes moves such as SEB AB’s decision to
create an index to track corporate bonds. Yet the gauge is “not
a full index and the market is not transparent yet,” he said.  Sweden is also behind when it comes to the standardization
of contracts on debt sales, according to Sachs. He says
regulatory steps may be necessary to bring about the changes
that are needed to enable real growth in the market.  Sweden’s corporate bond market is under pressure to develop
fast as banks start trimming their balance sheets to meet more
rigorous standards.  Capital Rules  The country’s financial regulator and central bank in
November told Sweden’s four biggest lenders to target common
equity Tier 1 capital of at least 10 percent from January 2013
and 12 percent two years later. Basel sets a 7 percent target,
to be met by 2019. The rules affect  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , SEB, and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   “Rising capital requirements do make bank financing more
expensive and our ambition is to shield our customers from the
cost of the new regulation,” Rodney Alfven, head of  investor
relations  at Nordea, said in an interview. “We’ve seen our
clients increasingly interested in corporate bonds and we expect
this trend to continue.”  Swedish firms may be able to take advantage of the Nordic
country’s haven status as Europe’s debt crisis deepens. Sweden’s
government, which boasts a  budget surplus , pays 16 basis points
less than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years. Investors are also
attracted to debt issued in krona as a hedge against the euro.  Sweden’s currency, the world’s ninth-most traded, has
gained 6 percent against the euro since a Nov. 28 low.  The largest Nordic economy will grow 1.3 percent this year,
the central bank estimates. That compares with just 0.3 percent
expansion in the euro area, according to the Frankfurt-based
 European Central Bank .  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring debt sold by the world’s biggest maker
of air compressors, Stockholm-based Atlas Copco AB, is 75
basis points, while a credit default swap on ball-bearing maker
SKF AB is 78.3 basis points. The average among European rivals
is 136.88 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  “After the turmoil in  Greece  it became very hard to issue
any bonds because investors were very cautious,” Gorne said of
2011 bond issuance. “I believe it will be more stable this
year.”  Sweden’s haven status and better economic growth prospects
than in the rest of  Europe  mean “investors, as well as issuers,
will start to see the Swedish corporate bond market as an
attractive opportunity,” Jonas Ranneby, a Stockholm-based
credit analyst at SEB, said in an interview. “Given the new
Basel III legislation, banks are also likely to be more
selective in their use of their balance sheet.”  According to Per Brilioth, managing director at Stockholm-
based investment firm Vostok Nafta Investment Ltd., “issuing
bonds is often the best way for our companies to raise the money
they need. Even though the bonds are high-yield, they are still
cheaper than the alternatives. I’m sure we’ll see many others
coming to the market this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  