-- Cost of Living in U.S. Was Probably Little Changed in December
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/cost-of-living-in-u-s-was-probably-little-changed-in-december.html
The cost of living in the U.S. was
probably little changed in December as stores cut prices to
boost holiday sales, economists said before a report today.  The  consumer price index  rose 0.1 percent after holding
steady in November, according to the median forecast of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports may show
housing starts dropped from the highest level in more than a
year and fewer Americans filed claims for jobless benefits.  Retailers from  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  to  Macy’s Inc. (M)  used
discounts to attract customers constrained by stagnant incomes
and property values that keep falling as the housing market
struggles to recover. Less inflation means Federal Reserve
officials have leeway to take additional steps to spur growth
should the economic expansion stumble.  “Price pressures have eased and we may see a bit more of
that in coming months,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist
at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “The most likely path
is for inflation to subside to a more modest pace, in line with
Fed expectations.”  The Labor Department’s price report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline of 0.1
percent to a gain of 0.3 percent.  Consumer prices  excluding  food and fuel rose 0.1 percent
last month after climbing 0.2 percent in November, according to
the Bloomberg survey  median . Compared with December 2010, the
so-called core index was probably up 2.2 percent, matching
November’s year-over-year gain, economists projected.  Fed’s Gauge  Fed policy makers’ preferred price gauge, which is issued
by the Commerce Department and is tied to  consumer spending ,
rose 1.7 percent in the year ended in November. That is at the
lower end of officials’ long-run forecast of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  Also at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department may report
builders  broke ground  in December on 680,000 houses at an annual
rate in December, down from November’s 19-month high of 685,000,
according to a Bloomberg survey median forecast. Estimates
ranged from 625,000 to 723,000.  Permits, a sign of future construction, were little changed
at a 680,000 rate, economists said the housing report may also
show. Home construction totaled 554,000 units in 2009, the
lowest since record-keeping began in 1959.  The number of workers filing applications for unemployment
insurance payments dropped to 384,000 last week from 399,000 in
the previous seven days, another Labor Department report at 8:30
a.m. is projected to show.  Holiday Discounting  Chains including Macy’s, Gap Inc. and Target Corp. offered
discounts on already marked-down merchandise in the week after
Christmas. Williams-Sonoma, the owner of the namesake, Pottery
Barn and West Elm home-goods chains, last week said profit may
be less than previously forecast due to holiday price-cutting.  Williams-Sonoma faced “greater challenges” given the
heavy market discounting on nationally branded products, Chief
Executive Officer Laura Alber said in a Jan. 12 statement.  Inflation and pressures to raise prices “were very
limited” at the end of last year, the Fed said in its Beige
Book anecdotal business survey released on Jan. 11. Several
district banks reported that “upward price pressures from
rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,”
the report said.  Policy makers will use the report as a basis for framing
their discussions at their next meeting on Jan. 24-25.  While inflation is cooling, Fed officials are concerned
housing, the industry that helped trigger the recession, has
been unable to recover. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
colleagues suggested in a recent paper that lawmakers try new
programs to revive the real estate market.  Signs the world’s largest economy is improving has spurred
a rally in equities. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has
increased 4.9 percent since the end of November.  Factories are helping underpin the expansion. A 10 a.m.
report from the Fed may show an index of manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region climbed in January to a three-month high of
10.3, economists in the Bloomberg survey projected.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  