-- Countries Banning Abortion See Higher Rates of Unsafe Procedures
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/countries-banning-abortion-see-higher-rates-of-unsafe-procedures.html
Countries restricting abortions ,
particularly in Africa and  Latin America , have higher rates of
unsafe abortion than those that allow the procedure, according
to a study published today in The Lancet journal.  The rate of unsafe abortion in Africa was 28 per 1,000
women of childbearing age and 31 per 1,000 in Latin America,
regions where abortion is highly restricted in almost all
countries, according to the  study  led by Gilda Sedgh at the
 Guttmacher Institute  in  New York , using the most recent data
gathered in 2008. That compares with less than 0.5 per 1,000 in
western Europe and  North America .  The  World Health Organization  defines unsafe abortion as a
procedure for terminating a pregnancy that is performed by an
individual lacking the necessary skills or in an environment
that doesn’t conform to minimal standards. Legally restricting
abortions leads to unsafe procedures as women have more
difficulty locating practitioners and the ones they do find are
less likely to be adequately trained, Sedgh said.  “The data continue to confirm what we have known for
decades: that women who wish to terminate unwanted pregnancies
will seek abortion at any cost, even when it is illegal or
involves risks to their own lives,” Beverly Winikoff, a
professor of clinical population and family health at  Columbia
University , said in a commentary published with the Lancet
article.  South  Africa   As previous studies indicate that at most half of women in
countries with restrictive laws report their abortions, the
authors adjusted the data for survey-based estimates.  Globally, unsafe abortions, almost all of which occur in
 developing countries , accounted for 220 deaths per 100,000
procedures in 2008, 350 times the rate associated with legal
abortions in the U.S., according to the study.  Legalizing abortion in certain countries has led to lower
rates of abortion-related deaths and complications, Sedgh said.  Within Africa, the southern region, including South Africa,
had the lowest rate of unsafe abortions, and the frequency of
abortion-related deaths declined 91 percent between 1994 and the
average rate between 1998 and 2001, according to a study
published in the South African Medical Journal in 2005.  South
Africa  legalized abortion in 1997 and is the only country on the
continent to do so.  The authors also cite a 2009 government study of eight
districts in  Nepal , which made abortion legal in 2002. That
study found that abortion-related complications accounted for 54
percent of hospital-treated maternal illnesses in 1998, compared
with 28 percent in 2008-2009.  Eastern Europe  Guyana,  French Guiana , Cuba and the U.S. territory of
 Puerto Rico  are the only areas in Latin America where the
procedure is legal, according to the New York-based  Center for
Reproductive Rights . Globally, 58 countries, accounting for 39
percent of the world’s population, allow abortion without
restriction as to reason. Sixty-eight countries, covering 26
percent of the global population, prohibit the procedure or only
permit it to save a woman’s life, and 73 countries allow it to
preserve health or for socioeconomic reasons.  Eastern  Europe  had the highest rate of abortions at 43 per
1,000, owing to the region’s low prevalence of effective methods
of  birth control  such as the pill and intra-uterine devices and
higher preference for small families. However, the rate of
unsafe abortions in the region, which with the exception of
 Poland  allows abortion by law, was 5 per 1,000, much lower than
in other developing countries.  Guidelines  “A liberal abortion law alone does not ensure the safety
of abortions,” Sedgh said. Other necessary measures include the
dissemination of knowledge about the law to providers and women,
the development of health-service guidelines for abortion and
the willingness of providers to obtain training and provide
abortion services, she said.  Globally, the rate of abortion remained almost unchanged in
2008 compared with 2003 at 28 per 1,000, as contraceptive uptake
has slowed down, according to the study.  “Without greater investment in quality family planning
services, we can expect this trend to persist,” she said.  The study was funded by the U.K. Department of
International Development, the Dutch Ministry of  Foreign Affairs 
and the  John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  