-- Croats Split on EU as Government Fights to Pass Referendum
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-01-20T14:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/croats-split-on-eu-entry-as-government-fights-to-pass-referendum.html
Croatia ’s drive to join the European
Union may stall as citizens are split over whether accession
will drag the former Yugoslav republic into a debt crisis and
erode its sovereignty.  Croatians will head to the polls on Jan. 22 on whether the
Balkan country should proceed with its planned July 2013 entry
into the 27-nation bloc. Support was at 53 percent in a poll
published last night by  IPSOS-Puls , making it possible a re-vote
will be needed before EU members begin ratification.  Two decades after the country won independence in the
bloody breakup of  Yugoslavia , the government counts on EU entry
to boost investment and economic growth and cement its break
from a communist past. Enthusiasm for EU unity is waning among
its eastern states, including Hungary and the  Czech Republic , as
the continent risks a return to a recession and politicians
increasingly oppose efforts to merge fiscal policies.  “They are angry because of corruption and distrustful of
the political elite,” said Damir Grubisa, a political scientist
and head of the  European Studies Center  in Zagreb. “There are
also those who fear they will lose some of the widely cast state
benefits, or are simply afraid of change and new challenges.”  Polls open on Jan. 22 at 7 a.m. in Zagreb and close at 7
p.m. with results expected later in the evening.  “Croatia would lose its sovereignty and would be governed
by neo-liberal capitalists,” said Tomislav Kosic, 32, an
unemployed laborer. He also said Croatia’s farmers may not be
able to compete in the larger agricultural community in older EU
nations.  EU Benefits  Still, membership in the world’s largest trading bloc is
expected to provide Croatia’s 4.2 million people with hundreds
of millions of euros in regional development and infrastructure
subsidies. Companies such as  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , and  Sweden ’s Ericsson AB are counting on expansion
into the Balkans as EU growth stalls over the debt crisis.  “A decision to join the EU will bring qualitative progress
to Croatia, it will give us an opportunity to make decisions
with the biggest players in Europe on equal footing,” President
Ivo Josipovic said today at a forum in Zagreb. “The EU will not
govern us. The EU will give us a huge opportunity, but how we
will fare, it depends only on us.”  Central bank  Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said in December
that the Adriatic nation, which emerged from a two-year
recession in 2011, may slide into another contraction this year
because of faltering demand for Croatian exports and waning
tourism.  Elections on Dec. 4 voted out the government and the new
prime minister,  Zoran Milanovic , has said his budget proposal
expected in February will trim the deficit, currently forecast
at 7 percent of GDP this year, trimming the country’s extensive
social welfare system and bloated public sector.  Opposition Organizer  “An independent and sovereign Croatia is the only
framework that can guarantee Croats freedom, cultural progress
and material wealth,” said Milovan Sibl, the head of Only
Croatia -- Movement for Croatia” a group that is organizing
opposition to approval.  Croatia’s  credit rating  was reduced a year ago to BBB-, one
step above junk at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a
“deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak” external
financing.  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 5 it will review its assessment
in the first quarter in 2012, by which time it expects to have
more information regarding the government’s fiscal and economic
program.  Croatian five-year credit-default swaps, which are used to
insure bondholders against the risk of non-payment, were at 530
points at 9 a.m. in Zagreb, up from 523 points on Dec. 5, the
day after the elections. Croatian debt is the third-most
expensive to insure against default in eastern Europe after
 Hungary  and Ukraine and compares with Italy at 469 points.  ‘Positive Element’  “In the context of the credit rating, EU membership is
regarded as a positive element when it comes to investment
security,”  Standard & Poor’s  analyst Marko Mrsnik said in a
phone interview on Jan. 16. “Rejecting the entry could slow
investment and the loss of EU funds intended for infrastructure
would further hinder investment and slow economic growth.”  The government is campaigning for passage in the final
days, with Foreign Minister  Vesna Pusic  warning that rejection
“would be like shooting yourself into the foot” as neighbors
clamor for membership.  Montenegro, another former Yugoslav republic, will start
entry negotiations in June, while Serbia will hear in March
whether the EU accepts its application for official candidacy.  “What other strategic alignments are there in the world
for Croatia, if it rejects entry,” said Hongjoo Hahm, the  World
Bank ’s country manager in Zagreb.  Croatia is culturally and politically aligned with  Europe ,
Hahm said and the “most convincing argument for entry is
economic, as you see a rapid convergence of income in all the
countries that have joined.”  To contact the reporter responsible for the story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  