-- Crude Oil Advances in New York on Shrinking Stockpiles, Iranian Risks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-19T13:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/crude-oil-advances-in-new-york-on-shrinking-stockpiles-iranian-risks.html
Oil rose in  New York  on signs that
the U.S. economic recovery is reducing the nation’s crude
inventories, and on concern that tensions with  Iran  may lead to
disruptions in exports from the  Middle East .  Futures advanced as much as 1.4 percent after the  American
Petroleum Institute  said  crude inventories  slid the most in six
weeks in the seven days ended Jan. 13. Energy Department data
today may show supplies climbed for a fourth week, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of analysts before the API numbers were
released. Iran’s ambassador to the  United Nations  said yesterday
that closing the Strait of Hormuz, the passageway for about a
fifth of the world’s oil trade, is an option if his country’s
security is endangered.  “It was a big draw” in crude inventories reported by the
API, said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen AG in Vienna.
“So expectations for the Energy Department numbers definitely
become more bullish. On the hand, this may bring disappointment
if the crude numbers do not drop.  Crude for February delivery gained as much as $1.42 to
$102.01 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.74 at 1:03 p.m. London time.
The contract, which expires tomorrow, is up 2.9 percent this
year. The more active March contract rose $1.16 to $101.92.  Brent oil for March settlement advanced 84 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $111.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to
West Texas Intermediate futures was at $9.58, compared with
$9.90 yesterday and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Oil Supplies  ‘‘There is no decision to block and close the  Strait of
Hormuz  unless Iran is threatened seriously and somebody wants to
tighten the noose,’’ Ambassador  Mohammad Khazaee  said on the
Charlie Rose show, according to a transcript of the interview.
‘‘All the options are, or would be, on the table.’’  U.S. crude inventories dropped 4.81 million barrels last
week, the most since the week ended Dec. 2, figures from the
industry-funded API showed. They are forecast to climb  3 million
barrels  in the energy department report, according to the median
of 12 analyst estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies rose 4.31 million barrels, the API data
showed. They are projected to increase  2.35 million barrels  in
the government report, according to the survey. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes diesel and heating oil,
fell 900,000 barrels compared with an estimate for a 1.38
million barrel gain.  Gasoline Purchases  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey. The Energy Department is
scheduled to release its inventory report at 11 a.m. in
 Washington , a day later than usual because of the Martin Luther
King Jr. holiday on Jan. 16.  U.S. drivers bought 8.37 million barrels a day of gasoline
in the week ended Jan. 13, up from 8.044 million a week earlier
that was the lowest level in more than seven years, according to
MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report yesterday. The company’s data
goes back to July 2004.  Oil in New York may rise to an eight-month high above
$103.74 a barrel after failing to settle beneath a support level
at the 50-day moving average, according to technical analysis by
IAF Advisors.  ‘‘There are signs we are bottoming,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago , in an e-mail. “Gas
demand bounced a bit,” he said, citing the MasterCard report.
“Still, don’t look for a demand surge. It’s very modest.”  Prices slipped yesterday after President  Barack Obama 
denied a permit for TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline
that may have reduced inventories by carrying crude from
Alberta’s oil sands to refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast.  The company said it will refile a revised route to avoid an
environmentally sensitive area in  Nebraska . The 1,661-mile
(2,673-kilometer) project planned to transport 700,000 barrels
of crude a day and cross six U.S. states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  