-- Concordia at ‘High Risk’ of Sinking as Italy Issues Storm Warning for Area
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-19T23:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/cruise-liner-survivor-search-resumes-as-20-passengers-crew-still-missing.html
The Costa Concordia cruise ship that
ran aground on  Italy ’s Giglio island is at “high risk” of
sinking, threatening  Europe ’s biggest marine park as a storm
heads toward the area.  “It very much depends on the change in weather
conditions,” Environment Minister Corrado Clini said yesterday
in Parliament in  Rome . The government plans to declare a state
of emergency for the area at a Cabinet meeting today, as well as
approve a measure that would restrict  cruise ships  from access
to sensitive coastal regions.  Italy’s Civil Protection Agency yesterday issued a weather
warning for possible storms on the western coast of Italy,
including Giglio, according to a statement on its website.  Clini said there is a risk that the 290-meter (951 feet)
long ship, which is lying in an unsteady position, will slip off
an underwater ledge and sink into a 70-meter-deep trough,
threatening to rupture fuel tanks. Efforts to find more than 20
missing passengers and crew of  Carnival Corp.’s (CCL)  Concordia cruise
ship resumed yesterday as two of the confirmed 11 deaths were
identified as French passengers.  Carnival’s Italian unit, Costa Crociere SpA, has hired Smit
Salvage, a unit of Royal Boskalis Westminster NV, to remove
500,000 gallons of fuel from the crippled cruise liner. The
company will need two to four weeks to take the fuel off the
ship, executives said on a conference call Jan. 17.  Fuel-removal operations haven’t started because the company
wants to do a complete underwater inspection first and is
waiting for approval from Italian authorities to proceed, said
Martin Schuttevaer, director of  investor relations  for Royal
Boskalis.  Marine Sanctuary  The ship is lying on its side off Giglio, an island of
1,500 inhabitants in winter who survive on fishing and tourism,
located about 14 miles from the Tuscan coast. Giglio lies within
the Santuario dei Cetacei, an area of roughly 87,500 square
kilometers that in 1999 was declared by the governments of
France, Italy and  Monaco  as a sanctuary for marine mammals such
as dolphins and whales.  So far, there’s only been a small oil leak from a damaged
lifeboat,  Corrado Passera , Italy’s economic development and
infrastructure minister, said at the Senate in Rome yesterday.  The search team returned to the area at 6 a.m. local time
yesterday after the rescue operation was temporarily halted when
ship movements were detected. Rescue divers discovered five
bodies on Jan. 17.  Coastal Reef  The vessel struck a reef near Giglio on Jan. 13 after the
captain deviated from the planned route to sail close to the
island, hours after the vessel left a port near Rome with 4,200
passengers and crew for a Mediterranean cruise.  The  captain, Francesco Schettino, was placed under house
arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the shipwreck and
abandoning the ship, court documents show. Costa Crociere has
suspended the captain, Marco  De Luca , a lawyer for the company,
said in an interview on SkyTG24 television.  Schettino didn’t abandon the ship, his lawyer Bruno
Leporatti has said, and his actions saved many lives, according
to a Jan. 16 statement from the attorney. The captain said he
didn’t leave the Concordia intentionally, according to the court
documents.  Schettino failed to promptly inform the Coast Guard after
he struck the rocks that ripped a hole in the ship’s hull and is
accused by prosecutors of abandoning the vessel with about 300
people still aboard, Judge Valeria Montesarchio said in her Jan.
16 decision to place him under house arrest.  Schettino was repeatedly ordered by a senior Coast Guard
official to return to the ship. The captain said there was no
way to get back onboard, according to a recording of the
conversations, which has been verified by the Coast Guard.  ‘Blackout Problem’  Recorded conversations between Schettino and Coast Guard
officials broadcast by SkyTG24 showed the captain initially
played down the accident, insisting 30 minutes after the
Concordia hit rocks, and started taking in water, that it was
only a “blackout problem.”  Judge Montesarchio rejected a prosecutor request for the
captain to remain in jail, saying that while the commander had
hesitated in giving the evacuation order, he was not a flight
risk. Prosecutors plan to appeal the judge’s decision to grant
house arrest.  Schettino gave the evacuation order more than an hour after
the ship hit the rocks, delaying rescue operations, according to
the court document. The captain said he made an emergency
maneuver after hitting the rocks to prevent the ship from
heading out to sea and sinking, according to the judge’s written
decision.  Carnival, the world’s largest cruise operator, said in a
statement yesterday that it has begun refunding passengers and
that it’s arranging lodging, transportation and counseling for
passengers and crew.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  