-- Cruise Industry Calls for Review as Bookings Unharmed
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-01-19T22:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/cruise-industry-calls-for-review-as-bookings-unharmed-correct-.html
(Corrects travel industry official’s comment in first two
paragraphs.)  Cruise bookings haven’t dropped
notably since the Costa Concordia capsized off the coast of
 Italy  last week, an industry executive said, while calling for a
review of safety procedures.  “From the travel agent community and our members we have
not seen any significant reduction in activity,” Christine Duffy, president and chief executive officer of the Cruise Lines
International Association, said at a briefing in London today.
The Jan. 13 grounding killed at least 11 people and left 20
passengers and crew missing.  Duffy said large cruise ships are safe and called for a
review of regulations by the  International Maritime Organization 
following the investigation into the accident that led the 290-
meter (951 feet) Costa Concordia carrying 4,200 passengers and
crew to run aground.  “It’s quite easy to jump to the conclusion that big ships,
with a large number of passengers and crew, are by definition
riskier,” said Alan Massey, chief executive officer of the U.K.
Maritime and Coastguard Agency. “Safety standards have kept
pace” with bigger ships and stability standards are the same as
on smaller vessels.  Bigger ships may have safety advantages by offering larger
platforms to organize evacuations, capacity to store life
jackets directly on deck at emergency assembly points and more
powerful rescue boats, said the association, whose members
include travel agents and cruise lines.  Drills Before Departure  The cruise industry might implement rules after the
disaster to require passengers to take part in emergency drills
before a ship leaves port, said Bill Wright, a safety and
maritime expert for the cruise association and former captain of
one of the world’s largest  cruise ships , Royal Carribbean
Cruises Ltd.’s “Oasis of the Seas.”  The Concordia’s captain, Francesco Schettino, was placed
under house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the
shipwreck and abandoning the ship, court documents show.  No international law requires a captain to leave the ship
last, though a “myth” has become an expectation, Massey said.  “As a professional captain I find it very hard to
understand what circumstances might have led this captain to
decide to leave his vessel,” Wright said. Under some
circumstances, including loss of communications, it may make
sense for a captain to direct a rescue operation from a nearby
vessel though “moving yourself from a ship to a rocky island
doesn’t seem to offer that advantage,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in  London  at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  