-- Czech Interest Rates May Stay Unchanged This Year, Singer Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-19T08:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/czech-interest-rates-may-stay-unchanged-this-year-singer-says.html
Czech  interest rates  may remain at a
record low this year unless the economy stats generating
inflationary pressures, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer
said.  Singer commented on the outlook for interest rates, the
economy and the koruna in an interview in Vienna yesterday.  On the economy:  “Even in November we were communicating alternative
forecasts that saw sub-zero growth. I believe now we would be
moving toward very low growth, or a growth number that hovers
around zero.  “We are also recording still relatively positive
industrial growth and trade numbers. So it’s very difficult to
forecast. After all, the difference between +0.1 and -0.1 is
one-fifth of a percentage point. It’s a bit meaningless to
discuss whether growth numbers will be preceded with a dash or
not.”  On deleveraging risks:  “I believe we weren’t too leveraged in the past, so we
have relatively little scope to deleverage. Plus our financial
system is providing enough resources for loan growth, which is
happening as well as provide resources we finance, we are a net
creditor of the rest of  Europe . I see growth both in corporate
and retail sector.  “And growth is financed from domestic deposits. And the
banks are still not achieving their growth targets, so I don’t
think this is going to be such a risk.”  On the outlook for interest rates:  “My view is, and we sort of assumed it in our November
decision, that we are moving closer to the alternative, closer
to stability of rates for a longer period. I would say we are in
stability.  “If you give me long enough, I would certainly assume that
rates won’t stay at 0.75.  “Well, in 2012 I’d be much more skeptical on any move,
unless we get some surprise. Any sort of surprise, inflationary
pressures stemming from economy, from the internal kind from
Czech economy.  “Three percent inflation isn’t monetary-policy relevant
inflation, it’s pushed higher by the VAT change. So actually,
with monetary-policy relevant inflation we shall be very close
to the target. So kind-of three percent inflation would matter
only if it would have started driving expectations, but
expectations seem to be stable.”  On the koruna:  “If I take a look at how the government is able to finance
the debt, if I look at export numbers, especially net export
numbers, I am quite positive.  “So I don’t think there is anything that would undermine
our kind of long-term assumption that the koruna is going to
appreciate further. But the current situation, of course brings
contagious effects, nervousness about some segment of the
region, which might postpone the process. Over the long run, I’m
still relatively optimistic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  