-- Czech Rates May Be Kept at Record Low in 2012, Singer Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-19T16:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/czech-rates-may-be-kept-at-record-low-in-2012-singer-says.html
Czech  interest rates  may be left
unchanged at a record low through this year unless the economy
shows an unexpected buildup of inflationary pressures, central
bank Governor Miroslav Singer said.  The Prague-based Czech National Bank kept the  benchmark
rate  at 0.75 percent, a quarter-point below the  European Central
Bank ’s main rate, for a 13th meeting last month as policy makers
weighed a worsening economic outlook against accelerating
inflation. The Czech economic outlook is clouded by the debt
crisis in the euro area, which takes about 70 percent of the
country’s exports.  The economy may show “very low growth, or a growth number
that hovers around zero,” Singer said in an interview in Vienna
yesterday. The spike in headline inflation above the central
bank’s 2 percent target near the end of last year was caused by
an increase in the value-added tax and isn’t a reason for
changing interest rates, he said, adding the koruna should
strengthen in the longer term.  The central bank is moving “closer to stability of rates
for a longer period,” Singer said. “In 2012, I’d be much more
skeptical on any move, unless we get some surprise,” he said,
referring to inflationary pressures that would stem from the
domestic economy.  Resurgent Price Growth  Eastern European policy makers face resurgent price growth
due to weakening currencies and the worsening economic outlook
in the euro region, their biggest export market, which may be
nearing a recession under the weight of its debt burden and
government austerity plans.  The Czech  inflation  rate was 2.4 percent in December,
declining from a 35-month high of 2.5 percent in the previous
month. The central bank said it may have been influenced by
prices rising ahead of the increase in the lower VAT bracket to
14 percent from 10 percent at the beginning of this year.
Domestic demand-driven inflation pressures aren’t visible,
according to minutes from the Dec. 21 meeting released Jan. 6.  “Three percent inflation isn’t monetary relevant
inflation, it’s pushed by the VAT change,” Singer said. The
monetary-relevant inflation, which is price growth adjusted for
the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, should be
“very close to the target,” he said.  The central bank’s base-line forecast, published Nov. 3,
sees the koruna gaining this year, with the average  exchange
rate  at 23.1 to the euro. It assumed a decline in market
interest rates at around the end of last year.  ‘Sharp Slowdown’  The bank also prepared an alternative scenario that sees a
“sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth this year.
This outlook sees a weaker koruna and stable market interest
rates.  “Even in November, we were communicating also alternative
forecasts that saw sub-zero growth. I believe now we would be
moving toward very low growth or a growth number that hovers
around zero,” said Singer.  The economy shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter from
the previous three months, the first quarterly contraction since
a 2009 recession.  Gross domestic product  growth slowed to 1.2
percent from a year ago in the July-September period, from 2
percent in the previous quarter.  The koruna has lost 1.9 percent to the euro in the past
three months, the second-worst performance, after Hungarian
forint, among 25 emerging markets currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The koruna reversed earlier loses and gained 0.6
percent to 25.354 to the euro as of 4:48 p.m. in Prague.  The koruna is currently affected by contagion from
countries in  Europe  that are experiencing economic difficulties,
Singer said, expecting the currency to resume gaining “in the
longer-term,” Singer said.  “If I take a look at how the government is able to finance
the debt, if I look at export numbers, especially the net export
numbers, I am quite positive,” he said. “Over the long run,
I’m still relatively optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  