-- David Beckham to Spend Two More Years With Galaxy
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-19T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/david-beckham-re-signs-for-los-angeles-galaxy-for-two-additional-years.html
(Corrects date of debut in 10th paragraph.)  David Beckham  decided against a
return to  Europe  in favor of playing another two seasons in  Los
Angeles , where he helped the Galaxy win their first Major League
Soccer championship in six years in November.  Former  England  captain Beckham, who played for  Manchester
United  and Real  Madrid  before joining the Galaxy in 2007, was
linked with a move to clubs including Paris Saint-Germain, which
is owned by the Qatari government, since his contract with the
Galaxy expired in December.  “I had many offers from clubs from around the world,
however I’m still passionate about playing in America and
winning trophies with the Galaxy,” Beckham said today in an e-
mailed team statement. “I’ve seen first-hand how popular soccer
is now in the States, and I’m as committed as ever to growing
the game here.”  In 74 games for the Galaxy, the 36-year-old Beckham has
scored 11 times and set up 31 goals. The team has reached the
playoffs the past three years.  Even as his on-field career enters its twilight years,
Beckham’s earning power continues to climb. He collected 2.6
million pounds ($4 million) from new endorsement deals in 2010,
according to an Oct. 6 filing by his London-based company,
Footwork Productions Ltd.  2010 Earnings  Beckham’s 2010 earnings from Footwork Productions, which
don’t include his Galaxy salary, rose 31 percent to 14.9 million
pounds, the filing shows. Forbes magazine in May put his total
earnings at $40 million. He also endorses companies including
 Adidas AG (ADS)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   “My family and I are incredibly happy and settled in
America and we look forward to spending many more years here,”
Beckham said.  MLS has grown to 19 teams from 12 since Beckham arrived. In
that time, nine new soccer-specific stadiums have been built,
giving the league 15. Average attendance rose to 17,872 last
season, making MLS the 10th-best attended league in the world,
the Galaxy said in the statement.  “The 2011 Galaxy team may have been the best club in MLS
history and, like David, we’re focused on repeating that success
in 2012,”  Tim Leiweke , chief executive officer of Anschutz
Entertainment Group, the Los Angeles-based company that owns the
Galaxy, said in the statement.  Beckham made his debut for United in 1992 as a 17-year-old
and rose to prominence by scoring from the halfway line against
Wimbledon on the opening day of the following season. He won
England’s Premier League six times with United, the F.A. Cup
twice and the Champions League, the continent’s top prize. He
won the Spanish league title while at Real Madrid, which he
joined in 2003.  England Appearances  Beckham made his first England appearance in a World Cup
qualifier against Moldova in 1996. He played in 115 games for
his country, the most by a non-goalkeeper, scoring 17 times.  The Galaxy return to competitive action on March 7 against
Toronto in a CONCACAF  Champions League  quarterfinal. They open
the 2012 MLS season three days later, when they host Real Salt
Lake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 