-- Days of Easy Money Are Over for Fund Managers: Alice Schroeder
-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 2012-01-19T00:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/days-of-easy-money-over-for-fund-managers-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
As a profit-making endeavor,
managing other people’s money is hard to beat. The business
requires very little invested capital. There are no worries
about getting paid in full when the bill comes due, since
fund managers control their customers’ money. And
lackluster performance is no bar to hefty profits because
fees, based on the dollar value of assets under management,
are paid even when returns are abysmal.  Wall Street, it often seems, is exempt from the laws
of economics. Most active money managers produce worse
returns than an index, such as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 .
But making enough money to look respectable to clients has
been relatively easy as long as falling  interest rates 
boosted the value of most asset classes.  What’s more, new competitors constantly enter the
business, yet rarely discount fees to gain market share.
Instead, funds rely on investors to chase the latest high-
performing manager, like gamblers who ignore their losses
while seeking a hot slot machine. This has given the
business a pricing umbrella that shelters it from
competition.  From the owners’ standpoint, all this has been
fabulous. They work in a business that produces abnormally
high profits and forgives incompetence, a rarity in modern
capitalism.  Human Nature  Human nature being what it is, I have never met
any money managers who believed their own bad results had
anything to do with personal incompetence. Rather,
investment firms are keenly aware that the talent they
possess costs money; hence managers feel no sense of irony
when summing up a laggard year with, “It was a good year
for us. I only wish it had been a better year for our
clients.”  But after a couple of decades in which asset managers
floated along in ease and splendor, economics is now
grinding down the business. The easy money is going away.
Investment management is in the early stages of a historic
transformation. Like most tectonic shifts, it probably will
take years to fully develop.  The signs are clear.  Stanley Druckenmiller , who had a
long record of prescience as the founder and chairman of
the $12 billion Duquesne Capital Management LLC, was the
first notable figure to act on the new reality. He returned
his clients’ money in 2011 because managing such a large
fund was “having a clear impact” on his performance, he
told Bloomberg News in 2010.  Druckenmiller and others who followed his example are
already rich. This is not true (in the Wall Street sense of
“rich”) for a lot of others who work in the industry, or
would like to. Despite deteriorating fundamentals, a near-
record number of hedge funds and exchange-traded funds
started up last year.  That certainly did not occur because clients faced a
dearth of choices. It was driven more by the insouciant
attitude of “Apres moi, le deluge,” or “After me, the
flood.” (Louis XV or his mistress, Madame de Pompadour,
supposedly used the phrase to convey that a coming flood,
which turned out to be the French Revolution, would be too
late to drown them -- justifying the French royalties’
excess and debauchery.)  Poor Performance  The first sign of the investment-management flood was
last year’s manifestly poor performance, just as it was
saturated with competition. The average  hedge fund  lost 4.9
percent and diversified U.S.  equity mutual funds  lost 2.2
percent. This came on the heels of three shocks: the 2008
financial crisis, the 2009 market panic and the 2010 “flash
crash.”  It also followed an entire lost decade for the equity
market. Investors’ disenchantment shows in outflows from
equity funds. In 2010, stock funds (including mutual funds
and exchange traded funds) had a total inflow of $36
billion. But in 2011 investors took back almost all of that
money by pulling out $35 billion.      The sophisticated and
flexible hedge-fund business saw no basic change in its
overall assets (including all types of funds).  Within that industry, though, funds are flowing
furiously toward the largest managers because people want
the tried-and-true, lest they wind up trusting another
 Bernard Madoff . The assets of the 26  largest hedge funds 
grew 12.3 percent in the 18 months ended June 30, 2011. Of
the total assets added by hedge funds in the first six
months of 2011, more than 11 percent went to just one
manager,  Bridgewater Associates LP .  More assets in the hands of a single manager increase
that manager’s fees. In the long run, however, fees are
linked to performance, and concentration is a drag on
performance, as Druckenmiller noted. Huge amounts of money
make it harder for managers to stake out unique non-
consensus positions. Funds that must deploy huge sums wind
up crowded into the same list of assets, overlapping their
 portfolios .  Diversity of market opinions once meant a wide
distribution of fine, granular bets. More and more, a
handful of viewpoints dominate the markets. The result is
big market swings with small changes in sentiment. Yet most
managers are being paid partly to defend their clients from
volatility.  Declining Fees  Coincident with financial shocks and poor performance,
holes have appeared in the industry’s price umbrella.
According to the website FINalternatives, new hedge funds’
average management fees have been declining and, in the
year ending September 2011, were at 1.57 percent of assets
versus the standard 2 percent, while performance fees (as a
percentage of returns) are running at 17.56 percent (versus
the standard 20 percent).  Also telling is the transition of money from mutual
funds to exchange-traded funds, which charge lower fees for
expenses. Equity mutual funds lost $ 99 billion  of assets in
2011, and $64 billion of that money went right back into
exchange traded equity funds. This long-term trend is
sucking assets out of mutual funds and jeopardizing their
future.  By implication, the whole asset management industry is
going to consolidate and shrink; its cost and fee structure
will also need to adjust to more competitive levels.
Meanwhile, the trend toward lower fees and the preference
for larger managers pinch smaller funds even more nastily
because of the way these developments interact with the
second reason for the industry’s fundamental
transformation: rising costs.  The Dodd-Frank  Wall Street  Reform and Consumer
Protection Act is one culprit here. It forces more funds to
register with regulators; imposes heavy reporting burdens
on even small investment advisers; requires compliance
officers and programs, and expands asset managers’ fraud
liability in several areas.  A hedge fund with more than $150 million in assets
(small in reality) is considered “large” under Dodd-Frank
and is required to have a full-time chief compliance
officer and meet other compliance and monitoring
obligations. A fund of this size that charged a 2 percent
management fee would collect about $3 million to cover all
its expenses. Dodd-Frank costs would consume a large and
possibly fatal percentage of that.  Dodd-Frank has a lighter impact on large managers. In
the big picture, though, the outlook for costs isn’t
positive for anyone. The pro-regulatory climate suggests
rules are more likely to be added than taken away.
Meanwhile, the political environment demands austerity, and
Congress might respond by imposing transaction taxes,
levies on fund managers’ performance fees, or other
measures designed to be “tough on Wall Street.”  Headwinds  These trends -- too much money concentrated in too few
hands, higher costs and downward pressure on fees -- are
fundamental enough to reshape the business. But there’s yet
another factor and its effect is overwhelming.  For more than two decades, the asset management
business has enjoyed a tailwind of falling interest rates
and growing tolerance for leverage. With the leverage boom
that began in the 1980s, falling rates and easier credit
standards boosted growth in the global economy.  Asset
valuations (on which fees are based) increased and new
opportunities arose for money managers to devise investment
strategies based on leverage. If the passive benefit from
falling interest rates and leverage could be backed out of
investment returns for the past two decades, a lot of what
looked like successful asset management would really be
second-rate performance.  We now live in a world where second-rate performers
have nowhere to hide. Interest rates are low, but will rise
once growth resumes. This is a headwind, not a tailwind.  Consider what it means for money managers to live in a
deleveraging world. It may not be universally accepted yet,
but in this new era, 4 percent is a good return. This will
not justify paying 2 percent of assets as a management fee
(to say nothing of 20 percent of returns as performance
fees). A similar problem exists for mutual fund companies,
most of which have high overhead, including managers who
get seven-figure bonuses.  Of course, a really good manager will always be able
to earn an honest and lucrative living. They just aren’t
nearly as numerous as the pretenders. This is why, facing
the future, some of the brightest asset managers welcome
the thought that the untalented are getting flushed out.
For them, the story is, “Apres le deluge, moi.”  ( Alice Schroeder , the author of “The Snowball:  Warren
Buffett  and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on Wall Street, is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  