-- Manganese Can Stop E. Coli Toxin, Study Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/deadly-e-coli-toxin-can-be-stopped-with-manganese-researchers-say.html
A  deadly toxin  produced by certain
kinds of E. coli, including those that caused an outbreak in
 Europe  last year, can be combated using the element manganese,
according to research that may lead to an inexpensive treatment
for infections.  Manganese, commonly found in nature, protected cells
against as much as 4,000 times the amount of that toxin required
to cause death in the lab, according to scientists in the
journal  Science . In a study, mice dosed with manganese were
resistant to the poison.  That toxin, called Shiga, caused the severe diarrhea and
kidney damage seen in the European outbreak. Antibiotics aren’t
effective and may make the poison worse by causing the bacteria
to burst open, releasing more Shiga and making patients sicker.
There is no treatment for the infections, which sicken 150
million worldwide and kill more than 1 million each year,
according to the study authors.  “An inexpensive, accessible treatment -- not a designer
drug -- is the ideal solution,” said Adam Linstedt, a biologist
at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh and a study author,
in a statement. Most of the illnesses from Shiga take place in
the developing world, so cheapness is important, he said.  The toxin is also produced by  Shigella , which can be
acquired through contaminated food or water. About 14,000 cases
of this illness are reported in the U.S. every year.  Manganese protects cells by blocking the path the Shiga
toxin takes to shut down the cell. Shiga avoids the cell’s
lysosomes, which would render it harmless, by riding on a
protein called GPP130. The presence of manganese causes GPP130
to go to the lysosomes, leading Shiga there as well.  The 2011 European outbreak sickened more than 4,300 people
and killed at least 50. The culprit was tainted sprouts,
although health officials at first mistakenly blamed tomatoes,
Spanish cucumbers, and lettuce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 