-- Diane Garnick Seeks Lift for Wall Street Women With New Firm
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-01-19T16:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/diane-garnick-seeks-a-boost-for-wall-street-women-with-new-firm.html
Diane Garnick, a former investment
strategist at  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , said she is opening an asset
management firm today that she hopes will help tilt the balance
of the top Wall Street jobs more in favor of women.  Garnick, who turns 45 today, said she is founding  New York- 
based Clear Alternatives LLC with a staff of three other women
that she plans to boost to 12 by the end of this year. The firm
has lined up pledges from potential investors and her goal is to
raise at least $500 million in assets under management by Dec.
31, she said.  “One of the biggest challenges is for women to find an
organization that’s willing to accept them back after they leave
the work force to raise children without taking a cut in
compensation and responsibility,” Garnick, who has two
daughters and will be chief executive officer, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Our objective is to solve that problem.”  Garnick joined Invesco in 2007 after working as a
derivatives strategist at Merrill Lynch & Co. and an investment
strategist at  State Street Corp. (STT)  She said she wants to help more
women graduates from the best business schools go on to senior
management roles in financial services.  Women make up 18 percent of executive officers at Fortune
500 finance and insurance companies, according to a 2011 report
from  Catalyst Inc. , a nonprofit organization that focuses on
women and business. About 43 percent of master’s degrees in
business administration and management in the 2009 to 2010
school year were conferred to women, according to the U.S.
Education Department’s National Center for Education Statistics.  Clear Alternatives will be a registered  investment adviser 
and seek to manage funds from pensions, endowments and other
asset managers, Garnick said.  Garnick graduated from Hofstra University in Hempstead,  New
York , and last year earned a Master of Business Administration
from the  University of Chicago . She also is a Certified Public
Accountant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Levinson at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  