-- Dimon, Blankfein Predict Market Rebound as Rivals Pull Back
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-19T15:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/dimon-blankfein-predict-markets-to-rebound-from-slump-as-rivals-pull-back.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein predict  Wall Street  will rebound from 2011’s trading-
revenue plunge. Rivals and analysts aren’t so sure.  Fourth-quarter earnings reported by the six largest U.S.
banks show the industry suffered a third straight quarterly drop
in combined trading and investment-banking revenue. On
conference calls this week, analysts are pressing executives
with a similar refrain: Is it a temporary rut or a lasting shift
to smaller volumes, profits and pay?  “This is a big debate,” said  Paul Miller , a former
examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  and an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “A lot
of bears are saying it is due to regulation and deleveraging,
and some are saying it is cyclical. I think it’s some of both.”  Executives and analysts are focusing on whether stiffer
regulations, capital rules and a weak economy may solidify a
decline in revenue after the European debt crisis curbed trading
volume and corporate dealmaking in last year’s second half.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , which are all shrinking their investment banks, have
announced plans to eliminate about 8,300 jobs since the start of
November.  ‘Snap Back’  “We’d all hoped that the headwinds to our business,
including low levels of client activity, low  interest rates ,
market volatility and political uncertainty around the world
would subside,” Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan told analysts
Nov. 1. The bank said that day it would cut about 1,500 jobs, in
addition to 2,000 previously announced, and reorganize its
securities unit after reporting third-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates. “It’s now clear, however, that these
secular trends may persist for an extended period,” he said.  Dimon and Blankfein have since sought to reassure investors
that markets and earnings from securities units will rebound.  “The world will snap back, and it will be a surprise, and
it will be faster than people think,” Blankfein, 57, said at a
Nov. 15 investor conference. Yesterday, Chief Financial Officer
David Viniar echoed the remarks after the firm said trading
revenue fell 25 percent from the third quarter to $3.06 billion.  “We are clearly in a cyclical downturn,” rather than a
secular decline, Viniar said. “There is less activity that is
cyclical. That will come back. I have no idea when, but it will
come back.”  Dimon, 55, said  investment banking  is a volatile business
in which volumes can swing by 50 percent daily.  ‘Boom Again’  “It’s not a mystical thing,” he told reporters on a Jan.
13 conference call. “You just have to manage the business
carefully and understand it’s going to have those kinds of
swings. I don’t think the lower numbers are permanent. I think
when things come back, these numbers will boom again.”  Equity issuance across the world fell to $163 billion in
the last half of 2011, down 53 percent from the first six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Corporate bond
issuance also skidded amid the European crisis and a weaker-
than-expected  U.S. economy .  Government efforts to prevent banks from trading with their
own money also have an impact that may last, said Charles Bobrinskoy, the Chicago-based vice chairman and director of
research at Ariel Investments, which has about $5 billion under
management and owns shares of New York-based Goldman Sachs,
JPMorgan,  Citigroup (C)  Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  “It’s a little of both -- it’s a little bit of secular, a
little bit of cyclical,” he said.  Less Leverage  It doesn’t help that lawmakers and regulators are seeking
to limit financial maneuvers that boosted or masked leverage in
the past, such as off-balance-sheet conduits, variable-interest
entities and collateralized debt obligations, said  Richard Bove ,
an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida .  “There’s no more CLOs, CDOs, CDOs squared, CDOs cubed,”
Bove said, referring to asset-linked securities and financial
instruments at the heart of 2008’s U.S. financial crisis. “The
leverage isn’t there and the market isn’t there. Banks can’t
grow at the same rate.”  Citigroup reduced employees’ 2011 compensation to account
for a temporary decline in trading volumes and investor
appetite, CEO Vikram Pandit, 55, told analysts Jan. 17. The bank
also restructured reserves and sold certain assets where it sees
a permanent shift in the market, he said.  “There’s no magic answer,” Pandit said. “It’s very hard
to parse out exactly what part of the activity we’re seeing is
the cause of the cyclical situation versus how much is
secular.”  BofA,  Morgan Stanley (MS)   Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said Jan.
17 that net income dropped 11 percent as lower revenue from
advising companies and trading securities led its investment
bank to the first quarterly loss since 2008.  Goldman Sachs said fourth-quarter net income fell 58
percent, as revenue slid 30 percent. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S.
bank, said last week that net income decreased 23 percent as
investment bank earnings fell. San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , which relies least on trading among the six banks, said a
focus on loans helped soften a 4 percent drop in revenue. Its
profit rose 20 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  reported a second consecutive
quarterly loss today in its global banking and markets division,
which includes trading and underwriting operations. The entire
company swung to a $1.99 billion profit from a year-earlier loss
as mortgage charges eased. Morgan Stanley lost $250 million
during the quarter, as trading volumes and mergers and
acquisitions fell.  ‘Difficult Question’  “It’s either a slow cyclical recovery or secular, and I
don’t think it’s clear what it is,” Morgan Stanley Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said today in a telephone
interview. “However you look at it, it’s a slower growth
environment.” Morgan Stanley has reduced headcount to account
for the slower-than-expected recovery, she said.  The grim outlook for trading was a recurring topic on
Goldman Sachs’s analyst call.  “Your revenue weakness recently, are you saying none of
that is due to secular factors?” Mike Mayo, an analyst at
independent research firm CLSA in  New York , asked Viniar during
the bank’s conference call. “It’s all cyclical? There’s no
structural change that’s hurting your revenues?”  The market doesn’t seem any worse than the fall of 2008 or
when the bubble in technology stocks burst years earlier, Viniar
said in response to analysts’ questions. Still, he would never
be so bold as to rule out a lasting change, he said.  “We’ve all been doing this for a long time and we’ve seen
downturns before,” he said. “Every time you’re in one it feels
like it’s never going to end and this world is different now.”  “So is it cyclical? Is it secular?” Viniar said. “It’s a
very difficult question to answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  