-- Dollar, Yen Set for Weekly Loss Versus Euro as U.S. Data Point to Recovery
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-01-20T08:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/dollar-yen-set-for-weekly-loss-versus-euro-as-u-s-data-point-to-recovery.html
The dollar and yen headed for weekly
decline as U.S. reports suggesting the world’s biggest economy
is gaining momentum, reduced demand for safer assets.  The dollar reached a two-week low versus the euro before a
report forecast to show sales of existing U.S. homes rose to the
highest since May 2010. The 17-nation euro headed for its
biggest weekly gain versus dollar in three months after Spanish
and French borrowing costs fell yesterday at their first
auctions of medium and long-term debt since being downgraded by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Greece  today starts a third day of talks with
private creditors on a debt-swap plan.  “The U.S. data is better and that is a huge relief for
everybody at the moment,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “The yen and
the dollar are coming under some pressure.”  The yen was little changed at 99.96 per euro at 8:31 a.m.
London time, having dropped 2.4 percent this week. The dollar
was little changed at $1.2952 per euro after falling to $1.2986
earlier today, the lowest since Jan. 4. The greenback fell 2.1
percent versus the euro this week. The dollar gained 0.1 percent
to 77.21 yen.  This week’s declines for the dollar and yen versus the euro
are the biggest since the period ended Oct. 14.  U.S. Recovery  Purchases of existing U.S. homes climbed 5.2 percent to a
4.65 million annual pace last month, the most since May 2010,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before the National
Association of Realtors report today. Data yesterday showed U.S.
initial jobless claims slid to the lowest since April 2008.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 3 percent annual rate
in the final quarter of 2011, up from a 1.8 percent gain in the
previous three-month period, a separate survey showed before a
Jan. 27 report from the Commerce Department. That would be the
most since the second quarter in 2010.  “The good U.S. economic figures are positive for risk
sentiment, resulting in the selling of the dollar and yen,”
said Kengo Suzuki, a foreign-exchange strategist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest listed
bank by market value. “People are adjusting their positions
while saying it’s ‘risk on.’”  The euro has strengthened 0.7 percent over the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
weakened 1.9 percent, the worst performance among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the gauges. The dollar
lost 1.6 percent.  Debt Sales  France and  Spain  sold 14.6 billion euros of bonds yesterday
with lower funding costs. The sales came after S&P on Jan. 13
stripped France of its AAA rating and cut Spain by two levels to
A. Spain has exceeded its maximum targets in all its bond
auctions since Dec. 13.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday
progress was made in debt-swap talks with officials from the
 Institute of International Finance  in  Athens  and discussions
will continue today.  Demand for the euro was tempered after S&P said yesterday
that European companies’ debt-default rates will probably rise
in 2012 as economies shrink and tighter bank lending curbs
financing.  About 6.1 percent of companies in  Europe  whose credit
ratings are lower than investment grade may default this year,
S&P said. That compares with a default rate of 3.1 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011.  The economy of the euro area may contract 0.3 percent this
year, the  World Bank  said on Jan. 17.  ‘Downward Pressure’  “Considering the economic situation and monetary policy,
there will be downward pressure on the euro,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a foreign-currency strategist at UBS AG in  Tokyo .  The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars headed for a fifth
week of gains as a purchasing managers’ index indicated a third
month of manufacturing contraction in  China , boosting the case
for policy makers in the world’s second-largest economy to
loosen credit controls.  The preliminary January reading of 48.8 for a PMI released
today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics compares with a
final 48.7 number for December. The dividing line between
contraction and expansion is 50.  China is  Australia ’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  Australia’s currency gained 0.9 percent this week to
$1.0415. It was little changed today. New Zealand’s dollar also
advanced 0.9 percent this week to 80.18 U.S. cents. The so-
called kiwi dropped 0.2 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  