-- Draghi Says 2012 Will Be ‘Much Better’ for Europe as Financial Crisis Ebbs
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-19T15:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/draghi-says-2012-will-be-much-better-for-europe-as-financial-crisis-ebbs.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said 2012 will be a “much better” year for the
euro area as governments push ahead with fiscal reforms and the
benefits of the ECB’s flood of cheap cash become more apparent.  “I am confident that the euro will be in better shape in
2012 because I look at the progress that has been achieved on
the two root causes of the situation, namely lack of fiscal
discipline and lack of structural reform,” Draghi said at a
press conference today in  Abu Dhabi , where he was attending a
central banking conference. “I see both problems being
addressed with conviction, with determination and with realism
in many countries in euroland.”  Investor confidence  in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
jumped by a record this month after politicians pledged to
implement a “fiscal compact” to restore budget discipline and
the ECB flooded the banking system with a record amount of cash.
Draghi said the loans had prevented a “serious funding crisis”
and the benefits will become more apparent in coming months.  “We started to see the benefits of these measures,”
Draghi said. “Some interbank markets are reopening” and there
has been “a dramatic fall in yields” in many sovereign debt
markets, he said. “We see encouraging signs.”  Stocks Rally  European stocks gained for a fourth day, extending a five-
month high for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index , as Spain and  France 
sold bonds at lower yields. The euro has risen more than two
cents this week to $1.2887.  Signs of resilience in the economy give the ECB room to
pause and assess the impact of its measures to date, which
include cutting its  benchmark interest rate  to a record low of 1
percent, ongoing government bond purchases and unlimited lending
to banks.  While demand for the ECB’s second batch of three-year loans
may fall short of the 489 billion euros ($631 billion) allotted
last month, it will “still be very high,” Draghi said. The
loans will be offered on Feb. 28.  There are still “significant downside risks” to the
economic outlook, Draghi said. Asked if the ECB could add to its
two  interest-rate  cuts, he said policy makers “never pre-
commit.”  Draghi also said he is “not aware” of any plan to replace
the central bank’s government bond purchase program. ECB
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny told the Wall Street
Journal that officials are seeking an alternative.  The bond purchases are not eternal or infinite, Draghi
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  