-- Wildcatter Finds $10 Billion Drilling in North Dakota: Energy
-- B y   B r y a n   G r u l e y
-- 2012-01-19T23:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/dropout-finds-10-billion-after-drilling-in-north-dakota-energy.html
Harold G. Hamm is lost.  The 66-year-old founder, chairman and chief executive
officer of  Continental Resources Inc. (CLR)  is steering a Chevy Tahoe
past sunflower fields and grazing cows in western  North Dakota .
He’s found millions of barrels of oil in these low prairie
hills, but on this bright fall day, he’s having trouble locating
one of his own drilling rigs, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Jan. 23 issue.  In the back seat, Hamm’s public-relations handler uses her
smartphone to get their bearings. “So, we go three miles east,
five north,” Hamm says in his Oklahoma drawl. “Got it.”  Meandering past an idle John Deere combine and clutches of
mobile homes where oil workers live, he points out wells his
company has already drilled as if showing a guest around his
home. He misses a turn, shrugs, stops, doubles back. “It’s a
great day in North Dakota,” he says. “We’ll find it.”  Finally, he pulls into a dusty yard surrounding a 140-foot-
tall rig. Workers hustle around in hard hats and black fire-
retardant coveralls. From this single location, Hamm explains,
four drills will corkscrew down nearly two miles, then turn and
pierce the rock horizontally, two wells to the north, two to the
south. He pulls on his own hard hat and coveralls, jams his
hands in his pockets, and beams at the rig.  “Without a doubt, this is going to be like the one up the
road,” he shouts over the whine of a drill bit. “It came in
close to 2,000 barrels a day.” That translates into about
$150,000 in revenue per day to Continental Resources.  Biggest Since Prudhoe  Hamm is the man who bought the Bakken, the shale formation
that’s the biggest U.S. oil find since Alaska’s  Prudhoe Bay  in
1968. The Bakken stretches from central North Dakota into the
northeastern corner of Montana and up into southern Saskatchewan
and Manitoba in Canada. He leased his first acres and drilled
his first wells in North Dakota nearly 20 years ago, and stayed
with it when others gave up.  Today, Continental, with a stock market value of $14
billion, vies with oil giants such as Hess for the most Bakken
acres under lease -- more than 900,000 -- the most drilling rigs
-- 24 -- and the most wells -- more than 350.  Continental’s revenue has nearly tripled from two years ago
to an expected $1.76 billion in 2011, while adjusted profit has
grown sevenfold to an estimated $538 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hamm and his family control 78 percent of
the company’s shares, a stake valued at more than $10 billion.  ‘I Find Oil’  Hamm, a stocky man of medium height with a leprechaun’s
playful grin and a diamond-studded Continental ring on his right
hand, has revived a character who had faded from the American
oil patch. He’s a wildcatter, the sort of oil hunter unafraid to
lease land and put a drill bit in the ground where there might
or might not be crude.  “I find oil,” he says as he drives to the company jet
that will take him back to Continental headquarters in his
native  Oklahoma . “In America, people lost the will to drill for
oil. But I’m a little more hardheaded than other people.”  Thanks in part to the success of companies like
Continental, the search for crude is making a quiet comeback in
the U.S. Lots of attention has been paid to the surge in natural
gas exploration, but more rigs are currently drilling for oil
than gas: 1,191, up 402 from a year ago and quadruple the number
of rigs in 2007, according to the oil services company Baker
Hughes Inc. It’s happening in  Texas , Wyoming, Oklahoma and  Ohio .  Elusive Crude  Hamm is in the middle of it in North Dakota. The state
produced 510,000 barrels of oil a day in November, surpassing
the output of OPEC member Ecuador. North Dakota’s unemployment
rate is 3.4 percent, lowest in the nation. Hiring is so frantic,
the McDonald’s in Dickinson is offering $300 signing bonuses.  This economic anomaly owes to the fact that North Dakota,
along with parts of Montana and  Canada , sits on a vast basin of
previously elusive crude. On a whiteboard at a Continental
office in North Dakota, Hamm draws red squiggles with a marking
pen and says, “That’s the Nesson Anticline.” His blue eyes
light up. “You know what an anticline is?” In this case, it’s
a subterranean ridge that stretches south-to-north for 150
miles.  Over millions of years, oil seeped along the crest in what
is now called the Bakken, with layers of oil-rich dolomite
sandwiched between dense shales. After its discovery in the
1950s, the formation produced some boomlets, but it resisted
development because the rock is so compressed and its oiliest
slices are as thin as 10 to 15 feet. Crude was so difficult to
extract that  oil prices  had to be at least $50 to $60 a barrel
to make it worthwhile.  Continental’s Estimate  In 2008, the  U.S. Geological Survey  estimated that the
Bakken Formation in North Dakota and  Montana  contained up to 4.3
billion barrels of recoverable oil. Two years later, with more
wells drilled, Continental Resources released its own estimate:
24 billion barrels.  By comparison, Prudhoe had 13.6 billion barrels of
recoverable crude when discovered, according to the Energy
Dept., and the Ghawar field in  Saudi Arabia  has 70 billion
barrels of remaining reserves.  Other companies aren’t as optimistic as Hamm, but analysts
are growing more confident that the government estimate is low.
The state-of-the-art drilling technologies used by Continental
and others have produced a boom that “proves the old adage that
people tend to find oil and gas in places where they’ve already
found oil and gas,” says Andrew Coleman, an analyst with
 Raymond James . The U.S. geological agency is redoing its
assessment.  Scowling at Buckskin Bar  Hamm is convinced that the Bakken -- and another formation
right under it called Three Forks -- can help  North America  take
a big step toward energy independence. He gets downright angry
talking about federal legislation that he says threatens tax
benefits for oil exploration.  Over a plate of chicken-fried steak at the Buckskin Bar &
Grill in Killdeer, he sets his fork down and scowls, recalling a
chat he had with President  Barack Obama  in July at a White House
event for Hamm and others who’ve pledged most of their wealth to
charity. He told Obama there’s plenty of oil to be found in the
U.S., Hamm says. He felt the president blew him off.  “It was like, if you’re in the oil-and-gas industry, you
don’t matter,” he says.  Hamm grew up in rural Lexington, Oklahoma. Farming was a
natural career option, but Hamm wasn’t interested. By age 17 he
had married and relocated to Enid for a job that would earn high
school credit, making $1 an hour pumping gas and washing trucks.  Billowing Dust  An oil boom was spreading through northern Oklahoma. The
trucks made billows of dust, men came seeking work, and after
sunset, derricks glowed on the horizon. Hamm liked listening to
the men gab about their quarry and where they might find it.  Two years after high school, Hamm hired on with Champlin
Oil, making union wages of about $500 a month. “It was one of
those jobs everyone wanted,” he says. But he yearned to look
for oil on his own, and in 1967 he started his own oil services
company out of a Ford pickup. During the day he hauled water and
mucked crud out of oil tanks. Early mornings and late evenings,
he sat with seasoned oil-and-gas men and learned to read well
logs showing where crude might lurk.  Logs of old wells indicated that mud was caked inside the
bores, a sign of rock containing moisture and, possibly, oil.
Hamm drilled his first well in the early 1970s; his second was a
gusher.  Properties of Porosity  The money allowed him to take college classes in geology,
chemistry, and mineralogy. While he never earned a degree, Hamm
calls himself a geologist and gets excited talking about things
like breccia, a kind of sedimentary rock, and 3D seismic
mapping. He takes pains to explain the properties of porosity,
the ability of rock to hold oil like a sponge, and permeability,
referring to how easily crude might flow through rock.  Hamm eventually built a full-service exploration company,
with most of his holdings in Oklahoma. In the mid-1980s, he
drilled 16 horizontal wells -- not a brand-new technique, but
hardly conventional -- beneath the city of Enid.  He drilled multiple wells from a single site, a cost-saving
method now widely used in North Dakota. “He embraces all the
new technology,” says Jack H. Stark, Continental’s exploration
chief. Equally important, “he will lease and put the bit in the
ground to test the idea. So many others are reluctant.”  They’re reluctant because it’s expensive. Conventional
wells can cost $1 million. The horizontal wells being drilled by
Continental and others in North Dakota can cost eight times that
much, because they’re often deeper and set in less porous,
permeable rock. Also, the technology to steer drill bits
sideways through shelves of rock is complex and costly.
Companies’ aversion to the risk tends to ease, though, as oil
prices rise.  Perplexing Results  Driving through corn and wheat fields near Ames in
Oklahoma, Hamm tells the story of one of his favorite finds. In
a vast pasture there in 1988, his geologists gathered public
drilling data and fed it into a computer to map where oil or gas
might be. The results were perplexing.  One technician said a circular depression on the map seemed
to indicate cow tracks. Another correctly surmised Hamm & Co.
stumbled onto an astrobleme, a subsurface crater left by an
asteroid hundreds of millions of years ago.  The crater, eight miles in diameter, was brimming with
crude. Back in his modest office in Enid, Hamm takes a softball-
size rock off a shelf and cradles it. It came from the
astrobleme, now known as Ames Hole.  Reading the Rock  “This got blown into the sky and came back in rubble-ized
form,” he says. He points at perforations mottling the stone’s
surface, some nearly big enough to fit a pencil, evidence of
extraordinary porosity.  “That’s why that oil would just flow.” Ames Hole has
yielded more than 18 million barrels of oil, according to Hamm.  By the late 1980s, Hamm had survived two oil busts, a big
lawsuit with Occidental Petroleum Corp., and the drilling of 17
straight dry holes that cost him more than $10 million.
Chastened by the busts, other companies were shifting to natural
gas. Hamm stubbornly dispatched his geologists to find fresh
crude. They researched well logs, production records, and
geologic studies in  Wyoming  and North Dakota.  The question wasn’t whether these regions held oil, but
whether it could be extracted at a reasonable profit. “We were
looking for higher-risk, higher-potential plays that hadn’t had
every rock turned over,” Hamm recalls.  Hamm thought North Dakota held the most promise. Soon he
was making five-hour flights there in his single-engine Piper
Cub. His geologists had mapped a field, outside the Bakken
formation, in the state’s southwestern corner called Cedar
Hills. They suggested leasing 10,000 to 20,000 acres to test it.
Not enough, Hamm said. By 1995, he’d assembled 300,000 acres on
three-year leases at $15 to $50 per acre. Today, where leases
are available, they run about $1,500 an acre, and some have gone
for more than $5,000.  Horizontal Drilling  Because the rock in Cedar Hills holds oil in thin slices,
it requires horizontal drilling. Properly aimed, a sideways bore
penetrates more oil-bearing rock than it does punching
vertically through shelves only 10 or 20 feet thick. The right
equipment wasn’t readily available, so Hamm asked a supplier for
help.  “They told me horizontal drilling was a novelty,” he
says, chuckling. By 1998, Continental was producing 7,000
barrels a day out of Cedar Hills. Hamm turned to the Bakken. Rig
counts in North Dakota were declining as companies decided to
try elsewhere. Behind Hamm’s back, some of his own employees
spoke of “Hamm’s Folly,” says Katy O’Brien, his executive
assistant.  The Bakken, which has denser rock than Cedar Hills,
required another technological leap: hydraulic fracturing, the
controversial extraction method better known as fracking.  ‘Long Lateral’ Fracks  The sideways bores are fed with water, sand and chemicals
that are pumped at high pressure into the rock, freeing the
crude. Hamm’s company and others have had increasing success
using “long-lateral” fracks in which they blast the rock from
as many as 42 points. It’s a lot of work, and worth it at $100 a
barrel.  Continental wasn’t the first to frack in the Bakken. In
2000, two other companies tried it. By then, Hamm’s geologists
had mapped out swaths of the Bakken where they thought oil could
be plumbed.  “We said, ‘Well, we’ve got a map, y’all show us what to
do,’ ” Hamm recalls. When the other companies’ wells worked, he
grabbed more Bakken leases. In March 2004, Continental tried its
first horizontal frack in North Dakota under an assumed name,
Jolette Oil, so as not to attract rivals’ attention. The day was
cold and clear, and “you couldn’t see the tops of the fence
posts” for the snow, Hamm says.  Takeover Target?  The well was soon producing 120 barrels a day, and “we
were off to the races.” Continental’s stock price has increased
78 percent in the past two years, and the investment bank UBS
recently listed the company as a potential takeover target.
Would Hamm sell? “Everything’s always on the table,” he says.  One morning in November, Hamm pins a “Harold” tag to his
shirt pocket and sits with 12 staffers around a conference table
covered with color-splashed maps, smartphones, and foam cups.
It’s the weekly exploration meeting at Continental headquarters.  The room is so cramped people lean on windowsills. Facing
Hamm across the table is Tony Moss, a 27-year-old with a geology
degree from Oklahoma State University. Hamm asks him for an
update on Three Forks, the formation beneath the Bakken.  How Much Oil?  Some healthy wells have been drilled in its uppermost
layers, but some of the staff think more oil could reside in
deeper levels, or “benches.” The question is how much. And
there’s only one way to find out. Last year, Continental drilled
a test well into the second Three Forks bench in a hilly field
northwest of Watford City, N.D. The well yielded a profitable
1,140 barrels a day.  Moss reports that the well continues to produce nicely, but
there’s more. He unfurls a long sheet of paper and sticks it to
the wall with magnets. It shows photographs of core samples dug
from the lower Three Forks benches (imagine cross-sections of
apple cores illuminated by black light). Moss points to
yellowish blotches within the black cylindrical shapes.  Those blotches suggest the presence of oil in the second,
third, and fourth benches. Hamm strokes his chin, transfixed.
Moss, pointing to a few spots on a North Dakota map, suggests
that Continental dig more samples. “Go ahead,” Hamm says.
“Good work.”  Next Big Find  As others report on lease prices and projects in Oklahoma
and Wyoming, Hamm occasionally wonders aloud where the next big
find will be. “The San Joaquin basin,” he muses, referring to
central  California . “Huge, huge amount of oil there.”  He wraps it up after signing off on a winter drilling
budget in the Bakken. He sets his pen down and says, “I know
y’all are turning over every leaf, but oil’s up over a
hundred.” He grins. “What can I say?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Gruley in Chicago at 
 bgruley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at 
 jaley@bloomberg.net  