-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for January (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-01-19T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-january-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s January monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 12 January 2012 to
keep the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged, following the 25
basis point decreases on 3 November and 8 December 2011. The
information that has become available since early December
broadly confirms the previous assessment of the Governing
Council. Inflation is likely to stay above 2% for several months
to come, before declining to below 2%. At the same time, the
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains moderate. As
expected, ongoing financial market tensions continue to dampen
economic activity in the euro area, while, according to some
recent survey indicators, there are tentative signs of a
stabilisation in activity at low levels. The economic outlook
remains subject to high uncertainty and substantial downside
risks. In such an environment, cost, wage and price pressures in
the euro area should remain modest and inflation rates should
develop in line with price stability over the policy-relevant
horizon. Overall, it is essential for monetary policy to
maintain price stability over the medium term, thereby ensuring
a firm anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro area in
line with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. Such
anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make its
contribution towards supporting economic growth and  job creation 
in the euro area. A very thorough analysis of all incoming data
and developments over the period ahead is warranted.  The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for the
Eurosystem’s refinancing operations will continue to support
euro area banks, and thus the financing of the real economy. The
extensive recourse to the first three-year refinancing operation
indicates that the ECB’s non-standard monetary policy measures
are providing a substantial contribution to improving the
funding situation of banks, thereby supporting financing
conditions and confidence. In addition, the Eurosystem is
actively working towards the implementation of all the measures
announced on 8 December, which should provide additional support
to the economy. As stated on previous occasions, all the non-
standard monetary policy measures are temporary in nature.  As regards the economic analysis, real GDP in the euro area grew
by 0.1% quarter on quarter in the third quarter of 2011. At
present, a number of factors seem to be dampening the underlying
growth momentum in the euro area. They include moderate global
demand growth and weak business and consumer confidence in the
euro area. Domestic demand is ﻿likely to be dampened by the
ongoing tensions in euro area sovereign debt markets, as well as
the process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and
non-financial sectors. At the same time, the Governing Council
continues to expect euro area economic activity to recover,
albeit very gradually, in the course of 2012, supported by
developments in global demand, very low short-term interest
rates and all the measures taken to support the functioning of
the financial sector.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, substantial downside
risks to the economic outlook for the euro area continue to
exist in an environment of high uncertainty. They notably relate
to a further intensification of the tensions in euro area debt
markets and their potential spillover to the euro area real
economy. Downside risks also relate to the global economy,
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disorderly
correction of global imbalances.  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.8% in December 2011, according to Eurostat’s
flash estimate, after 3.0% in the preceding three months. This
decline was expected and reflects a downward base effect
stemming from energy prices. Inflation rates have been at
elevated levels since the end of 2010, mainly driven by higher
energy and other commodity prices. Looking ahead, they are
likely to stay above 2% for several months to come, before
declining to below 2%. This pattern reflects the expectation
that, in an environment of weaker growth in the euro area and
globally, underlying cost, wage and price pressures in the euro
area should remain modest. The Governing Council continues to
view the risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
as broadly balanced. On the upside, the main risks relate to
further increases in indirect taxes and administered prices,
owing to the need for fiscal consolidation in the coming years,
and possible increases in commodity prices. The main downside
risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in the
euro area and globally. Turning to the monetary analysis, taking
the appropriate medium-term perspective, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be moderate. The annual growth
rate of M3 decreased to 2.0% in November 2011, after 2.6% in
October. As in the previous three months, monetary developments
in November were affected by the heightened uncertainty in
financial markets.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector, adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation, decreased to 1.9% in November,
from 3.0% in October. The annual growth ﻿rates of loans to non-
financial corporations and loans to households, adjusted for
loan sales and securitisation, both moderated in November, and
stood at 1.8% and 2.3% respectively, with slightly negative
monthly flows observed for MFI loans to non-financial
corporations. Overall, despite the moderation in loan growth,
the figures on lending do not so far suggest that the heightened
financial market tensions led to a sizeable curtailment of
credit in the euro area as a whole in the period to November. At
the same time, given that credit supply effects can manifest
themselves with lags, close scrutiny of credit developments is
warranted in the period ahead.  The soundness of bank balance sheets, supported by the increase
in capital positions, will be a key factor in facilitating an
appropriate provision of credit to the economy over time. It is
essential that the implementation of banks’ recapitalisation
plans does not result in developments that are detrimental to
the financing of economic activity in the euro area. To sum up,
incoming information broadly confirms the previous assessment of
the Governing Council. Inflation is likely to stay above 2% for
several months to come, before declining to below 2%. As
expected, ongoing financial market tensions continue to dampen
economic activity in the euro area, while, according to some
recent survey indicators, there are tentative signs of a
stabilisation in activity at low levels. The economic outlook
remains subject to high uncertainty and substantial downside
risks. In such an environment, cost, wage and price pressures in
the euro area should remain modest and inflation rates should
develop in line with  price stability  over the policy-relevant
horizon. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture, with the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continuing to be moderate.  Turning to fiscal policies, euro area governments need to do
their utmost to support fiscal sustainability by correcting
excessive deficits in accordance with the agreed timetables and
by moving to a structural balanced budget or surplus position
over the medium term. Slippages in the implementation of fiscal
consolidation plans of vulnerable countries must be corrected
swiftly by structural fiscal improvements. With regard to the
new provisions of the EU economic governance framework that
recently came into force, it is crucial that all the elements be
implemented rigorously. Only ambitious policies to prevent and
correct macroeconomic and fiscal imbalances will foster public
confidence in the soundness of policy actions, and thus
strengthen overall economic sentiment.  The Governing Council welcomes the European Council’s agreement
to move to a stronger economic union, which was announced on 9
December 2011. The new fiscal ﻿compact, comprising a fundamental
restatement of the fiscal rules together with the fiscal
commitments that euro area governments have made, is an
important contribution to ensuring the long-run sustainability
of public finances in the euro area countries. The wording of
the rules needs to be unambiguous and effective. The further
development of the European financial stability tools should
make the operation of the European Financial Stability Facility
and the European Stability Mechanism more effective. The swift
deployment of these tools is now urgently needed. Concerning the
involvement of the private sector in financial assistance for
indebted countries, the Governing Council welcomes the
reaffirmation that the decisions taken on 21 July and 26 and 27
October 2011 concerning Greek debt are unique and exceptional.  To accompany fiscal consolidation, the Governing Council calls
for the urgent implementation of bold and ambitious structural
reforms. Going hand in hand, fiscal consolidation and structural
reforms would strengthen confidence, growth prospects and job
creation. Key reforms should be rapidly carried out to help the
euro area countries to improve competitiveness, increase the
flexibility of their economies and enhance their longer-term
growth potential. Product market reforms should focus on fully
opening up markets to increased competition. Labour market
reforms should focus on removing rigidities and enhancing wage
flexibility.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article analyses the role and changing patterns of
financial intermediation in the euro area and examines the
implications for the conduct of monetary analysis. The second
article presents a market overview and the economic principles
and features of card payments, identifying areas to be addressed
in order to achieve an integrated European card payments market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  