-- ECB Loosening Could Ensure Italy’s Fiscal Rigor: Luigi Zingales
-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s
-- 2012-01-19T00:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ecb-loosening-could-ensure-italy-s-fiscal-rigor-luigi-zingales.html
There is a time for everything, it
says in Ecclesiastes, and a season for every activity. Now is
the time for the  European Central Bank  to loosen its monetary
policy.  With a liquidity facility providing 639 billion euros ($820
billion) to banks and an interest rate at 1 percent, one could
argue that the ECB’s monetary policy could hardly be looser.  The reality is different. Most of that liquidity has never
left the central bank’s Frankfurt headquarters: European banks
redeposited 502 billion euros at the ECB. And the real measure
of monetary policy isn’t the rate at which banks borrow from the
ECB, but the rate at which businesses can borrow from banks.
Credit is drying up in Europe. The little credit available is
very expensive. As a result, Europe is quickly drifting into a
recession.  What can the ECB do?  I have never been a fan of loose monetary policy. When it
was adopted by the Fed in 2002-2005, it contributed to the
housing bubble and the ensuing financial crisis. Moreover, the
quantitative easing pursued by the Fed in the past couple of
years has been at best irrelevant and at worst dangerous. Yet, I
do believe that a central bank should intervene when the fear of
a sovereign default risks becoming self-fulfilling, as is the
case now in  Europe .  Illiquid or Insolvent  Clearly, it is very difficult to disentangle illiquidity
from insolvency. No borrower will ever admit to being in
default; instead, such woes will be described by debtors as a
temporary liquidity problem. And all the political incentives
are to classify every borrower, in particular every sovereign
borrower, as illiquid, not insolvent.  The worst example of this bias is  Greece . Even in 2010 it
was difficult to find an economist outside of government willing
to say that Greece was solvent. When you cornered them, even
government officials would admit that Greece was insolvent.
Still, everybody played the pretend game, including the ECB,
which intervened by buying Greek debt.  Last summer, even  Italy  seemed on its way to default. When
 debt to gross domestic product ratio  exceeds 100 percent, a
country is at risk: Any small difference between the real
interest rate and the growth rate is amplified, requiring a
large adjustment in the primary surplus to prevent the debt to
GDP ratio from exploding.  The combination of a decade of zero growth, an inability to
maintain a primary surplus and a political stalemate put Italy
at risk. The ECB was wrong to buy Italian debt in August. It
only exacerbated moral hazard. As the ECB stepped in, the
Berlusconi government weakened a proposed fiscal adjustment.  Since then, however, Italy has changed. Under Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , Italian cumulative fiscal adjustment
reached 80 billion euros, or 5 percent of GDP, in three years.
The long-term sustainability of debt, jeopardized by the pension
liabilities, has been greatly improved by a pension reform.  Yet the credit market hardly noticed. The  spread  between
Italian bonds and German ones is close to its record high, and
Standard and Poor’s recently downgraded the Italian debt by two
notches.  In Italy, people are outraged by the rating company’s
decision. They experienced it as “a true slap in the face,” as
the minister of labor said. They think they have done everything
in their power to redress the situation, so why should they be
punished? Yet, S&P isn’t to blame. It is just a referee. Any
such observer looking at a country with no growth, a 120 percent
debt-to-GDP ratio, and a 7 percent borrowing cost would arrive
at the same conclusion: The country is on the path to default.  Expectations Game  At this borrowing cost, even a 4.5 percent primary surplus
for the next 30 years wouldn’t prevent the debt from exploding.
By contrast, if the cost of debt were a more reasonable 4
percent rate, with primary surplus of 3 percent, Italian debt
not only wouldn’t explode, but in 30 years it would converge to
the desired level of 60 percent to GDP.  Unlike Greece in 2010 and Italy last summer, Italy today
appears to be facing multiple equilibriums: If investors expect
the country to default, they demand high  interest rates  and
default is inevitable. If everyone expects the country to make
it, investors will accept low rates and the country will make
it.  This is the typical situation where a central bank’s
intervention can help. So why doesn’t the ECB announce that as
long as Italy will stay its course, the ECB will buy Italian
debt to ensure the long-term rate stays below 4 percent?  One reason is that the ECB doesn’t trust Italy. It is
afraid that the moment it buys enough Italian debt, the Italian
government will relax its fiscal policy, imposing large losses
on the ECB.  This mistrust, however, can become self-fulfilling. Fearing
that their painful fiscal adjustment was in vain, Italians are
starting to lobby for a looser fiscal policy. To prevent this
dangerous unraveling, Italy should offer the ECB a deal:  Italy commits to maintain a 3 percent primary surplus as
long as the ECB ensures the  spread  between Italian bonds and
German bunds will be below 200 basis points (what it was until
June). If Italy deviates from its promise, the rate on all the
Italian debt held by the ECB will reset at the rate prevailing
today and all that debt will become senior.  This agreement would achieve two goals. It would make it
extremely costly for future Italian governments to deviate from
the virtuous path set by Monti. It would also indemnify the ECB
for potential losses from its purchases of Italian debt, freeing
its board from any potential liability.  Most important, it would teach European countries that
fiscal restraint pays off. Moral hazard is fought not only by
punishing the profligate, but also by rewarding the virtuous. If
Italians were to discover otherwise, the effect would be
devastating for every country in Europe.  ( Luigi Zingales  is a professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business
and a contributor to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 