-- Insider Trading, Goldman, Carlyle, Ally, TD in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-19T14:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/hedge-fund-arrests-goldman-carlyle-ally-td-bank-in-court-news.html
Seven men, including fund managers
and analysts, were charged by the U.S. with forming a “criminal
club” of friends and co-workers who reaped almost $62 million
from insider trading in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shares.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged that the
scheme included one trade that earned a $53 million illegal
windfall for Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony
Chiasson and his fund. The insider-trading ring, which involved
five different hedge funds and investment firms, is the largest
identified by the U.S. to date to involve a single stock,
federal authorities said.  Chiasson, Todd Newman, a portfolio manager formerly at
Diamondback Capital Management LLC, Jon Horvath, a hedge fund
analyst in  New York , and Danny Kuo, a fund manager for Whittier
Trust Co. in South Pasadena, California, were taken into federal
custody yesterday, said Janice Fedarcyk, head of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s New York office.  The charges “paint a stunning portrait of organized
corruption on a grand scale,” Bharara said yesterday at a news
conference. “It describes a circle of friends who essentially
formed a criminal club, whose purpose was profit and whose
members regularly bartered lucrative inside information. It was
a club where everyone scratched everyone else’s back.”  The U.S. said the illegal profits earned as a result of the
scheme were almost of the same “magnitude of fraud we proved in
the Galleon Group insider trading scheme,” Bharara said.  Robert Khuzami , the head of enforcement at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which filed a related suit
yesterday against the defendants, said the cases describe
actions “far more disturbing” than insider trading committed
by someone who obtains one illegal tip.  Horvath, 42, is an analyst at Connecticut-based hedge fund
Sigma Capital Management LLC, said a person with knowledge of
the matter who wasn’t authorized to speak because the
information wasn’t public. He was arrested by the FBI yesterday
at his home in Manhattan, the U.S. said, and released on a
$750,000 bond after a court appearance before U.S. Magistrate
Judge James Cott in New York.  “Throughout a more than 10-year career as a respected
investment analyst, Jon Horvath has conducted himself with
honesty and integrity,” Horvath’s lawyer, Steven Peikin, said
after court. “He has done nothing wrong,’” and the charges
against him  “will be shown to be meritless,” Peikin said.  Greg Morvillo, Chiasson’s lawyer, argued that client trades
made by others at Level Global were attributing to his client.  Newman, 47, was released on a $3 million bond after
appearing in U.S. District Court in Boston yesterday.  Kuo, 36, who was arrested yesterday in California, was
released on $300,000 bond after appearing in federal court in
Los Angeles.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for New York-based Level
Global, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the arrests.  Diamondback, in a letter to investors yesterday, said it
has cooperated with U.S. authorities.  Peter Neiman, of Wilmer Hale, a lawyer for Diamondback
Capital, declined to comment on the SEC lawsuit. MaryJeanette
Dee, a lawyer for Level Global, didn’t return a voice-mail
message left at her office seeking comment on the suit.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Adondakis,
12-00409, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Treasury Code Stolen by New York Fed Programmer, U.S. Says  U.S. Treasury Department software used to track federal
collections and payments was stolen by a government contractor’s
employee who worked at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
federal prosecutors said.  Bo Zhang, 32, who worked for an unidentified technology
company, was a computer programmer assigned to work on source
code at the New York Fed from May until August, the U.S. said in
a criminal complaint against him that was unsealed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. Zhang is a Chinese citizen, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who didn’t want to be
identified because the information wasn’t public.  The software system relates to the “tracking of the
billions of dollars that are electronically transferred every
day in the U.S.’s general ledger,” prosecutors said.  Zhang has been in the U.S. on a work visa since 2000, said
another person familiar with the matter who also didn’t want to
be identified because the information isn’t public. Zhang worked
previously at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America
Corp. , the person said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott yesterday agreed to
release Zhang on a $200,000 bond secured by a condominium
located in the Flushing, Queens, section of  New York City . Cott
ordered that he surrender all of his travel documents and
restricted his movements to parts of New York and to  New Jersey ,
where Zhang’s lawyer said his client works. Cott set the next
court appearance in the case for Feb. 17.  After court yesterday, Zhang’s lawyer, Joseph Grob,
declined to comment on the charges or whether his client is a
citizen of  China  or a naturalized U.S. citizen.  Matt Anderson, a Treasury spokesman, said the department
has worked to strengthen security procedures for Federal Reserve
contractors working on Financial Management Service projects.  “There was no compromise of any transaction data, personal
identifying information or federal funds,” Anderson said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 12-mag-00108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  HUD, DOJ to Meet With States for Support on Foreclosure Deal  U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
and a Justice Department official are set to meet with state
attorneys general next week to rally support for a proposed
settlement with banks over foreclosure practices, said a
spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller.  Materials about the proposed deal are being sent to all
states, and Democratic attorneys general have been invited to
meet on Monday with Miller, Donovan and Associate Attorney
General Thomas Perrelli, said Geoff Greenwood, Miller’s
spokesman.  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers, including
 Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which would set
requirements for conducting foreclosures and provide relief to
homeowners. Miller, a Democrat, has been leading negotiations
for the states.  Attorneys general from all 50 states announced in 2010 they
were investigating bank foreclosure practices after disclosures
that the companies were using faulty documents in seizing homes.  The meeting, planned for  Chicago , comes after about a dozen
state attorneys general met last week to discuss their mortgage
probes and how they might work together during settlement talks,
people familiar with the matter said last week. At Monday’s
meeting, the federal and state officials will answer questions
and discuss details of the potential deal in an effort to win
support, Greenwood said.  The group included New York Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman , California Attorney General Kamala Harris and
others who have said any deal shouldn’t protect banks from
mortgage-related investigations that haven’t yet been resolved.  Harris and Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto
announced in December they were collaborating in their mortgage
and foreclosure investigations. Schneiderman and Delaware
Attorney General Beau Biden are also cooperating. In December,
Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  sued Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, New York-based JPMorgan,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,
accusing them of conducting unlawful foreclosures and deceiving
homeowners.  HUD spokesman Derrick L. Plummer declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs Asks for Arbitration in Basis Yield Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. asked a New York state court judge
to order arbitration in a lawsuit against the investment bank by
Basis Yield Alpha Fund or dismiss the complaint.  Basis Yield Alpha Fund, a unit of Australian hedge fund
Basis Capital Funds Management Ltd., sued Goldman Sachs in New
York State Supreme Court in October, accusing the bank of making
false and misleading statements and omissions in connection with
the sale of securities known as Timberwolf and Point Pleasant.  Basis Yield agreed that any disputes connected to the
investments would be subject to binding arbitration when it
opened its trading account, New York-based Goldman Sachs said in
court documents filed Jan. 17.  The case should be dismissed if arbitration isn’t ordered
because it lacks a “substantial nexus” to New York, and
because the losses from the investments were caused by the
collapse of the mortgage market and not by misrepresentations,
Goldman Sachs said in the filings.  “Not only are subjective opinions as to market direction
inactionable, but defendants had no crystal ball as to market
direction any more than did BYAFM or any other investor,”
Goldman Sachs said in the court documents.  A June 2010 lawsuit by Basis Capital over the securities
was dismissed last year by U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in
Manhattan, who ruled the Australian fund couldn’t use U.S.
securities laws to pursue its claims against Goldman Sachs.  The case is Basis Yield Alpha Fund (Master) v. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., 652996/2011,  Carlyle Seeks to Ban Shareholder Lawsuits Before Public Offering  Carlyle Group LP, the Washington-based buyout company
that’s preparing to go public, is seeking to bar its future
shareholders from filing individual and class-action lawsuits.  The firm revised its governing documents last week to say
that investors who purchase company shares must settle any
subsequent claims against Carlyle through arbitration in
Wilmington, Delaware. That could limit the ability of
stockholders to win big awards for securities-law violations
such as fraud, Bloomberg News’s Miles Weiss reported that
several attorneys said.  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  has issued a series of rulings in
recent years upholding the right of companies to require the use
of arbitration to resolve disputes with consumers. Carlyle is
seeking to extend this principle to public shareholders, a move
that could run up against a bedrock of U.S. securities law, the
ability of investors to seek redress in federal court.  “What we are talking about is legally uncharted
territory,” said Donald Langevoort, a law professor at
Georgetown University in  Washington  who previously worked for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “I would be
surprised if the courts allow any company to entirely foreclose
shareholder rights to sue under federal securities laws.”  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.  At issue are provisions of U.S. securities laws that bar
investors from waiving their rights to seek damages.  The SEC must approve Carlyle’s registration statement
before the private-equity firm can sell shares to the public.
The agency has historically refused to permit a public offering
by a company whose charter mandates arbitration and precludes
class actions, John Coffee, a professor at Columbia Law School
in New York, said in an e-mail response to questions.  Carlyle may be considered different because it’s a limited
partnership rather than a corporation, Coffee said.  “It will be a difficult precedent to contain if the SEC
permits this,” he said.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Financial Guaranty Suits Against Ally Moved to U.S. Court  Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. lawsuits against  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  over soured mortgage loans backing securities
sold to investors were moved to federal court.  Financial Guaranty filed two lawsuits against  Ally
Financial  in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan on Dec.
27, accusing Ally’s Residential Funding unit of making
“material misrepresentations” about the loans, which Financial
Guaranty said were riskier than promised. Ally said there was
“no merit” to it being named in the complaints.  The cases were moved to U.S. District Court in Manhattan on
Jan. 13, according to court documents filed in New York state
Supreme Court yesterday. Three other lawsuits filed by Financial
Guaranty against Ally Financial units in November were removed
to U.S. District Court earlier this month.  FGIC Corp., the holding company for Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co., sought bankruptcy protection from creditors in
August 2010 after suffering losses from the drop in the U.S.
housing market.  The cases are Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v. Ally
Financial Inc., 653621-2011, and Financial Guaranty Insurance
Co. v. Ally Financial, 653623-2011, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  J&J Hid 3 Risperdal Diabetes Studies From FDA, Texas Jury Told  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials hid three studies showing some
patients using Risperdal developed diabetes while claiming the
antipsychotic drug didn’t cause the disease, a witness
testified.  As early as 1999, Johnson & Johnson’s  Janssen  unit had
researchers’ findings that about half the patients taking
Risperdal in a study comparing its risks to those of  Eli Lilly &
Co .’s Zyprexa antipsychotic drug developed diabetes after a year
on the medication, Joseph Glenmullen, a psychiatrist and Harvard
Medical School instructor, told a Texas jury yesterday.  That study concluded Risperdal caused “medically serious
weight gain” that led study subjects to develop diabetes,
Glenmullen testified in the trial of the state of Texas’s
lawsuit over Janssen’s marketing of the drug. At the same time,
Janssen salespeople were telling doctors that researchers
concluded the drug didn’t cause the disease, Glenmullen added.  Texas contends New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J, the
world’s largest health-care products company, defrauded the
Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not approved by
U.S. regulators, including for children with psychiatric
disorders, and misleading doctors and regulators about the
drug’s risks.  The state joined a lawsuit filed by a whistle-blower, Allen
Jones, a former Pennsylvania health-care fraud investigator.
Lawyers for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott are asking jurors
in state court in Austin, Texas, to order J&J and Janssen to pay
at least $579 million in damages over the companies’ Risperdal
marketing practices.  Michael Clements, a Janssen spokesman, didn’t return a call
for comment yesterday on Glenmullen’s testimony about the
company’s handling of the studies.  Glenmullen, testifying as an expert for the state, told
jurors Janssen officials didn’t turn over Study 113, which found
Risperdal posed a higher diabetes risk than Zyprexa, to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  when regulators began probing links
between anti-psychotic medications and the disease in 2000.  The drugmaker also didn’t turn over the results of two
other later studies that found Risperdal and Zyprexa posed
comparable diabetes risks to the FDA.  The case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Julius Baer  Said to Recover $43.8 Million in Singapore Suit  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  won a bid in Singapore to recover
34.1 million euros ($43.8 million) from  LonGains Investment Pte 
for a trade involving credit-linked notes, according to two
people familiar with the dispute.  Switzerland’s biggest publicly traded private bank won the
ruling at Singapore’s High Court last week, said the people, who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the decision. Minutes
from the Jan. 11 closed hearing aren’t publicly available.  LonGains, a Singapore-based commodities investor and
trader, had no money in its Euro and U.S. dollar accounts when
it placed the trade in August on notes issued by BNP Paribas SA,
and linked to  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , according to Julius Baer’s Sept.
27 lawsuit. That triggered a 34.1 million euro overdraft, the
bank said in court papers.  “We’re going to appeal the decision,” LonGains director
Magindra Raw Manian said on Jan. 18. He declined to confirm the
value of the notes.  Tresor Anne Tan, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Julius
Baer, declined to comment on litigation matters.  It’s a “straightforward claim for money lent and unpaid
fees,” Michael Georg Gerny, head of legal products and services
at Julius Baer, said in a Dec. 7 court filing.  The case is Bank Julius Baer v LonGains Investment Pte
S668/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  TD Bank Loses $67 Million Verdict Over Rothstein Fraud Role  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  lost a $67 million jury verdict over
claims it helped Scott Rothstein, the convicted Florida
attorney, in his $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme by telling victims
their money was safe as he depleted accounts.  A jury in federal court in Miami returned the verdict
yesterday, in a lawsuit brought by Coquina Investments, based in
Corpus Christi, Texas. The panel deliberated about four hours
before reaching its verdict and notified U.S. District Judge
Marcia Cooke.  “It was clear cut for us,” the jury forewoman, Shonda
Smith, said after the verdict. “We were all surprised at how
much stuff they allowed to go through, all the deposits and
transfers. At any point, someone could have stopped it.”  Coquina’s lawyer David Mandel on Jan. 17 urged the jury to
award $32 million in compensatory damages and $140 million in
punitive damages.  “They didn’t lift a finger,” Mandel said in closing
arguments. “Once fraud was evident, it was their obligation to
report it and stop it.”  A spokeswoman, Rebecca Acevedo, said the bank is
disappointed with the verdict “and is considering all of its
options.”  “We still maintain that we were Rothstein Rosenfeldt
Adler’s bank and that it was Scott Rothstein who defrauded
investors,” she said by e-mail, referring to the confidence
man’s law firm. “We will continue to defend the bank against
claims of wrongdoing.”  Yesterday’s verdict was for $32 million in compensatory
damages and $35 million in punitive damages, the type designed
to punish.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-
cv-60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For more, click here.  Stryker Biotech Agrees to Plead Guilty to Misbranding Charge  A  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  unit agreed to plead guilty and pay a $15
million fine while the medical-device maker was on trial on
charges it marketed an unapproved mixture of products for
strengthening human bone growth.  The unit, Stryker Biotech, and three Stryker sales
representatives were on trial in federal court in Boston on a
13-count criminal indictment claiming conspiracy and wire fraud.
The trial began Jan. 9 with jury selection.  Stryker Biotech agreed to plead to one misdemeanor count of
misbranding a medical device, according to a letter dated
yesterday from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston and filed
with the federal court.  Prosecutors agreed to drop the case against Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based Stryker Biotech and won’t call Stryker Corp.
President Stephen P. MacMillan to testify “in connection with
current or future trial proceedings” in the case before Judge
George O’Toole.  The government dropped charges Jan. 17 against former
regional sales manager David Ard of California, according to a
motion filed by prosecutors. Attorneys for former national sales
representative William Heppner of Illinois and ex-regional
manager Jeffrey Whitaker of North Carolina have asked the judge
to declare a mistrial. Mark Philip, former chief executive
officer of Stryker Biotech from 2004 to 2008, is scheduled to go
to trial later this year.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Ex-Columbus Hill Capital CFO Admits Embezzling $10.4 Million  The former chief financial officer of Columbus Hill Capital
Management LP, an investment management firm based in Short
Hills, New Jersey, pleaded guilty to embezzling more than $10.4
million.  David Newmark, 39, admitted in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, that he created a phony account to collect deposits that
he stole from the company. Newmark, who pleaded guilty to wire
fraud and tax evasion, agreed to forfeit $10.4 million.  “Making personal use of company cash, it was only a matter
of time before he was caught with his hand in the piggy bank,”
U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  Newmark, of Towaco, New Jersey, faces as many as 20 years
in prison on the fraud charge and five years on the tax evasion
count. U.S. District Judge William Walls set sentencing for
April 24.  Newmark’s attorney, Michael Himmel, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the plea.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On the Docket  Allen Stanford Loses Bid to Delay Jan. 23 Fraud Trial  R. Allen Stanford lost a bid to delay his $7 billion fraud
trial after a federal judge refused to wait until a digital
forensics expert on the defense team recovers from a medical
emergency.  Jury selection will begin as scheduled on Jan. 23,
according to court records.  An employee of  Accumyn Consulting , which is providing
Stanford’s defense team with digital forensics and electronic-
discovery management services, was diagnosed with an illness
that will prevent her from working for at least three weeks,
U.S. District Judge David Hittner told lawyers at a hearing
yesterday in federal court in Houston.  “There are many, many other employees at Accumyn,”
Hittner said, rejecting the defense’s request for a three-week
delay. When Stanford’s attorneys tried to debate the matter,
Hittner cut them off. “That’s it. I’ve ruled,” he said.  Stanford, 61, has been imprisoned as a flight risk since
his June 2009 indictment on charges he defrauded investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank. Stanford denies all
wrongdoing.  Stanford entered a plea of “not guilty” yesterday when
Hittner re-arraigned him on a 14-count superseding indictment
that was handed down while Stanford was in an out-of-state
prison.  Hittner previously refused repeated requests by Stanford’s
court-appointed attorneys to delay the former financier’s trial
to give them more time to prepare. Stanford’s lawyers failed to
convince Hittner that time and budget constraints imposed by the
court infringed on their client’s constitutional right to an
adequate defense.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 