-- EFSF Chief Confident Rescue Fund Can Be Leveraged Fourfold, Spokesman Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-19T15:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/efsf-chief-confident-rescue-fund-can-be-leveraged-fourfold-spokesman-says.html
Klaus Regling, the head of the euro-
area bailout facility, is confident that the fund’s reach can be
increased as much as fourfold even after it was downgraded by
 Standard & Poor’s , his spokesman said.  Regling, who heads the 440 billion-euro ($567 billion)
European Financial Stability Facility, “still expects that the
EFSF’s funds can be leveraged between three and four times,”
Christof Roche said today by phone from  Luxembourg , where the
EFSF is based. Options to leverage the fund will be in place
“soon.”  With about 250 billion euros of the facility’s resources
still to be committed, leveraging the fund by a factor of four
would yield a buffer of as much as 1 trillion euros to help
shield Spain and  Italy  from the debt crisis.  “One trillion euros of leveraged power is a magic figure
that may go a way to restore confidence in the fund,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said
today in a telephone interview. Investors lost confidence in the
“cumbersome and complex” fund because of its perceived lack of
firepower and a dearth of support from Group of 20 nations,
Costerg said. “Any evidence that it has the firepower to help
Spain or Italy will be viewed positively by markets.”  The EFSF, designed to fund rescue packages for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  partially with bond sales, was downgraded
by S&P on Jan. 16, three days after S&P stripped contributing
nations France and  Austria  of their top ratings. Investors bid
for 3.1 times the amount sold at an EFSF debt auction Jan. 17.  Finance Minister Talks  Euro-area finance ministers will discuss how to respond to
the S&P downgrade at a Jan. 23 meeting, a person familiar with
the matter said Jan. 17. European leaders agreed at a Dec. 9
summit to bring forward to July of this year a 500 billion-euro
permanent rescue fund that is intended to replace the EFSF.  Regling told the German government after the downgrade that
he was optimistic about leveraging, Deputy Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter said yesterday.  “We are on good track,” Kampeter said in an interview in
Berlin yesterday. “That’s what Regling tells us.”  The EFSF said in November that it aimed to start up bond-
buying and guarantee programs early in 2012, with capacity to
leverage as much as 250 billion euros from its coffers, using
two programs that can be deployed simultaneously.  The dual avenues of leveraging the EFSF are “both showing
results,” Thomas Steffen, another German deputy finance
minister, told reporters in Berlin yesterday. “Regling tells us
he continues to have good talks with market participants” who
“are willing and able to contribute significant amounts.”  Asian Buyers  Steffen and Kampeter both rejected a report in  Germany ’s
Die Welt newspaper yesterday that the plans to leverage the EFSF
to as much as 1.5 trillion euros were “practically dead.”  Regling told reporters in Singapore Jan. 17 that the rating
change didn’t have much impact.  Asia  and Middle East investors
are still buying EFSF bonds, Regling said.  The bond insurance program will guarantee 20 percent to 30
percent of the principal amount of new sovereign bonds issued by
euro countries. These “partial protection certificates” can be
detached and traded separately.  Under option two, the creation of one or more Co-Investment
Funds would allow the combination of public and private funding
with the aim to buy bonds in the primary and/or secondary
markets. In the case of primary bond purchases, the money could
then be used for bank recapitalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  