-- Megaupload.com Shutdown Followed by Disruptions of Trade Group Websites
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-20T12:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/megaupload-com-charged-in-175-million-u-s-criminal-copyright-conspiracy.html
Megaupload.com, a file-sharing
website, was shut down as part of an alleged $175 million
copyright infringement conspiracy, triggering an online protest
that disrupted websites of the U.S. Justice Department and movie
and music trade groups.  Charges against seven individuals, Megaupload Ltd. and
Vestor Ltd. were unsealed yesterday in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, after four of the alleged conspirators
were arrested in Auckland, New Zealand. Three suspects remain at
large, according to the Justice Department.  “This action is among the largest criminal copyright cases
ever brought by the  United States  and directly targets the
misuse of a public content storage and distribution site to
commit and facilitate intellectual property crime,” the
department said in an e-mailed statement.  The Megaupload indictment was made public as the  U.S.
Congress  considers anti-piracy legislation supported by the
movie and music industries that has prompted a backlash from
companies including Google Inc., the nonprofit Wikimedia
Foundation Inc. and Web consumers. Opponents say the Stop Online
Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP Act in the Senate
would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s architecture
and harm their ability to innovate.  Search Warrants  About an hour after the indictments were unsealed, the
public websites of the  Justice Department , the  Motion Picture
Association of America  and the  Recording Industry Association of
America  wouldn’t load. The hacker-activist group known as
Anonymous took credit for the disruptions, citing the Megaupload
prosecutions, according to Twitter accounts used to publicize
the group’s activities.  The sites were disabled by a so-called directed denial of
service attack, which floods websites with so much traffic that
they temporarily crash without harming network systems or giving
attackers access to confidential information.  “These kinds of attacks take down a website so people
can’t get there,” said E.J. Hilbert, a former cybersecurity
specialist for the FBI. “That’s important if you’re a
commercial site like Amazon.com. If you’ve got an information
site like the Justice Department, it’s just a protest.”  ‘Egging Your Car’  “It’s like someone egging your car,” added Hilbert, who
is now a managing director at Kroll Inc., the security firm.
“You wash it off and get back to business.”  The Justice Department is “working to ensure the website
is available while we investigate the origins of this
activity,” it said in a statement. The disruption is being
treated as a “malicious act,” according to the statement.  The  Motion Picture Association  of America is “working with
law enforcement authorities to identify those responsible,”
according to a statement from the group.  Jonathan Lamy, a spokesman for the  Recording Industry
Association of America , declined to comment.  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets, the department said. Since September 2005, the
conspiracy -- dubbed “Mega Conspiracy” by prosecutors --
generated more than $175 million in criminal proceeds by
distributing millions of copies of copyrighted works, including
movies, television programs, music, books, video games and
software, according to the indictment.  Premium Subscriptions  Of that, more than $150 million came from premium
subscriptions and $25 million from online advertising. A
lifetime subscription cost about $260, according to the
indictment.  The conspiracy deprived copyright owners of more than
$500 million they were entitled to, the government said.  “This looks to be an overly aggressive prosecution,” Ira Rothken, a Novato, California, lawyer and outside litigation
counsel to Megaupload, said in an interview. “The indictment
appears to be wrong on the facts and wrong on the law,” he
said.  He said Megaupload’s website was shut with no notice from
the government and no opportunity to challenge it in court.
Megaupload Ltd., registered in  Hong Kong , is the website’s owner
of record, according to the indictment. The locales of its
computer servers with the allegedly illegal content included
Ashburn, Virginia, and  Washington , according to the indictment.  Hong Kong Enforcement  “People decide to do business in Hong Kong because it’s
not heavily regulated -- it is easy to set up a company in Hong
Kong,” said Benjamin Bai, a partner of intellectual property
law at  Allen & Overy  in  Shanghai . “Enforcement is quite
strong” for intellectual property law in Hong Kong, he said.  “Hong Kong police have not received any report or request
for assistance at the moment but will look into the incident,”
Hong Kong police said in a faxed statement.  Megaupload is advertised as having more than 1 billion
visits to the site, more than 150 million registered users, 50
million daily visitors, and accounts for 4 percent of  Internet
traffic , prosecutors said.  Megaupload paid millions of dollars in incentives to
subscribers to the site, who were rewarded for uploading content
that others could then use, according to the indictment.  A survey released in December of 1,600 corporate customers
of Palo Alto Networks Inc., a computer security company, found
57 percent of the companies had workers who spent some time
trading film clips and games on Megaupload.  The indictment contains one count of racketeering, one
count of conspiring to commit copyright infringement, one count
of conspiring to commit  money laundering  and two counts of
criminal copyright infringement.  The racketeering and money laundering charges carry maximum
penalties of 20 years in prison while the copyright infringement
charges have maximum five-year penalties.  Conspiracy Leader  Prosecutors said the conspiracy was led by Kim Dotcom, a
37-year-old resident of Hong Kong and  New Zealand , and a dual
citizen of Finland and  Germany , who had legally changed his last
name. Dotcom founded Megaupload Ltd. and is the director and
sole shareholder of Vestor Ltd., according to the indictment.  In 2010, Dotcom received more than $42 million from the
conspiracy, the indictment alleges. Dotcom, who also goes by Kim Schmitz and Kim Tim Jim Vestor, was one of those arrested.  When police arrived at Dotcom’s Auckland home, he entered
his house and activated electronic locks, Detective Inspector
Grant Wormald said in a statement today. Police neutralized the
locks and then had to cut their way into a safe room, where
Dotcom was found with what looked like a sawed-off shotgun,
Wormald said.  “It was definitely not as simple as knocking at the front
door,” Wormald said.  Pink Cadillac  New Zealand police said they carried out 10 search warrants
and seized 18  luxury vehicles , including a Rolls Royce Phantom
Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink Cadillac. The vehicles are valued
at NZ$6 million. Police said as much as NZ$11 million in cash
was restrained in various accounts.  In 2002, Dotcom, then using the name Schmitz, was deported
from  Thailand  to Germany to face  insider trading  and fraud
charges. He was a hacker who cracked the computer systems of
banks and government organizations including those of Citibank
Ltd. and the U.S. Pentagon, then fled to Thailand to avoid
indictment in Germany, Deutsche Presse Agentur reported.  The other three taken into custody were: Finn Batato, a
German resident and chief marketing officer, Mathias Ortmann,
co-founder and director, and Bram van der Kolk, who oversees
programming of the Megaupload websites.  Julius Bencko, a resident of  Slovakia  and graphic designer,
Sven Echternach, a resident of Germany and head of business
development, and Andrus Nomm, a citizen of  Estonia  and head of
software development, were also charged.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  