-- Emerging Stocks Climb to Two-Month High on China; Forint Climbs
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-19T22:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/emerging-stocks-climb-to-two-month-high-on-china-lending-signs.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
driving the benchmark index to the highest level in two months,
on speculation Europe’s debt crisis is easing and the  U.S.
economy  is improving.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1.1 percent to 991.38
at the close in  New York , its third daily gain and the highest
since Oct. 31. Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  added 0.3 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.3 percent and the  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  jumped 1.2 percent. Hungary’s forint gained as Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  signaled he would compromise over disputed
laws that halted bailout talks.  Debt sales in  Spain  and  France  eased funding concerns for
European nations. Spain sold 6.61 billion euros ($8.6 billion)
of debt, exceeding the maximum target of 4.5 billion euros,
while French borrowing costs declined as the nation sold 7.97
billion euros of medium and long-term securities. U.S. jobless
claims plunged to the lowest level in four years.  “Things for now feel a little bit calmer in  Europe ,” said
Greg Lesko, managing director at Deltec Asset Management in New
York. “We do still have the  Greece  issue out there. I don’t
think you can say it’s an all clear, but people are getting a
little bit more risk tolerant.”  U.S. economic data also helped emerging-market equities,
with fewer Americans than forecast filing first-time
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, as claims
plunged to the lowest level since April 2008, Labor Department
figures released in  Washington  today showed.  Bovespa Climbs  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index advanced for a fourth day
after the central bank signaled it will maintain its pace of
interest-rate cuts, boosting the outlook for companies that
benefit from domestic demand. Consumer-goods maker Hypermarcas
SA and retailer B2W Cia. Global do Varejo were the best
performers on the gauge. Confab Industrial SA surged the most in
almost five months after parent Tenaris SA raised an offer to
buy out minority shareholders by 13 percent.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
biggest lender by market value, rose 1.2 percent in  Shanghai .  China ’s central bank will let  larger lenders  increase new
loans by a maximum of about 5 percent from a year earlier,
according to two people at state lenders who declined to be
identified as the order isn’t public. The banking regulator is
delaying implementing the most stringent capital adequacy ratios
and may lower risk weightings for loans to small businessmen and
companies, four unnamed people said separately.  Greek Talks  The People’s Bank of China cut the amount banks must keep
in reserves by 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, in
December, reducing the so-called reserve-requirement ratio for
the first time in three years.  The Greek government held a second day of talks with
private creditors in a push to reach an accord on reducing the
nation’s debt. Greece will also enter the “final phase” of
discussions on a second financing package with European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund representatives in Athens tomorrow, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said.  The forint appreciated 0.5 percent against the euro.
Hungary is ready to “entirely rework” two temporary provisions
of the constitution that took effect on Jan. 1 should the
European Union request it, Orban told reporters yesterday in
Strasbourg, France. The prime minister had shunned the IMF since
taking office in 2010 to prevent interference in what he called
his “unorthodox” measures.  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  gained 0.7 percent in Moscow and South
Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index added 1.2 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 418 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  