-- England Loses to Pakistan by 10 Wickets to End Year-Long Undefeated Streak
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-19T13:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/england-slumps-to-75-5-trails-pakistan-by-71-runs-in-first-cricket-test.html
Pakistan  defeated England inside
three days after bowling out Test cricket’s top-ranked team for
160 in its second innings of the opening cricket Test in Dubai.  Pakistan won by 10 wickets after being left with just 15
runs for victory. Saeed Ajmal followed up his 7-wicket first-
innings haul with three more dismissals to claim 10 wickets for
the second time in his career.  Umar Gul  was the top Pakistan
bowler in the second innings, accounting for the first four
batsmen.  “We have not expected it was going to be so easy for us,”
Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq said in the postgame ceremony.
“It was a wonderful performance from the team. Saeed Ajmal got
seven wickets in the first innings and put us on the way to
victory.”  Earlier, Graeme Swann finished 4-107 as Pakistan was
bowled out for 338.  England  hadn’t lost a Test match since
defeat to  Australia  in December 2010.  “We’re not going to push the panic button,” England
captain Andrew Strauss said. “All credit to Pakistan. Once they
got ahead of us in the game, they didn’t let us back in.”  It’s the first meeting of the two teams since three
Pakistan players were jailed for conspiring with bookmakers to
cheat in a game in England in 2010. The series is being played
in the United Arab Emirates because Pakistan was barred from
playing at home after a terrorist attack against a visiting Sri
Lankan team in 2009.  England’s chance of overhauling the 146-run deficit was
damaged early on as Gul removed openers Strauss and Alastair Cook for 6 and 5.  Jonathan Trott  hit 49 as wickets tumbled
around him with the visitors losing 5-62 in the middle of their
innings.  After Swann provided some resistance and helped England
avoid an innings defeat by hitting 39,  Mohammad Hafeez  followed
up his first-innings’ 88 by scoring all the runs required for
victory.  The second Test begins Jan. 25 in  Abu Dhabi  before the
teams return to Dubai to close the series, starting Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  