-- EPA Won’t Enforce Boiler Rule After Court Decision, Jackson Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-19T16:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/epa-won-t-enforce-boiler-rule-after-court-decision-jackson-says.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
pledged not to enforce its pollution standards on boilers until
a reconsidered rule is issued this year, even after a court said
the regulations should be put in place.  EPA will issue a “no action” letter soon for the measure
introduced last year, and will give companies three years to
comply after the new regulations are issued, EPA Administrator
 Lisa Jackson  said yesterday in a letter to Senator  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat.  “EPA recognizes that industry needs sufficient time to
comply with these standards,” Jackson wrote in the letter,
which was provided today to Bloomberg News.  The U.S. District Court in Washington said this month the
EPA violated an order by issuing standards for boilers, used by
paper plants, refiners, schools and hospitals, then delaying
them to reconsider the regulations. New rules are set to be
completed in May, Jackson’s deputy,  Gina McCarthy , said in
Washington today.  Representatives for companies such as  Boise Inc. (BZ)  say the
court decision shows that legislation is necessary.  The EPA proposal and the court’s ruling cause “enormous
confusion and uncertainty,” Donna Harman, president of the
American Forest & Paper Association in Washington, said in a
statement. “These are multibillion-dollar investment decisions
that cannot be made overnight.”  The  House of Representatives  passed a measure last year to
block U.S. limits on air pollution from industrial boilers and
to delay the replacement standards. A companion  measure  in the
Senate has 41 co-sponsors, although prospects for a vote are
uncertain, with Democrats in the majority and President Barack Obama’s administration opposed to the House bill.  Mercury, Soot  In its December proposal, the EPA estimated pollution
controls at paper mills, chemical manufacturers and refineries
will cost $1.49 billion a year for cleaning mercury and soot.
Obama said the rule is among the most expensive regulations his
administration is considering.  No new boilers are being installed that would be subject to
the proposed standards, Jackson wrote in her letter. A 90-day
stay will be issued if the agency finds a new boiler is subject
to the rule, according to Jackson.  “We have not identified any compliance or permitting
issues of concern other than administrative requirements, which
we are addressing promptly,” Jackson wrote.  The bills are H.R. 2250 and S.1392  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  