-- EPA Providing Water to Homes Near Pennsylvania Fracking Site
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-20T02:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/epa-to-provide-water-to-homes-near-pennsylvania-fracking-site.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
will deliver water to four families in Dimock, Pennsylvania,
where residents say their water has been contaminated during
hydraulic fracturing by  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)   The EPA will also test water at 60 homes to assess whether
any residents are being exposed to hazardous substances, the
agency said in a statement.  “EPA is working diligently to understand the situation in
Dimock and address residents’ concerns,” EPA Regional
Administrator Shawn M. Garvin said in a statement. “Conducting
our own sampling will help us fill information gaps.”  Residents and activists protested outside a venue where EPA
Administrator  Lisa Jackson  was speaking in Philadelphia last
week, urging her to force Houston-based Cabot to clean up wells
they say were contaminated after drilling started nearby. The
company is using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process
that injects water and chemicals to free gas in rock.  Cabot has no data that indicates natural gas operations are
the cause of the concerns identified by the EPA, George Stark, a
company spokesman, said. He said the agency is conducting an
“unwarranted investigation.”  “Cabot looks forward to helping educate the U.S. EPA on
the ground water and geological features of Susquehanna
County,” where Dimock is located, Stark said in an e-mail.  The agency offered water to the families earlier this month
and then reversed the decision the next day. The EPA now has
agreed to start water delivery tomorrow, Michael Kulik, an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Court Case Pending  Dimock residents say their water went bad more than three
years ago. In an agreement with state environmental regulators,
Cabot pledged to install methane-removal equipment on wells and
set aside $4.1 million to pay residents who say they were
harmed. The company didn’t admit fault.  Some residents settled. Others went to court and their
lawsuit is pending. EPA officials visited residents at the end
of last year, and told some not to drink their well water.  In  Pennsylvania , the economic losses from possible
environmental damage could be high. Drilling in the state’s
portion of the gas-rich Marcellus Shale formation could generate
$20 billion for the state’s economy by 2020, up from $13 billion
last year, according to an industry-funded study published by
researchers from  Pennsylvania State University .  Separately, the U.S. House Oversight Committee led by
California Republican Darrell Issa today asked the Energy
Department for transcripts of interviews regarding fracking.  In an e-mailed statement, Issa said the committee also
asked Jackson to explain documents obtained by the panel that
“appear to indicate” that the EPA “is planning for a future
where new supplies of natural gas are limited because of the
agency’s concern about the environmental impacts” of the
process.  To contact the reporter on this
story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at +1-  mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor
responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  