-- Mercator Abandons Bid for Pivovarna Lasko on Financing Risk
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-19T16:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/mercator-abandons-bid-for-pivovarna-lasko-on-financing-risk-1-.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d. 
abandoned its bid to take over  Pivovarna Lasko d.d. , which is
itself the Slovenian retail chain’s largest shareholder, because
of financing risks.  Pivovarna Lasko shareholders “may adopt a series of
‘poison’ pills, which  Mercator (MELR)  just couldn’t swallow,” it said
in a  statement  today. “Some proposed resolutions, if adopted,
would have unforeseen legal and economic risks that no bidding
party would have been able to efficiently and reliably hedge
before or during the takeover bid.”  Ljubljana-based Mercator last month announced its bid for
the Slovenian brewer after an offer by  Croatia ’s Agrokor d.d.
for Mercator was put on hold due to increased opposition from
Slovenian officials and forced the resignation of Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. chief Bozo Jasovic.  Mercator shareholders have been in exclusive talks with
Agrokor to sell the majority of the Slovenian company as the
retail industry in the Balkans consolidates after  Belgium ’s
Delhaize Group SA entry into  Serbia  last year. Agrokor’s offer
is valid until the end of next month, the Zagreb-based company
said today.  ‘Saga Continues’  “The saga continues,” Saso Stanovnik, head of research at
Ljubljana-based brokerage Alta Invest d.d., said in a note to
clients today. “This means the story around Mercator is not
over as banks and  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR)  will hardly be long-term
owners.”  Mercator estimates profit this year will be 15.7 million
euros ($20 million), a 34 percent drop from this last year’s
estimate as the debt crisis in  Europe  takes its toll on the
region’s economic growth, the company said in the statement.
Revenue is set to increase 3 percent to more than 3 billion
euros this year. The dividend will be cut to 3 euros a share
from 8 euros last year, it said.  The announcement came as the Ljubljana stock exchange
closed for the day. Before that, Mercator dropped 3 euros, or 2
percent, to close at 145 euros, giving the company a market
value of 546 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  