-- EU Rapeseed Prices to Remain High in 2012, Sofiproteol CEO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-19T14:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/eu-rapeseed-prices-to-remain-high-in-2012-sofiproteol-ceo-says.html
European rapeseed prices will
probably remain high in 2012 due to a “somewhat tight” global
oilseed market, said Philippe Tillous-Borde, chief executive
officer at Sofiproteol SA,  France ’s largest oilseed crusher.  Rapeseed prices on NYSE Liffe in Paris may average 430
euros to 440 euros ($555 to 568) a metric ton this year,
Tillous-Borde said in an interview yesterday in Dijon in eastern
France. He said prices will remain in flux, with “a lot of
volatility from week to week, and that is difficult to manage.”  Sofiproteol, based in Paris, processes about 4.5 million
tons of rapeseed and sunflower seed annually into edible oils,
biodiesel and  animal feed . Rapeseed futures traded in the French
capital averaged about 448 euros a ton in 2011, compared with
351 euros a ton the previous year.  “I expect prices to be supported,” Tillous-Borde said.
“The markets have already taken into account the harvest in
 South America . We need to have good planting for the U.S.
soybean harvest, but prices are good so there should be.”  Soybeans for March delivery rose 0.9 percent to $11.945 a
bushel today on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices have dropped
15 percent in the past year and are up from $9.635 a bushel two
years ago.  Rapeseed for delivery in May gained 0.5 percent to 434.25
euros in Paris, down 16 percent from a year ago for the most-
active contract and up from 279.75 euros a ton on the same date
in 2010.  More Rain  Following dry conditions in Brazil and  Argentina  that
threatened production there, “it’s raining a lot there now, for
me the soybean crop has been saved,” Tillous-Borde said. “It
still has to be harvested of course.”  Rapeseed sowing in  Europe  for this year’s harvest probably
declined “somewhat,” according to the Sofiproteol CEO.  “Sowing of rapeseed has been good in France and  Germany ,
not very good in Romania and Ukraine,” he said. Farmers may
switch from rapeseed to sunflowers on unplanted acres, he said.  While Sofiproteol can use both rapeseed and sunflower seed
to make oil and feed, crop yields are generally higher for
rapeseed than for sunflowers, according to Tillous-Borde.  The company, through its Diester Industrie unit, accounts
for about a third of European biodiesel production, according to
the CEO. French biodiesel sales are forecast to rise this year,
and the company has partly covered its expected business by
buying soybean-oil call options in  Chicago  and selling diesel
put options, Tillous-Borde said.  Import competition meant the biodiesel business was
unprofitable in Italy and  Spain  last year, the CEO said, without
providing financial details.  “We’re still disrupted and bothered by imports of
biodiesel from soybeans from Argentina and palm-oil biodiesel
from  Indonesia ,” Tillous-Borde said.  The company has a “difficult year” in edible oils last
year as some French supermarkets refused to pass on higher
oilseed prices until June, making for a “complicated” first
half of 2011, according to the executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 