-- Merkel Pushes EU Toward Stricter Fiscal Limits, Heeding Draghi’s Demands
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-20T23:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/eu-sets-stricter-fiscal-limits-in-bowing-to-some-ecb-requests-draft-shows.html
European Union governments returned
to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s agenda for fighting the
debt crisis as they tightened draft rules on budget deficits,
heeding European Central Bank warnings against backsliding.  The latest draft of the fiscal pact, to be discussed Jan.
23 by EU finance ministers, bows to ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
call for governments to honor their commitment on spending
discipline to restore credibility in the euro area. Placating
the ECB may be critical to policy makers’ efforts to contain the
debt crisis, now in its third year.  The central bank “will like it enough to continue with
their current policy” of providing banks “with enormous
amounts of liquidity in hopes they will survive and also buy
some  government bonds ,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The proposed treaty will require a centralized “correction
mechanism” to be triggered “automatically” in cases of
“significant” deviations from a target structural deficit of
0.5 percent of gross domestic product, according to the draft
dated Jan. 19 obtained by Bloomberg News. Reflecting German
demands, countries would have to enact “binding and permanent”
balanced-budget rules.  Germany  will probably sign off on the provision even though
it doesn’t force EU countries to put the debt limits into their
constitutions as Germany has, said Brzeski.  ‘What She Wants’  “I don’t know what more the Germans could ask for in terms
of the debt brake,” he said. “Merkel is finally getting what
she wants in  Europe .”  Merkel, as the leader of Europe’s biggest economy, has
joined with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to put stiffer
rules on deficit control at the heart of Europe’s efforts to
combat the debt crisis. Of the EU’s 27 states, only the U.K. has
refused to sign up to the pact, which Merkel has said she wants
to be drafted by the end of this month and signed in March.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen, a former German
deputy finance minister who used to advise Merkel during EU
summits, requested “substantial changes” to the fiscal-treaty
draft on Jan. 12, saying the measure should include “ambitious
and binding calendars” for meeting new budget goals, as well as
an automatic correction mechanism. These changes are reflected
in the new draft.  Draghi warned as recently as Jan. 19 that governments must
follow through on their “breakthrough” commitment made at a
December summit to draw up a credible fiscal pact.  ‘Back on Course’  “It is now important to swiftly implement all of those
decisions to put the euro-area economy back on course,” Draghi
said at an event in  Abu Dhabi .  The central bank stepped in on Dec. 21 and offered the
region’s banks a record 489 billion euros ($633 billion) in
three-year loans so they can keep lending. Sarkozy suggested
that banks also use the money to buy euro-area sovereign bonds.  Finance ministers meeting in Brussels on Jan. 23 will also
discuss a separate draft accord on Europe’s planned permanent
rescue fund that eases earlier provisions on debt
restructurings. The proposed agreement still calls for clauses
in bond contracts that would prevent small clusters of investors
from blocking a restructuring, while deeming writeoffs
“exceptional” and subject to International Monetary Fund
standards, according to a draft text.  Greek Bailout  Also on the agenda is a second financing package for
 Greece ({GDBR10) , where the sovereign debt crisis first came to light in
late 2009 before moving on to menace  Italy ,  Spain  and  France .
 Greece  faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20. Key
to the new bailout package is a debt-swap deal between Greek
officials and private creditors, who continued negotiations in
 Athens  yesterday.  The fiscal treaty gives the  European Court  of Justice the
power to fine countries whose balanced-budget laws don’t pass
muster, while stopping short of the ECB’s request that the court
more broadly enforce the budget rules, the draft shows.  To ensure the pact enters into force, Merkel needs the
support of her coalition to pass the treaty in the German
parliament. Some coalition lawmakers who complained last week
that EU negotiators were watering down the rulebook welcomed the
latest revisions.  “What’s decisive from my point of view is not the question
of constitution, yes or no, but whether we achieve a legal
format in the individual states that can’t be overwritten in the
annual budget drafting process,” Michael Meister, deputy floor
leader for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said on
Deutschlandfunk radio today.  Sanctions with “an automatic character” are needed to
have any effect, “and any easing of budget rules is an open
invitation to break them,”  Michael Fuchs , the CDU’s economic
affairs spokesman in parliament, said by phone today. “The
draft had to be changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  