-- EU Says Syria Spyware Ban Covers E-Mail Probes, Remote Infection
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-01-19T10:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/eu-says-syria-spyware-ban-covers-e-mail-probes-remote-infection.html
The European Union’s ban on exports
of surveillance technology to  Syria  includes equipment that can
peer into the contents of e-mail or intercept telephone  text
messages , according to regulations published today.  The  rules , which are meant to curb human rights abuses
during a crackdown that’s killed more than 5,000 people, bar the
sale or transfer of such gear to any person or entity in Syria.
The new details flesh out a general ban on such sales to Syria
that the 27-nation bloc passed on Dec. 1 following reports the
regime was procuring and using such technology.  The ban covers sales, maintenance and updates of systems
for “deep-packet inspection” of e-mail contents, remote
infection of computers, speaker recognition, “tactical”
interception of text messages and several other technologies,
the regulations say.  Bloomberg News reported Nov. 4 that an Italian company,
Area SpA, was building a surveillance system that would have
given Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime the power to
intercept, scan and catalog virtually every e-mail that flows
through the country.  Following the report, Area said it is exiting the deal and
the project won’t be completed. The Italian system included
components from German, French and U.S. companies.  The rules published today say member states have the
authority to permit exceptions to export such gear, yet are
barred from doing so if the equipment would be used by the
Syrian government for monitoring or intercepting communications.  Member nations must inform the EU of exceptions it makes
within four weeks of authorization of an export, the rules say.  Syria uses such technology to track and torture dissidents,
advocacy groups including  Human Rights Watch  say.  Earlier last year, Telecomix, a group of online activists,
discovered that technology from a U.S. company,  Blue Coat
Systems Inc. (BCSI) , was filtering web sites inside of Syria.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  