-- Euro Area Must Boost Economic Growth While Cutting Budgets, Juncker Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/euro-area-must-boost-economic-growth-while-cutting-budgets-juncker-says.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said the euro area must find ways to boost
 economic growth  while tightening government budgets because the
region risks economic stagnation.  “In the euro area, we are on the verge of  a recession ,
albeit a technical one,” Juncker, who also heads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, told reporters yesterday in
Luxembourg. “There’s  no alternative  to an approach of budget
consolidation, but attention also needs to be paid in  Europe  to
a real policy of growth.”  A potential euro-area recession threatens to exacerbate a
slowdown in emerging-market economies, the  World Bank  said
yesterday in cutting its global growth forecast by the most in
three years. The world economy will grow 2.5 percent this year,
down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the Washington-based
institution said.  The  euro region  may contract 0.3 percent, compared with a
previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain, according to the World
Bank’s forecasts. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said on Jan. 17 that the euro region’s growth prospects are
“dismal” and that the situation is “very grave.”  The ECB, which last week kept its  benchmark rate  at a
record low of 1 percent, in December cut its 2012 growth
forecast for the euro area to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.
 European confidence  in the economic outlook fell to the lowest
in more than two years this month, the European Commission said
on Jan. 6.  In an effort to insulate the global economy against any
worsening of Europe’s debt crisis, the  International Monetary
Fund  is proposing to raise its lending capacity by as much as
$500 billion. The Washington-based lender is aiming to increase
its resources after identifying a potential need for $1 trillion
in financing in coming years, an IMF spokesman said yesterday in
a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  