-- Europe’s Ad Men Cut Back Plans Amid Looming Recession, Publicis CEO Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-19T08:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/europe-s-ad-men-cut-back-plans-amid-looming-recession-levy-says.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the third-
largest  advertising agency , said its European clients have
scaled back marketing plans for 2012 as the region grapples with
the prospects of a recession.  While there will still be growth this year, thanks to the
London Olympics and the European soccer championships, companies
are being more cautious, Publicis Chief Executive Office Maurice Levy said yesterday in an interview.  “We are seeing some cuts based on the original spending
intention, but still above the expenditure last year,” Levy
said. “So we will still have growth in  Europe . There are
obviously two very important events in 2012.”  The findings by Publicis, whose clients include German
carmaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Swiss food company
 Nestle SA (NESN) , fit with what U.K. marketing executives said in the
latest Bellwether report from the London-based  Institute of
Practitioners in Advertising . Companies are the most pessimistic
they’ve been since the last recession and plan slower growth in
ad spending, according to the survey.  British companies ranked their business prospects for the
first quarter of this year as the worst in 11 quarters and said
their planned increases for ad spending in 2012 are weaker than
in any recorded year before 2009, according to a survey of 300
organizations. Digital marketing has become the fastest-growing
part of the U.K. advertising industry as companies look for ways
to save money, according to the institute’s report.  Better Than Expected  In the fourth quarter, Publicis’ business was “less
impacted than we thought” by the economic woes, Levy said.  The company’s shares rose as much as 1.1 percent to 38.90
euros in Paris trading and were up 0.6 percent as of 9:29 a.m.
Before today, the stock had gained 1.1 percent in the last 12
months while British rival  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, dropped 7 percent in London. The 26-member
Bloomberg Europe Media 500 Index fell 13 percent in that period.  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast by the most
in three years yesterday, saying that a recession in the euro
region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets 
such as India and  Mexico . The area of countries using the euro
may contract 0.3 percent, compared with a previous estimate of a
1.8 percent gain, the Washington-based institution said.  The German government yesterday trimmed its forecast for
2012 growth in Europe’s biggest economy to 0.7 percent from a
previous 1 percent estimate.  Acquisitions  “There are signs that companies have become increasingly
reluctant to invest in traditional media campaigns, instead
diverting money towards the Internet and direct marketing,”
said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at financial data company
Markit and an author of the Bellwether report. “This reluctance
reflects lower-than-expected sales and profits in recent months,
as well as growing unease about the economic outlook.”  Ad agencies such as Publicis, the owner of  Leo Burnett  and
 Saatchi & Saatchi , and WPP are combating slower growth with
 acquisitions . In 2011, the two companies  bought  digital agencies
and marketers in emerging markets where growth remains strong.  WPP CEO  Martin Sorrell  this month said he expects revenue
to grow 4 percent in 2012.  The outlook for 2012 didn’t stop some businesses from
increasing spending in the final months of 2011. More companies
increased marketing budgets than cut them in the fourth quarter
to protect sales from competitors, according to the report.  “It is encouraging to see that companies are planning to
raise their marketing spend in 2012 despite seeing their
financial prospects for the next three months falling to the
worst since the height of the financial crisis,” Williamson
said. “Many companies are looking to fight the prospects of a
challenging year ahead with increased promotional activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  