-- Europe’s Rescue Fund May Require Bond Clauses, IMF Restructuring Standards
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-01-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/europe-s-rescue-fund-may-require-bond-clauses-imf-restructuring-standards.html
Europe ’s planned permanent rescue
fund may require clauses in new bond issues that would leave the
door open for debt restructurings, while deeming writeoffs
“exceptional” and subject to International Monetary Fund
standards, according to a draft text.  European Union finance ministers meet Jan. 23 to discuss
the draft, which waters down earlier provisions on restructuring
after EU-mandated losses for Greek bondholders helped exacerbate
the sovereign debt crisis. The treaty, which is not final and
could change, still calls for clauses in bond contracts that
would prevent small clusters of investors from blocking a
restructuring.  “Collective action clauses shall be included, as of one
month after the entry into force of the present treaty, in all
new euro area government securities, with maturity above one
year, in a way which ensures that their legal impact is
identical,” according to the draft, which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  European governments have redoubled efforts to set up the
500 billion-euro ($647 billion) European Stability Mechanism by
July, a year ahead of schedule, after a credit rating downgrade
raised concerns over the strength of the temporary aid fund
created at the outset of the crisis.  U.S. Law  Collective action clauses are common in U.S. and U.K. law
and aren’t a backdoor way of threatening bondholders, said an EU
official on condition of anonymity. The clauses would enable a
restructuring to go ahead by a vote of a supermajority of
bondholders, denying a veto right to solitary investors.  Spokesmen for the European Commission and German and French
finance ministries didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking
comment late yesterday. The ESM is slated to take effect once
ratified by countries representing 90 percent of its capital.  As agreed by EU leaders in December, the new draft of the
treaty tones down language on “private sector involvement” --
code for forcing bondholders to take losses on governments that
fall too deeply into debt.  The new text drops a paragraph from the operative part of
the treaty that spelled out how the EU would engineer a
restructuring. It is replaced by a declaration in the preamble
that IMF precedents will point the way.  “In accordance with IMF practice, in exceptional cases an
adequate and proportionate form of private sector involvement
shall be considered in cases where stability support is provided
accompanied by conditionality in the form of a macroeconomic
adjustment program,” the new text reads.  Writeoff Rules  The IMF has no formal rules on bond writeoffs. In the past,
it has operated on a case-by-case basis, its judgments hinging
on an analysis of whether a country’s debt is “sustainable.”  Germany, the 17-nation euro region’s dominant power, had
forced through the stiffer requirements for bondholder losses in
an earlier version of the ESM treaty, signed last July. It was
never sent to national parliaments for ratification.  Instead, European leaders improvised additional anti-crisis
tools, brokered a 21 percent net-present-value loss on Greek
bonds and raised that target to a 50 percent face-value
reduction in October. Talks with creditors resumed in  Athens 
this week.  Planned bond-loss requirements “had a very negative effect
on debt markets,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said after a
Dec. 9 summit that agreed to scale back the provisions. The
earlier approach, he said, “is now officially over.”  More Flexibility  The full-time rescue fund will work with paid-in capital,
giving it more flexibility and making it less prone to ratings
cuts than the temporary fund, the 440 billion-euro European
Financial Stability Facility.  Next week’s meeting of finance ministers isn’t slated to
touch the combined aid limit of 500 billion euros that will be
in effect when both funds run in parallel.  While pressure is mounting to increase that cap, the issue
won’t be decided until a leaders’ summit in March. The new ESM
text makes it possible for euro governments to adjust the
lending limits at any time.  Finance ministers will tackle  Finland ’s objections to a
clause that would enable the fund to disburse emergency aid
based on an 85 percent vote, an attempt by larger countries to
get around a possible veto by smaller ones.  As one of the euro area’s four remaining AAA borrowers,
Finland carries clout in EU deliberations. Finance ministers are
searching for a compromise that would allow Finland to sign the
ESM without forcing it to supply aid against its will.  Not Insurmountable  A deal is likely “next week or later,” Finnish Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in Helsinki yesterday. “So far
there have been no insurmountable difficulties in the
discussions, but the situation is live.”  Germany  is also insisting that the ESM withhold loans from
any countries that haven’t enacted a separate treaty designed to
stiffen budgetary discipline across Europe. Finance ministers
will work on that treaty next week as well so that a Jan. 30
leaders summit can complete it.  The ESM draft limits aid to countries that have “started
the parliamentary procedure in view of its swift ratification,
which it is expected to conclude at the latest within 18
months.”  The German target is Ireland, one of three countries now
drawing on European and IMF aid. Irish voters have rejected two
prior EU treaties in referendums, only to approve them later on.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net  