-- European Union Said to Discuss Freezing the Assets of Iran’s Bank Tejarat
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-19T23:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/europe-said-to-consider-sanctions-on-iran-s-bank-tejarat.html
The European Union is discussing
whether to impose sanctions on Bank Tejarat, the last major
Iranian bank financing large-volume trade in  Europe , according
to EU diplomats and sanctions specialists close to the
negotiations.  The move may complicate tens of billions of dollars in
annual trade with Europe and monetary transactions by EU
diplomatic missions in Tehran, they said.  A European diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the negotiations are private, said some EU officials
have objected to an asset freeze because Bank Tejarat is used by
EU countries with diplomatic missions in Tehran. If the bank is
subject to sanctions, EU embassies and their staffs would have
to carry cash and pay for transactions in euros, said the
official, who had been briefed by his foreign ministry.  No one was available to comment when two calls were made to
Bank Tejarat’s department of international affairs in Tehran
yesterday, the start of the Iranian weekend, and four calls to
the bank’s branch in Paris went unanswered.  European Union spokesman  Michael Mann  declined to comment
on the sanctions deliberations before a scheduled Jan. 23
meeting of the 27 EU foreign ministers in Brussels. The EU may
impose sanctions on oil purchases and freeze Iranian central-
bank assets, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told
journalists yesterday in Paris.  The EU and the U.S. say they are imposing financial and
energy-related sanctions on Iran to pressure the regime to
abandon a suspected program to develop nuclear weapons
capability. Iran says that its nuclear program is for peaceful
civilian energy and medical research.  Asset Freeze  While attention has focused on EU negotiations to embargo
Iranian oil at the Jan. 23 meeting, a move to freeze the assets
of Bank Tejarat in Paris might have even broader consequences,
according to a trade lawyer and sanctions advocates familiar
with the discussions.  “There is only one major Iranian bank left operating in
the EU today, and that is Bank Tejarat in Paris,” Nigel
Kushner, chief executive officer of Whale Rock Legal, a London
law firm specializing in  Iran  trade, said in a phone interview
Jan. 18. “If that bank becomes subject to an asset freeze on
Jan. 23, then any semblance of international banking relations
between the EU and Iran will be dead in the water.”  “Bank Tejarat is the one way to channel funds in and out
of the EU in an open and transparent manner,” allowing EU and
U.S. authorities to monitor payments to Iran, Kushner said.
“There is a view that it would be a mistake to sanction Tejarat
because payments going through it can at least be tracked.”  ‘Murky World’  “Without Tejarat, more payments will go through the murky
world of money exchanges or via payment routes which are too
complex to easily identify,” said Kushner, who has been closely
monitoring the EU’s Iran sanctions negotiations.  Avi Jorsch, a former policy adviser at the U.S. Treasury
Department, disputed that, saying authorities still have ways to
monitor transactions.  “The U.S. and EU governments have access to sources that
allow them to piece together a picture of how Iran is raising
and moving funds through the various international financial
sectors,” Jorsch said an interview Jan. 18.  The U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network already has blacklisted Bank Tejarat for alleged
involvement in  money laundering , according to a Treasury
advisory published June 22, 2010.  EU sanctioning of Bank Tejarat may have major repercussions
for international  trade flows  between Europe and Iran.  Complicating Trade  The EU exported 11.3 billion euros ($14.6 billion) in goods
to Iran in 2010, led by machinery, transportation equipment
including European cars, and chemicals. Iran exported 14.5
billion euros ($18.8 billion) worth of goods to the 27-member EU
the same year, with fuel and minerals at the top of the list,
according to European Commission data.  Restricting the activities of Bank Tejarat, the last bank
engaging in large-volume transactions in Europe, according to EU
officials, may complicate all trade between Iran and the EU.  “Is it going to complicate trade? Yes,”  Jorsch said Jan.
18. “Is it going to make it impossible? No.”  The EU mission in  Washington  declined to comment on the
content of the sanctions to be agreed upon on Jan. 23. “As we
said before, they include the energy, transport and financial
sectors,” Silvia Kofler, spokeswoman for the EU Mission, said
Jan. 18.  Emanuele Ottolenghi, a senior fellow at the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies, an advocacy group in Washington that
supports sanctions on Iran, said a ban on Bank Tejarat could
have serious implications for European carmakers.  Auto Parts  “Peugeot and Renault supply spare parts to SAIPA and Iran
Khodro, Iran’s leading car manufacturers and producers, under
license, of Renault and Peugeot models for the Middle East
market,” Ottolenghi said Wednesday. “Targeting Tejarat would
prevent payments for Peugeot and  Renault (RNO) ’s spare parts.”  The European Union, which collectively is the No. 2 buyer
of Iranian crude, taking 18 percent of Iran’s exports, has
agreed in principle to an embargo of Iranian oil, although the
timing remains uncertain.  An EU embargo on imports of Iranian oil might go into
effect after a lag to enable the chief European buyers of
Iranian oil -- Greece, Italy and  Spain  -- to find alternative
supplies, an EU official with knowledge of the talks said last
week.  Oil, Petrochemicals  A ban on petrochemical products would start sooner, about
three months after EU ministers agree to the measure, the
official said. Crude oil for February delivery declined 20 cents
to settle at $100.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil has gained 17 percent in the past three months.  European Union governments reached a preliminary agreement
yesterday to freeze the assets of Iran’s central bank, an EU
diplomat with knowledge of the matter said.  The agreement in Brussels would allow for opt-outs from the
asset freeze on a case-by-case basis to protect European trade
with Iranian entities not covered by sanctions, the diplomat
said on the condition of anonymity because the talks are
private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  