-- Europe Company Default Rates May Be Lower Than in 2009, S&P Says
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-01-19T15:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/european-company-default-rate-to-increase-in-2012-s-p-says.html
European companies are less likely
to default on debt in 2012 than during the global recession in
2009 because they have built up financial buffers and are
relying less on bank lending,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Moves to increase free  cash flow  to ensure payments to
creditors should protect companies in any economic decline in
the region this year, Tobias Mock, S&P’s lead analytical manager
of European, Middle Eastern and African corporate ratings, said
at a news conference yesterday in Frankfurt.  “Companies will be able to weather this storm,”
particularly if they have a presence in Brazil, Russia,  India  or
 China , Mock said.  The euro area’s economy will probably contract 0.3 percent
this year, the  World Bank  said on Jan. 17. S&P, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Cos., cut sovereign-debt ratings on nine countries
in the region on Jan. 13, including France and Austria. The
credit-reporting company said in a report released today that it
expects a “shallow” recession in  Europe  in the first half,
contributing to an increase in corporate defaults versus 2011.  Of the 700  companies  S&P covers in Europe, 19 percent have
a negative outlook, indicating their debt ratings may be cut,
compared with 37 percent at the end of 2009, Mock said.  “It’s an environment characterized by higher numbers of
stable outlooks for  credit quality ,” Mock said.  ‘Selective’ Cash Use  Companies were “selective” with mergers and acquisitions
and stock buybacks, enabling them to sustain internal financing
until the next recovery, Mock said. Corporate financial policies
remain quite “cautious,” S&P said.  About 6.1 percent of companies in Europe whose credit
ratings are lower than investment grade are likely to default
this year, S&P said. That compares with a default rate of 3.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 and as much as 14.7
percent in the third quarter of 2009, it said.  A “deteriorating economic environment” and tighter bank
lending, with a high percentage of highly leveraged companies
below investment grade that need refinancing over next three
years, will contribute to the higher default rate this year.  A total 69 billion euros ($88.9 billion) of speculative-
grade corporate debt is maturing in the next two years in
Europe, S&P estimated. The number of companies that may default
in Europe this year may total 41, S&P said. That compares with
34 companies that defaulted on 19.5 billion euros in debt in
2011, it said.  The restructuring of debt maturing over the coming two
years will be another hurdle for companies that have tapped
 capital markets  by issuing speculative-grade bonds, S&P said.
Leveraged buyouts with debt exceeding 6 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are also
“vulnerable” because of maturities in 2013 or 2014 from
transactions agreed to as early as 2006, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in  Frankfurt  at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  