-- British Spies Used Fake Rock in Moscow, Ex-Blair Aide Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-19T09:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ex-blair-aide-says-spies-used-fake-rock-in-moscow-bbc-reports.html
A former U.K. government official
confirmed Russian accusations that British spies used a fake
rock in a Moscow park to gather information, an incident that
contributed to a crisis in relations between the two countries.  In January 2006,  Russia ’s main intelligence agency accused
four British diplomats of using James Bond-style electronic
equipment hidden in the rock to receive information from Russian
agents. Then President  Vladimir Putin , a former KGB colonel,
said he wouldn’t expel the diplomats because the U.K. might send
cleverer replacements.  “There’s not much you can say, you can’t really call up
and say ‘sorry about that, it won’t happen again.’ They had us
bang to rights,” Jonathan Powell, then Prime Minister  Tony Blair ’s chief of staff, said in a documentary series that begins
on BBC2 television tonight. “Clearly they’d known about it for
some time and were saving it up for a political purpose.”
Powell’s comments were played on BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show.  In November 2006, dissident Russian agent  Alexander Litvinenko  was murdered in  London  through radiation-poisoning,
sparking tit-for-tat expulsions of Russian and British diplomats
and sending relations to a post-Cold War low.  “It was a considerable headache, the Russians chose their
time carefully and it was politically very damaging,”  Tony
Brenton , ambassador to Russia at the time, told “Today.”  ‘Downward Gradient’  “The Russians were able to use the rock incident to launch
accusations against the support we were giving to Russian non-
governmental organisations and it led us down the route that led
us to the Litvinenko murder, to various acts against me
personally, to attacks on  BP (BP/)  and Shell,” he said. “We were on
a downward gradient in U.K.-Russian relations at the time.”  The allegations about U.K. links to NGOs were “invalid,”
Brenton said, saying that the Russians were motivated by wanting
to attack human-rights groups supported by Britain.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  held talks in Moscow in
September, on the first visit to Russia by a British leader
since Litvinenko’s murder. His trip came less than a fortnight
after Russian officials raided the Moscow offices of BP Plc.
Court bailiffs, accompanied by armed men, were enforcing a
$3 billion lawsuit.  BP, which in 2003 forged a joint venture with a group of
Russian billionaires with Putin’s blessing, fell out with
its partners in TNK-BP. The London-based company, which relies
on the venture for a quarter of its output, had to give up a
deal to explore Arctic fields with state-run OAO Rosneft after
the billionaire partners sued to block it.  In 2006, Royal Dutch  Shell (RDSA)  Plc agreed to cede control of
Sakhalin-2, Russia’s only liquefied natural gas plant, to 
state-owned OAO Gazprom after months of pressure from 
regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  