-- Ex-New York Mets Catcher Gary Carter’s Brain Cancer Takes a Negative Turn
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-20T05:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ex-new-york-mets-catcher-gary-carter-s-brain-cancer-takes-a-negative-turn.html
Hall of Fame catcher Gary Carter has
been told by doctors treating his  brain cancer  that they’ve
found more growths.  The family met with doctors at Duke University yesterday to
discuss the results and the next steps after being told via
telephone that there were new “spots/tumors on his brain,”
Carter’s daughter, Kimmy Bloomers, wrote on a family website.  “I write these words with tears because I am so sad for my
dad,” Bloomers wrote.  Carter, 57, part of the New York Mets’ 1986 World Series
championship team, was diagnosed in May with four brain tumors.
A scan last week revealed a torn rotator cuff following a pair
of falls, one on Dec. 24 and the second on Jan. 12 while
visiting his doctors, Bloomers wrote.  Doctors are deciding whether to continue giving Carter
treatment, the New York Daily News reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified person close to the family.  Carter spoke in front of former teammates, family and
friends during a banquet for a  golf tournament  held in his honor
on Jan. 12, Bloomers said.  “Dad spoke a few words thanking everyone for being there
and for all the support and prayers,” Bloomers wrote. “He said
he wants to feel better so he can continue to help others.”  Over 19 seasons in  Major League Baseball  with the Montreal
Expos, Mets,  San Francisco Giants  and  Los Angeles Dodgers ,
Carter batted .262 with 324 home runs and 1,225 runs batted in.
An 11-time All-Star, he was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame
in 2003.  He spent two seasons as baseball coach at  Palm Beach
Atlantic University  in  Florida  before his diagnosis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  