-- Texas Voting Case Shows Racial Components of Partisanship: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-19T00:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/texas-voting-rights-case-underscores-racial-element-of-partisanship-view.html
A court case under way this week in
 Washington  will determine whether new election districts drawn
by the Texas Legislature conform to the Voting Rights Act.  The arguments for and against the districts, with the state
and federal government taking opposite sides, follow  oral
arguments  in the  Supreme Court  last week on related
redistricting issues in the state.  There’s no way to tell how the complex legal challenges
will be resolved. The only thing certain about the whole mess is
that Texas, which is required to have its districts precleared
by either the  Justice Department  or a special panel of judges in
Washington, will go through something very similar in 10 years,
when it will redistrict again. All of which underscores the need
to take redistricting powers away from legislatures and
governors and put them in the hands of citizen commissions.  Let’s start at the beginning. Population growth in Texas
over the past decade has yielded an electoral bounty of four new
congressional seats, bringing the state’s total to 36. Roughly
two-thirds of that  population growth  is attributable to
Hispanics. Growth among blacks accounts for much of the rest.  In 2008, 63 percent of Texas Hispanics and 98 percent of
the state’s blacks voted for  Barack Obama , according to the  Pew
Hispanic Center . In trying to deny Democrats the electoral
fruits of minority population growth, the Republicans who
control the Texas Legislature diluted the power of minority
voters. Under the Legislature’s new  map , for example, the number
of state House districts in which racial minorities are a
majority of the population actually declined. The predictable
result was more than a dozen lawsuits.  Gerrymandering is as old as the Republic and still
commonplace. But not every gerrymander is a violation of the
Voting Rights Act. In  Illinois (STOIL1) , which is losing a seat due to
reapportionment, the Democrats who run the state General
Assembly redrew district lines to squeeze as many Republicans
out of the congressional delegation as possible. Yet the
 Illinois  districts were upheld by a federal court and will
probably stand.  To understand why requires a trip back in time. The Voting
Rights Act was passed in 1965 to protect blacks in the South
from poll taxes and other efforts by white Democrats to suppress
the vote. (In addition to Texas, 15 mostly Southern states must
preclear all or some of their electoral district maps with the
U.S. Justice Department or the special judicial panel.)  Racial Polarization  About the same time the act was passed, the racial
polarization of the parties began. The  Democratic Party  evolved
as a multiracial coalition. The  Republican Party , which once
attracted significant black support, opted for a Southern
strategy of racial code words, symbolism and white votes.  When Democrats in Illinois draw a partisan election map,
the result isn’t pretty and it isn’t fair. But it’s far less
likely to advance white power at the expense of minorities,
because Democratic success depends on minority voters and
candidates. When Republicans in Texas do the same thing, the
outcome is almost certain to be different. Even if Texas
Republicans act without racial animus, it’s almost impossible to
draw election districts to favor a predominantly white political
party in a racially diverse state without undermining the
political ambitions of minorities.  The Illinois model is bad. The Texas model is worse. A
better solution is to give redistricting powers to  independent
commissions , as six states now do, including recent converts
California and  Arizona . Politicians in both those states have
squealed, but the new state commissions have produced less
partisan maps, with generally more cohesive geographic lines and
communities, more competitive districts and less deference to
entrenched legislators.  If the citizen panels can withstand  political assaults b,
they will establish the credibility and durability needed to
minimize challenges in the future. That will help rationalize
the redistricting process and reduce the kind of abuses on
display in Illinois and Texas. It could also speed the South’s
release from the strictures of the Voting Rights Act, because
less partisan maps are also likely to be less racially
provocative.  Meanwhile, Texas must hold an election, which means there
must be district boundaries in place. Some primaries have
already been postponed, and the legal wrangling is far from
over.  Texas  is largely responsible for its predicament: Not only
did state leaders draw particularly aggressive boundaries, they
also dragged their feet in pushing the plan through, perhaps
hoping the threat of election chaos would trump concerns over
minority voting rights.  It would be nice if the Voting Rights Act, which Congress
reauthorized in 2006, was a vestige of a distant era. It’s
understandable that states targeted by the act’s preclearance
requirement grate under its dominion. But Texas has just
demonstrated why the law exists. Before the 2020 census, we hope
that Texas will join other states in turning over redistricting
power to a citizen commission. Then perhaps the courts will no
longer feel compelled to mess with Texas.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 