-- Facebook Adds 60 Partners to Service That Let Users Share Their Activities
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/facebook-will-let-users-share-more-activities-with-friends.html
Facebook  Inc. is adding more than 60
partners to a  service  that lets users tell friends what they’re
currently doing online, from listening to music to reading news.  The company is working with  Pinterest , Ticketmaster, Rotten
Tomatoes and other applications to let users publish their
activities on their Facebook pages, Carl Sjogreen, director of
platform products, said yesterday at an event in San Francisco.
For instance, if someone is researching a travel spot on
TripAdvisor, they could post the details to Facebook.  Facebook, the most popular social-networking service, wants
to open up new opportunities for advertising and get people to
spend more time using its features. The new partnerships also
help make Facebook more of a media hub, ramping up competition
with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc.  “We believe this is the beginning of a new wave of apps,”
Sjogreen said. “We’re really excited about the potential.”  With the so-called open-graph system, which was updated
last year, users have already been able to use  Spotify Ltd. ’s
service to show the songs they’re playing and Washington Post
Co.’s sites to share news items.  The platform is now being opened up to all developers,
Sjogreen said. The activities can be seen on three parts of
Facebook’s site: the Ticker, News Feed and Timeline. Other
partners include  Foodspotting , the Kobo electronic-book service
and the Gogobot travel site.  ‘Evolution of Facebook’  The service lets Facebook developers create applications
that are better customized to their users, said Andrew Dreskin,
 chief executive officer  of  San Francisco  startup Ticketfly Inc.,
another partner.  “They are looking to make the platform more flexible and
have it all make more sense in terms of the actions consumers
are taking and how they describe those actions,” Dreskin said.
“It’s the evolution of Facebook.”  Ticketfly, which sells tickets to music concerts and other
events, has added new buttons to its website to let users
“Like” specific artists on Facebook after they purchase
tickets. Visitors to the site also can click on new buttons to
indicate “I’m Seeing” a band to their friends on Facebook,
Dreskin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  