-- Faulty French Breast Implants May Upend U.S. Device Debate
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-01-19T20:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/faulty-french-breast-implants-may-upend-u-s-device-debate.html
Medical device makers  have spent the
last year urging U.S. officials to approve high-risk products
faster, like their European counterparts. A scandal over leaking
breast implants made in  France  may make the argument harder.  French and German officials last month recommended
thousands of women have surgery to remove implants made by Poly
Implants Protheses SA, after reports the products were leaking
industrial silicone inside patients. The mishaps have heightened
scrutiny of European Union rules for medical devices that
already faced calls from doctors for an overhaul.  While the devices were never approved for use in the U.S.,
they may alter the debate over regulations there as well.
Congress faces a September deadline over whether to revamp U.S.
device rules, and industry allies in both parties have pointed
to Europe’s speedier reviews as a model to follow. The tales of
leaking implants, along with other EU device failures, should
give lawmakers pause, said Carl Heneghan, an Oxford University
teacher who has studied device recalls.  “All the industry guys in the U.S. say, ‘we should have
access to these products much sooner, like in  Europe ,’” he
said. “The flip side is, the European people are being used as
guinea pigs.”  Heneghan, a physician who runs Oxford’s  Centre for
Evidence-Based Medicine , is among a growing chorus of doctors,
regulators and even device makers calling for changes to
Europe’s system, which relies on private reviewers hired by
manufacturers to vet products. The European Commission is
expected to recommend changes by the end of June.  ‘Inevitable Result’  “The PIP breast implant scandal is an inevitable result”
of regulators’ “paralysis and inability to correct the failings
of a flawed system,” Richard Horton, the editor of the British
medical journal The Lancet, said in an  editorial  released
yesterday. European approval “does not guarantee safety.”  On the other side of the Atlantic, U.S. device makers have
complained for years about slow reviews and inconsistent
standards at the  Food and Drug Administration . At the same time,
the agency has faced criticism after high-profile recalls of
technology it cleared for sale, from  Johnson & Johnson  hip
implants to  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  defibrillators.  In a series of Capitol Hill hearings last year, industry
supporters often cited the EU as a better model. Its speedier
reviews were luring companies away, taking “ good-paying
American jobs ” with them, said Representative Joseph Pitts, a
Pennsylvania Republican, in a typical warning last February. A
Stanford University survey of manufacturers, released in 2010,
found complex devices reach the EU two years faster on average.  Moving Away  “The industry is rapidly moving outside the  United
States ,” said Steve Ferguson, chairman of Bloomington, Indiana-
based Cook Group, the world’s largest closely held device maker,
in a telephone interview. For American patients, “the human
cost of not having access to that technology is enormous.”  The Cook Group, which had $1.9 billion in sales in 2011,
once made 75 percent of its revenue in the U.S. That fell to 44
percent last year thanks in part to lower taxes and faster
reviews in the EU, he said.  More than a dozen bills have been introduced to rewrite FDA
rules. “You can carry this business of safety to a ridiculous
level,” Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican who
sponsored one of the proposals, said in an interview last month
before the European governments recommended removal of the PIP
implants. “We’ve got to be responsible and safe, but we’ve got
to understand that you can completely price these innovators out
of the market.”  Life-Saving Treatments  Gingrey, in an e-mail today, said, “We must do everything
in our power to prevent instances like those in France from
occurring. On the other hand, we must also do everything
possible to prevent the FDA from standing between patients and
life-saving treatments.”  The debate may reach a climax this year, said  Ira Loss , an
analyst at the investment research firm Washington Analysis.
Congress faces a Sept. 30 deadline to renew industry fees that
fund device reviews. The legislation is expected to become the
arena for a broader fight over whether to push for quicker
approvals, said Loss, an FDA watcher for three decades.  Unlike the FDA’s government-run reviews, the EU relies on a
decentralized network of about 70 “notified bodies.” The
closely held, mostly for-profit firms are hired by companies to
check their products. The reviewers must be accredited by one of
the union’s 27 member nations. Approval by any one of them
allows companies to sell a device throughout the EU.  Safe and Effective  There’s another key difference, Oxford’s Heneghan said in a
telephone interview. While the EU and U.S. require manufacturers
to prove new products are safe, only the FDA mandates they also
show devices are effective. That means studies for European
approval are typically less in-depth than those required in the
U.S, Heneghan said.  The European system sets up “an inherent conflict of
interest” where companies can shop for the most amenable
reviewers, said Deborah Cohen, an editor at the London-based
 British Medical Journal , which publishes drug and device
research. In May, the 70,000-member European Society of
Cardiology also called for changes, writing in its journal that
notified bodies need  higher standards  and more transparency.  Reviewer Misled  The Poly Implants Protheses breast implants were cleared by
 TUEV Rheinland , a notified body based in Cologne,  Germany . TUEV
Rheinland said in a Dec. 29 statement that its inspectors had
been misled when PIP substituted industrial silicone for a
medically approved variety after an inspection. Following EU
device rules, the manufacturer had been told in advance about
the inspection, TUEV said.  Implants with industrial silicone are more likely to
rupture, leaking a gel that can cause scar tissue and
inflammation, the French Health Ministry said in a Dec. 23
 statement . The silicone is more typically used to make
mattresses, the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic
Surgeons said in its  statement  Dec. 3. PIP sold more than
300,000 of the implants during the past 12 years, mainly in
 Spain  and the U.K., the group said.  The case underscores the need for changes in Europe’s
system, said  John Brennan , regulatory-affairs director at device
industry trade group Eucomed. The Brussels-based association
supports the creation of a central advisory committee to hold
notified bodies to more consistent standards, he said. Approval
and recall data also should be more accessible.  Transparency Needed  “People expect to know about the products that are being
put in their bodies,” Brennan said in an interview. “We should
have the equivalent transparency as the U.S.”  PIP, based in Toulon, France, was liquidated in March 2010
after French authorities banned the company’s implants. Yves
Haddad, an attorney for company founder Jean-Claude Mas, didn’t
respond to messages left at his office in Toulon.  The implants are the latest example of devices that reached
Europe’s market too quickly, said Cohen, the British Medical
Journal editor. In 2007, Dublin-based  Covidien Plc (COV)  won EU
approval for PleuraSeal, a sealant designed to help doctors plug
tiny holes in the lungs after surgery. A follow-up trial to win
U.S. approval found three times as many patients developed air
leaks with PleuraSeal than with sutures, Covidien said in a
statement. The product, which never reached American patients,
was  recalled  worldwide in October 2010.  Problem Devices  The FDA, in a memo to Congress last year, cited more than a
dozen other categories of “problematic devices” that reached
Europe but never won U.S. approval. Along with PIP’s products,
the list included inaccurate blood-sugar monitors, ineffective
heart stents and an aortic graft linked to blood clots.  Covidien introduced PleuraSeal in the EU because it felt
the market there was more attractive, Bruce Farmer, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “Our commitment to patient safety cannot be
compromised,” he said. “All of our products meet or exceed the
safety requirements of the market where they are sold.”  Last January, an industry-sponsored  study  by the  Boston
Consulting Group  found little difference in the number or
severity of recalls in the two systems, suggesting the EU’s
speedier approvals don’t sacrifice safety. The FDA and Oxford’s
Heneghan questioned the report, saying a lack of disclosure and
differing definitions of recalls in Europe make it impossible to
draw meaningful conclusions.  Measure of Safety  The study “made assumptions that all serious problems are
being reported” and “then did an extrapolation to come up with
a number,” said  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the agency’s
device-review center, in an interview. “It’s just not a good
measure of safety.”  The FDA, while acknowledging  industry  concerns about U.S.
regulation, defends its system as better for patients. The
European process makes it impossible to track approvals, side
effects or recalls, Shuren said. Unlike in the U.S., there’s no
central website where the public can find reports of adverse
events or product withdrawals, he said.  Notified bodies  often lack the expertise the FDA has gained
after years of checking thousands of devices, Shuren said.  “The answer at the end of the day isn’t to scrap the U.S.
standard of safety and effectiveness,” Shuren said. “The
answer is to keep the U.S. standard but let us do our job to
improve the program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at +1-212-617-2358 or  pserafino@bloomberg.net . 