-- Fed Sold $7 Billion of AIG Mortgage Bonds to Credit Suisse
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-19T19:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/fed-sells-7-billion-of-mortgage-bonds-from-aig-s-rescue-to-credit-suisse.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
sold $7.01 billion in face value of mortgage bonds it assumed in
the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  to  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , the regional Fed bank said today.  The New York Fed sold the bonds through a “competitive
process” after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  made an unsolicited
offer to buy a portion of the assets in a vehicle called Maiden
Lane II LLC, which held the bonds, according to a statement
posted on the New York Fed’s  website .  “I am pleased with the strength of the bids and the level
of market interest in these assets,” New York Fed President
William C. Dudley said in the statement.  The New York Fed in June ended a plan to sell a group of
the assets assumed in AIG’s 2008 rescue through a series of
auctions, following sales of about $10 billion in face value of
mortgage securities. The Maiden Lane II assets had dwindled to
about $21 billion when the auctions were halted after investors
and traders blamed the sales for causing prices to tumble.  The broker-dealers who were part of the bidding process for
the sale to Credit Suisse included Goldman Sachs,  Barclays
Capital  and Bank of America Corp., according to the New York
Fed. They were “selected based on their previous expressions of
interest for large parcels of the portfolio and/or their
participation” in the auctions held last year, the district
bank said.  ‘Winning Bid’  “The New York Fed decided to move forward with the
transaction only after determining that the winning bid
represented good value for the public,” the New York Fed said.
“This transaction substantially reduces the ML II portfolio and
loan at a desirable price,” the Fed district bank said,
referring to Maiden Lane II.  The New York Fed began selling the bonds piecemeal after
rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from AIG for the entire pool in
March. The portfolio includes securities backed by the types of
home loans with some of the highest default rates, such as so-
called subprime, Alt-A and option adjustable-rate mortgage debt.  Steven Vames, a Credit Suisse spokesman, declined to
comment on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  