-- Ferragamo Plans to Enter as Many as Eight New Chinese Cities in 3-5 Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-19T05:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ferragamo-plans-to-enter-as-many-as-eight-new-chinese-cities-in-3-5-years.html
Salvatore Ferragamo SpA (SFER) , the Italian
 luxury-goods  maker, plans to enter as many as eight new Chinese
cities over the next three to five years as a steady flow of new
shoppers emerges in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Ferragamo, whose lines include $540 calfskin shoes and
$2,950 bags, now operates 58 stores in 33 cities in China and is
betting on an increasing number of middle-class consumers to
help boost its business, Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa 
said in an interview in  Shanghai  today.  “Every year there will be millions of new people who will
get access to luxury goods,” Norsa said. “This is really the
potential for the luxury industry.”  The Italian luxury label competes with LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA for shoppers
in Greater  China , which Bain & Co. estimates to be the world’s
third-largest market for luxury goods. Ferragamo was the top
choice in the shoe category among shoppers in Beijing and
Shanghai in 2011, the consulting firm said in a December report.  Demand for luxury goods in China has surged along with
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy. The average
disposable income of urban households increased 14 percent to
about 21,810 yuan ($3,450) in 2011, data from the National
Bureau of Statistics showed.  “We’re confident about what we see in China,” Norsa said.
Ferragamo doesn’t expect much impact on consumption from a
potential slowdown in the country’s economy this year, he said.  China Expansion  The company plans to enter “seven or eight” new Chinese
cities in the next “three to five years,” Norsa said,
including outlets scheduled to open in July in central China’s
Wuhan and in Jinan in the east. He declined to give a new store
target in China for this year.  China’s economic growth is poised to weaken to 8.5 percent
this year from about 9.2 percent in 2011, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. In the
fourth quarter of last year there appeared to be a “gradual
softening in consumption” in China’s luxury industry, Bain said
in December.  The manufacturing and heritage value of “Made in  Italy ”
will become even stronger despite the European debt crisis,
Norsa said.  “The impact of this crisis is not really touching the
luxury industry,” he said.  Ferragamo’s shares have gained 23 percent since it went
public in Milan in June, when it sold shares at 9 euros each.
The stock closed yesterday at 11.05 euros.  The Florence-based company is “confident” for the year
ahead after an “excellent” 2011, which included better-than-
expected holiday sales, Norsa said earlier this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Karolina Miziolek in Hong Kong at 
 kmiziolek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  