-- Batista’s MMX Shuns Bid Proposed by Falcone-Backed Ferrous
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-01-20T17:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ferrous-said-to-propose-2-3-billion-takeover-of-brazil-ore-producer-mmx.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA , the
miner controlled by Brazil’s richest man  Eike Batista , said it’s
not interested in a deal with  Ferrous Resources Ltd (FER) . after the
closely held iron-ore producer proposed a takeover.  Ferrous, backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC hedge fund in New York, proposed on Dec. 19
a $2.3 billion takeover of MMX, according to a letter about the
plan obtained by Bloomberg News. The companies held “several
discussions” on a merger over the past 18 months, according to
the letter, to which a response was requested by Jan. 10.  The Brazilian company made an initial proposal on a
possible combination with Ferrous on Nov. 15, 2010, according to
the letter. Ferrous’s advisers at Deutsche Bank AG and  MMX (MMXM3) 
representatives also had talks in August last year, it says.  Harbinger held more than 26 percent of Ferrous as of March.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, held
talks to potentially take over Ferrous last year, two people
with knowledge of the negotiations said in October. MMX, in
which billionaire Batista controls a 42 percent  stake , has a
market value of 4.59 billion reais ($2.6 billion.)  “The long-term synergies are sizable because the main
problem with MMX is its lack of iron ore reserves, which is what
Ferrous can offer,” Raphael Biderman and Alan Glezere, analysts
at Osasco, Brazil-based Banco Bradesco SA, wrote in a report
yesterday. “A deal such as this would be good for MMX’s
minority shareholders in the long term. On the other hand, there
would be a sizable dilution in the short term.”  Shares Gain  MMX gained 2.3 percent, or 17 centavos, to 7.57 reais at
2:33 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading. Yesterday it jumped as much as
5.8 percent before closing 0.7 percent lower at 7.40 reais.
Ferrous’s proposal values MMX at 6.63 reais a share based on the
30-day average price as of Dec. 16, according to the proposal.  Ferrous holders would own 53 percent of the combined
company, with MMX  owners  having the rest, according to the
proposal, signed by shareholders of Ferrous and addressed to Rio
de Janeiro-based MMX’s board.  MMX, in a statement sent after the close of trading
yesterday, said it’s not interested in a merger with Ferrous. An
official at the company wouldn’t confirm if MMX has replied to
Ferrous’s proposal.  Projected Value  MMX said in a regulatory filing today it “constantly”
receives proposals for partnerships and other commercial
contracts. These are often “incomplete or lack merit or
economic fundamentals,” it said. The company added that it sees
no clear reason for a recent increase in trading of its shares.  The merger would create a company, which would be listed on
the Novo Mercado, with an equity value of $4.87 billion, the
letter shows. Bovespa’s Novo Mercado is a segment of  Brazil ’s
stock exchange with stricter requirements for disclosure.  Philip Walters, an external spokesman for Ferrous in
 London , declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.
Lew Phelps, a spokesman for Harbinger, declined to comment.  While its base case was for an acquisition of MMX through a
merger of shares, “Ferrous is open to considering other
mutually beneficial structures, including a potential
transaction structure in which MMX undertakes a merger of shares
with New-Co and MMX is the surviving entity,” it said.  CEO Steps Down  Separately, Ferrous said yesterday that Chief Executive
Officer Mozart Litwinski is stepping down to pursue “personal
business interests,” according to a statement. He was appointed
CEO in April 2009.  Ferrous, which shelved plans for a $400 million London
initial public offering in 2010, began  iron-ore  output in March
of last year.  A combination of Belo Horizonte-based Ferrous and MMX
“will create one of the leading players in the seaborne iron
ore sector,” the letter shows. The new entity would have
combined resources of 7.1 billion metric tons of iron ore and
exploration potential for a further 3 billion tons. It could
produce 59 million tons of the raw material a year by 2016,
according to the letter.  There may be synergies in a deal given both companies have
assets in Brazil’s “iron quadrangle” and require rail or
pipeline facilities as well as a port, BMO Capital Markets
analyst  Tony Robson  wrote in a report yesterday.  Board Approval  The proposed purchase of MMX was approved by Ferrous’s
board and shareholders on the board representing 72.2 percent of
the stock, the letter shows. Ferrous said MMX was worth $4.96
billion using a so-called sum-of-the-parts valuation, the letter
shows.  The equity value for Ferrous under the plan is $1.59
billion, based on a sum-of-the-parts valuation of $3.45 billion,
it said. Ferrous will also contribute $1 billion in cash, giving
it an equity valuation under the offer of $2.59 billion.  The bid from Ferrous “doesn’t appear very attractive” for
MMX shareholders, UBS AG analyst Rene Kleyweg who has a “buy”
rating on the stock, wrote yesterday in a note to investors.
“The implied relative valuations, in our opinion, highlight the
lack of credibility to the offer.”  Ferrous has signed sales accords with  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  It was set up in 2007 and
raised $1.26 billion from private placements between June 2007
and August 2008, according to its website.  MMX Spending  MMX plans to spend at least 7.9 billion reais to increase
its iron-ore production capacity fivefold to 53 million tons by
2016 as it taps rising demand from  China  and other emerging
nations. The company is building its 2.4 billion-reais Sudeste
port in Rio’s Sepetiba bay, scheduled to start operating in the
first quarter of 2013, with an initial capacity to ship 50
million tons of iron ore.  Ferrous was in talks with potential strategic investors and
lenders to help fund a $4 billion expansion, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in March. The company had
discussions with mining companies and steelmakers in China,
 Japan ,  Korea  and Brazil, the people said at the time.  Ferrous had previously outlined plans to produce iron ore
at a rate of 25 million tons a year by the end of 2013, with an
expansion to raise that to 50 million tons by 2016. It
previously estimated the cost of the first stage of its Viga
project at $3 billion.  Brazil is the world’s largest exporter of iron ore behind
 Australia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  