-- Financial Crisis Narrative Flunks Reality Check: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/financial-crisis-narrative-flunks-reality-check-jonathan-weil.html
If you and I were in a bar together,
and you suffered a nasty bump on your head when I accidentally
whacked you with a pool cue, there probably would be no
disputing that my action caused your harm. But for my careless
swing of the stick, the injury wouldn’t have happened.  Not all examples of causation are so simple. Often there is
more than one cause when a person is hurt, just as there are
usually multiple causes for any major historical event. This
brings us to the long-running kerfuffle over the role that
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  played in causing the financial
crisis of 2008, which hasn’t really ended.  The way the discussion gets framed tends to go like this:
Did Fannie and Freddie  cause  the crisis? Although this is the
wrong question, I’ll try to answer it anyway by highlighting the
difference between the meaning of the words “a” and “the.”  Here goes.  Fannie Mae  was a cause of the financial crisis.
So was  Freddie Mac . U.S. government housing policies, which
often encouraged people to take out loans they couldn’t repay to
buy homes they couldn’t afford, were also a cause. None of these
was “the” cause of the crisis, because there was no single
cause. What we can say is this: But for the actions of a vast
number of actors, including Fannie and Freddie, the crisis
wouldn’t have happened the way that it did.  That seems straightforward enough. Yet this silly debate --
over whether the government-backed housing financiers and their
enablers were a cause or the cause -- keeps raging anyway.  Causality Proponents  Two people often cited as proponents of the notion that
Fannie and Freddie caused the crisis are  Peter Wallison  and
 Edward Pinto . Both are fellows at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a  Washington  think tank. Wallison was a Republican
member of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission who wrote a
98-page dissent to the panel’s final  report  in 2011.  Last month, in an  article  responding to a  column  by  Joe Nocera  of the New York Times, Wallison and Pinto framed their
thesis this way: “Our argument is and has been that the
financial crisis would not have occurred but for government
housing policy implemented principally through Fannie and
Freddie and the Department of Housing and Urban Development.”  It’s a debatable, if not a particularly useful,
observation. One reason Wallison and Pinto have drawn so much
criticism for their work is that they consistently dismiss every
other possible cause of the crisis, so that only Fannie, Freddie
and U.S. housing policies survive the scholars’ own “but for”
test. Never mind  interest rates  held too low for too long,
worthless regulators or banks with excessive leverage, for
instance.  At most these may have been contributing factors, not
causes, Wallison said in his  dissent  to the crisis commission’s
final report last year. It’s an extreme position, for sure.  Last week in an  article  for the Real Clear Markets website
called “How Fannie, Freddie and Politicians Caused the
Crisis,” Pinto concluded by saying that “government housing
policies and the toxic mortgages they spawned were the  sine qua
non  of the financial crisis.” (Plain English translation: Each
was something absolutely essential or indispensable to the
crisis.)  The same could be said of so many other things, though.
There were the credit raters that dispensed AAA ratings for
garbage mortgage bonds that otherwise never would have been
issued. There was the recklessness of top executives at  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   These were also essential elements of the crisis, to name
just a couple of examples. Plenty of other countries had housing
and credit bubbles at the same time the U.S. did, even though
they lacked institutions similar to Fannie or Freddie.  Three-Year Outrage  No doubt, it’s an outrage that Fannie and Freddie still
exist, more than three years after they collapsed into
government conservatorship. Last February, President  Barack Obama ’s administration released a  report  to Congress in which it
proposed winding down the two companies. Yet there’s been little
action on this front since then.  The Treasury Department’s gross investments in Fannie and
Freddie totaled $176 billion as of Sept. 30, according to the
department’s fiscal 2011  annual report , released in November.
More important, if the Treasury suddenly stopped supporting the
companies, the housing markets in many parts of the country
probably would crash. Although Fannie and Freddie weren’t the
only causes of the 2008 crisis, letting them fail now could
cause a new one, as might the collapse of any systemically
important financial institution. For now, we’re stuck with them.  Let’s just stipulate that Fannie and Freddie were a cause
of the crisis, even a big one, and leave it at that. The crucial
discussion our leaders need to be having now is how to end them.
If they can’t come up with an answer, it’s probably by choice.
Nobody is willing to take the hit today any more than they were
in 2008. Some things seem to never change.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 