-- FSA Pressures Banks to Hand Over MF Global’s U.K. Client Money
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-19T12:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/finance-regulator-presses-banks-to-hand-over-mf-global-s-u-k-client-money.html
Financial regulators have stepped in
to help  MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s (MF)  U.K. administrators in
negotiations for the return of more than 1 billion pounds ($1.5
billion) of client money held by banks.  The Financial Services Authority has been involved in the
discussions without taking formal action against any of the
banks, according to two people with knowledge of the situation
who declined to identified because the negotiations are
confidential. FSA spokesman  Chris Hamilton  said the regulator
had been speaking to banks about the return of MF Global client
money and assets.  At least $2.7 billion of MF Global’s U.K customer funds
were frozen in external bank accounts when the broker collapsed
on Oct. 31 after making losing bets of European sovereign debt.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  were among the banks holding cash and assets for
MF Global’s clients, according to documents released by  KPMG .  The funds, held in unsegregated accounts that lack special
protection, have proven difficult to recover, Richard Heis, the
lead administrator at KPMG LLP, said at a creditors meeting last
week. KPMG said it has threatened lawsuits against some of the
financial institutions which held money and assets for MF Global
clients.  KMPG was appointed to wind up the U.K. unit in the first
use of a new special administration system that allows the FSA
to issue directions to administrators. KPMG spokesman Giles
Robinson didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Unsegregated Accounts  About $1.2 billion in segregated customer funds, which are
held separately, has been identified by KPMG and 82 percent of
the money has been recovered. Efforts to recover money in
unsegregated accounts that weren’t separated from MF Global’s
own money have been an “ongoing struggle,” Heis said at the
creditors meeting.  Unlike segregated customers, clients with unsegregated
accounts will be treated as unsecured creditors, meaning they
may not get all their money back, KPMG has said.  Spokesmen for JP Morgan and  BNY Mellon  declined to comment.
 Jeffrey French , a spokesman at Citigroup, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  