-- Fink Leverages BlackRock’s $3.5 Trillion in Shareholder Push
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-01-19T16:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/fink-leverages-blackrock-s-3-3-trillion-in-shareholder-push.html
BlackRock (BLK)  Inc., the world’s biggest
money manager, is looking to leverage its $3.5 trillion of
client assets by embarking on an unprecedented campaign urging
corporations to adopt shareholder-friendly practices.  Laurence D. Fink, BlackRock’s chief executive officer, said
in a letter yesterday to 600 of its biggest holdings, including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , BNP Paribas SA and  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) , that his firm “seeks to engage in dialogue” with
management to address issues that will be raised this year at
shareholder meetings.  “We think it is particularly important to have such
discussions - with us and other investors - well in advance of
the voting deadlines for your shareholder meeting and prior to
any engagement you may undertake with proxy-advisory firms,”
Fink wrote in the letter, referring to companies that help
institutional investors decide how to vote.  BlackRock, which is based in  New York , holds at least 5
percent of the shares of 2,400 companies worldwide. The firm’s
public stance under Fink, who co-founded BlackRock more than two
decades ago, is unusual in the U.S., where traditional asset
managers haven’t typically been vocal about corporate practices
at companies whose shares they hold. Fink said last year he
believes money managers will play a larger role in financial
markets as Wall Street’s influence declines.  ‘Obligation to Lead’  “Fink has achieved so much and acquired such a high
profile that he believes there is an obligation to lead
institutional asset managers, and corporate governance is a hot
topic to focus on,” Burton Greenwald, a mutual-fund consultant
in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “He may also
see this as an opportunity to enhance the reputation of
BlackRock and the overall image of Wall Street-type firms at a
time when  Wall Street  is under withering fire from all
quarters.”  While some pension funds, union plans and activist
investors such as  Carl Icahn  and  Nelson Peltz  have a reputation
for expressing their views on governance-related topics ranging
from  climate change  to company strategy, managers of mutual
funds typically avoid such strategies.  A May 2011  study  by the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, a public workers’ union, and
Fund Votes, an independent research website, showed that mutual
funds supported 80 percent of management proposals in 2010,
compared with 84 percent during the prior year. In a
presentation on its website, BlackRock said it has voted in
favor of 91 percent of proposals recommended by management.  20-Member Team  BlackRock became the world’s biggest asset manager after
completing its acquisition in December 2009 of  Barclays Global
Investors , which added index products such as exchange-traded
funds to the firm’s active stock and bond holdings.  Since then, BlackRock has put together a 20-member team for
corporate governance and responsible investment with the primary
goal of protecting investment assets and increasing client
returns over time, Michelle Edkins, who heads the group, said in
an interview.  “Good quality leadership by boards and good quality
execution by management leads to better performance by companies
over time,” said Edkins, a former executive at Hermes Fund
Managers Ltd., a London-based investment firm. “As a major
shareholder on behalf of our clients, we want to make sure that
we protect the value of client assets.”  BlackRock’s corporate governance team works with the firm’s
portfolio managers to learn more about the companies. In the
year ended June 30, BlackRock voted on 129,017 proposals at at
15,165 shareholder meetings worldwide, the firm said.  ‘Event Driven’  In yesterday’s letter, Fink wrote that BlackRock reaches
its voting decisions independently of proxy-advisory firms and
that they are designed to “protect the economic interests” of
its investors.  Big shareholders can cause companies to change certain
practices even before a proposal comes up for a vote. Last year,
General Electric amended terms of the 2 million options awarded
to CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  by linking them to  cash flow  and stock
performance, the company said at the time. The move came after
conversations with top shareholders, including BlackRock, before
the shareholder meeting.  BlackRock also undertakes what it describes as “event-
driven” engagements with companies when something happens that
could harm shareholders in a specific industry group, Edkins
said. The firm started discussions with energy companies after a
well operated by BP Plc spewed oil into the  Gulf of Mexico  in
April 2010. BlackRock was London-based BP’s largest shareholder
as of the end of that year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Broader View  Edkins says BlackRock isn’t interested in managing or
interfering in the day-to-day operations of companies it holds.
BlackRock will seek conversations on broader topics, including
independent boards at companies, executive pay and succession
planning, she said.  “Lots of firms now outsource their proxy voting,” Mercer Bullard, president and founder of Fund Democracy, an Oxford,
Mississippi-based mutual-fund shareholder advocacy group, said
in an interview. “That they have people working full time on
this suggests BlackRock believes that there are investment
returns to be had by being smart about using their shareholder
power.”  Geoff Bobroff, an independent fund analyst, said that
BlackRock’s large passive business puts it at a disadvantage to
firms that employ active stock-picking because  index funds 
cannot sell the shares if they are dissatisfied with the
management. Bobroff also said companies may not be receptive to
BlackRock’s ideas.  ‘800-Pound Gorilla’  “They are the largest asset manager in the world and from
that standpoint some companies might take affront,” said
Bobroff, who is based in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island . “In one
regard it’s the 800-pound gorilla flexing its muscles.”  Edkins said being a passive holder actually helps build a
relationship with companies, because the firms know that the
 money manager  will maintain its stake.  “Having a foundation of a passive holdings strengthen the
conversation because the companies realize this is a long-term
relationship,” Edkins said. “It doesn’t make us any more
influential.”  BlackRock’s Fink, who co-founded the firm in a one-room
office in  Manhattan  in 1988, said during an alumni event hosted
by UCLA Anderson School of Management in November that as the
power of traditional Wall Street firms wanes, money managers
have a greater role in shaping financial markets.  “I believe we’re going to go into the decade where the
money holders are going to have a significant responsibility,
more than we’ve ever had in our lifetimes,” Fink said at the
time. “So think of what that means for proxies and our
responsibility in voting and things like that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  