-- Finland Derides Crisis as Excuse for Eroding Sovereignty
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-01-19T11:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/finland-derides-crisis-as-excuse-for-eroding-sovereignty.html
Finland  is losing patience with a
Franco-German bid to erode rules protecting national sovereignty
and warns more policy gyrations designed to prevent a euro-area
default will alienate citizens across the union.  “We have a political crisis in Europe,” Jutta Urpilainen,
Finland’s 36-year-old finance minister, said in an interview in
Helsinki. “If we make significant decisions using the crisis as
an excuse, for example reducing national sovereignty, that
carries the risk of weakening the EU’s legitimacy. The risk is
that people feel things are moving too fast.”  Urpilainen has railed against German and French plans to do
away with unanimous voting in the 17-nation euro region and says
it’s wrong to repay Finland’s fiscal responsibility with a loss
of sovereignty. The northernmost euro member is one of only four
sovereigns in  Europe ’s currency bloc that still carries a top
credit grade at the three major ratings companies.  Standard &
Poor’s  on Jan. 13 removed France and  Austria  from the euro
area’s AAA club.  The Finnish finance minister will meet with her euro-area
counterparts on Jan. 23 in Brussels to argue the Nordic
country’s corner.  “Unanimous decision-making matters from the point of view
of national sovereignty and democracy,” Urpilainen said.  Negative Outlook  Finland didn’t survive S&P’s downgrade entirely unscathed.
The country’s outlook was cut to negative, after being placed on
credit watch negative on Dec. 5. S&P cited the fallout of the
euro area’s crisis for the cut. A negative outlook signals
there’s “at least” a one-in-three chance the rating will be
cut this year or next, S&P said.  Finland’s 10-year bonds yield 33 basis points more than
benchmark German debt, the smallest spread of the 17 euro
countries after the Netherlands.  France , by contrast, yields 133
basis points more than the German debt. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Finland is ready to withdraw its support from Europe’s
permanent rescue fund, due to become effective in July, if the
currency bloc abandons unanimous voting, Urpilainen said Dec. 9.
Germany and France pushed for the change to expedite decision
making on bailouts.  Finnish withdrawal from the European Stability Mechanism
would put in question the collateral deal the country struck in
exchange for future contributions to a second Greek bailout.  Though Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  on Jan. 12 signaled
his government is willing to look for a compromise on unanimity
in an effort to maintain influence in the euro region,
Urpilainen, who heads the second-biggest group in Finland’s six-
party coalition, has shown less willingness to give in.  ‘Several’ Hurdles  Urpilainen today reiterated her unwillingness to give up
national sovereignty on the issue of  voting rights . At the same
time, the finance minister warned that the permanent rescue fund
still faces “several” hurdles before it wins backing from all
17 members inside the single currency bloc.  Unanimous voting is “not the only open issue,” she told
reporters in Helsinki today. A decision on the ESM will be
reached by March, Urpilainen said.  Katainen said today in Helsinki that a deal on the
permanent mechanism can be done “next week or later,” adding
that what is important is that the program goes into effect in
July as planned. “So far there have been no insurmountable
difficulties in the discussions, but the situation is live.”  Katainen’s government holds 124 seats in the 200-member
legislature and both opposition parties have indicated they will
reject the elimination of unanimity. Katainen would need at
least 133 votes to achieve the two-thirds majority.  Finland’s objections to the abolition of unanimous voting
have prompted European leaders to redraft the original proposal
in an effort to allow Katainen to back the bill with a simple
majority, or more than half Finland’s lawmakers.  Finnish Compromise  “Finland will compromise,” said Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief
economist at Helsinki-based bank Aktia Oyj. He said the likely
outcome will be that “decisions on increasing countries’
liabilities must be taken unanimously, whereas decisions on
using the fund cannot be unanimous to prevent countries like
Finland from stopping its effective use when required.”  Inside Urpilainen’s Social Democrats, there are other
dissenters. Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja wrote in his blog
that Finland should refuse to adopt the so-called fiscal compact
agreed on Dec. 9, arguing the agreement is “at best unnecessary
and at worst harmful,” according to a Jan. 15 entry. He railed
against the accord, which targets tighter economic controls
inside the euro region, as being “hurriedly pushed through,
bypassing national parliaments.” Katainen yesterday told
broadcaster YLE he doesn’t share Tuomioja’s views.  Appeasing Voters  Finnish politicians are struggling to appease voters
disgruntled at having their taxes used in bailouts that are sent
to governments that overspent. The April elections saw the anti-
euro “The Finns” party jump fourfold to become parliament’s
third-largest group. The party’s leader,  Timo Soini , has argued
that  Greece  should be left to default and doesn’t want to be in
a currency bloc with nations incapable of complying with
Europe’s fiscal rules.  Finland will post a 0.7 percent budget deficit of gross
domestic product this year, the European Commission said in
November. The country’s public finances have remained within the
European Union’s 3 percent deficit threshold throughout the
crisis and were in surplus in 2007 and 2008. Finland met
Europe’s budget rules even as its economy shrank  8.2 percent  in
2009.  The euro area will post an average budget shortfall of 3.4
percent this year and has breached the bloc’s 3 percent rule
from 2009, the commission said Nov. 10.  Urpilainen, an ex-teacher with a Masters degree in
education who can be heard singing on a 2002 album of Finnish
Christmas carols, persuaded voters to back her last year on an
anti-bailout platform. The reality of politics inside government
means she has had to temper her opposition to the pro-bailout
stance of Katainen’s National Coalition party.  ‘Speeding Train’  Becoming finance minister “was like jumping into a
speeding train,” she said.  Urpilainen, after becoming the first female to lead
Finland’s Social Democrats, is also the country’s first woman to
serve as finance minister. Her husband, Juha Mustonen, is an
official at the Foreign Ministry. The couple has no children.  “I feel I’m a pioneer,” Urpilainen said. During the early
days of her job in government, she often made use of her skills
as a teacher, she said.  “I had made a colorful handout to illustrate the state of
the Finnish economy and our future goals,” Urpilainen said of
her first meeting with her European counterparts. “Maybe that’s
my background as a teacher coming through.”  For those trying to guess how much Urpilainen will
compromise in negotiating Finland’s role in Europe’s crisis
management, she warns not to expect too much.  “It’s important to me to be able to look at myself in the
mirror in the morning and respect what I see and to stand behind
the decisions I make,” Urpilainen said. “I’ve never lost sleep
over work. It’s in my nature to push through obstacles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  