-- Food Demand to Stay ‘Strong’ Amid Global Slowdown, Viterra Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-01-19T04:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/food-demand-to-stay-strong-amid-global-slowdown-viterra-says.html
Global demand for agricultural
commodities is likely to remain “strong” even as economic
growth slows as rising populations and  emerging markets  drive
consumption, according to Canada’s largest grain handler.  “We’re confident that strong, long-term global market
fundamentals will continue to support the agriculture industry
as the nutritional needs of the world continue to grow,”
 Viterra Inc. (VT)  Chief Executive Officer Mayo Schmidt said.  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast this week by
the most in three years, saying that a recession in the euro
region may exacerbate a slowdown in emerging markets such as
 India . The world’s population is estimated to climb to 9 billion
in 2050 from 7 billion now, and production of most food
commodities will have to rise to meet expected demand, according
to the United Nations’  Food and Agriculture Organization .  “Despite the recent global economic slowdown, agriculture
has been resilient,” Schmidt said on a conference call today.
“Our industry should continue to experience growth in coming
years as the world’s population continues to increase and living
standards improve in developing and emerging countries.”  Viterra reported net  income  advanced to C$265.4 million
($262.7 million) in the 12 months ended Oct. 31, from C$145.3
million a year earlier, according to a statement. The Regina,
Saskatchewan-based company plans to pay a dividend of 15
Canadian cents per share, it said in the statement.  The shares fell 2.8 percent to A$10.20 on the Australian
Stock Exchange at 1:36 p.m. in Sydney.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  