-- For-Profit Colleges Targeted for Law Protecting Veterans
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-01-19T23:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/for-profit-colleges-targeted-for-law-protecting-veterans-3-.html
For-profit colleges that solicit
soldiers and veterans will face proposed legislation to curb
recruiting, the U.S. Senate’s No. 2 Democrat said.  Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois  will
discuss the measure he plans to introduce at a Chicago forum on
Jan. 23 examining for-profit colleges’ military recruiting,
according to a statement by his office today.  Congress, the Education Department, the  Justice Department 
and state attorneys general are scrutinizing the sales practices
and student-loan default rates of for-profit colleges, which
received almost $32 billion in federal grants and loans in the
2009-10 school year.  Durbin’s proposal will “reduce incentives for for-profit
colleges to target and aggressively recruit service members and
veterans,” according to the statement, which provided no
details.  Eight for-profit college companies -- including  Apollo
Group Inc. (APOL) , which owns University of Phoenix, the largest chain
by enrollment; and  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-
biggest -- received about $626 million in veterans education
benefits in the most recent academic year, the Senate education
committee said in a report in November.  Durbin’s legislation will create “barriers to critical
job-training and educational programs for veterans,”  Brian Moran , interim president of the Washington-based Association of
Private Sector Colleges and Universities, which represents for-
profits, said in a statement.  Apollo, based in Phoenix, dropped 1 percent to $53.50 at
the close in  New York . Pittsburgh-based Education Management
rose 0.9 percent to $25.48.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 