-- Fracking’s Greenhouse Gas Contribution Splits Scientists
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-19T19:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/fracking-s-greenhouse-gas-contribution-splits-cornell-scientists.html
Two groups of Cornell University
researchers have split over the contribution to global warming
by rising extraction of natural gas from shale beds through a
process known as fracking.  Dueling papers in the journal “Climatic Change” dispute
conclusions published in April that so-called unconventional gas
production spews more heat-trapping compounds into the
atmosphere than mining and burning coal.  The April research by Robert Howarth, a Cornell professor
of ecology and evolutionary biology, and Anthony Ingraffea, a
professor of civil and environmental engineering, overestimated
leaks from fracked wells by as much as tenfold, Lawrence
Cathles, a Cornell Geology professor, argues in a commentary
posted online by the journal and provided by Cornell.  “In the short term, our energy needs should be satisfied
mainly by those fuels having the fewest inherent environmental
disadvantages,” Cathles and his co-authors concluded. “Those
preferred fuels include natural gas.”  Howarth’s study, published in “Climatic Change Letters”
said as much as 1.9 percent of the gas in a well escapes to the
atmosphere during fracking, compared with 0.01 percent when
completing a conventional gas well. That ruled out gas as a
“bridge fuel” as more renewable energy is developed, he said.  A more reasonable estimate of gas lost during fracking is
0.2 percent, Cathles said.  More Fracking  Producers including   Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have increased U.S.
gas production by drilling horizontally through shale beds,
exposing more rock than a vertical bore, and then fracturing it
with a mixture of water, sand and chemicals.  Howarth’s data doesn’t adequately support the report’s
finding that the heat-trapping “footprint” of shale gas is 20
percent higher than coal, Robert Harriss, chief executive
officer of the Houston Advanced Research Center, said in an e-
mailed message in April.  Harriss spent four years studying air pollution by oil and
gas wells in the 1980s and 1990s. The research center is a
nonprofit that has received funding from the oil and gas
industry to study drilling techniques that cause less
environmental damage.  Subsequent research by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency and the United Nations Environment Programme support
their conclusions, Howarth said today on a conference call.  Regulations are necessary to limit natural-gas venting from
fracked wells because at current prices, companies would lose
money by capturing the gas for sale, Howarth said. The EPA
estimated a return of as much as 7 percent on capturing gas
worth $4 a million British thermal units, he said.  Gas futures fell 5 percent to $2.35 a million British
thermal units today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Cost to reduce all gas system leaks may be
“astronomical,” Ingraffea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  