-- Fracking Market to Grow 19% to $37 Billion Worldwide in 2012
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-01-19T22:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/frack-market-to-grow-19-in-2012-to-37-billion-correct-.html
The worldwide market for hydraulic
fracturing will grow 19 percent this year to a record $37
billion, one-third the pace of expansion in 2011 after  tumbling
natural-gas prices  discouraged exploration for the fuel, said
Spears & Associates Inc.  In  North America , which accounted for 87 percent of the
fracking market last year, spending on the technique used to
extract oil and gas from shale will top $30 billion in 2012,
said Richard Spears, vice president of the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
firm that advises about 400 oil producers,  hedge funds ,
equipment providers and manufacturers.  Demand for fracking services this year will grow slower
than 2011’s 63 percent rate because of declining interest in
searching for gas, which as recently as three years ago
dominated the market, Spears said today during a conference call
sponsored by Credit Suisse USA Holdings Inc.  “Natural-gas drilling has not grown, it’s shrunk,” Spears
said. “All the growth is on the oil side.”  Fracking is the practice of pumping millions of gallons of
high-pressure water, chemicals and sand underground to crack
fissures in the rock so oil and gas can flow.  Energy producers including  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,  Continental
Resources Inc (CLR) . and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have expanded use of
fracking to penetrate geologic formations from North Dakota to
 Pennsylvania  that were overlooked for decades because they were
too difficult to crack.  Horizontal Oil Wells  Halliburton Co., the biggest provider of fracking in North
America with 18 percent of capacity, rose 3.6 percent to $36.25
at the close in  New York , the biggest increase since Dec. 20.  Shale formations contributed to a boom in U.S. oil output
that reached a 9-year high in October, the most recent period
for which Energy Department data was available.  In the U.S., horizontal drilling, the precursor to most
fracking activity, is expected to rise to 18,600 new wells this
year, breaking 2011’s record of 16,100, said Spears, a former
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  fracking engineer.  About 73 percent of this year’s new horizontal wells in the
U.S. will be aimed at extracting oil, up from 12 percent in
2009, Spears said. The number of horizontal wells targeting gas
will fall to 5,000 this year in the U.S., down from 6,000 three
years ago, he said.  Four Companies  Four companies -- Halliburton,  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,  Baker
Hughes Inc. (BHI) ’s BJ Services unit and FTS International Inc.,
formerly known as Frac Tech Services LLC -- provided more than
half the North American fracking services last year, Spears
said. Halliburton was at the top of the group with almost one-
fifth of capacity, followed by Schlumberger with 13 percent, BJ
Services with 12 percent and FTS with 11 percent.  Fracking capacity in North America probably will expand 28
percent this year to about 18 million horsepower after growing
42 percent in 2011, Spears said. Capacity has more than tripled
in the past five years, thanks in part to companies that
previously didn’t exist or didn’t offer the service to oilfield
customers, he said.  The mid-continent region that includes  Oklahoma  dominated
the North American fracking market last year with $5 billion in
sales, Spears said. Canada was second-largest with $4 billion in
orders, followed by south  Texas  and the East Texas/Northern
Louisiana region, which each accounted for $3.5 billion in
fracking work.  The Rocky Mountains region, which includes the Bakken shale
that underlies  North Dakota  and Montana, generated $3 billion in
fracking sales, Spears said. The eastern U.S., which includes
the Marcellus and Utica shale formations, amounted to $2 billion
in fracking work last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Joe Carroll} in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  