-- Freestyle Skier Sarah Burke Dies Nine Days After Training Crash at Age 29
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/freestyle-skier-sarah-burke-dies-from-injuries-sustained-in-fall-ap-says.html
Canadian freestyle skier Sarah Burke
has died, nine days after sustaining a brain injury in a
training accident at  Utah ’s Park City Mountain Resort. She was
29.  Burke, a four-time superpipe Winter X Games champion and
the 2005 halfpipe world champion, died at 9:22 a.m. local time
at the University of Utah Hospital, according to a statement
released through the hospital by her family and her husband,
freestyle skier Rory Bushfield.  “The family expresses their heartfelt gratitude of the
international outpouring of support they have received from all
the people Sarah touched,” the family said in the statement.  Burke ruptured a vertebral artery, one of the four major
arteries that supply blood to the brain, according to the
statement. The rupture caused her heart to stop and tests after
Jan. 11 surgery showed “severe irreversible damage to her brain
due to lack of oxygen after cardiac arrest.”  Peter Judge, chief executive officer of the Canadian
freestyle team, said after the accident that he was told Burke
landed a trick at the bottom of the halfpipe and “kind of
bounced from her feet to her head,” according to the Toronto
Globe and Mail.  Burke was born Sept. 3, 1982, in Barrie, Ontario, and lived
in Squamish, British Columbia.  She had planned to defend her 2011 Winter X Games title
this month in Aspen,  Colorado , and pushed successfully to get
halfpipe added to the program for the 2014 Winter Olympics in
Sochi,  Russia .  Judge called Burke the “top female halfpipe athlete in the
world” in a statement that followed her accident.  “She was instrumental in launching the sport and has
continued to be a leader moving toward the sports’ Olympic debut
in 2014,” Judge said.  A “public celebration” of Burke will be held in the
coming weeks, the family said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 