-- Gambia’s Jammeh Take Oath for Fourth Term, Pledging Growth
-- B y   S u w a i b o u   T o u r a y
-- 2012-01-19T17:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/gambia-s-jammeh-take-oath-for-fourth-term-pledging-growth-1-.html
Gambia’s president, Yahya Jammeh
pledged to boost growth and create jobs in the small West
African nation as he was sworn into his fourth term in office.  “My government’s objective is to turn the Gambia into an
economic super-power that would be independent,” he said in a
speech in Banjul, the capital, today.  Jammeh, who came to power in a 1994 coup, won 71 percent of
votes in an election in November. The vote was condemned by the
Economic Community of West African States, which refused to send
observers, citing a political environment not conducive to free
and fair polls.  Halifa Sallah, leader of the opposition Peoples’ Democratic
Organisation for Independence and Socialism, refused to attend
the ceremony today, saying in an interview that the election
wasn’t free and fair.  Jammeh, who called his win decisive, pledged to reduce
corruption in the civil service and create jobs through skilled-
labor training.  Gambia, with a population of about 1.8 million people, is
the smallest country on mainland  Africa  and is surrounded by
 Senegal  on three sides. Led by visitors from the U.K. and the
Netherlands, tourism accounts for 16 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the country’s National Planning
Commission. Economic growth will be unchanged in 2012 at 5.5
percent from a year earlier, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Jammeh’s rule has been criticized by groups including
 Amnesty International  for alleged human rights violations
including unlawful arrests and unfair trials. In 2007, Jammeh’s
claim that he could cure AIDS was rejected by groups including
the  World Health Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suwaibou Touray in Banjul via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  