-- George Washington Wine Cooler Fetches $782,500 at Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-01-19T18:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/george-washington-wine-cooler-fetches-782-500-at-christie-s-new-york-sale.html
A wine cooler that belonged to
 George Washington  and  Alexander Hamilton  fetched $782,500 at
 Christie’s (CHRS)  auction today, topping its high presale estimate of
$600,000.  Three bidders vied for the object, with two on the phone
and one in the otherwise quiet auction room for a sale that was
part of Christie’s Americana week in  New York .  The buyer, on the phone, was Gary Hendershott, a collector
and dealer based in  Little Rock , Arkansas, who is interested in
anything pertaining to George Washington.  “There’s so much history involved in this item,”
Hendershott said in  a telephone interview. “If the economy was
better it probably would have been unobtainable.”  “This is unique,” said Seth Kaller, a dealer in historic
documents who bid unsuccessfully on behalf of a client. “It has
the historic associations between  Washington  and Hamilton. Plus
it’s a New York story because the nation’s first capital was
here.”  The Sheffield-plate bowl was designed to the specifications
of the first U.S. president to fit four bottles and ice.  It was one of four wine coolers Washington ordered in 1789,
the year he was sworn into office and moved into his first
official residence, on Cherry Street in  Manhattan .  President’s Gift  In 1797, as Washington left office and moved to Mount
Vernon, he gave one of the wine coolers to Alexander Hamilton,
his friend and the first treasury secretary.  In a letter to Hamilton he wrote that the gift is “not for
any intrinsic value the thing possesses, but as a token of my
sincere regard and friendship for you, and as a remembrance of
me.” The passage is part of a long inscription that Hamilton’s
descendants had engraved on the cooler, while the letter itself
is in the collection of the  Library of Congress .  The cooler has remained until now with Hamilton’s
descendants.  “I will have a glass of wine out of it the first chance I
have,” Hendershott said. “And I will toast George
Washington.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 