-- GM Breaks 9 Million Taking Global Sales Crown From Toyota: Cars
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-19T23:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/gm-takes-crown-selling-more-than-9-million-vehicles-last-year.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , saying today it
sold 9.03 million vehicles worldwide last year, regained its
spot as the world’s top-selling automaker as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
struggled with floods, earthquakes and a tsunami.  GM’s deliveries rose 7.6 percent from 8.39 million in 2010,
the company said on its website, topping an analyst’s estimate
and exceeding the 9 million mark for the first time since 2007.
Toyota, which ended GM’s 77-year reign as the world’s largest
automaker in 2008, hasn’t reported full-year results. Toyota has
estimated that 2011 calendar year sales will decrease 6 percent
to 7.9 million.  The return to No. 1 marks a sharp rebound for GM, coming
two years after the company exited a U.S. government-backed
bankruptcy. When GM was last No. 1, in 2007, it was known as
General Motors Corp. and lost $38.7 billion. Last year, the
Detroit-based automaker may have earned $8.1 billion, the
average of four analyst estimates.  “The difference between this title and other times is that
they are profitable and that’s where the bankruptcy was
helpful,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS
Automotive, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s great to
be No. 1, but it’s a lot more fun to be profitable.”  GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said that he
places a higher priority on profit margins than on global unit
volumes. While analysts estimate that GM will boost revenue 2.9
percent to $154.2 billion this year, he is pushing for profit
margins before interest and taxes to beat those of  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and Volkswagen AG.  “We need to focus on profits and margins and not
necessarily try to post numbers on the board,” Akerson told
reporters at the Detroit auto show earlier this month. “We want
to grow in terms of our  cash flow  so we can continue to invest
in both up and down cycles and be strong financially.”  GM Shares  GM rose 1.3 percent to $24.82 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 22 percent this year and losing 45 percent in
2011.  The U.S. still  owns  almost a third of GM. The government
would have to sell its stake at an average of $53 a share to
break even. GM earned $6.17 billion in 2010 and $8.47 billion in
the first nine months of last year.  “More important than finishing the year with the most
units sold is how it was accomplished,”  Kevin Tynan , senior
automotive analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in an e-mail.
“There were many years in the recent past in which GM won the
sales title but operated unprofitably.”  Growth Drivers  GM’s Chevrolet brand, aided by the Cruze compact car,
helped drive the automaker’s growth in 2011. Chevy had worldwide
sales of 4.76 million cars and trucks last year.  The automaker’s two largest markets finished with similar
totals. GM saw sales rise 8.3 percent in China to 2.55 million,
including sales with its joint-venture partners, while
deliveries rose 13 percent in the U.S. to 2.5 million. GM has
said it wants to double its sales to 5 million in  China  by 2015.  GM’s Asia business, including its partnership with SAIC
Motor Corp., has been helped by sales of its Wuling light
trucks, which retail for about $4,400.  “These are not very expensive vehicles, but they are
profitable and they sell a helluva lot of them,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of consulting firm AutoTrends Inc. in  Short
Hills ,  New Jersey .  Global auto sales will grow 6.7 percent this year to 77.7
million, R.L. Polk & Co. said earlier this month. Morgan Stanley
estimated July 6 that GM would sell 8.5 million vehicles in
2011.  Volkswagen probably topped Toyota last year. The Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company’s global deliveries rose 14 percent to
8.16 million. VW has said it aims to surpass GM and Toyota with
10 million sales by 2018. Executives privately want to meet the
goal by 2015, a person with knowledge of the matter has said.  Toyota’s Rebound  Through three quarters, Toyota’s deliveries fell 8.8
percent to 5.77 million, as production was limited by natural
disasters in Japan and  Thailand . Next year it expects sales of
Toyota, Lexus and Scion models to grow 7.3 percent to 8.48
million.  Toyota has the opportunity to rebound this year, especially
as it works to rebuild depleted inventories for dealers,
longtime industry watcher  Maryann Keller , principal of a self-
named consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said.  “If they don’t have any significant disruptions to their
global production system, they will not only be able to produce
to meet demand but they’ll have to produce to refill
inventory,” she said. “They have that extra opportunity to
build more than say the market will buy.”  The battle to be the world’s top-selling automaker goes
back to the days of  Henry Ford  and Billy Durant, the founders of
Ford and GM.  Under the leadership of Alfred Sloan, GM took the sales
title from Ford in 1931 during the Great Depression and retained
it through World War II, the boom years of the 1950s and ‘60s,
and the first five decades after Toyota began selling cars in
the U.S.  New GM  Toyota first surpassed GM in 2008, the year then-CEO  Rick Wagoner  asked Congress for a loan to keep the company afloat. He
was fired before the automaker entered  bankruptcy protection 
June 1, 2009.  Harry Wilson , a former member of the Obama administration’s
automotive task force, which oversaw GM’s $50 billion bailout,
has said the group didn’t see GM retaking Toyota this soon after
emerging from court protection on July 10, 2009.  “The challenge is going to be keeping the title because
other manufactures, like Toyota and  Volkswagen (VOW) , are after it
also,” said Lindland, the industry analyst based in Norwalk,
Connecticut. “Toyota has something to prove. They’re on a
mission.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  