-- China’s Goldwind Expanding in U.S. as Rivals Cut Back
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-01-20T13:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/goldwind-buys-two-10-megawatt-montana-wind-farms-from-volkswind.html
Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. ,  China ’s second-largest wind-turbine maker,
indicated it’s picking up market share in the U.S. as falling
prices and expiring subsidies force rivals to pare back.  Goldwind bought two 10-megawatt wind farms in  Montana  to
showcase its equipment and has taken orders in seven other U.S.
states since it started sales in the region in June 2010,
according to a company statement released yesterday.  The U.S. government allowed an incentive for the wind
industry to expire in December and hasn’t acted to extend a tax
credit due to lapse at the end of 2012. Goldwind’s market share
is growing the fastest of the top five companies concentrated on
turbines, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  “Goldwind has financed a large-scale project to prove its
turbine viability, and the other Chinese manufacturers haven’t
done that,” Amy Grace, a wind industry analyst for the London-
based researcher, said in an interview. “There’s no question
that Goldwind will have more U.S. sales.”  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest turbine
manufacturer, has said it may cut 1,600 jobs in the U.S. unless
the government extends the Production Tax Credit. Last week, the
Danish company said it would pare 2,335 jobs worldwide to reduce
costs as competition from  Asia  compresses its margins.  U.S. Market  Wind-turbine makers may install 9 gigawatts of capacity in
the U.S. this year before the Production Tax Credit ends,
compared with about 6.5 gigawatts in 2011, New Energy Finance
said, noting sales may “crash” in 2013 without the credit.  Goldwind said the wind farms it bought in Shawmut, Montana,
from the U.S. unit of  Germany ’s Volkswind GmbH will form the
Musselshell project. Goldwind turbines are already operating in
Minnesota and  Iowa .  After a 71 percent jump in sales in 2010, Goldwind is
seeking to expand outside China into other markets dominated
by Vestas,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , the biggest
suppliers in the U.S., Grace said.  “They’re truly an international company, with research and
development in Germany and China and a largely American team in
the U.S.,” she said.  Goldwind’s Musselshell project is expected to go into
operation as early as the third quarter, the company said. The
price wasn’t disclosed.  Northwestern Corp. (NWE) ’s Northwest Energy
will buy the power.  The plant will use Goldwind’s  permanent magnet  turbines,
which don’t need a gearbox, reducing maintenance and increasing
efficiency.  Almost all of the towers for the Chinese company’s U.S.
projects come from Naperville, Illinois-based  Broadwind Energy
Inc. (BWEN) , Colin Mahoney, a spokesman for Goldwind’s U.S. unit, said
in an e-mail. Most of the blades come from a LM Wind Power Group
plant in  North Dakota .  The company had turbines with capacity of 9 megawatts
“substantially complete” in the U.S. at the end of December
and 117 megawatts under construction, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  