-- Goldman, Citigroup Are Said to Market CMBS With Lower Yields
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-01-19T21:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/goldman-sachs-citigroup-said-to-market-cmbs-with-lower-yield.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are marketing $1 billion of commercial-mortgage
bonds with lower relative yields than the most recent deals as
demand for the debt recovers.  A top-ranked public portion maturing in about 10 years may
yield 110 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to a person familiar with the offering who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. Bonds rated BBB-, being
offered privately, may pay a spread of 700 basis points more
than the benchmark, the person said.  UBS AG and Citigroup sold similar top-ranked debt to yield
130 basis points more than swaps in December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman
Sachs, and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment.  Relative yields on commercial mortgage bonds determine how
attractive Wall Street rates are for property owners and drive
the velocity of new offerings.  The spread on top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds was as
narrow as 60 basis points more than Treasuries when sales peaked
in 2007, and as wide as 14.92 percentage points in November 2008
in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Banks pulled back from making new loans to package into
bonds in July as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled credit markets and
sent spreads soaring. Originations have since picked up,
according to a Standard & Poor’s report last month. The ratings
company is forecasting $35 billion in 2012 sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  