-- Google Revenue Misses Estimates as European Debt Crisis Crimps Ads Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-20T00:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/google-sales-short-of-estimates-on-slow-european-economy.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular Web search engine, reported fourth-quarter revenue
and profit that missed analysts’ estimates, as weaker European
demand and a shift to mobile advertising crimped growth.  Sales excluding revenue passed on to partner sites rose to
$8.13 billion, Google said on its  website . That compared with
the $8.41 billion average  estimate  of analysts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit before certain costs was
$9.50 a share, missing the $10.50 average estimate. The  shares 
plunged as much as 10 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  is moving into new
markets to ignite growth outside Google’s traditional search-
based business. That effort contributed to an 8 percent drop in
the average price Google gets when users click an ad, because it
charges less for ads on mobile devices and in  emerging markets ,
said  Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group. A
stronger dollar also eroded the value of international sales.  “Google is not invincible,” said San Francisco-based
Leung, who doesn’t own the stock. “Every company is going to be
subject to growing pains.”  Google  shares  tumbled to as low as $573 in extended trading
after the report. They had gained 1.1 percent to $639.57 at the
close in  New York . The stock climbed 8.7 percent last year.  International Sales  International sales made up 53 percent of revenue in the
quarter, down from 55 percent in the third quarter, the company
said. Online ad sales in  Europe  increased about 5 percent in the
fourth quarter, compared with a 20 percent increase in the first
half of last year, said Clay Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co.,
who is based in  Delray Beach ,  Florida .  “In large part, it is due to Europe,”  Sameet Sinha , an
analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco, said of Google’s
disappointing results. “It could be a protracted slowdown until
these clouds go away.”  Total search-based advertising spending in Europe rose 14
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a 22 percent jump
in the U.S., according to  IgnitionOne Inc ., a digital-marketing
company.  Google’s net income rose to $2.71 billion, or $8.22 a
share, compared with $2.54 billion, or $7.81 a share, a year
earlier, the  Mountain View , California-based company said.
Operating expenses rose to $3.38 billion, or 32 percent of
revenue, in the recent period. In the year-earlier quarter,
operating costs equaled 30 percent of revenue, Google said.  “One of the major concerns here is given the performance
on the top line, what does the margin picture look like going
forward?” said Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc.
in New York, who rates Google shares “overweight.”  The number of total clicks on ads rose 34 percent during
the quarter, Google said.  Search Upgrades  The company has been working to offer customers more
options in mobile and display advertising, faster-growing
markets than search-based ads. Google also has been investing in
its search engine to improve the quality of results and bolster
market share to stay ahead of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing service.  In  December , Google’s share of U.S. searches rose to 65.9
percent from 65.4 percent the previous month, according to
 ComScore Inc . Microsoft had 15.1 percent of searches, up from 15
percent, while  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s search engine accounted for 14.5
percent.  Google is betting it can maintain its dominance in search
by offering users faster, more personal query results. Last
year, Google rolled out the “Instant Pages” feature, which
aims to cut the time of searches for users by about 2 to 5
seconds.  Social Searching  Earlier this month, Google introduced “Search, Plus Your
World,” intended to give users more personalized search results
by tapping content from the Google+ social-networking service.
The search service lists items that users may have put on
Google+ or related results from friends’ posts on the social
site, which competes with Facebook Inc. The Google+ service now
has 90 million users globally, more than double the amount in
October.  Still, Google’s efforts to attract users have drawn
regulatory scrutiny. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
focusing on whether Google unfairly ranks search results to
favor its own businesses and increases advertising rates for
competitors, a person familiar with the matter said in August.  More recently, the FTC expanded its antitrust probe of
Google to include scrutiny of Google+, two people familiar with
the situation said last week.  Android  Google, which also develops the Android operating system
for smartphones and tablets, has been using  acquisitions  in the
past few years to build up its services for display ads, which
features images, videos or animation, and ads on mobile devices.  Last year, Google announced it was buying AdMeld Inc.,
which offers services to Internet publishers to manage display
ads, and in 2010 the company bought AdMob Inc., which
specializes in advertising on mobile phones.  The company is on a pace to generate $5 billion in sales
from display-based ad revenue a year, Page said on a conference
call with analysts today. There are now about 250 million
Android devices, he said.  “I’m very happy with our results,” Page said. “Google
had a very strong quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  