-- Greece Moves Closer to Debt-Swap Accord With Private Investors
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-01-20T19:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/greek-debt-talks-enter-third-day-after-long-and-substantial-discussions.html
Greece  and its private creditors are
closing in on a debt swap accord that’s crucial to cutting the
country’s borrowings and allowing it to receive a second round
of international aid.  “There’s been significant progress,” Hans Humes,
president of Greylock Capital Management and a member of the
creditor committee negotiating the deal with the government,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “There’s broad
agreement about the coupons and structural elements.”  European officials and the nation’s private bondholders
agreed in October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face
value of just more than 200 billion euros ($259 billion) of
Greek debt by voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new
securities, with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020. An accord with
bondholders is key to a second financing package for the cash-
strapped country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment
on March 20.  Talks on the swap were set to resume at 7:30 p.m. in
 Athens , Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told
reporters after meeting with creditors and Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  today.  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of
International Finance , a Washington-based lobby group
representing creditors in the talks, said he may have something
to say on the matter later today. He declined to elaborate. The
talks broke in Athens earlier today so Greek officials could
consult with European Union representatives, Venizelos said.  90 Percent Participation  The parties are nearing an agreement under which old bonds
would be swapped for new securities with coupons averaging
between 4 percent and 4.5 percent, said a person with knowledge
of the discussions. Unresolved issues remain, such as whether
private investors would be treated differently from official
creditors in the event of a later default, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential.
The objective is to reach a deal before Jan. 23, the person
said.  The two sides, which broke off negotiations on Jan. 13
before resuming them two days ago, have struggled to reach an
accord on the coupon and maturity of the new bonds, which would
determine losses for investors.  Humes said he’s “cautiously optimistic” the talks will
lead to an accord. “If the IIF shake hands with the other side
of the table, we will have a 90 percent or higher acceptance
rate,” Humes estimated.  Voluntary Swap  Marathon Asset Management LP CEO Bruce Richards estimated
in a Jan. 17 interview that private creditors were likely to get
cash and securities with a market value of about 32 cents per
euro of  government bonds  in the debt accord.  Marathon, which has $10 billion under management, is on the
committee of 32 private creditors formed in November to
negotiate with Greece, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
EU. It’s not on the smaller steering committee directly involved
in negotiations.  Questions remain how the two sides can craft a voluntary
deal that will provide the debt relief the Greek government
requires while attracting enough participation from bondholders.
The government may scrap its earlier threat to pass a law
compelling full participation from private creditors, said the
person familiar with the talks.  Venizelos said before yesterday’s round of talks that for
the final deal to lead to a sustainable level of debt for the
country there must be a 100 percent participation rate.  Troika Talks  “Critical negotiations are taking place with
representatives of the private sector on how they will
participate as radically and bravely as possible, but also
voluntarily,” Venizelos told lawmakers in Athens, in comments
televised live. “It must be voluntary and participation must be
100 percent,” he said.  Hedge funds  holding Greek bonds may resist the deal,
seeking greater profit by getting paid in full, either by the
Greek government or by triggering payouts from credit-default
swaps. Winning support from banks seeking to limit their losses
may be easier than including hedge funds and other speculators
who bought securities at distressed levels.  Vega Asset Management LLC resigned from the committee of
Greek creditors negotiating the debt swap last month because the
Madrid-based hedge fund refused to accept a net present value
loss exceeding 50 percent, according to a Dec. 7 e-mail sent to
other panel members, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Greek officials also met today with the so-called troika
mission, which is comprised of European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and IMF representatives, on the new 130 billion-
euro financing accord for the country.  ‘Interdependent’  “Reaching an agreement on the new loans and finishing a
debt swap are interdependent,” Venizelos told lawmakers in
Athens yesterday.  The creditors’ steering committee negotiating the debt swap
includes representatives from banks and insurers with the
largest holdings of Greek government bonds, including  National
Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA. (CS)   Financial firms on the IIF’s private-creditor investor
committee, a larger group of 32  members  that includes the
smaller steering committee, hold more than 47 billion euros in
Greek sovereign debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from company reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net 
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  