-- TIAA-CREF Says Scott Evans to Step Down as Head of Portfolio
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-19T18:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/tiaa-cref-s-scott-evans-will-step-down-as-head-of-441-billion-portfolio.html
TIAA-CREF, the manager of retirement
accounts for teachers, said Scott Evans is stepping down as
president of the asset-management businesses that had about $441
billion in funds as of Sept. 30.  “After 27 years of faithful service, he will leave TIAA-
CREF with a deep bench of asset-management leaders in place and
a proven strategy,” said Abby Cohen, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based firm, in a phone interview today. “Scott will
continue to work with us to ensure a smooth transition as we
conduct a search for his successor.”  The departure of Evans, 52, will leave vacancies in two of
the top money-management jobs at the company, which oversees
holdings of corporate bonds, stocks, government debt, mortgage-
backed securities and real estate investments. TIAA-CREF said in
November that Ed Grzybowski was stepping down as chief
investment officer and would leave in March.  The firm created the position of chief operating officer of
asset management last year and assigned Carol Deckbar to the
post, saying she would report to Evans.  David Brown  was named to
the new position of portfolio manager for the $207 billion
general account. Brown previously was senior managing director
and head of global public markets, a post that was taken by Lisa Black.  “We thank Scott for his many contributions and respect his
decision to spend more time with his family,” Cohen said.  The company’s CREF Stock Account lost 4.9 percent in 2011
and posted an average annual return of 3.5 percent in the 10
years through Dec. 31. That compares with a 3.7 percent one-year
drop for a composite index used by the company as a benchmark,
and an average yearly return of 3.8 percent over the decade,
according to  data  on TIAA-CREF’s website. The Stock Account had
about $97 billion in net invested assets as of Dec. 31.  TIAA-CREF mutual funds had net inflows of $7 billion during
2011, bringing assets under management to $37 billion, according
to a  report  from Morningstar Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  