-- IBM Forecast Tops Estimates After Earnings Rise on Software
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-19T23:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ibm-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, forecast
2012 earnings exceeding analysts’ estimates after fourth-quarter
profit rose 4.4 percent because of rising software demand.  Earnings, excluding some items, will increase to at least
$14.85 a share this year, Armonk, New York-based IBM said today.
Analysts projected $14.81, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter operating earnings advanced to $4.71 a
share, beating the $4.62 analysts predicted.  Virginia “Ginni” Rometty succeeded  Sam Palmisano  this
month, becoming the first female chief executive officer in the
company’s 100-year history. She inherits a five-year plan that
includes boosting software to half of IBM’s earnings, with a
focus on programs that help businesses analyze and project
trends, as well as on cloud computing and  emerging markets .  “Software was a relative strength,” Shebly Seyrafi, an
analyst at FBN Securities in  New York  with a “sector perform”
rating on the stock, said in an interview. “It’s a bit
relieving that IBM, which is a bellwether in technology, did not
disappoint investors.”  Sales increased 1.6 percent to $29.5 billion, compared with
the $29.7 billion analysts had predicted. The euro declined 3.2
percent against the dollar last year amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.
The drop means revenue from Europe, which combined with Middle
East and Africa accounts for almost a third of IBM’s sales, is
worth less when converted to dollars.  Rometty’s Moves  IBM gained as much as 3.9 percent to $187.50 in extended
trading, after closing at $180.52. The  shares  reached a record
in 2011 and rose 25 percent for the year. They had lost 1.8
percent this year as of today’s close.  Rometty, 54, formerly IBM’s sales and marketing head, took
the helm Jan. 1 after the succession was announced in October.
Palmisano, who had been CEO since 2002, remains chairman.  In her first promotions this month, Rometty named Bruno Di Leo as sales and distribution chief and Bridget Van Kralingen as
head of consulting, replacing a retiring Frank Kern. She also
named James Bramante senior vice president of growth markets, an
elevated title as IBM seeks to boost the unit’s sales.  IBM has set goals of adding $20 billion in new revenue,
including spending about $20 billion on acquisitions, from 2010
through 2015, as it expands offerings to business customers.  Growth Markets  Fourth-quarter  net income  rose to $5.49 billion, or $4.62 a
share, from $5.26 billion, or $4.18 a share, a year earlier.
Operating earnings a year earlier were $4.25 a share.  Profit expansion this year will be “more skewed to the
second half,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on a
conference call today. IBM has said it targets annual operating
earnings of at least $20 a share by 2015.  “We are well on track toward our long-term roadmap for
operating earnings,” Rometty said in the statement. “We
continued to realize the benefit of our long-term investments in
growth markets, business analytics, Smarter Planet solutions and
cloud.”  Sales at IBM’s software unit rose about 9 percent to $7.6
billion, boosted by demand for brands such as Tivoli and Lotus.
Services revenue growth slowed to 3 percent from the third
quarter’s 8 percent, while hardware sales fell 8 percent.  Backlog, which measures expected future revenue from
contracts, totaled $141 billion in the quarter, up $4 billion
from the third quarter. Contract signings for  services , which
make up about 60 percent of IBM revenue, fell 8 percent from a
year earlier to $20.4 billion.  Services revenue will rise at least 3 percent this year,
based on the backlog growth, Loughridge said.  “We continue to build our momentum in software,” he said.
“Our services business delivered powerful margin and profit
growth.”  Revenue from growth markets, such as Brazil, India and
 China , increased 7 percent in the fourth quarter. Sales from the
regions will make up at least 30 percent of revenue by 2015, the
company has said, up from 22 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  