-- IC Drops Most in Seven Years as Sales Slump: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-01-19T10:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ic-drops-most-in-seven-years-as-sales-slump-copenhagen-mover.html
IC Companys A/S (IC) , Denmark’s largest
publicly traded clothing company, fell the most in more than
seven years in Copenhagen trading after saying revenue will
contract for a third year in four.  IC declined as much as 19 percent, the biggest drop since
Nov. 9, 2004. The stock fell 21.50 kroner, or 17 percent, to
107.50 kroner at 11:12 a.m. local time, making it  today’s
biggest loser  on Copenhagen’s stock exchange.  IC, with brands such as Jackpot and Peak Performance, said
warm winter weather and financial turmoil reduced customer
spending.  RNB Retail and Brands AB (RNBS) , Sweden’s No. 3 clothing
retailer, yesterday reported declining sales and predicted a
weak 2012.  H&M AB (HMBB) , the Nordic region’s biggest, will report
December sales and fourth-quarter earnings on Jan. 26.  “The development shows that IC Companys has been forced
into heavy discounting, which should continue in the coming
quarters,” Dan Kirk Wejse, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said today in a note. He cut his recommendation on
the share to “hold” from “buy.”  IC cut its full-year sales forecast range late yesterday by
200 million kroner ($34.7 million). Revenue for the 12 months
ending June 30 will now be 3.7 billion kroner to 3.8 billion
kroner, a  decline  from 3.93 billion kroner a year earlier. If
market conditions deteriorate further, the Copenhagen-based
company may post a double-digit million-krone loss on operating
level, it said. The company earlier forecast an operating profit
of at least 250 million kroner.  “Although the profit warning is another disappointment
from IC Companys, we still note the company’s history for being
able to cut operating costs and again improve gross margins,”
Nordea’ Weise said.  IC will “defend its market position” by holding
activities that promote sales as the challenging market
conditions will continue for the rest of the financial year, it
said.  RNB Retail and Brands, based in Stockholm, declined 0.3
percent in the Swedish capital. H&M, which also is based in
 Stockholm , fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 