-- Microsoft Profit Beats Estimates on Xbox, Demand From Corporate Customers
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-19T22:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/microsoft-profit-tops-estimates-on-xbox-demand.html
Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp., the world’s largest
software maker, reported second-quarter profit that beat
estimates, lifted by holiday sales of Xbox machines and Kinect
sensors, as well as corporate software demand.  Net income was $6.62 billion, or 78 cents a  share , compared
with $6.63 billion, or 77 cents, a year earlier, Microsoft said
today in a  statement . Sales rose to $20.9 billion, matching
estimates. Analysts had predicted 76 cents in profit on average,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Microsoft’s Xbox business got a boost from Christmas
shoppers, who snapped up its video-game consoles and Kinect
sensor controllers, and signed up for the Xbox Live online
service. That helped make up for Windows sales hurt by sluggish
demand for personal computers and a shortage of hard drives
stemming from floods in  Thailand .  “Xbox looks strong and Xbox Live looks really strong,”
said Kim Caughey Forrest, an analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group
Inc., which owns Microsoft shares. Sales of Office programs also
performed well, she said. “Those were all good things to see.”  Microsoft shares  rose in extended trading after the report.
The stock, which declined 7 percent last year, had decreased
less than 1 percent to close at $28.12 in regular trading.  Lower Costs  Microsoft also lowered its operating-cost projections. In
the fiscal year that began July 1, the expenses will be $28.5
billion to $28.9 billion, down from an October forecast for
$28.6 billion to $29.2 billion.  Unearned revenue, a measure of future sales, was $15.3
billion, above the $15.1 billion average estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. The category shows Microsoft continues to sign
multiyear agreements with corporate customers.  “We have some headwinds from a challenging PC market, but
Office and Server and Tools continue to grow very nicely,”
Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said in an
interview. “Xbox and  Xbox Live  had another strong holiday
season.”  The supply of computers to stores and companies was
hampered by flooding in Thailand, a disaster that wiped out
about a quarter of the world’s hard-drive manufacturing
capacity. That led PC shipments to decline 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to IDC, instead of the 5.1 percent
increase initially predicted. Gartner Inc., another research
firm, said PC shipments dropped 1.4 percent.  Threat From IPad  The flooding compounded the woes of PCs, which are being
pushed off consumer wish lists in favor of smartphones and Apple
Inc.’s iPad.  Heather Bellini , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., says Windows revenue is unlikely to recover substantially
in the next few quarters. The disk-drive shortage will continue
to hurt the industry, and customers are waiting for Microsoft’s
new Windows 8 before they buy PCs, she said.  Drive shortages and concerns about the economy are likely
to persist throughout the March quarter, Klein said. Microsoft
may have a hard time keeping some PC users from switching to
tablets and smartphones until Windows 8 goes on sale, he said.
Klein declined to provide a release date.  In addition to adding new PC features, Windows 8 will have
a touch-screen interface designed for tablets and will work with
ARM Holdings Plc chip technology. That will help manufacturers
produce machines that can rival the iPad in battery life and
speed.  Windows Decline  Microsoft’s Windows division posted a 6.3 percent decline
in sales to $4.74 billion last quarter, missing the $4.9 billion
estimated by  analysts . Windows revenue has fallen short of
analysts’ estimates in four of the past five quarters.  The Business division’s sales, largely made up of Office
products such as Word and Excel, rose 2.8 percent to $6.28
billion. That beat the $6.1 billion average estimate of
analysts. Server and tools software was $4.77 billion, compared
with the $4.8 billion average estimate. The Xbox unit posted
sales of $4.24 billion, topping the projection of $4.2 billion.  The Xbox business had its best week ever in terms of U.S.
sales, setting a record during the seven days after
Thanksgiving. Microsoft has now sold a total of 66 million Xbox
machines and 18 million Kinect motion sensors, which let users
control games with body motion. Forty million customers have
signed up for the company’s Xbox Live online gaming and
entertainment service, the company said earlier this month.  Corporate Sales  Microsoft has relied on corporate demand for its Office and
server software, as well as business purchases of PCs, to shore
up earnings in recent quarters. Many business customers have
multiyear agreements with Microsoft, helping insulate the
company from quarterly fluctuations in demand.  Klein said the company hasn’t seen any weakness in
corporate demand and isn’t expecting that to change. Products
such as the SharePoint program for hosting websites and the Lync
software for messaging and teleconferencing are selling well
among businesses, he said.  Even so, corporate budgets for 2012 look to be
“conservative,” Bellini said in a note before the earnings
report. Outside of  Germany , demand in  Europe  will be “soft,”
putting pressure on Microsoft’s corporate sales for the next few
quarters, she said.  “You have to be concerned about the corporate engine
running out of steam,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon , who rates the
shares “sector perform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  