-- Mideast Solar Projects Can Compete With Gas, Industry Group Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-19T10:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/mideast-solar-projects-can-compete-with-gas-industry-group-says.html
Solar projects in the  Middle East 
are competitive with natural-gas-fired generators in some
markets because of falling technology prices and more expensive
fossil fuels, an industry group said.  With oil prices trading at more than $80 a barrel and the
cost of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, above $13 per million
British thermal units, solar power is competitive without any
government subsidies, the Emirates Solar Industry Association
said in a report co-authored with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “The key question in determining whether solar power is
commercially viable is ‘Can it replace some gas generation,’”
Robin Mills, who wrote the study for ESIA, said in an interview
in Abu Dhabi yesterday. The group released the report at the
 World Future Energy Summit  being held in  Abu Dhabi  this week.  Crude gained 8.2 percent last year, a third annual rise,
pressuring global economic recovery. Crude for February delivery
gained as much as $1.06 to $101.65 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.56
at 9:07 a.m. London time. The contract, which expires tomorrow,
is up 2.4 percent this year.  Power produced by renewable technologies such as solar and
geothermal costs more than coal and gas generation, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Utilities and
power producers receive government subsidies to promote
investment in renewable power.  Energy Versus Solar  The rise in energy costs makes solar power viable even
without subsidies in countries that are themselves dependent on
costly fuel imports, Mills said. To run generators, Dubai and
 Kuwait  both import LNG, gas that’s cooled to liquid form and
loaded on ships for transport over distances not covered by
pipeline, making them candidates for solar power.  Qatar, the largest LNG exporter, is currently charging
about $16 per thermal unit for its gas, according to the report.
Solar technology advances are set to cut costs for such plants
to the point where they can produce power more cheaply than
generators using gas sold for $10 per thermal unit, according to
the report.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, forgoes
oil revenue by burning the fuel in  power plants , also making it
economically sensible to pursue solar power there, said Mills,
who works as an analyst at Manaar Energy Consulting in Dubai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 