-- Military Sex-Assault Victims to Get More Help, Panetta Pledges
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/military-sex-assault-victims-to-get-more-help-panetta-pledges.html
The Pentagon is taking added steps
to prevent sexual assault in the U.S. military and help victims
as thousands of abuse cases go unreported, Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  said.  The Defense Department received 3,191 reports of sexual
assault last year, Panetta said yesterday. That’s 1 percent more
than the 3,158 reported in the previous fiscal year and a 19
percent increase over five years, according to an annual review
released in March.  “Because we assume that this is a very underreported
crime, the estimate is that the actual number is closer to
19,000,” Panetta told reporters at the Pentagon. “I deeply
regret that such crimes occur in the U.S. military, and I will
do all that I can to prevent these crimes from occurring.”  Among the new measures to stop what Panetta called an
“unacceptable” number of sexual assaults, the  military  will
require its sexual-assault response coordinators and victim
advocates to obtain nationally recognized certification and will
extend confidential reporting and victim-support services to
spouses and dependents.  The increase in filed reports may be due partly to victims
being more aware of their rights and more willing to come
forward, according to Air Force Major General Mary Kay Hertog,
director of the Pentagon’s sexual-assault prevention and
response office.  The estimate of 19,000 assaults is based on a survey of
active-duty personnel cited in the Pentagon’s 2010 annual
report. A similar survey four years earlier generated an
estimate of 34,000, indicating the rate of incidents may be
dropping, according to Hertog.  ‘Waste of Time’  The department includes cases from rape to wrongful sexual
contact as defined by the Uniform Code of Military Justice.  Panetta’s planned changes fall short, according to former
Marine Corps Captain Anu Bhagwati, executive director of the New
York-based Service Women’s Action Network. An order to conduct
an assessment of how to improve training of commanders is “a
waste of time,” Bhagwati said in an e-mailed statement.  “Commander influence is the crux of this problem,”
Bhagwati said. “Military law today requires that the officers
directly in charge of offenders decide how these cases are
handled. It creates a clear conflict of interest.”  Military Academies  Sexual assault at the three major military academies rose
58 percent for the academic year 2010-11 compared with the
previous year, according to a separate report last month. The
department said that may be due partly to steps the academies
took to encourage victims to report assaults.  The Defense Department has promised for years to improve
its prevention measures and victim services. Hertog, a two-star
officer, was named director in August.  The department’s inspector general failed to develop
policies and didn’t begin overseeing sexual-assault
investigations and related training as ordered to do in June
2006 “primarily because it believes it has other, higher
priorities,” according to a June report from the Government
Accountability Office.  The inspector general “disagreed with the
characterization,” according to the GAO, which said it stood by
the conclusions.  Judge advocates have said a 2007 amendment to the Uniform
Code of Military Justice complicates prosecutions and may be
causing unwarranted acquittals, according to the GAO.  Still ‘Big Issues’  The move to extend support services to spouses and other
dependents was an action ordered by Congress, and the need for
certification of coordinators and advocates has long been
discussed, said Nancy Duff Campbell, co-president of the
National Women’s Law Center in  Washington .  “Obviously there’s still some big issues that have to be
addressed,” Campbell said yesterday in an interview.  Advocates have pressed to hold military unit leaders
accountable in their performance evaluations and promotions for
fostering a climate that prevents assault and deals promptly
when cases arise, she said.  The Pentagon’s 2010 annual report cited possible signs of
improvement. The survey showed 4.4 percent of active-duty women
and 0.9 percent of active-duty men had experienced an assault,
compared with 6.8 percent of women and 1.8 percent of men four
years earlier.  Panetta said he has increased funding to provide
specialized training for investigators and judge advocates. The
Pentagon also will ensure that its civilians stationed abroad
and U.S. citizens who are contractors in combat areas receive
emergency care and aid from a response coordinator and victim
advocate, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  