-- India’s Bond Yields Fall to Eight-Month Low as RBI to Buy Debt
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-19T12:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/india-bond-yields-at-eight-month-low-on-rbi-buying-speculation.html
India ’s 10-year  bonds  gained,
pushing yields to an eight-month low, on optimism the central
bank’s debt purchases will boost demand.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will offer to buy 120 billion
rupees ($2.4 billion) of securities tomorrow, according to a
statement on Jan. 17. It has bought 614 billion rupees of
sovereign notes since November to ease a cash crunch in the
banking system. Bonds also gained on speculation policy makers,
who raised  interest rates  seven times in 2011, will lower them
this year as inflation cools.  “Regular purchases of securities by the central bank have
infused a lot of confidence among buyers and that is keeping
yields down,” said  Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank in Mumbai. “A reversal in the monetary
cycle is also being factored in.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage points, to 8.17 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That is
the lowest level for benchmark 10-year rates since May 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Food prices fell for a third straight week, a government
report showed today. An index measuring wholesale prices of farm
products dropped 0.42 percent in the week ended Jan. 7 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement today.
It declined 2.9 percent the previous week. The  Reserve Bank  will
review borrowing costs at a meeting on Jan. 24.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
rose three basis points to 8.05 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  