-- Indonesian Rupiah, Bonds Advance After Moody’s Ratings Upgrade
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2012-01-19T09:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/indonesian-rupiah-trades-near-one-month-high-on-moody-s-upgrade.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah climbed to a two-
month high and bonds advanced on optimism this week’s credit-
rating upgrade by Moody’s Investors Service will boost demand
for the nation’s assets.  Moody’s raised the country’s foreign- and local-currency
ranking by one level to Baa3 yesterday, its lowest investment
grade, prompting central bank Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono to
say that Indonesia may become a “safe haven” for global
investors. International funds bought $66 million more local
shares than they sold yesterday, according to exchange data.  “The stamp of approval by Moody’s shows Indonesia’s
economic fundamentals are in place,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The move is positive
for bonds and the currency as it opens up the country to
overseas funds.”  The rupiah rose 1.1 percent to 8,973 per dollar as of 4
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. That was the strongest level since Nov. 15.  Indonesia’s credit fundamentals are evolving in a positive
direction,  Agost Benard , S&P’s associate director in Singapore
said today.  Fitch Ratings  raised the nation back to investment
grade last month after 14 years of junk ratings, citing “strong
and resilient growth.”  Government bonds  gained the most in seven weeks. The yield
on the benchmark 7 percent bonds due May 2022 fell 29 basis
points, or 0.29 percentage point, to 5.68 percent today,
according to the Inter-Dealer Market Association. That was the
biggest drop in rate since Dec. 2.  Bank Indonesia  will buy more longer-term government bonds
as yields on short- and mid-term maturities have stabilized,
Governor Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Islamabad  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  