-- Indonesia’s Investment Rose Last Quarter on Metals, Mining
-- B y   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-01-19T06:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/indonesia-s-investment-rose-last-quarter-on-metals-mining-1-.html
Indonesia ’s foreign and domestic
investments increased last quarter on expansion of its mining,
metals and telecommunication industries.  Investment  rose 19 percent to 70.2 trillion rupiah ($7.7
billion) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier,
 Gita Wirjawan , chairman of the Investment Coordinating Board,
said in Jakarta today.  Indonesia won its second credit rating upgrade in five
weeks yesterday as Moody’s Investors Service returned the
country to investment level for the first time since the Asian
financial crisis. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is seeking
to spur economic expansion by accelerating spending on projects
from mass rapid transit systems to power plants and ports.  Indonesia’s investment this year may grow 15 percent to 290
trillion rupiah, Azhar Lubis, deputy chairman of the Investment
Coordinating Board, said after the data was released.  Domestic investment during the October to December period
rose 9 percent to 24 trillion rupiah, mainly supported by mining,
paper and printing, the agency said. Foreign direct investment
climbed 25 percent to 46.2 trillion rupiah into areas such as
transportation, telecommunication and metals, it said.  For 2011 as a whole, investment gained 21 percent from a
year earlier to 251.3 trillion rupiah, exceeding the agency’s
target of 240 trillion rupiah.  Yudhoyono’s government estimates the economy expanded 6.5
percent in 2011. Moody’s move followed the decision by  Fitch
Ratings  to bring Indonesia back to investment grade last month
after 14 years of junk ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  