-- Insider Trading, Volcker Rule, Carlyle IPO: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-01-19T12:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/insider-trading-charges-volcker-rule-carlyle-ipo-compliance.html
Seven people were charged in
Manhattan federal court with securities fraud and conspiracy as
part of a five-year investigation of insider trading at hedge
funds by the FBI and the Justice Department.  Prosecutors said the alleged scheme, which involved trades
in  Dell Inc. (DELL) , netted $61.8 million in illegal profits. Among
those charged are Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony
Chiasson, who along with three other suspects was taken into
custody yesterday, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  Todd Newman, formerly of Diamondback Capital Management
LLC, was arrested in the Boston area by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, and Jon Horvath was detained in  New York ,
according to one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Chiasson
turned himself in, the second person said.  Also charged yesterday was Danny Kuo, who was arrested in
Southern  California . Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, Jesse Tortora
and Sandeep Goyal have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with
the probe, according to a person familiar with their cases.  Goyal, a former junior technology analyst at Neuberger
Berman, admitted to passing material nonpublic information to a
hedge fund, according to  Alexander Samuelson , a company
spokesman. Goyal left the firm this month.  Justine Harris, a lawyer for Adondakis; Gregory Morvillo,
who represents Chiasson; Jessica Margolis, who represents Goyal;
Alfred Pavlis, who represents Newman; and Ralph Caccia, who
represents Tortora, didn’t immediately return phone messages
seeking comment. Steven Peikin, who represents Horvath, declined
to comment. A lawyer for Kuo couldn’t be immediately determined.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday at a
press conference in New York that the defendants formed a
“criminal club” that reaped almost as much in illegal profits
as the central figure of the nationwide probe of hedge funds,
technology companies and so-called expert networking firms.  The five-year insider-trading probe has resulted in charges
against at least 56 people. More than 50 have pleaded guilty or
been convicted after trial since 2009, including Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, who was found guilty in May and
is serving 11 years in prison, the longest ever for insider
trading. The U.S. said he earned $72 million in illegal gains.  Horvath formerly worked at Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC
Capital, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly. A representative of SAC Capital couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  Level Global told clients last February that it was
shutting down -- eight years after David Ganek and Chiasson
founded the hedge fund -- because of the U.S. probe.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for New York-based Level
Global, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the arrests.
Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Stamford-based Diamondback,
declined to comment immediately.  The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday filed a
civil insider-trading complaint in Manhattan federal court
against the seven men, Diamondback Capital and Level Global.  Peter Neiman, of Wilmer Hale, a lawyer for Diamondback
Capital, declined to comment on the SEC lawsuit. MaryJeanette
Dee, a lawyer for Level Global, didn’t immediately return a
voice mail left at her office seeking comment on the suit.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Volcker Rule Regulators Resist Lawmakers Calls to Scrap Proposal  U.S. regulators, responding to criticism of their Volcker
rule proposal, told lawmakers they will refine plans for the ban
on banks’ proprietary trading while resisting calls to scrap the
measure and start over.  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  joined top
officials from four other agencies in defending the 298-page  
rule  yesterday at a House Financial Services joint subcommittee
hearing in  Washington , faulting Congress for imposing
complexities that led Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus to say
the measure as proposed would be a “self-inflicted wound.”  “Congress actually laid out seven key permitted
activities, or if you wish, exceptions,” Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler told lawmakers, citing
underwriting, market-making and hedging as critical exemptions.
“We want to fully comply with the intent of Congress.”  Lawmakers called the regulators to testify amid criticism
from House Republicans and banking-industry groups that the
Dodd-Frank Act measures proposed by four agencies in October and
the CFTC this month would sow confusion among banks over which
activities were permitted and put firms such as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . at a competitive
disadvantage to overseas rivals. Tarullo, who said regulators
would review comment letters in determining the need for
adjustments, resisted suggestions that the rule be withdrawn.  Bachus, who called on regulators to resubmit the proposal
and consider extending the implementation timeline in a Dec. 7
 letter , outlined his criticisms at yesterday’s hearing.  The proposed rule named for former Fed Chairman Paul
Volcker, who championed the idea as an adviser to President
Barack Obama, would ban banks from proprietary trading while
allowing them to continue short-term trades for market-making or
hedging. It also would limit investments in private-equity and
hedge funds. Dodd-Frank, enacted in response to the 2008 credit
crisis, requires that the rule be in place by July 21.  Regulators acknowledged industry concerns, including the
idea that banks without U.S. operations could benefit because
foreign jurisdictions haven’t adopted similar measures.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said regulators have “no interest” in sanctioning banks that
run afoul of Volcker rule limits on proprietary trading while
attempting legitimate market-making.  For more, click here. To hear testimony from yesterday’s
hearing, click here.  Carlyle Seeks to Ban Shareholder Lawsuits Before Public Offering  Carlyle Group LP, the Washington-based buyout company
that’s preparing to go public, is seeking to bar its future
shareholders from filing individual and class-action lawsuits.  The firm revised its governing documents last week to say
that investors who purchase company shares must settle any
subsequent claims against Carlyle through arbitration in
Wilmington, Delaware. That could limit the ability of
stockholders to win big awards for securities-law violations
such as fraud, several attorneys said.  The U.S. Supreme Court has issued a series of rulings in
recent years upholding the right of companies to require the use
of arbitration to resolve disputes with consumers. Carlyle is
seeking to extend this principle to public shareholders, a move
that could run up against a bedrock of U.S. securities law, the
ability of investors to seek redress in federal court.  “What we are talking about is legally uncharted
territory,” said Donald Langevoort, a law professor at
Georgetown University in Washington who previously worked for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “I would be
surprised if the courts allow any company to entirely foreclose
shareholder rights to sue under federal securities laws.”  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.  At issue are provisions of U.S. securities laws that bar
investors from waiving their rights to seek damages.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Sues BankAtlantic CEO Over 2007 Real Estate Loss Disclosures  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued
BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. and its chief executive officer over
claims they misled investors about the deteriorating value of
the bank’s real estate portfolio as the housing market worsened.  BankAtlantic and CEO Alan Levan made misleading statements
in public filings and earnings calls to hide losses on the Fort
Lauderdale, Florida-based bank’s commercial and residential land
holdings and improperly recorded loans they were trying to sell
from the portfolio in late 2007, the SEC said in a complaint
filed in U.S. District Court in Florida yesterday.  According to the agency, Levan knew that a large portion of
the loan portfolio, which consisted mainly of loans on land
intended for development into single-family housing and
condominiums, was worsening in early 2007 as borrowers struggled
to make payments. In the first two quarters of 2007,
BankAtlantic made only general warnings about risks related to
Florida’s real estate market and failed to disclose the downward
trend already occurring in its portfolio, the SEC said.  The bank acknowledged the problem in the third quarter of
2007 by announcing a large loss, which caused the bank’s stock
to plunge 37 percent, the SEC said.  “BankAtlantic and Levan used accounting gimmicks to
conceal from investors the losses in a critical loan
portfolio,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a
statement. “This is exactly the type of information that is
important to investors, and corporate executives who fail to
make the required disclosure will face severe consequences.”  Eugene Stearns, an attorney for BankAtlantic and Levan,
said the bank provided a “candid and accurate analysis for the
public to see exactly what was happening.”  “This is frankly a lawsuit that reflects the enormous
pressure on the SEC to try to find someone to blame for what
happened” in the credit crisis, Stearns said.  Stryker Biotech Agrees to Plead Guilty to Misbranding Charge  A  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  unit agreed to plead guilty and pay a $15
million fine while the medical-device maker was on trial on
charges it marketed an unapproved mixture of products for
strengthening human bone growth.  The unit, Stryker Biotech, and three Stryker sales
representatives were on trial in federal court in Boston on a
13-count criminal indictment claiming conspiracy and wire fraud.
The trial began Jan. 9 with jury selection.  Stryker Biotech agreed to plead to one misdemeanor count of
misbranding a medical device, according to a letter dated
yesterday from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston and filed
with the federal court.  Prosecutors agreed to drop the case against Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based Stryker Biotech and won’t call Stryker Corp.
President Stephen P. MacMillan to testify “in connection with
current or future trial proceedings” in the case before Judge
George O’Toole.  The government yesterday dropped charges against former
regional sales manager David Ard of California, according to a
motion filed by prosecutors. Attorneys for former national sales
representative William Heppner of Illinois and ex-regional
manager Jeffrey Whitaker of North Carolina have asked the judge
to declare a mistrial. Mark Philip, former chief executive
officer of Stryker Biotech from 2004 to 2008, is scheduled to go
to trial later this year.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Ex-Columbus Hill Capital CFO Admits Embezzling $10.4 Million  The former chief financial officer of Columbus Hill Capital
Management LP, an investment management firm based in Short
Hills,  New Jersey , pleaded guilty to embezzling more than $10.4
million.  David Newmark, 39, admitted yesterday in federal court in
Newark, New Jersey, that he created a phony account to collect
deposits that he stole from the company. Newmark, who pleaded
guilty to wire fraud and tax evasion, agreed to forfeit the
entire amount he stole.  “Making personal use of company cash, it was only a matter
of time before he was caught with his hand in the piggy bank,”
U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  Newmark, of Towaco, New Jersey, faces as many as 20 years
in prison on the fraud charge and five years on the tax evasion
count. U.S. District Judge William Walls set sentencing for
April 24.  Newmark’s attorney, Michael Himmel, said his client
confessed his theft to federal prosecutors and to his employer.  “Neither was aware of the theft he had engaged in before
he advised them,” Himmel said yesterday in a phone interview.
“David has had a sports-betting gambling problem since he was
in high school. That problem has obviously escalated over the
years and was the motivation behind the theft.”  The case is U.S. v. Newmark, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  Citigroup to Pay $725,000 Over Finra Conflict Disclosure Claims  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
agreed to pay $725,000 over regulatory claims its brokerage unit
failed to disclose conflicts of interest in research reports and
analysts’ public appearances.  Citigroup received investment banking revenue from some
companies covered in research reports it published from January
2007 through March 2010, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority said in a statement yesterday. Citigroup managed
public securities offerings for some firms mentioned in the
reports and had a 1 percent or greater stake in others, Finra
said.  “Citigroup failed to make required conflict of interest
disclosures, which prevented investors from being aware of
potential biases in its research recommendation,” Finra
Enforcement Chief Brad Bennett said in a statement.  Finra said the disclosures by the bank’s brokerage
subsidiary, Citigroup Global Markets, were missed primarily due
to technical deficiencies in Citigroup’s database for
identifying and creating the disclosures. Citigroup, which
didn’t admit or deny Finra’s claims, self-reported several of
the deficiencies to the regulator and took remedial action to
fix them, Finra said.  “We take our disclosure systems very seriously and began
adopting enhancements to our procedures prior to the inquiry,”
Citigroup spokeswoman Sophia Stewart said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are pleased to have settled this matter with
Finra.”  Suez, Veolia, Saur Probed by EU on Water-Services Collusion  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s biggest water utility,
 Suez Environnement SA (SEV)  and Saur SA face a formal probe by
European Union antitrust regulators into possible collusion to
fix the price of water and waste-water services in France.  The European Commission will examine whether the French
utilities and their trade group the Federation Professionnelle
des Entreprises de l’Eau, or FP2E, “coordinated their
behavior” on “elements of the price invoiced to final
consumers,” usually French local government authorities, it
said in a statement.  Regulators raided the three companies in 2010 over concerns
that they colluded in public tenders for water distribution and
treatment. The companies have a combined market-share of 69
percent for water distribution and 55 percent for water
treatment, according to a study published by FP2E, on its
 website . Both markets are worth about 12 billion euros ($15.3
billion) a year.  Veolia shares fell 5.5 percent to 8.139 euros in Paris
trading and Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s second-largest water
company, declined 2.6 percent to 9.142 euros after sliding as
much as 4.5 percent.  Suez Environnement and its unit Lyonnaise des Eaux “will
continue to fully cooperate with the European Commission
competition services in charge of this investigation and
reiterate their commitment to respecting the rules of
competition in the markets where they operate,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  CIN, Tirrenia Ferry Deal Faces In-Depth Probe by EU Watchdog  Compagnia Italiana di Navigazione Srl faces an in-depth
European Union probe into a plan to buy Tirrenia di Navigazione
SpA, Italy’s insolvent state-owned ferry operator.  The European Commission said there were “serious
competition concerns” over the high market shares held by CIN’s
owners Marinvest Srl, Grimaldi Compagnia di Navigazione SpA and
Onorato Partecipazioni Srl, which has joint control over Italian
ferry company Moby SpA. It set a deadline of June 4 to rule on
the deal.  The companies “have very high, if not monopolistic,
combined market shares on a number of maritime routes in Italy,
and in particular on certain routes to and from Sardinia,”
regulators said in an e-mailed statement.  Grimaldi, Onorato and Moby didn’t respond to e-mails for
comment outside of usual business hours. Marinvest didn’t
respond to a call for comment.  Treasury Code Stolen by New York Fed Programmer, U.S. Says  U.S. Treasury Department software used to track federal
collections and payments was stolen by a government contractor’s
employee who worked at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
federal prosecutors said.  Bo Zhang, 32, who worked for an unidentified technology
company, was a computer programmer assigned to work on source
code at the New York Fed from May until August, the U.S. said in
a criminal complaint against him that was unsealed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. Zhang is a Chinese citizen, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who didn’t want to be
identified because the information wasn’t public.  The software system relates to the “tracking of the
billions of dollars that are electronically transferred every
day in the U.S.’s general ledger,” prosecutors said.  Zhang has been in the U.S. on a work visa since 2000, said
another person familiar with the matter who also didn’t want to
be identified because the information isn’t public. Zhang worked
previously at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Bank of America
Corp. , the person said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott yesterday agreed to
release Zhang on a $200,000 bond secured by a condominium
located in the Flushing, Queens, section of  New York City . Cott
ordered that he surrender all of his travel documents and
restricted his movements to parts of New York and to New Jersey,
where Zhang’s lawyer said his client works. Cott set the next
court appearance in the case for Feb. 17.  After court yesterday, Zhang’s lawyer, Joseph Grob,
declined to comment on the charges or whether his client is a
citizen of  China  or a naturalized U.S. citizen.  The New York Fed detected the breach through its
established security procedures and referred it to law
enforcement officials,  Jack Gutt , a spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  After being questioned by Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents on Aug. 11, Zhang admitted he stole the proprietary
software code belonging to the Treasury in July, according to
the criminal complaint.  Matt Anderson, a Treasury spokesman, said the department
has worked to strengthen security procedures for Federal Reserve
contractors working on Financial Management Service projects.  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 12-mag-00108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Courts  TD Bank Loses $67 Million Verdict Over Rothstein Fraud Role  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  lost a $67 million jury verdict over
claims it helped Scott Rothstein, the disbarred Florida attorney
who admitted running a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme, by telling
victims their money was safe as he depleted accounts.  A jury in federal court in Miami returned the verdict
yesterday in a lawsuit brought by Coquina Investments, based in
Corpus Christi, Texas. The panel deliberated about four hours
before reaching its verdict after a trial before U.S. District
Judge Marcia Cooke.  “It was clear cut for us,” the jury forewoman, Shonda
Smith, said after the verdict. “We were all surprised at how
much stuff they allowed to go through, all the deposits and
transfers. At any point, someone could have stopped it.”  Coquina’s lawyer David Mandel on Jan. 17 urged the jury to
award $32 million in compensatory damages and $140 million in
punitive damages.  “They didn’t lift a finger,” Mandel said of the bank in
closing arguments. “Once fraud was evident, it was their
obligation to report it and stop it.”  Yesterday’s verdict was for $32 million in compensatory
damages and $35 million in punitive damages, the type designed
to punish.  “This Ponzi scheme would have been impossible if it
weren’t for TD Bank’s actions,” Mandel said after the verdict,
referring to the Miami unit.  A spokeswoman, Rebecca Acevedo, said the bank is
disappointed with the verdict “and is considering all of its
options.”  “We still maintain that we were Rothstein Rosenfeldt
Adler’s bank and that it was Scott Rothstein who defrauded
investors,” she said by e-mail, referring to Rothstein’s law
firm. “We will continue to defend the bank against claims of
wrongdoing.”  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-
cv-60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  U.S. Bank National Association Sues Nesbitt for Loan Default  US Bancorp (USB) ’s U.S. Bank National Association sued a group of
Nesbitt companies that own eight Embassy Hotels in the U.S. over
claims they defaulted on a $187.5 million loan.  The loan, made by Greenwich Capital Financial Products to
Nesbitt in 2006, was assigned to U.S. Bank in January 2011 and
was in default by February, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in New York. Nesbitt owes $175
million in principal plus interest, the plaintiffs said.  “Each of the eight hotels are being required by the
franchisor to undergo improvements for which defendants lack the
adequate funds to undertake,” the complaint states.  The hotels are in Bellevue, Washington; Blue Ash, Ohio;
Colorado Springs, Colorado; Denver; Livonia, Michigan; Lynwood,
Washington; Tigard, Oregon, and El Paso, Texas.  U.S. Bank asked the court to appoint a receiver to take
possession of the hotels. The Nesbitt companies are accused of
breach of contract.  Windsor Management Services, led by Patrick Nesbitt, is the
owner of the Embassy Suite Hotels named in the suit, according
to Windsor’s website. Bill Upshaw, Windsor’s chief operating
officer, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
suit.  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Nesbitt
Bellevue Property LLC, 12-0423, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  RBS Says Former Singapore Trader Sought to Manipulate Libor  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  said it did nothing wrong
when it fired a former Singapore trader because he sought to
manipulate London interbank offered rates to boost his own
profits.  Tan Chi Min, the former trader, sued the bank over his
dismissal and is seeking to recoup $1.5 million in bonuses and
3.3 million RBS shares that he claims he’s owed.  Tan deserved to be fired because he was guilty of “gross
misconduct,” RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender,
said in court papers filed in Singapore High Court late
yesterday. He tried to improperly influence  RBS’s (RBS)  rate setters
from 2007 to 2011 and persuade them to submit Libor rates at
particular levels to his benefit, RBS said.  RBS is cooperating with investigations by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S. Department of Justice
and European Commission into whether Libor had been manipulated.
Since as early as 2007, investors have accused several banks on
the Libor panel of distorting market prices by hiding true
borrowing costs, leading to a series of lawsuits filed in 2011
that are making their way through courts in Europe and the U.S.  Tan said in his complaint dated Dec. 27 that he was in no
position to influence the rate on his own. The former head of
delta trading for RBS’s global banking and markets division in
Singapore said the bank failed to detail the allegations against
him and didn’t specify how he had improperly influenced the
setting of Libor.  Suresh Nair, Tan’s lawyer, declined today to comment.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  Comings and Goings  FTC Commissioner Rosch Says He Will Not Seek Another Term  Thomas Rosch, a Republican member of the Federal Trade
Commission who has pressed to strengthen U.S. antitrust and
consumer-protection enforcement, said he won’t seek to be
reappointed when his term expires in September.  Rosch, 72, one of four FTC commissioners, disclosed his
plans in an interview yesterday in Washington. He was nominated
to the commission by former Republican President George W. Bush,
confirmed by the Senate and took office in 2006. A slot for a
fifth commissioner is open.  Before serving at the FTC, Rosch distinguished himself as a
litigator for corporate clients. He said he wants to return to
California, where he practiced law in San Francisco.  “I have no intention at all of litigating again,” he
said. “Whether I fully retire is another matter.”  Rosch has supported the efforts of commission Chairman Jon
Leibowitz, a Democrat, to use the law that established the
agency to broaden its antitrust enforcement powers. The FTC
shares responsibility for enforcing antitrust law with the
Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  