-- Intel Forecasts Revenue That May Exceed Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-19T22:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/intel-forecasts-first-quarter-revenue-that-may-surpass-analysts-estimates.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, predicted first-quarter revenue that may top
analysts’ estimates, signaling that the shortage of disk drives
that throttled personal computer production may be ending.  Sales in the current period will be $12.8 billion, plus or
minus $500 million,  Santa Clara , California-based Intel said in
a statement today. Analysts had  predicted  revenue of $12.8
billion, the average of estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Sales a
year earlier were $12.8 billion.  Production is bouncing back after last year, when the worst
flooding in 7 decades in  Thailand  impeded computer manufacturing
and prompted Intel to trim its fourth-quarter sales forecast
last month. The company also benefited as businesses bought more
servers to outfit data centers and consumers outside the U.S.
and  Europe  flocked to PCs.  “From what we’re hearing, server demand, enterprise demand
and even the  emerging markets  are OK,” said Suji De Silva, an
analyst at Thinkequity Partners LLC in San Francisco who
recommends buying Intel shares. “The guide down in the fourth
of a billion dollars was an attempt by the company to set a
conservative bar around PC demand.”  Sales will increase at a “high single-digit” percentage
rate this year as consumer demand in less-developed economies
and buying by corporations offset weakness in areas affected by
Europe’s credit crisis, Intel Chief Financial Officer Stacy
Smith said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Data Center Strength  “We will certainly see higher growth levels in the emerging
markets,” Smith said. “It’s a continuation of what we have
seen to date -- strong in emerging markets, stronger in the data
center, driven by the cloud. The mature market consumer is
likely to be sluggish, based on macroeconomic concerns.”  Shares advanced to as high as $26.25 in late trading, after
adding less than 1 percent to $25.63 at the close in  New York .
That left the shares up 5.7 percent this year.  Investors regard Intel’s earnings as a harbinger of demand
for desktops, servers and  laptop computers .  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) , Intel’s main competitor in computer
microprocessors, will report fourth-quarter performance next
week.  For the fourth quarter, Intel said profit rose to $3.36
billion, or 64 cents a share, from $3.18 billion, or 56 cents a
share, a year earlier. Sales rose 21 percent to $13.9 billion.
Intel cut its first-quarter revenue forecast in December, by
about a $1 billion to $13.7 billion, plus or minus $300 million.  Margin Outlook  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, will be about 63 percent in the
first quarter, Intel said. Analysts were predicting, on average,
62.4 percent. For 2012, gross margin will be about 64 percent,
Intel said.  Capital spending  will be $12.5 billion this year, plus or
minus $400 million, Intel said, indicating an increase from last
year’s $10.8 billion.  Intel’s biggest customers are Hewlett-Packard Co., Dell
Inc. and Quanta Computer Inc., according to a Bloomberg  supply-
chain analysis .  Intel may be making headway in efforts to broaden beyond
traditional computers. The company said earlier this month that
Lenovo Group Ltd. and Motorola Mobility Holding Inc. plan to
make mobile phones based on Intel processors, gaining a foothold
in a market dominated by such rivals as Qualcomm Inc.  A Lenovo handset will go on sale in the first half,
followed by products from Motorola Mobility in the second part
of the year, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said at the
 Consumer Electronics Show .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  