-- Iran’s UN Envoy Says Closing Strait of Hormuz Is an Option If Threatened
-- B y   P e t e r   H i r s c h b e r g
-- 2012-01-19T09:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/iran-s-un-envoy-says-closing-strait-of-hormuz-is-an-option-if-threatened.html
Iran ’s ambassador to the  United
Nations  said closing the  Strait of Hormuz , the passageway for
about a fifth of the world’s oil trade, is an option if his
country’s security is endangered.  “There is no decision to block and close the Strait of
Hormuz unless Iran is threatened seriously and somebody wants to
tighten the noose,” Ambassador  Mohammad Khazaee  said on the
Charlie Rose show, according to a transcript of the interview.
“All the options are or would be on the table.”  U.S. and European efforts to tighten economic sanctions on
Iran to deter its nuclear program have roiled oil markets and
prompted concern a reduction in supply could hurt the global
economy. Iran’s Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said Dec. 27
that his nation, the second-biggest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , may close
the strait in response to a stricter embargo.  “We believe that the Strait of Hormuz should be the strait
of peace and stability,” Khazaee said. “But if foreign powers
want to create trouble in the Persian Gulf, of course it would
be the right of Iran as well as the rest of the countries in the
region to try to defend themselves.”  The threat to block the strait came from “some military
people in Iran” and not the government, Khazaee said. The
official  Islamic Republic News Agency  last month cited Rahimi as
threatening to halt oil shipments in the event of sanctions,
following comments from Navy Commander Habibollah Sayari on Dec.
22 that the military has the capability to “control” access to
the waterway.  ‘Capabilities’  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said in a television interview that aired Jan. 8 that
Iran can block the strait “for a period of time,” and the U.S.
would take action to reopen it.  “We’ve invested in capabilities to ensure that if that
happens, we can defeat that,” Dempsey said.  Crude oil for February delivery gained as much as $1.06 to
$101.65 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and has risen 2.6 percent this year.  U.S. officials are currently in  Asia  as part of a push to
get countries including  Japan  and  South Korea  to reduce their
oil imports from Iran. Robert Einhorn, the State Department’s
special adviser for non-proliferation and arms control, said in
 Tokyo  yesterday that Japan, which counts on Iran for about 10
percent of its oil, agreed on the need to increase pressure on
the Persian Gulf state to prevent nuclear weapons development.  ‘Completely Rejects’  Einhorn delivered a similar message in South Korea earlier
this week. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner visited
Tokyo and Beijing last week, with talks focused on Iran.
Japanese officials including Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  have
said cutting Iranian oil shipments must be done in a way to
minimize the economic impact.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday in Doha, Qatar said
his country “completely rejects” Iranian efforts to develop
nuclear weapons while opposing any “extreme” actions in the
Strait of Hormuz that would hurt global interests. Sanctions and
threats against Iran are counterproductive and risk escalating
tensions, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said
today.  President  Barack Obama  last month signed legislation that
tightens sanctions on the  Persian Gulf  state as part of efforts
to cut off its main source of income and force the regime to
abandon its nuclear development program. Iran is already under
four rounds of United Nations sanctions as well as additional
U.S. and European Union financial restrictions.  Exemption Request  Japanese officials meeting with Einhorn today asked the
U.S. to exempt the Asian nation’s banks from the law, which
penalizes financial institutions doing business with Iran’s
central bank, a Japanese Foreign Ministry official said on
condition of anonymity. The U.S. delegation indicated that the
Obama administration will try to avoid hurting the Japanese
economy in implementing the law, the official said.  European Union foreign ministers will meet on Jan. 23 to
consider barring oil from Iran. Western nations say Iran’s
nuclear work may be aimed at producing atomic weapons. Iran
rejects the allegation, saying its atomic installations are for
civilian purposes.  Khazaee said Iran was moving its enrichment process to more
secure, underground facilities, because it was concerned by
threats from U.S. and Israeli officials.  “It doesn’t mean that we are intending to do something
illegal,” he said. Iranians “do not intend, and did not
intend, and will not intend to have a weaponization program.”  Khazaee said it was unlikely  Israel  would try to bomb
Iran’s nuclear facilities.  “There are enough wise politicians around the world to
advise them in case if they want to do that not to do it,” he
said. “So therefore, we don’t think that is going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  