-- U.S. Holds Military Talks With Israel on Iran
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-20T00:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/iranian-central-bank-said-to-face-asset-freeze-by-27-nation-european-union.html
America's most-senior military 
officer is due to meet Israeli leaders today to discuss  Iran ’s
nuclear program, a day after European Union governments reached
a preliminary agreement to freeze the assets of the Iranian
central bank.  Expanding beyond their planned sanctions on Iranian oil,
diplomats from the 27-nation EU agreed yesterday on how to
undertake measures against the Central Bank of Iran, according
to an EU diplomat with knowledge of the matter. The action 
would allow opt-outs from the asset freeze on a case-by-case 
basis to protect European trade with Iranian entities not 
covered by sanctions, said the diplomat, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, arrived in Israel yesterday for talks with
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
and other officials. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other
U.S. officials have warned Israel not to strike Iran’s nuclear
facilities, which might trigger retaliatory attacks as well as
a naval confrontation in the  Strait of Hormuz .  The dangers include missile attacks on American bases in
Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar as well as Iranian-sponsored terrorist
attacks on U.S. government personnel and civilians in  Iraq ,
 Afghanistan  and elsewhere in the region and beyond, two U.S.
defense officials said this week. Both spoke only anonymously
because they aren’t authorized to talk to the news media.  Downplaying Israeli Strike  Israeli leaders such as Netanyahu have said that a nuclear-
armed Iran would pose an “existential threat” to the Jewish
state that may require Israeli military action to prevent if
diplomacy fails.  “Nuclear arms in Iran are a threat to  Israel , the region
and the world,” he said in a speech in Amsterdam Jan. 18.
“Sanctions should be applied to Iran’s central bank, its oil
exports and they should be applied now.”  Any decision on whether to take military action against
Iranian nuclear facilities is “very far off,” Barak told
Israel’s Army Radio Jan. 18, adding “I don’t want to give
estimates; it’s definitely not urgent.”  Iranian officials have threatened to close the Strait of
Hormuz, through which almost 20 percent of the world’s oil
flows, in the event of military strikes or a blockade of oil
shipments over its nuclear program.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , says its
nuclear program is for civilian purposes only.The U.S., EU and
Israel suspect the program is a cover for the development of
weapons capabilities.  The International Energy Agency yesterday said it sees no
urgency to release oil stockpiles amid Iranian threats to oil
shipping, according to Fatih Birol, the group’s chief economist.  Monitoring Oil Shipping  “What we are doing is following the markets closely and,
for the time being, we do not see any reason to take action,”
he said in an interview before a speech at Imperial College in
 London . “It is too early to talk about the blockade of any
choke points.”  The Iranian threats have prompted  Tupras Turkiye Petrol
Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , which operates refineries in  Turkey , to seek
alternative suppliers, Greece’s state-run ANA news agency said
yesterday. Tupras wants to secure an alternate source by mid-
year and plans to meet soon with Saudi Arabian authorities, the
Athens-based agency reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Jan. 23 Meeting  EU foreign ministers are due to decide on their oil embargo
and central bank asset freeze at a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels.
Yesterday’s meeting left it to the ministers to determine the
timing of the oil ban, according to the EU diplomat, who said
European governments probably would decide to exempt existing
contracts until the end of June.  Maja Kocijancic, an EU foreign-policy spokeswoman, declined
to comment when reached yesterday by telephone.  The proposed phase-in of the oil embargo, which requires
unanimity among the bloc’s 27 states, would allow nations
including  Greece ,  Italy  and  Spain  to find alternate suppliers.
Those three countries accounted for about 68 percent of EU
imports from Iran in 2010, European Commission data show.  The proposed start of a full embargo on July 1 may be a
compromise between countries led by  France , which have been
urging the shortest delay, and the nations most dependent on
Iranian oil, which originally pressed for an exemption of as
long as 12 months, said another EU diplomat, who declined to be
named because the talks are confidential.  Sticking Points  In talks yesterday, the timing was not resolved as Greece
stuck to its demand for an eight-month delay while a majority of
the EU supported six months, according to a European source
informed about the talks. There is agreement for EU restrictions
on Iran petrochemicals to start May 1 and for a ban on movement
of gold to and from Iran, he said, asking not to be identified
speaking about the negotiations.  EU sanctions on Iran already include an embargo on
equipment for and investment in the oil and natural gas
industries. The bloc also has imposed restrictions on transfers
of funds to and from Iran.  Crude for February delivery slid 20 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to settle at $100.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil has gained 17 percent in the past three months.  The oil ban would cover imports of Iranian oil to  Europe ,
purchases out of Iran into non-EU countries, transport of oil
from Iran as well as finance and insurance of oil contracts,
according to one EU diplomat. It would apply to all companies
under the EU law, including subsidiaries of foreign companies
registered in Europe and branches of EU companies based outside
the continent, the diplomat said.  Bank Sanctions  In addition, the EU is discussing whether to impose
sanctions on Bank Tejarat, the last major Iranian bank financing
large-volume trade in Europe, according to EU diplomats and
sanctions specialists close to the negotiations.  The move may complicate tens of billions of dollars in
annual trade with Europe and monetary transactions by EU
diplomatic missions in Tehran, they said. That action was not
resolved yesterday, officials said.  Some EU officials have objected to an asset freeze because
Bank Tejarat is used by EU countries with diplomatic missions in
Tehran, according to a European diplomat, who spoke on condition
of anonymity. If the bank is subject to sanctions, EU embassies
and their staffs would have to carry cash and pay for
transactions in euros, said the official, who had been briefed
by his foreign ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  