-- Iran Asks EU to Determine Time and Place for Nuclear Talks
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-19T14:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/iran-asks-eu-to-determine-time-and-place-for-nuclear-talks-1-.html
Turkey will give a letter from Iran
to European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  asking
to revive talks on the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program,
Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said.  The letter, from Iran’s top nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili, will be submitted by Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  and asks Ashton to determine a place and a time for
negotiations, said Salehi, speaking in Ankara at a press
conference with his Turkish counterpart. Salehi said he favored
Istanbul as a location.  “Today is the time for talks and a solution,” Davutoglu
said. “It’s important to start negotiations and decrease
tension.”  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to decide on a ban on
Iranian oil at a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels. The proposed
embargo, which requires unanimity among the bloc’s 27 states, is
part of U.S. and European efforts to tighten economic sanctions
aimed at deterring  Iran ’s nuclear program. They say Iran may be
seeking to develop atomic weapons, a charge that the Islamic
republic rejects.  Tensions have risen in recent weeks with Vice President
Reza Rahimi warning on Dec. 27 that Iran, the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia , may close the  Strait of Hormuz  if western
nations block its crude oil sales. Iran’s ambassador to the
United Nations,  Mohammad Khazaee , said on the Charlie Rose Show
yesterday that his country doesn’t plan to do so “unless Iran
is threatened seriously and somebody wants to tighten the
noose.”  ‘Red Line’  Iranian lawmaker Ali Motahari said yesterday that the U.S.
called for direct talks with Iran in a letter sent last week,
which also included a warning that the closing of the  Strait of
Hormuz  would constitute a “red line.” The U.S. has been
communicating with Iran’s top leaders and has a “number of
ways” at its disposal, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said
Jan. 13, without giving details.  The U.S. should stop “double-dealing” with Iran and
pursue with goodwill what he said was a proposal of direct talks
by President Barack Obama, Salehi told Turkey’s NTV news channel
in an interview earlier today.  The U.S. “shows muscle” and risks destabilizing the
 Middle East  while secretly seeking to engage Iran in
negotiations, Salehi said. The security of the Strait of Hormuz
is crucial to Iran, he said, urging other countries in the
region to resist being dragged into a conflict.  Iran held negotiations with world powers in January last
year but talks broke down without any commitments to hold future
negotiations. Ashton said at the time that she was
“disappointed” that Iran brought fresh preconditions and
demanded that UN sanctions be lifted before substantive talks
about its nuclear work could begin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  