-- Irish Economy to Miss Government Growth Forecast, Troika Say
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-01-19T15:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/irish-economy-to-miss-government-growth-forecast-troika-say.html
Ireland’s economy will grow at about
a third of the pace forecast by the government, the country’s
bailout partners said, as export growth slows.  Gross domestic product will expand 0.5 percent this year,
representatives of the  International Monetary Fund , the  European
Central Bank  and the European Commission said today in Dublin.
The troika in October forecast 1 percent growth, below the
government’s 1.3 percent prediction.  “Ireland continues to face considerable challenges,” they
said in a statement confirming the government had met its
bailout targets in the fourth quarter. “Domestic demand remains
subdued, unemployment high and trading partner growth is
slowing.”  Ireland stepped out of bond markets and sought a 67.5
billion euro ($87 billion) international rescue in 2010, amid
concern that the nation’s  banking  woes would push it into
bankruptcy. Slowing global growth and the European debt crisis
may hamper the state’s ambition to fully return to the markets
next year.  “Ireland will continue to see through the program in full
to ensure that it is fully funded until the end of 2013,”
said Brian Devine, an economist at  NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin,
in a note today. “Ireland will miss the initial targets set out
in budget 2012, but we believe that the EU/IMF will continue to
support Ireland given it is the poster child for the EU ideology
on how to solve a debt crisis.”  Deficit  The troika’s representatives said they still expect Ireland
to meet its 8.6 percent budget deficit for 2012. Ireland’s
government plans 12.4 billion euros of austerity measures over
the next four years.  “At this stage we don’t see any reason” for further
budgetary measures, said Istvan Szekely, a European Commission
official overseeing the country’s bailout.  The next review takes place in April, the same month the
 Finance Ministry  is due to revisit its economic growth
predictions. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said yesterday he
believes Ireland will meet its growth forecasts.  While the government is fully funded through 2013,
the state is hoping to sell treasury bills in the second half of
this year, as a first step to regaining its economic
sovereignty.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the nation’s
benchmark, yielded 7.49 percent today, compared with 8.15
percent at the start of November.  Ireland should be able to return to the short-term  debt
market  this year and may turn to a primary  budget surplus  in
2014, said Bill O’Neill, chief investment officer for  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in
Dublin today.  “It isn’t all fair sailing” for Ireland ahead, he said.
 “Austerity on its own will not work” for periphery euro
region countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at    eevans3@bloomberg.net  