-- Hirst Spots Spread, Sheeran Warbles, Art Deals: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/hirst-spots-spread-sheeran-warbles-art-deals-london-weekend.html
A New York banker who’d rather be a
dancer heads for  Nevada  to foreclose on a mortgage.  The property turns out to be an abandoned theater that he
decides to revive in “Crazy for You.” He falls in love with
the borrower’s daughter, a tomboy in overalls who delivers mail.  A troupe of Broadway girls decamps to Nevada to perform
with the local cowboys, who morph into dance gods. You end up
with two-and-a-half hours of laughs and Gershwin tunes
(“Embraceable You,” “I Got Rhythm”). Sean Palmer (who appeared 
in “Sex and the City”) is the remorseful financier.  Novello Theatre, 5 Aldwych, WC2B 4LD. Information:
 http://www.crazyforyouthemusical.com  or +44-844-482-5171.  Saturday  The world is breaking out in spots.  The Gagosian Gallery is showing Damien Hirst spot paintings
from 1986 to today at 11 global venues. Prove you’ve been to all
11, and you’ll get a signed Hirst print.  If you can just make it to one show, the Britannia Street
venue has a good mix. Besides the wall-sized centerpiece, it
features tiny, medium and large canvases, with spots that come 
in all sizes, too. The main room is attractively hung, though 
it didn’t stir me the way art should.  For more explanation, see the pairs of early-90s canvases -
- each with a square panel marked “Controlled Substances” that
has letters next to the dots. They represent an alphabet of
color with which a drug name is spelled out in the adjacent
panel. The dots suddenly make a little more sense.  Gagosian is timing his show just before  Tate Modern ’s Hirst
retrospective, and giving it a proper catalog. Still, there will
be quite a few works on sale. For modest budgets, the shop has
dotted key chains, skateboards and T-shirts.  Information:  http://www.gagosian.com .  Rotunda bar and restaurant is a good place to stop off when
visiting the Gagosian. It’s informal and friendly, and there’s
an open terrace where the hardy (and the smokers) can watch the
world go by on Regent’s Canal. The set lunch is 10 pounds
($15.37) this month.  Information:  http://www.rotundabarandrestaurant.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7014-2840.  Saturday Night  Ed Sheeran  will show why he has been nominated for four
BRIT awards when he plays the Brixton Academy on Friday and
Saturday.  The 20-year-old, with just one album to his credit, already
has gained fame in British pop with his single “The A Team,”
one of the most-played songs of 2011.  While the concerts are sold out, some tickets are still
available online.  Brixton O2 Academy, 211 Stockwell Road, SW9 9SL, Jan. 20
and 21. Information:  http://www.o2academybrixton.co.uk  or
 http://edsheeran.com  and +44-844-477-2000.  Franco Manca, in Brixton Market, is a destination for pizza
lovers from across London. The cooking time is 40 seconds and
you’ll probably wait much longer than that for a table. Prices
are low and the sourdough pizzas outstanding. Just leave
yourself plenty of time before the Ed Sheeran concert.  Information:  http://www.francomanca.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7738-3021.  Sunday  The London Art Fair, which ends today, offers an attractive
assortment of art that doesn’t cost millions.  The Sims Reed gallery has a visceral Francis Bacon triptych
of a bullfight -- with his signature in pencil on each of the
lithograph’s three parts. The booth also offers Andy Warhol cat
prints (5,500 pounds a pop) and a David Hockney etching of a
snoozing dog (7,280 pounds).  Upstairs at Tenderpixel, a robot will do a powerful Bic-pen
sketch of your face for 30 pounds. It’s connected to a laptop
programmed by the French artist Patrick Tresset, who got tired
of drawing and decided to replace himself with a computer.  Information:  http://www.londonartfair.co.uk  or +44-8448-
480-136.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 