-- Israel 2-Year Swaps Rise to Month High on Rate Bets
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-01-19T15:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/israel-2-year-swaps-rise-to-month-high-on-rate-bets-correct-.html
(Corrects description of Cellcom in penultimate graph.)  Israel ’s two-year  interest-rate
swaps  climbed to the highest level in more than a month on bets
the  Bank of Israel  will hold borrowing costs next week amid
signs  Europe ’s debt crisis is stabilizing.  The swap rate, an indicator of investor expectations for
rates over the period, increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point to 2.55 percent, the highest since Dec. 14 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv . Policy makers will review
borrowing costs Jan. 23, with 11 of 19 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg forecasting interest rates will remain at 2.75
percent.  The Bank of Israel left its benchmark lending rate
unchanged in December, after two cuts in three months, calling
the current level “comfortable” because it “allows room to
maneuver in the event of a further deterioration in the economic
situation.” Eight economists in the Bloomberg poll predict the
bank will lower the rate to 2.5 percent next week. Israel’s
economy grew 3.6 percent in the third quarter, more than
previously estimated, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said Jan.
16.  “The central bank may wait to cut rates on increased signs
the crisis in Europe is calming down and local demand in the
economy will continue to expand albeit at a slower pace,” said
Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS Securities & Investments
Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  The  European Central Bank  said today there are signs the
economy is stabilizing and that the ECB’s record loans to
financial institutions will help support growth.  Greece ’s
government heads into a second day of talks with private
creditors in a push to reach an accord that would slash the
nation’s debt and avert a collapse of the economy.  The yield on the 5.5 percent benchmark bonds due in January
2022 was unchanged at 4.47 percent.  Bank Leumi Offering  The shekel climbed to as much as 3.7773 a dollar, the
highest this year, before trading at 3.7888 at 4:37 p.m. in Tel
Aviv.  The yield on inflation-linked bonds due June 2013 gained
less than one basis point to 0.49 percent. The two-year break-
even rate, the yield difference between the inflation-linked
bond and fixed-rate government bonds of similar maturity,
increased for a third day, advancing one basis point to 203,
implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.03 percent.  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, plans to raise “hundreds of millions” of shekels of
tier 2 capital next week in its first debt offering this year.
 Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the nation’s biggest mobile-phone company,
said its board authorized to begin preparations for an auction
of as much as 300 million shekels ($79 million) of debt.  The  Tel-Bond 40  index of corporate bonds dropped for a
third day, slipping 0.1 percent 263.49.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  