-- Italy Forcing Eni to Sell $7.6 Billion Snam Gas Stake to Boost Competition
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2012-01-20T10:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/italy-forcing-eni-to-sell-7-6-billion-snam-gas-stake-to-boost-competition.html
The Italian government plans to
force  Eni SpA (ENI) , the country’s biggest oil company, to sell its
5.9 billion euro ($7.6 billion) stake in natural-gas
distribution network  Snam Rete Gas SpA (SRG)  to boost competition.  The Italian Cabinet will vote on the proposal today. A copy
of the draft law  posted  on daily Corriere della Sera’s online
edition said the sale will give all operators equal access to
the distribution system. Separation from Eni also “presents
industrial advantages,” freeing Snam from antitrust limits and
allowing the Milan-based company to buy stakes in other European
network operators, the draft said.  The decision ends years of haggling between Eni and
antitrust authorities on the need to open up Italy’s gas
transportation network to greater competition. It will also
enable a delayed law, separating  energy supply  and production
from network operations, to be implemented.  “An ownership unbundling would be positive for Eni,”
analysts at Cheuvreux wrote in a note to investors.  The draft gave no further details on the sale. Eni Chief
Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  told newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  on
Dec. 30 that he was ready to sell the company’s 50 percent stake
in Snam for the right price.  Share Performance  Eni fell 0.5 percent to 17.11 euros as of 11:05 a.m. in
Milan. Snam retreated 0.8 percent to 3.28 euros.  European authorities and operators have repeatedly accused
Eni of distorting natural-gas flows by blocking access to
pipelines and preventing fuel from reaching the highest-priced
market. Last year, Eni agreed to sell its stakes in its TENP,
Transitgas and TAG pipelines to settle European Union antitrust
charges.  The company’s control of Snam prompted Kevin Alger, head of
gas trading at RWE Supply and Trading, to complain last November
that Snam had interrupted TAG flows a few months earlier because
Italy was oversupplied, distorting competition.  An Eni press officer declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 