-- Friedland’s Ivanplats Said to Consider $1 Billion Initial Public Offering
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-20T08:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ivanplats-said-to-weigh-1-billion-ipo-on-toronto-as-early-as-next-quarter.html
Ivanplats Ltd. , a mining company
controlled by billionaire Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. founder Robert Friedland, may seek as much as $1 billion in an initial public
offering as early as the second quarter, according to people
with knowledge of the plan.  Ivanplats, which has metals deposits in  South Africa  and
the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, may be valued at as much as $5
billion after the stock sale, according to the people, who
declined to be identified as the process is private. The IPO may
take place in Toronto, followed by a secondary listing in
 London , the people said.  If successful, Ivanplats’s IPO may be the biggest in Canada
since Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. raised $1.3 billion in a share
sale in March 2010. While the plans are subject to market
conditions, the company is seeking to put out a prospectus as
soon as next month, the people said.  Friedland, 61, may be turning his attention to developing
new projects as Ivanhoe’s Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in Mongolia
heads for completion. Friedland may be moving toward selling
Ivanhoe and its 66 percent stake in Oyu Tolgoi, said Marc Sontrop at Interward Asset Management Ltd.  “He roams the world looking for world-class assets, and
based on his track record he’s one of the first to call when
people come across a significant new resource,” Sontrop, a
portfolio manager at Interward in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview.  Itochu Stake  Ivanplats, formerly known as Ivanhoe Nickel & Platinum
Ltd., is working with  Bank of Montreal ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  on the potential IPO, according to one of the people with
knowledge of the plan. A spokesman for Ivanplats declined to
comment.  The mining company owns the Platreef platinum and nickel
project, located north of Johannesburg in South Africa’s
Bushveld mining complex. Japanese trading company  Itochu Corp. (8001) 
holds a 10 percent stake in Platreef, giving the project an
implied value of $3.5 billion, according to Ivanplats’ website.  Ivanplats also owns the Kamoa project in Congo, which it
describes as the most significant copper discovery in the
country in more than 100 years. Ivanplats is conducting pre-
feasibility studies at both projects.  Friedland is chief executive officer of Vancouver-based
Ivanhoe Mines and controls about 14 percent of the company,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. He’s described as
Ivanplats’ controlling shareholder on Ivanhoe Mines’  website . He
had a net worth of $2.8 billion as of September, according to
 Forbes .  Voisey’s Bay  Friedland sold Diamond Fields Resources Inc. to Inco Ltd.,
the world’s second-biggest nickel producer at the time, for
C$4.56 billion ($4.51 billion) in 1996 after setting up a
bidding battle between Inco and Falconbridge Ltd. for Diamond
Fields’s Voisey’s Bay nickel deposit in  Canada .  Ivanhoe Mines said Jan. 18 it was scrapping a shareholder
rights plan, which was put in place to stop an unsolicited
takeover. Rio Tinto Group, which holds 49 percent of Ivanhoe
Mines, intends to acquire more shares to raise its stake to more
than 50 percent, Ivanhoe Mines said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  