-- J&J Said to Settle Texas Risperdal Anti-Psychotic Drug Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-19T16:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/j-j-said-to-settle-texas-risperdal-anti-psychotic-drug-case.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to settle
Texas officials’ claims that the drugmaker fraudulently marketed
its Risperdal anti-psychotic drug, ending a trial over the
allegations.  J&J’s settlement will resolve claims it defrauded the
state’s Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not
approved by U.S. regulators, including for children with
psychiatric disorders, the people said today. The state also
claimed  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based drugmaker downplayed the
risk of Risperdal.  J&J spokeswoman Teresa Mueller didn’t have an immediate
comment on the settlement.  J&J, the world’s largest health-care products company, and
its  Janssen  unit agreed to the accord in the middle of a four-
week trial of the state’s lawsuit, which sought at least $579
million in damages over the companies’ Risperdal marketing
practices, the people said.  The  Texas  settlement comes less than a month after J&J
officials agreed to pay more than $1 billion to the U.S. and a
number of states to end a civil investigation into Risperdal
marketing practices, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News Jan. 6.  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company engaged
in so-called off-label marketing of the medication, J&J has said
in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company
said it has been negotiating with the U.S. to resolve the
investigation.  The Texas settlement is the first time J&J and Janssen have
agreed to resolve a state’s Medicaid fraud claims over Risperdal
prescriptions.  Officials in  Louisiana  and  South Carolina  sued J&J partly
over marketing letters the company sent to doctors in those
states touting Risperdal as superior to rival drugs. Those
states’ attorneys general alleged the company falsely claimed
Risperdal didn’t cause diabetes to charge a premium for the
drug.  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  