-- Jana Partners Takes 5.5 Percent Position in Marathon Petroleum
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-01-19T23:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/jana-partners-takes-5-5-percent-position-in-marathon-petroleum.html
Jana Partners LLC bought a 5.5
percent stake in  Marathon Petroleum Corp (MPC) ., the refining company
that split from its parent last year and is under pressure to
split again by putting its pipeline business into a master
limited partnership.  The New York-based hedge fund acquired 19.7 million shares,
including options, of Findlay, Ohio-based Marathon, valued at
$636 million, according to a regulatory filing today.  Jana leaders have held talks with Marathon’s management
about the company’s business strategy, assets and related
matters, according to the filing. The fund purchased the shares
from Nov. 22 to Jan. 11. Jana may continue to hold discussions
with company leaders and board members, according to the filing.  Marathon Petroleum rose 3.6 percent to $37.14 at 5:38 p.m.
in  New York .  Charles Penner, a Jana spokesman, declined to comment.
Angelia Graves, a spokeswoman for Marathon Petroleum, didn’t
immediately return a phone call or e-mail message seeking
comment.  Analysts including Deutsche Bank AG’s  Paul Sankey  have
suggested that Marathon Petroleum should create a master limited
partnership that would hold some or all of its 9,600 miles
(15,450 kilometers) of pipelines and related assets.  Such partnerships, which are traded on exchanges, allow
companies to distribute cash generated by certain assets to
shareholders without having to pay corporate taxes on the
income, Eliecer Palacios, an energy sector specialist with Maxim
Group LLC, said in a telephone interview today.  “They clearly see value in those midstream assets,” he
said of Jana’s interest in Marathon’s pipelines.  Marathon Petroleum has fallen 20 percent to $35.85 from an
Aug. 1 closing price high of $44.97. The company was spun off
from  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  