-- Jefferson County Judge Strikes Reference to ‘Statutory Lien’
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-19T22:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-judge-says-sewer-debt-has-no-statutory-lien-.html
The judge overseeing the bankruptcy
of Jefferson County,  Alabama , said he didn’t intend to protect
its defaulted sewer bonds with a “statutory lien” in his
ruling regarding the county’s insolvent sewer system.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham said
in a court hearing today that a footnote saying the sewer debt
was “secured by a statutory lien,” was a word-processing error
that he will fix.  “I probably should have taken it out,” Bennett said. “I
left it there as a placeholder so I didn’t have to move all the
numbers about. It is not intended to address the issue that you
were concerned about.”  Bennett was responding to a request by Jefferson County to
clarify the footnote. The county argued that granting
bondholders a statutory lien could affect the bankruptcy case
and any appeal filed by creditors.  In bankruptcy different types of liens grant creditors
distinct levels of protection.  County officials and the trustee for bondholders are in
talks about how much of the sewer system’s revenue must be
turned over to bondholders. The system doesn’t generate enough
money to cover the sewer warrants, according to court records.  Not Impeding Talks  David Lemke, an attorney for the bondholders’ trustee, Bank
of New York Mellon Corp., said the footnote was not impeding
talks about the sewer revenue.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November, more
than a year after a state court gave control of the sewer system
to John S. Young Jr., a receiver representing bondholders who
own the sewer warrants.  Bennett ruled that the county’s bankruptcy ended Young’s
power over the system. The county is now in the process of
resuming control.  The bankruptcy was filed after the county, state officials,
the receiver and bondholders failed to implement an agreement to
cut the sewer debt by about $1 billion, raise rates and win
financial support from the Alabama Legislature.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 