-- Jefferson County Asks Judge to Clarify Footnote in Sewer Receiver Order
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-19T17:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/jefferson-county-asks-judge-to-clarify-footnote-in-sewer-receiver-order.html
Jefferson County (STOAL1) ,  Alabama , asked the
judge overseeing its bankruptcy to clarify a footnote in a
recent order that’s impeding settlement talks with sewer
bondholders owed more than $3 billion.  In a Jan. 6 ruling that limited the powers of a receiver
for the county’s insolvent sewer system, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham added a footnote about an
alleged “statutory lien” creditors may claim over the system.  The county argued in court papers filed today that
creditors don’t hold such a lien and that a disagreement about
the footnote is “interfering with the discussions the court
recommended.”  County officials and the trustee for bondholders are in
talks about how much of the sewer system’s revenue must be
turned over to bondholders. The system doesn’t generate enough
money to cover the sewer warrants, according to court records.  Bennett scheduled a hearing on the footnote to begin at
3 p.m. today.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November, more
than a year after a state court gave control of the sewer system
to John S. Young Jr., a receiver representing bondholders who
own the sewer warrants.  Bennett ruled that the county’s bankruptcy ended Young’s
power over the system. The county is now in the process of
resuming control.  Bankruptcy Filing  The bankruptcy was filed after the county, state officials,
the receiver and bondholders failed to implement a tentative
agreement that would have required the sewer debt to be cut by
about $1 billion, rates to increase and the Alabama Legislature
to enact new laws.  County attorneys argued that Bennett’s footnote may affect
any appeal of the sewer receiver order.  The county asked Bennett to rewrite the footnote to say the
court was “not now determining whether any ‘statutory lien’ was
of the nature defined in  Bankruptcy Code .”  If Bennett won’t clarify the ruling and rewrite the
footnote, the county said it would like the chance to offer
additional filings justifying its position.  In the note, Bennett wrote that payment of the sewer
warrants “is also secured by a statutory lien.”  That could allow creditors to argue that they hold a
statutory lien and that the lien is exempt from any limits
imposed by the bankruptcy code, the county argued in its papers.  Larry Childs, an attorney for the bondholders’ trustee,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment on the filing.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 