-- Four-Year Low in U.S. Jobless Claims May Bolster Spending in 2012: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-19T21:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/jobless-claims-in-u-s-plunge-to-lowest-in-almost-four-years.html
Claims for jobless benefits last
week dropped to the lowest level in almost four years, pointing
to an improvement in the U.S. job market that may help bolster
spending in the new year.  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments plunged by
50,000 to 352,000 in the week ended Jan. 14, less than forecast
and the fewest since April 2008, according to data from the
Labor Department issued today in  Washington . Other reports
showed consumer prices were little changed in December for a
second month and builders started work on the most single-family
houses in more than a year.  Jobless claims, which tend to be volatile week to week
around holidays, have trended down over the past month, a sign
employment may pick up after payrolls grew by 200,000 in
December. Gains in incomes, combined with less inflation, will
probably underpin household spending, which accounts for about
70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  “We’ve had fundamental improvement in the labor market in
the past few months,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. “Moderate
inflation will certainly help households spend more in the face
of slower wage growth.”  Stocks climbed on the drop in claims and as Bank of America
Corp. showed a profit last quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,314.5 at the close in  New York .
 Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note up to 1.98 percent from 1.90 percent late yesterday.  Less Confidence  In  Europe  today, consumer confidence in the U.K. dropped in
December as rising unemployment and Europe’s debt crisis sapped
Britons’ expectations for an economic recovery. An index of
sentiment fell to 38 from 40 in November, the Swindon, England-
based  Nationwide Building Society  said today. It reached 36 in
October, the lowest since the survey began in 2004.  Elsewhere,  Australia  unexpectedly lost jobs in December for
a second straight month, capping the nation’s worst year for
employment in almost two decades.  The cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in
December for a second month as stores cut prices to boost
holiday sales, other figures from the Labor Department showed.
 Excluding (CPUPXCHG)  volatile food and fuel costs, the so-called core index
rose 0.1 percent.  Retailers from  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  to Macy’s Inc. used
discounts to attract customers during the holidays. Less
inflation means Federal Reserve officials have leeway to take
additional steps to spur growth should the economic expansion
stumble.  Little Inflation  “There are no signs of budding inflationary pressures,”
said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. (PNC)  in Pittsburgh, who accurately forecast prices would
remain steady. “The core index is going to be pleasing to the
Fed.”  The lack of inflation is helping preserve household buying
power.  Hourly earnings  adjusted for prices rose 0.2 percent on
average in December, the Labor Department figures also showed.
They were up 2.4 percent at an annual rate over the past three
months, the best performance since June 2010, according to
Bloomberg News calculations.  Last week’s drop in jobless claims was the biggest since
September 2005, when applications first surged then plunged in
the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina .  The  median  forecast of 41 economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a decrease to 384,000. Estimates ranged from 363,000
to 405,000. The Labor Department revised the previous week’s
figure up to 402,000 from the 399,000 previously calculated.  Seasonal Volatility  A Labor Department spokesman said the drop reflected
volatility seen during this time of year. Claims tend to jump
around during holidays as the government has difficulties
adjusting the data for seasonal swings in employment.  The four-week average, which smoothes out fluctuations,
decreased to 379,000 last week from 382,500.  Last week correlated with the period surveyed by the Labor
Department to calculate monthly payrolls. The four-week average
was down from 380,800 during the comparable period in December,
a sign employment will keep growing.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  The increase in payrolls last month followed a 100,000 gain
in November, Labor Department data showed earlier this month.
The  jobless rate  fell to 8.5 percent in December, the lowest in
almost three years.  Housing Stabilizing  Another report added to evidence the housing market was
starting to stabilize. Builders broke ground on 470,000 single-
family houses at an annual rate, the most since April 2010,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  A 20 percent drop in construction of multifamily units,
like apartment buildings, which tends to be volatile, paced a
4.1 percent decline in total  housing starts  last month, the
report showed. For all of 2011, work on multifamily dwellings
jumped 78 percent as more Americans opt to rent rather than own.  Conversely, construction of single-family houses last year
was the weakest in data going back to 1959.  Also today, reports showed  consumer confidence  retreated
last week from a six-month high and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia Fed region accelerated this month.  The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  declined to minus 47.4
in the period ended Jan. 15 from a reading of minus 44.7 the
prior week. An almost 20-cent per gallon increase in gasoline
costs over the past month may be starting to counter the
benefits of an improving job market.  Philadelphia Fed  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic index 
increased to a three-month high of 7.3 from 6.8 in December.
Readings greater than zero indicate expansion in the area
covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Manufacturing is among industries hiring. The Elgin,
 Illinois , based-U.S. unit of  Germany ’s Harting Deutschland GmbH,
a maker of industrial connectors, will probably hire 20 people
this year after doubling the workforce to 120 since the
recession, Chief Executive Officer Rolf Meyer said.  “We have a couple of large orders that we’re negotiating
on in the broadcast and medical industries, and these will
likely hit in the next five or six months,” said Meyer, who,
supplies customers such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Siemens AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  