-- J&J to Pay $158M to Settle Texas Drug Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-19T19:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/johnson-johnson-to-pay-158-million-to-settle-texas-risperdal-drug-case.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to pay $158
million to settle Texas officials’ claims that the drugmaker
fraudulently marketed its Risperdal anti-psychotic drug, ending
a trial over the allegations.  J&J’s settlement will resolve claims it defrauded the
state’s Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not
approved by U.S. regulators, including for children with
psychiatric disorders, the company said today. The state also
claimed the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based drugmaker downplayed
the health risk of Risperdal. The settlement was about one-
quarter of the $579 million the state was seeking.  “Under the terms of the settlement, Janssen will pay $158
million in full resolution of all claims in Texas,” Teresa
Mueller, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “This
settlement represents a resolution to claims brought by the
state in 2004 for alleged Medicaid overpayment during the years
1994-2008, and will circumvent potentially lengthy and costly
appellate activities.”  The  Texas  settlement is the first time J&J and Janssen have
agreed to resolve a state’s claims over Risperdal, Mueller said.  J&J, the world’s largest health-care products company, and
its  Janssen  unit agreed to the accord in the middle of a four-
week trial of the state’s lawsuit.  ‘Strong Message’  “Today’s agreement sends a strong message that the state
will pursue those who defraud Texas taxpayers,”  Greg Abbott ,
Texas attorney general, said in a statement. “Johnson &
Johnson’s scheme to profit from the Medicaid program by
overstating the safety and effectiveness of an expensive drug
and improperly influencing officials ended up costing taxpayers
millions of dollars.”  Texas joined a lawsuit filed in 2004 by a whistle-blower,
 Allen Jones , an ex-investigator for the  Pennsylvania  Office of
Inspector General. Jones said he was fired after probing company
payments to a top pharmacist in Pennsylvania’s government who
hid the money.  “We’re not disappointed at all” by the size of the
settlement, Tom Melsheimer, Jones’s lawyer said in an interview
today. The settlement is “the largest in a Texas Medicaid fraud
case brought by the state,” he said.  ‘Tell the Story’  Settling during trial provided a benefit to the public, he
said. “We got to tell the story of Risperdal that we never
could have been able to tell if we settled before trial,”
Melsheimer said.  The settlement will be split between the state, the federal
government, Jones and his attorneys, Mueller said.  “I’ve no idea what the distribution of the settlement will
be,” Jones said in an interview today. He said his first
reaction to the settlement was, “Damn, I wanted another two
days of testimony.”  The trial showed that Janssen “subverted science and
induced others to betray the people they were supposed to take
care of,” Jones said. “To me, that’s reprehensible.”  Jurors began hearing evidence on Jan. 10 about Janssen’s
efforts to promote Risperdal, which the  Food and Drug
Administration  approved in 1993 for uses including
schizophrenia. J&J made $34 billion on Risperdal sales after its
introduction, Melsheimer told jurors in his opening statement.  State Medicaid Program  Lawyers for Texas and Jones sought to prove that J&J
defrauded the state Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for
other uses, including children with psychiatric disorders.  Janssen’s marketing to children continued until the FDA’s
first approval for pediatric uses in 2006, testified attorney
Arnold Friede, an expert witness for the state. Friede explained
company documents and FDA letters and said Janssen repeatedly
disregarded agency admonitions to not market Risperdal beyond
its approved use.  He said Janssen didn’t follow the drug’s label, which said:
“Safety and effectiveness in children have not been
established.”  He reviewed an FDA letter that denied a 1996 application by
Janssen to allow use in children. The Janssen application never
said “for what child or adolescent psychiatric disorders
Risperdal would be intended,” the FDA said.  “Your rationale for proposing this supplement appears to
be simply that, since Risperdal is being used in pediatric
patients, this use should be acknowledged in some way in
labeling,” according to the FDA letter in September 1997.  ‘Flood Clinics’  Janssen pushed salespeople in Texas to “flood clinics with
Risperdal stuff” in a 2004 campaign to boost prescriptions for
children and adolescents, according to a company memo. The goal
was to position Risperdal to compete with rival anti-psychotic
drugs, such as  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Seroquel and  Eli Lilly & Co. ’s
Zyprexa, a former Janssen sales manager, Shane Scott, testified.  Bruce Perry, a psychiatrist at Northwestern University
Medical School who works with traumatized children, told jurors
that young people “are more vulnerable” to the side effects of
anti-psychotic drugs.  Those conditions include weight gain, drowsiness and
sometimes-severe withdrawal symptoms, said Perry, a former head
of psychiatry at the Texas Children’s Hospital in Houston. He
testified as an expert for the state.  Another expert for the state, Joseph Glenmullen, said J&J
hid three studies showing some patients using Risperdal
developed diabetes. As early as 1999, Janssen had researchers’
findings that about half the patients taking Risperdal in a
study comparing its risks to those of Zyprexa developed diabetes
after a year on the medication, said Glenmullen, a psychiatrist
and Harvard Medical School instructor.  ‘Serious Weight Gain’  That study concluded Risperdal caused “medically serious
weight gain” that led patients to develop diabetes, Glenmullen
said. At the same time, Janssen salespeople told doctors that
researchers concluded the drug didn’t cause the disease, he
said.  Jurors also heard evidence that J&J played a central role
in the development of Texas guidelines advising doctors that a
newer class of drugs like Risperdal were a “first choice or
option” for schizophrenia.  Development of the guidelines, known as Texas Medication
Algorithm Project, or TMAP, was funded in part by the Robert
Wood Johnson Foundation, which donated $2.8 million to TMAP, and
J&J and Janssen gave $375,465, said Margaret Hunt, an
investigator in the state Civil Medicaid Fraud division.  TMAP Promotion  Janssen paid $942,659 to three doctors and their company,
which helped develop and promote TMAP, another witness said.
Another doctor who played a key role in TMAP was Steven Shon,
who was medical director of the Texas Department of Mental
Health and Mental Retardation. Janssen paid Shon for several
years to tout the TMAP guidelines to other states, he testified.  The Texas settlement comes less than a month after J&J
officials agreed to pay more than $1 billion to the U.S. and a
number of states to end a civil investigation into Risperdal
marketing practices, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News Jan. 6.  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company engaged
in so-called off-label marketing of the medication, J&J has said
in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company
said it has been negotiating with the U.S. to resolve the
investigation.  Louisiana, South Carolina  Officials in  Louisiana  and  South Carolina  sued J&J partly
over marketing letters the company sent to doctors in those
states touting Risperdal as superior to rival drugs. Those
states’ attorneys general alleged the company falsely claimed
Risperdal didn’t cause diabetes to charge a premium for the
drug.  In June, a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay $327
million after a jury found the drugmaker liable for damages over
its Risperdal marketing. The drugmaker vowed to appeal that
award.  The company also lost a Risperdal case in Louisiana in
October 2010, where on top of a $257.7 million jury award, a
judge ordered the company to pay $73.3 million in attorneys’
fees and costs.  A Pennsylvania judge threw out the state’s case against J&J
and Janssen in June 2010.  J&J and Janssen also have been sued over their Risperdal
marketing by  Alaska ,  Arkansas , Louisiana,  Montana ,  New Mexico ,
Pennsylvania and  Utah . The Arkansas case is set for trial in
March.  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  