-- Keppel Land Heads for Two-Month-High on Record Dividend: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-01-20T09:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/keppel-land-4th-quarter-net-income-climbs-47-to-s-1-17-billion.html
Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD) , the property
developer partly owned by the world’s largest builder of oil
rigs, surged to a two-month high after reporting a 47 percent
increase in fourth-quarter profit and a record payout.  Net income climbed to S$1.17 billion ($919 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, from S$796.8 million a year earlier,
it said in a stock exchange  statement  yesterday, boosted by a
S$508.1 million gain from the sale of its downtown Singapore
office building to its property trust. The Singapore-based
developer will also pay a final  dividend  of 20 cents a share.  The sale will help the developer fund its expansion into
commercial real estate projects after governments in  Singapore 
and  China , its two biggest markets, imposed further measures to
curb speculative home buying. Keppel Land said yesterday it
bought a site for a commercial development in Beijing.  “Aware of the challenges in its operating environment, the
management guided its strategy to reduce business volatility by
diversifying its property businesses outside residential,”
Chong Kang Ho, a Singapore-based analyst at BNP Paribas who has
a “buy” recommendation on the stock, said in a report
yesterday. He added that it’s “in a strong financial position
to build up its  land bank , especially at reasonable prices in a
downturn.”  The  stock  advanced 5.1 percent to S$2.70 at the close in
Singapore, the highest since Nov. 14. The developer was the
second-best performer on the  FTSE Strait Times Real Estate Index (FSTRE) 
tracking 45 property stocks traded in the city-state today.  Slowing China Sales  Keppel Land said yesterday its China home sales slowed to
1,400 units last year from about 4,100 in 2010 with “sentiments
affected by purchase restrictions and other cooling measures.”  China’s December  home prices  posted their worst performance
last year, with only two of the 70 cities tracked posting gains,
as the government reiterated its plans to maintain housing curbs.
Prices in 52 of 70 cities monitored by the government declined
from the previous month, the statistics bureau said this week.  The Chinese government said last month it won’t back away
from curbs on the real-estate industry, with the financial
center of  Shanghai  and the capital of Beijing among Chinese
cities that have said they will continue to impose restrictions
on home purchases this year.  In Singapore, December private home sales dropped to a two-
year low of 632 units after the government imposed new taxes on
house purchases, according to government data this week.  Home
prices (URPIPRCA)  climbed 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months, the smallest gain in 2 1/2 years,
according to government data earlier this month.  More Singapore Taxes  The city-state imposed an additional 10 percent stamp duty
on Dec. 7 for homes purchased by foreigners. The extra levy will
be 3 percent for permanent residents purchasing a second home
and for citizens buying their third residential property. A
total of 55 percent of  Keppel Land ’s assets are in Singapore as
of Dec. 31, and China accounts for 28 percent, it said yesterday.  DMG & Partners Research said a note today that Keppel
Land’s results were “slightly ahead” of expectations, and the
payout exceeded its estimate of 18 cents a share.  “KepLand’s near term focus for capital deployment lies in
the commercial segment given policy overhang on both Singapore
and China markets,” the brokerage, which maintained its “buy”
recommendation on the stock, said in the report. The Beijing
property purchase “may allay some possible market concerns on
uncertainty regarding KepLand’s currently evolving business
model,” it said. 