-- Kesa Falls After Margins Worsened in Quarter: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-19T17:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/kesa-falls-after-margins-worsened-in-quarter-london-mover.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) , the
electronics retailer that’s selling the Comet chain in the U.K.,
fell in  London  trading after third-quarter profitability
deteriorated as product prices declined.  Kesa dropped 6.3 percent to 73 pence. Gross profit as a
proportion of sales fell 0.9 percentage points in the three
months ended Jan. 8, London-based Kesa said today in a
statement.  “When you see margin declines, it mainly means that the
market is very competitive and the overall market prices are
going down,” Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin
said on a call with reporters today. “The margin pressure might
continue for some time, which means we have to take measures to
adjust our cost base to remain competitive and maintain
profitability.”  Kesa, which agreed in November to dispose of the
unprofitable Comet unit to focus on markets such as  France , said
today it will incur an extra cost of 10 million pounds ($15.4
million) to 15 million pounds as debt at the division exceeds
the agreed threshold.  The profitability decline at Kesa contrasts with earnings
at  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the largest U.K. consumer-electronics
retailer, which said companywide gross margins were unchanged as
they rose 0.4 percentage points in its home market.  Kesa’s total sales rose 1.1 percent on a local-currency
basis while sales at stores open more than a year fell by 1.3
percent. Sales at Darty France outlets open more than a year
fell by 4.7 percent, accelerating from a 3.7 percent drop in the
first half.  Online Growth  Web-based revenue rose 18 percent in the quarter, while
comparable sales at Kesa’s so-called other established
businesses, including the BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart brands,
climbed 8.6 percent.  Kesa said Dec. 7 that its margin improved 10 basis points
in the first half. The retailer expects to complete the sale of
Comet on Feb. 3.  “The gross margin decline of 90 basis points was
disappointing,”  David Jeary , an analyst at Investec Securities
in London, said in a report to clients. “We remain negative on
the stock” as the company’s main French market remains “under
pressure from a weakening economic backdrop.”  Investec said it’s reviewing price estimates for Kesa
because of weaker-than-expected margins and sales at Darty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  