-- King Confronts U.K. Jobless Specter Overshadowing Inflation Boon in 2012
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/king-confronts-u-k-jobless-specter-overshadowing-inflation-boon-in-2012.html
Rising U.K. unemployment is
threatening to cancel the benefit of  cooling inflation  on
 consumer spending  and keep the recovery in check this year, 
said economists at Citigroup Inc. and ING Group.  While Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  says an easing
of the price squeeze on consumers is one of the “good pieces of
news” for 2012, its impact on household spending may be muted.
Unemployment has risen to the highest in 16 years, wage growth
is lagging behind inflation and  consumer confidence  is close to
a record low.  “The fall in inflation will be very largely offset,” said
 Michael Saunders , chief Western European economist at Citigroup
in  London . “Unemployment is going to rise quite sharply and the 
key thing will be that real incomes are still falling.”  A combination of the euro-area debt crisis, job cuts at
companies from banks to retailers and the biggest fiscal squeeze
since World War II is undermining sentiment among Britons. Ernst
& Young’s ITEM Club has said the economy is already in a
recession, while retailers such as  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Marks & Spencer
Group Plc  have had to cut prices to lure shoppers in what they
say is a “challenging” environment.  Nationwide Building Society  said today that its index of
consumer confidence fell 2 points to 38 in December, close to
the record low of 36 in October. Households’ assessment of the
economic outlook also deteriorated.  Wage Optimism  U.K. inflation  slowed to 4.2 percent in December, the
weakest in six months, from 4.8 percent in November. While the
Bank of England forecasts that it will cool to 1.7 percent by
the end of 2012, wages may lag behind price growth for much of
the year. Data yesterday showed that annual pay increases were
1.9 percent in the quarter through November.  “The economic weakness and a softer labor market mean that
wages are not doing great,” said  James Knightley , an economist
at ING in London. “The hope that wage growth will exceed 
inflation this year appears optimistic.”  Compounding the squeeze on incomes are job cuts that will
hit both private and public workers. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition is planning austerity measures through April
2017 that will involve about 700,000 job cuts.  Premier Foods Plc (<PFD>) , the maker of Hovis bread, said this week
it plans to eliminate 600 positions.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  announced 4,800 job cuts this month, while U.K.
roadside restaurant chain Little Chef said it plans to close 67
locations with the loss of as many as 600 jobs. Data yesterday
showed that the  unemployment rate  in the quarter through
November rose to 8.4 percent, the highest since 1996.  Retail Shares  Retailers’ shares have slumped as shoppers curbed spending,
denting profits. Tesco, the U.K.’s largest food retailer, cut
profit expectations this month after lower than expected sales.
The  FTSE 350 Retail Supersector Index , whose members including
high street fixtures Marks & Spencer and  Next Plc (NXT) , has fallen 12
percent in the last six months. The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  has
slipped 0.9 percent in that period.  “Redundancy expectations are rising steadily in both the
public and private sectors,” said Caroline Gulliver, an analyst
at Execution Noble in London who has a “neutral” rating on the
retail industry. “It is clear that consumers remain as cautious
as they were in 2011 and the catalyst for a change in sentiment
seems some way off.”  BOE Stimulus  The Bank of England revived its  stimulus program  in October
to aid the economy, boosting its bond-purchase target by 75
billion pounds ($116 billion). With those purchases due to be
completed early next month, Saunders at Citigroup predicts it
may add as much as another 100 billion pounds to its target in
February.  “Even if growth is flat, it’s a pretty disastrous outcome
as we’re looking at the worst recovery path in the last 100
years,” he said. “On fiscal policy, the government have no
choice. The policy option available is that the BOE has got to
do a lot more quantitative easing.”  Still, consumers may feel less badly off in 2012 than last
year. Some clothing stores plan to cut prices as cotton costs
ease, while Britain’s six biggest utilities announced this month
that they will trim prices.  “Incomes are still squeezed, but they’re less squeezed
than a year ago,” said  Jens Larsen , chief European economist at
 RBC Capital Markets  and a former  Bank of England  official. While
“it continues to hurt, the whole mix that we had last year of
higher inflation, higher taxes and public-sector layoffs is
going to soften a bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  