-- Kodak Files for Bankruptcy as Digital Era Spells End to Film
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-19T18:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/kodak-photography-pioneer-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the photography
pioneer that introduced the Brownie Camera more than a century
ago, filed for bankruptcy after consumers embraced digital
cameras, a technology Kodak invented and failed to
commercialize.  The Rochester, New York-based company, which traces its
roots to 1880, listed assets of $5.1 billion and debt of $6.8
billion in Chapter 11 documents filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  Manhattan .  “They were a company stuck in time,” said Robert Burley,
an associate professor at Toronto’s Ryerson University who has
photographed shuttered Kodak facilities in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 France  since 2005. “Their history was so important to them,
this rich century-old history when they made a lot of amazing
things and a lot of money along the way. Now their history has
become a liability.”  The company’s credit deteriorated as revenue tumbled from
traditional film, and the inventor of the Instamatic cameras was
slow during the past decade to compete with Canon Inc. and
Hewlett-Packard Co. in digital cameras and printers.  Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 5 cut ratings on about $1
billion of Kodak debt with a negative outlook, citing “a
heightened probability of a bankruptcy over the near-term.”  NYSE Regulation Inc. today said it would suspend trading of
Kodak stock after determining the company is “no longer
suitable for listing,” according to a statement.  Citigroup Loan  Citigroup Inc. agreed to provide a $950 million debtor-in-
possession loan to help Kodak operate during bankruptcy, the
photo company said today in a statement. The loan must be
approved by a bankruptcy judge.  “Kodak is taking a significant step toward enabling our
enterprise to complete its transformation,” Antonio M. Perez,
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The company plans to sell “significant assets” during the
bankruptcy, Chief Financial Officer Antoinette McCorvey said in
a court filing. She didn’t elaborate.  As it watched digital dissolve its high-margin film
business, Kodak has shed 47,000 employees since 2003, closing 13
factories that produced film, paper and chemicals, along with
130 photo laboratories. The restructuring has already cost $3.4
billion, because it was done “in a socially responsible” way,
said a spokesman,  Christopher Veronda .  “The announcement that Kodak is filing for bankruptcy is
difficult and disappointing news for the city and people of
Rochester,”  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said in a statement.
“This is a time for all of us at all levels of government to
come together and work with the private sector to support
Rochester’s growth,” Cuomo said.  Annual Loss  Kodak, headed for its sixth annual loss in the past seven
years, tried to sell more than 1,100 digital-imaging patents and
pursued royalties to fund a shift to modern commercial and
consumer digital printers.  Kodak’s cash and equivalents fell to $862 million at the
end of its third quarter from $1.4 billion a year earlier. The
company is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results Jan. 26.  Kodak’s revenue has fallen by half since 2005 to $7.2
billion last year, with further declines predicted this year and
next after film and photofinishing unit sales sank by 14 percent
in the second quarter. The company’s losses since 2008 exceeded
$1.76 billion.  Bonds Fall  Kodak’s $250 million of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes
due in November 2013 fell 3.5 cents to 29.5 cents on the dollar
as of 10:06 a.m. In New York, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The notes fell as low as 27 cents today and have plunged from
100 cents on the dollar, or face value, in April and 48.5 cents
in November.  Shares of Kodak slumped 35 percent to 36 cents at 12:55
p.m. New York time. The Rochester, New York-based company’s
stock symbol changed to “EKDKQ” from “EK.”  The  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  is listed as Kodak’s
biggest unsecured creditor as trustee for about $670 million of
unsecured notes. Other unsecured creditors include Sony Studios,
which is owed $16.7 million, Warner Brothers, with $14.2
million, and Alcoa Inc., with $2.8 million.  Bank of New York Mellon is also listed as the biggest
secured creditor with a claim of $776 million, backed by all of
Kodak’s U.S. assets except for those exempted in a 1988
agreement, according to the filing.  Inkjet Printers  Perez, a former Hewlett-Packard executive who took charge
at Kodak in 2005, tried to rescue the brand by cutting costs and
winning shelf space for inkjet printers at Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and Staples Inc. He pushed its commercial digital printers into
publishing and packaging, touting their flexibility over old-
school printing plates.  Kodak was five years too late to accelerate its shift to
the digital age, Perez, 65, said in an interview in August.  Kodak hasn’t sold enough printers and presses to create
sufficient demand for replacement ink and supplies and service
contracts to end losses in those units. In February, it
projected operating profits in consumer and commercial inkjet
printing by the end of 2013.  “Essentially they’re moving away from a very profitable
model that generated multiple sales -- most everyone got double
prints -- to one that’s awfully difficult to make a profit in,”
said John Ward, a 20-year Kodak veteran who is now a lecturer in
Rochester Institute of Technology’s college of business.  Few Options  “Perez had a clear understanding that change had to happen
and it had to happen quickly,” said Ward, 49, who met Perez
shortly after he joined Kodak as president and chief operating
officer in 2003. “Clearly they could have made some changes
faster, but there just weren’t a lot of options to replace the
film business.”  “Out of the bankruptcy proceedings, a much smaller company
can emerge,” Don Strickland, a former Kodak vice president for
digital imaging, said in a Bloomberg television interview. “But
I really don’t believe that there’s going to be another Kodak
moment.”  The process to sell Kodak’s patents out of bankruptcy will
start now and it might take a couple of months, said a person
with direct knowledge of the situation.  Kodak recently stepped up its campaign to extract more cash
from its patent portfolio. The company yesterday sued  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  in a case that claims the Galaxy tablet
infringes technology for capturing and sending digital images.
Last week the company sued HTC Corp. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and also has
cases against Research In Motion Ltd. and Fujifilm Holdings
Corp.  Samsung Dispute  Samsung in 2010 agreed to pay Kodak $550 million to settle
another patent dispute in which the Suwon, South Korea-based
handset maker had been accused of infringing a patent for a
feature that lets users preview images on their cameras using
less processing power and storage.  Kodak was founded by  George Eastman , who developed a method
for dry-plate photography before introducing the Kodak camera in
1888, according to the company’s website. It went on to invent
film, enabling Thomas Edison to develop the motion picture
camera, as well as Brownie cameras selling for $1 and Kodachrome
film.  Paul Simon  immortalized the film in his 1973 song
“Kodachrome.” The single, which praised Kodachrome’s “nice
bright colors,” peaked at No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Kodak stopped producing the film in 2009.  Hollywood  “Everyone in the 20th century has been familiar with the
Kodak name and its products,” said Burley of Ryerson’s School
of Image Arts. “We’ve not only used them to memorialize our
families and their histories, but also for diagnostics in
hospitals, producing books and newspapers and police
investigative work. And then the whole world of Hollywood is
based around Kodak products.”  The company also invented the first digital camera in 1975,
which it shelved because it would threaten its lucrative film
business, Perez said in an interview in March.  “Like many other companies on the East Coast, Kodak has
been phenomenal in research and patents and not so good
commercializing things, actually terrible commercializing
things,” Perez said.  Chief Operating Office  The company said Jan. 10 it had adjusted its management
structure and created a chief operating office to reduce costs.
The new commercial and consumer segments replace a previous
business structure of three divisions: graphic communications;
consumer digital imaging; and film, photofinishing and
entertainment.  The digital business has accounted for about 75 percent, or
$4.5 billion, of Kodak’s revenue last year, McCorvey said in her
filing today.  The company employs about 17,000 people, 9,100 of whom are
in the U.S., compared with the 63,900 that it employed in 2003,
she said.  The chief operating office will be led by Philip Faraci and
 Laura Quatela . Faraci, president and chief operating officer
since 2007, will focus on the commercial segment and sales and
regional operations, and Quatela, the company’s former general
counsel who was named as a second president in December, will
focus on the consumer segment and certain corporate functions,
Kodak said.  Directors Resigned  Three directors resigned from Kodak’s board in December,
two of them from KKR & Co., two years after the private-equity
firm helped the company refinance debt.  Adam H. Clammer and Herald Y. Chen quit Dec. 21. Both were
elected in September 2009 after a refinancing deal that included
KKR investing in $300 million of senior bonds and warrants for
40 million shares with an exercise price of $5.50. Kodak
refinanced KKR’s bonds in March 2010 via a private placement to
other investors.  By agreeing to hold the warrants for at least two years,
among other conditions, the private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  was entitled to nominate the two board
members.  Laura D. Tyson was the third director to leave. Tyson, 64,
a director since 1997, notified the board of her resignation
Dec. 29, according to a Dec. 30 regulatory filing. Tyson is a
professor at  University of California , Berkeley’s Haas School of
Business, has been an adviser to the Obama and Clinton
administrations and sits on the boards of at least five
companies, including Morgan Stanley and AT&T Inc.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  