-- NBA Is Said to Talk With IMG About Starting Pro-Basketball League in India
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-01-19T17:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/nba-is-said-to-talk-with-img-about-starting-pro-basketball-league-in-india.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  has held talks with executives at IMG
Worldwide Inc. about establishing a professional league in
 India , two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  IMG, the New York-based sports-management agency that
represents  Roger Federer , and Reliance Industries Ltd., the
company controlled by  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s richest man, formed
IMG Reliance in 2010 to develop sports and entertainment in the
world’s second-most populous nation behind China. The company
signed a 30-year contract with the Basketball Federation of
India that allows for the start of a professional league.  One of Stern’s stated missions is to build the NBA brand,
as well as the audience for basketball and its ancillary
merchandise, outside of  North America , where all of its teams
are based. Logical outposts are China, where the league has a
separate entity to conduct business there, and India, where IMG
Reliance says it’s working to make the population proficient in
sports other than cricket. India never has won a major
international basketball tournament.  “Like China, India will be a long-term key to the NBA’s
global growth,”  Paul Swangard , managing director of the Warsaw
Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon, said in an
e-mail. “Unlike China, the NBA doesn’t have a century of
basketball legacy to leverage. Joining forces with IMG would
create momentum for the business the NBA couldn’t have generated
by itself.”  Mike Bass , an NBA spokesman, and Jim Gallagher, a spokesman
for IMG, declined to comment.  More Talks  Talks among Stern, Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver and IMG
Chairman Mike Dolan, who replaced the late Ted Forstmann in
November, will continue, said one of the people, who was granted
anonymity because he isn’t authorized to discuss the talks
publicly.  The NBA has conducted grassroots events across India the
past two years, and this season there are six games a week shown
live on television in the country. Among the NBA’s marketing
partners in India are  Adidas (ADS)  AG,  Nike (NKE)  Inc. and Coca-Cola Co.  The league also has a strategic partnership with the
Mahindra Group, which backs a community based basketball league.  IMG Reliance established a sports academy to train athletes
in India, where four-fifths of the population is under 50.  IMG also operates a training academy in Florida, where 29
Indian student-athletes participated in September in the joint
venture’s inaugural scholarship program for tennis, basketball
and soccer. Among them was 7-foot (2.1-meter) teenager Satnam
Singh Bhamara, who  ESPN  magazine says could be India’s version
of China’s Yao Ming, who retired during the offseason following
an NBA All-Star career.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  