-- Netflix Rises 5% After Report on Market Share: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-01-19T21:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/netflix-rises-5-after-report-on-market-share-los-angeles-mover.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and DVD-by-
mail movie service, rose 5 percent to its highest close since
October after researcher NPD Group Inc. said the company
continues to dominate the film-streaming business.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, rose to $103.46 at
4 p.m.  New York  time, the highest close for the stock since it
finished at $118.84 on Oct. 24.  NPD, based in Port  Washington , New York, said in a
 statement  Netflix held a 55 percent share of the paid digital
movie rental business, down from a peak of 59 percent at
midyear. Netflix angered customers over a July price increase
and changes to its mail-order and streaming services, including
the aborted bid to rebrand the mail-order unit Qwikster.  “The movie-rental market is clearly undergoing a sea
change, as consumers become better equipped to access on-demand
and streamed movies and are more comfortable with available
delivery options,”  Russ Crupnick , an NPD senior vice president,
said in the statement.  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox dispensers emerged as the top disc
rental category, with its share of DVD and Blu-ray rentals
rising to 37 percent in 2011 from 25 percent the year before.
Blockbuster’s share dropped 6 percentage points to 17 percent.  Netflix’s share of physical rentals was unchanged at 30
percent for the year, NPD said. That number tumbled to a two-
year low of 25 percent in the fourth quarter, NPD said.  “There’s no doubt that Redbox has been the largest
beneficiary of the collapsing brick-and-mortar store rental
business, especially with ongoing Blockbuster store closings and
the fact that there are also fewer independent stores than the
prior year,” Crupnick said. “The Netflix share erosion may
have resulted from their recent well publicized challenges with
pricing, and from their now defunct Qwikster experiment.”  Coinstar, based in Bellevue, Washington, rose 1.2 percent
to $47.26 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  