-- New York May Get Light Coating of Snow Overnight, Weather Service Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-19T14:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/new-york-may-get-snow-coating-overnight-national-weather-service-says.html
New York City  may get “a coating”
of snow overnight and then another dusting this weekend, while
Chicago may get 3 to 5 inches tomorrow, according to the
 National Weather Service .  Snow is to fall in  New York  from about 9 p.m. to 3 a.m.
from a fast-moving storm that doesn’t have much moisture with
it, so accumulations will be light, said  Tim Morrin , a weather
service meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “We haven’t seen much this season so far, so this is a
reminder of winter but nothing we can’t handle,” Morrin said by
telephone. “We’re talking about a coating, I wouldn’t be
surprised to see folks sweep off their windshields, but
certainly nothing plowable.”  So far this season, 2.9 inches (7.4 centimeters) of snow
have fallen in Central Park, all of which came down on Oct. 29,
according to the weather service. Normally, 9.1 inches of snow
would have fallen by now,  weather service  records indicate.  There have been several instances where trace amounts of
snow have also fallen since Oct. 1, though they weren’t enough
to be measured.  Second Storm Follows  After the snow ends early tomorrow, the sun will be out
during the day and temperatures are expected to rise to the mid-
30s, before a second storm arrives later, Morrin said.  The second system is expected to start as snow late
tomorrow into the next day, he said. Warmer air will arrive
during the weekend and probably change the snow into rain as the
storm progresses, he said.  “The weekend one could linger into Saturday night,”
Morrin said. “We don’t expect serious accumulation from either
of them.”  Chicago is expected to receive from 3 to 5 inches of new
snow tomorrow in a separate storm, according to the weather
service. An extreme cold warning has been posted for
 Minneapolis , where the temperature was minus 11 Fahrenheit
(minus 24 Celsius) at 7:53 a.m. local time and 3 inches of snow
was forecast.  In the western U.S., winter storm and winter weather
advisories stretch from western  Oregon  to Montana. As much as 20
inches of snow may fall in the mountains of western Oregon and
 Washington , according to the weather service.  In the east, Albany, Boston and Philadelphia may receive
less than 1 inch of snow from today’s storm, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  