-- News Corp. ‘Startling’ E-Mails Trigger Computer Search for Hacking Clues
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-20T13:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/news-corp-startling-e-mails-trigger-new-u-k-computer-search.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspaper unit
gave secret internal e-mails to a judge who called them
“startling” and ordered the company to search a former senior
employee’s laptops for evidence of a phone-hacking cover up.  The publisher’s recent “limited admission” that senior
managers tried to conceal the voice-mail interception scandal
from police by destroying e-mail archives isn’t enough to avoid
new searches that could reveal more damaging evidence before a
trial, Judge Geoffrey Vos said yesterday in  London . The order
applies to three laptops used by the unidentified ex-employee.  “They are to be treated as deliberate destroyers of
evidence,” Vos said of London-based News International at the
hearing. “I have been shown a number of e-mails which are
confidential. Suffice it to say they show a rather startling
approach to the e-mail” practices at the company.  The order was made after News International told Vos it
settled 36 lawsuits filed by victims of phone hacking by its
News of the World tabloid, including actor Jude Law and Labour
lawmaker  Chris Bryant . New York-based News Corp. closed the
paper in July to help contain anger after the extent of the
scandal was revealed and News International’s chief executive
officer at the time, Rebekah Brooks, was arrested a week later.  “You seem a little over-sensitive about these laptops,”
Vos told News International’s lawyers at the hearing. They may
contain details about why so many e-mails were deleted by the
company as victims’ lawsuits piled up, he said.  Sienna Miller   Vos described in his judgment some of the secret e-mails,
saying that three days after lawyers for actress Sienna Miller
wrote a letter in September 2010 asking News International to
retain evidence about voice-mail interceptions, “a previously
conceived plan to delete e-mails was put in place by senior
managers.”  Miller settled her claim last year for 100,000 pounds
($155,000). Her suit is credited with bringing evidence to
light debunking News Corp.’s claim that hacking was limited
to one “rogue reporter” arrested for the offense in 2006.  The secret e-mails were disclosed in December by Paul
Cheesbrough, News International’s chief information officer
since 2010, victims’ lawyer Jeremy Reed said in court yesterday.
The names of the people who sent and received the messages are
secret because of the ongoing police probe.  Hypothetical Scenario  The company’s lawyers apologized in court to 18 of the
victims yesterday and paid them more than $1 million in damages
on the basis that senior employees were involved in a coverup.
The company later said in a statement it didn’t admit anything
and that the coverup was a hypothetical scenario used only for
calculating so-called aggravated damages in the case.  Vos said yesterday News International was “shading their
admissions” and asked the company’s lawyer, Dinah Rose, to
consider applying the “admission of sorts” to other areas of
the case, such as liability in future lawsuits and calculating
the toughest exemplary damages that may be awarded.  News International’s lawyers “say the admissions are for
the sake of convenience in this action, but one would expect the
Murdoch millions to be freely spent fighting such serious
allegations,” Tamsin Allen, Bryant’s lawyer, said in an e-mail.  The judge also ordered News International to search six
other computers used by unnamed former employees, including
three people who the company admits hacked phones. He rejected
the publisher’s argument the devices probably didn’t contain
anything useful for the victims.  The computers replaced others that were intentionally
destroyed by the company in 2010, when it moved to a new office,
Rose said. The devices probably wouldn’t contain older messages
or documents about phone hacking if the company were involved in
a coverup at the time, she said.  ‘The Villains’  “We accept we are the villains,” Rose told Vos. “We have
the horns and the tails.”  News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to
comment on the computer searches.  Vos said it was possible the searches and the settlements
yesterday could delay a three-week trial scheduled to begin Feb.
13. The trial of the remaining cases is intended to give
guidance on damages for future lawsuits and out-of-court
settlements in a case of “national interest,” Vos said.  The unit of News Corp. faces three police investigations
into phone hacking, computer hacking and bribery of police
officers by journalists. A judge-led inquiry into press ethics
has also begun at the request of Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
who had hired ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson  as his
press chief. Coulson was arrested in July of last year and
questioned as part of the hacking investigation.  The Jude Law case is: Jude Law v. Newsgroup Newspapers,
Case No. HC11C02065,  High Court  of Justice Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  