-- News Corp. Settles Phone-Hacking Suits in U.K. With Jude Law, Ashley Cole
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/news-corp-unit-managers-knew-about-hacking-victim-lawyers-say.html
News Corp.’s British newspaper unit
settled 36 lawsuits by phone-hacking victims including actor
Jude Law and soccer player  Ashley Cole , with compensation set on
the basis that senior managers at the company knew of the
practice and tried to conceal it.  The settlements by London-based News International resolve
more than half of the 60 lawsuits filed by victims of voice-mail
interceptions at its now-defunct News of the World tabloid. News
International agreed to a range of cash payments to victims and
provided details about hacking, including the number of
journalists involved, three lawyers representing victims said in
a statement ahead of a hearing today before Judge Geoffrey Vos
in London.  News International “is ready, willing and able to settle”
all the claims and a trial shouldn’t be necessary, company
lawyer Michael Silverleaf said at the hearing. The compensation
is “generous.”  The settlement amounts are larger than those normally paid
in privacy-violation cases, according to today’s statement. They
range from 5,000 pounds ($7,700) for less-serious phone-hacking
instances to about 100,000 pounds for the most-offensive cases,
a person familiar with the matter said. Of the 18 settlements
outlined in court today, total payouts will be at least 642,000
pounds plus legal fees.  The agreements come about a month before the first civil
trial in the matter is scheduled to begin. Vos said a trial is
still important for resolving various issues stemming from phone
hacking to help settle future cases.  Pop Star, Comedian  There are 10 cases prepared to go to trial, including those
by sports agent Sky Andrew, comedian  Steve Coogan  and pop star
Charlotte Church, who sang at  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman and Chief
Executive  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding in 1999 when she was 13 years
old, lawyer  Hugh Tomlinson  said.  “The claimants themselves now know much more about what
private messages were listened to, who intercepted their
messages and who authorized it,” according to the statement
from the victims’ attorneys. The information provided by News
International also covers “who was paid and how much.”  Evidence uncovered in civil cases by actor  Sienna Miller 
and other celebrity victims in 2010 revealed the extent of phone
hacking at the News of the World, helping to prompt News Corp.
to shutter the tabloid in July and Murdoch to be called to give
testimony to lawmakers the same month. Police in  London  have
said about 800 people were targeted by the paper.  News International, which previously denied phone hacking
was widespread, apologized to victims in court today.  No Admission  In a statement, the company said its News Group Newspapers
unit, which it refers to as NGN, had made no admission “that
directors or senior employees knew about the wrongdoing by NGN
or sought to conceal it. However, for the purpose of reaching
these settlements only, NGN agreed that the damages to be paid
to claimants should be assessed as if this was the case.”  The company admitted hacking Cole’s phone and having him
followed by a private investigator. He settled for an
undisclosed amount. Law, one of six victims whose lawsuits were
chosen as “test cases” for the trial, will receive 130,000
pounds. The company also agreed to pay 50,000 pounds to settle
with Law’s ex-wife Sadie Frost and 40,000 pounds each to former
U.K. deputy prime minister  John Prescott  and his former chief of
staff Joan Hammell.  ‘Years of Lying’  “After years and years of lying, News International are
finally beginning to let us touch the hem of the truth,” U.K.
lawmaker  Chris Bryant  said outside the court. Bryant settled his
case against the company for 30,000 pounds.  The company also agreed to continue searching its e-mail
archives for information about communications interception, and
new claims can be brought in circumstances where more wrongdoing
emerges, the lawyers said.  “Attempts are being made to reconstruct e-mail archives
which had been destroyed by News Group in an apparent attempt to
cover up wrongdoing,” the lawyers said in the statement.  The three-week trial, scheduled to begin Feb. 13, will go
forward and is intended to give guidance on damages for current
and future lawsuits and out-of-court settlements in the five-
year-old scandal.  “There are many more cases in the pipeline,” said  Mark
Lewis , one of the first lawyers to represent a victim of News
Corp.’s phone hacking. “There will be lots more revelations of
wrongdoing and lots more compensation to be paid.”  The unit of New York-based News Corp. faces three related
police investigations into phone hacking, computer hacking and
bribery of police officers by journalists. A judge-led inquiry
into press ethics has also begun at the request of Prime
Minister  David Cameron .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  