-- Ex-Wife Says Gingrich Wanted ‘Open Marriage,’ ABC Reports
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-01-20T05:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/newt-gingrich-s-former-wife-says-he-requested-open-marriage-abc-reports.html
Newt Gingrich ’s second wife accuses
him of suggesting an “open marriage” that would have let him
continue an affair with former congressional aide and current
wife, Callista, a charge prompting an angry denial from the
Republican presidential candidate in a debate last night.  “The destructive, vicious nature of much of the news media
makes it harder to govern this country,” Gingrich said when
asked about the allegation in the opening question of the debate
in North Charleston,  South Carolina . The state holds its
Republican primary tomorrow.  Marianne Gingrich, the former U.S. House Speaker’s second
wife, described her former husband’s proposal for the marital
arrangement in an interview with ABC News that aired in full
after the debate. Gingrich asked her in the late 1990s if she
would share him with Callista, Marianne Gingrich told ABC’s
Brian Ross on “Nightline.”  “And I just stared at him and he said, ‘Callista doesn’t
care what I do,’” she said in her first televised interview
since their 1999 divorce. “He wanted an open marriage and I
refused.”  With the Republican presidential field reduced to four,
Gingrich is challenging front-runner  Mitt Romney  for the
nomination along with  Rick Santorum  and  Ron Paul .  Dominating Headlines  The accusations by Marianne Gingrich, made public before
the interview aired, dominated campaign headlines yesterday and
led Gingrich to chastise CNN moderator John King for broaching
the allegations at the debate.  “I am appalled that you would begin a presidential debate
on a topic like that,” Gingrich said, drawing applause from the
audience.  Earlier in the day in Beaufort, South Carolina, Gingrich
said, “I’ve been very open about mistakes I have made. I’ve
been very open about needing to go to God for forgiveness and to
seek reconciliation.”  Later, on a South Carolina radio call-in show, he called
the interview with his ex-wife “very sad” and said her
statements are “just plain untrue.” He also said that his two
daughters by his first wife and some close friends “are all
willing to be witness to protest it.”  “People sometimes get very bitter,” he said on WVOC’s
Keven Cohen show. “They sometimes hold grudges.”  Asking for Forgiveness  Marianne Gingrich said her former husband has never asked
for her forgiveness and, according to ABC, following the debate
she said she stands by her account in the face of Gingrich’s
denials.  During the interview, she said Gingrich once told her that
Callista “was going to help him become president.”  Gingrich’s affair took place while he was leading the U.S.
House impeachment proceedings against then-President  Bill Clinton , which were prompted by sworn testimony Clinton gave
denying his affair with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky.  Former South Carolina first lady Jenny Sanford, whose
marriage to ex-Governor Mark Sanford, a Republican, ended in
divorce after he had an affair with an Argentinian girlfriend,
said Gingrich won’t get her vote.  The accusations “question his character certainly on the
personal side,” she said in an interview with  MSNBC ’s Chris Matthews. “It comes down to the simple question of character.”  Marianne Gingrich described her “shock” at Gingrich’s
behavior, including learning that he conducted his affair “in
my bedroom in our apartment in Washington,” she said. “He
always called me at night,” she said, “and always ended with
‘I love you.’ Well, she was there listening,” she said.  Dating Gingrich  Marianne Ginther and the Republican presidential hopeful
began dating while Gingrich was still married to his first wife,
Jackie Battley Gingrich. Marianne and Gingrich were married
about six months after his first divorce in 1981.  During their marriage, Gingrich credited his second wife
with helping him lead a Republican Party comeback that
culminated in the 1994 takeover of the House, ending 40 years of
Democratic control of the chamber. “At the time I believed him
to be ethical,” she said.  Gingrich has tried to put his personal past behind him by
saying he has made mistakes. Gingrich divorced his first wife as
she was being treated for cancer. Gingrich moved toward a
divorce with Marianne Gingrich months after she was diagnosed
with multiple sclerosis, she said in the interview.  “He also was advised by the doctor when I was sitting
there that I was not to be under stress. He knew,” she said.  Part of Discussion  Gingrich’s two prior marriages were part of the discussion
during the campaign preceding the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, in which
he finished fourth. In December he had revived the issue with
claims about the details of his first divorce that were disputed
by a former aide and court documents.  The Republican presidential candidate insists that it was
his first wife who sought a divorce in 1980. After court records
showed he filed the action, the Gingrich campaign said he had
done so at her request.  Gingrich, 68, has largely sidestepped specific questions
about his second marriage, saying he has “no relationship”
with Marianne Gingrich.  An online column in May by daughter Jackie Gingrich
Cushman, referenced on his campaign website, asserted her mother
had asked for the divorce. The elder Jackie, 75, couldn’t be
reached for comment.  In a Jan. 18 memo from Gingrich’s daughters to ABC News
leadership, which was released by his campaign, Kathy Lubbers
and Jackie Cushman said, “The failure of a marriage is a
terrible and emotional experience for everyone involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  