-- Nike Gets Prime Central Athens Shop Space for 43% Less Than Former Tenant
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-01-19T17:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/nike-gets-prime-central-athens-shop-space-for-43-less-than-former-tenant.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, agreed to rent prime retail space in the
center of Athens for at least 43 percent less than the previous
tenant, according to an adviser on the transaction.  Nike, named after the Greek goddess of victory, agreed to
lease 775 square meters (8,300 square feet) from the state-
controlled Greek civil servants pension fund, according to CBRE
Atria, the CBRE Group Inc. unit that acted for Nike on the deal.  Greece’s economic crisis is prompting banks, local
businesses and other owners of commercial real estate to close
branches and stores, offering opportunities to foreign companies
with cash to spend. Greek  retail sales  plunged 8.1 percent in
October from a year earlier, the 16th consecutive monthly
decline, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said.  “International retailers are taking advantage of lower
rents and higher vacancy rates in Greece to establish networks
that they couldn’t have created previously,” said Yannis Perrotis, managing director of CBRE Atria in  Athens .  Nike, via local partner  Folli Follie Group (FFGRP) , is paying
57,000 euros ($73,000) a month for the first year to lease a
ground floor, mezzanine and two basements in the building at 1
Ermou Street and Syntagma Square, CBRE Atria said. That compares
with more than 100,000 euros paid by previous tenant  Geniki Bank
SA (TGEN) , the Greek unit of  France ’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  Calls to Nike’s European office in  London  seeking comment
weren’t immediately returned.  Two Years Empty  The Ermou Street premises had lain empty for almost two
years before Nike opened its store in December, Perrotis said.
The building also contains the Greek Ministry of Finance, the
Syntagma Square post office and a shoe store.  “This is a sign of things to come as the state becomes
more in tune with the reduced level of consumption and older
tenants can no longer afford to pay rents,” Perrotis said.  Clothing and footwear sales in  Greece  dropped 28.3 percent
in the year through October, according to the statistical
authority. Furniture and electrical and household equipment fell
16.9 percent. Last year Kou-Kou SA, Greece’s second-biggest toy
retailer, filed for creditor protection amid falling sales.
Expert SA, the Thessaloniki-based electronics retailer, also
filed for protection.  Vacancies Increase  Commercial-property vacancies in the center of Athens rose
to 24.4 percent in August from 18 percent a year earlier,
according to the most recent survey by the National
Confederation of Commerce, conducted from July 25 to Sept. 6.
Twenty-two percent of businesses remained shut in Athens during
the period.  Higher vacancies in prime areas have contributed to a 15
percent drop in rents from a year earlier, Eri Mitsostergiou an
Amsterdam-based analyst at  Savills Plc (SVS)  said in a November note.  Greek gross domestic product may show “anemic” growth
starting in 2013 after a  7.4  percent contraction in 2011 and a
likely drop of about 2 percent this year, Savills said.  CBRE Atria’s Perrotis expects more international retailers
to open in  Europe ’s most indebted country even as the government
awaits a final outline on a voluntary swap of the country’s debt
with private creditors that may decide the nation’s future.  “We’ll know the outcome of private sector involvement
before year-end,” he said. “After that, Greece’s economy will
move on to recovery, so large internationals are positioning
themselves now for a future change in the downward trend of
consumption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  