-- Nike Margin Forecast Unchanged as Winter-Wear Demand Drops
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-01-19T21:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/nike-margin-forecast-unchanged-as-winter-wear-demand-drops-2-.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker, hasn’t changed its forecast for gross
margin after warm weather in  North America  slowed demand for
winter wear products across the industry, an executive said.  “We all read the same-store reports, and there is some
concern if you are big into the winter business and outerwear,”
Charlie Denson, president of the Nike brand, said today in an
interview in New York. “Our business continues to be very
good.”  One of the warmest winters of the past 50 years in North
America has crimped demand for coats and apparel used for
exercising outdoors, prompting some retailers to offer large
discounts to sell the goods. Nike sells a line of gloves, pants
and jackets for outdoor workouts.  The company has been maintaining profit growth amid higher
costs for raw materials and labor by increasing sales and
raising prices. The Beaverton, Oregon-based shoemaker is
starting to push through much of its price increases this month,
Denson said.  Nike  rose  0.7 percent to $101.58 at the close in  New York ,
its highest closing price ever. The shares advanced 13 percent
last year.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after the
cost of goods sold, has narrowed for three straight quarters.
The company forecasts a decline of 1.5 percentage points for the
three months ending Feb. 28.  Nike FuelBand  Denson was in New York for the release of the Nike
FuelBand, a wristband that tracks daily activity by measuring
oxygen use and can display data, such as steps taken, on a
smartphone application. Nike will begin taking orders today for
the device that sells for $149 through its U.S. website.  While the company doesn’t expect the band to sell like one
of its popular shoes, Nike hopes it will push people to increase
the time they spend interacting with the brand, Denson said.  “This is not a sprint,” Denson said. “This is a long-
term commitment to making you a better athlete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  