-- New York Pension Trustees Call for Alternative Management Plan
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/nyc-police-union-offers-counterproposal-for-pension-investment-management.html
New York City  pension trustees
representing senior police and fire officers proposed an
alternative that would preserve their power over how the city
invests retirement funds, according to a copy of the plan.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Comptroller  John Liu  advocate
an independent investment board composed of representatives of
the mayor, comptroller and unions that would set pension
strategy and hire managers. They said the combined board and a
chief investment officer, a new post, would lower costs and
depoliticize management of funds with $115.2 billion in assets.  Trustees representing the officers don’t want to delegate
investment authority to a new board. Instead, they’re proposing
that the funds’ more than 50 trustees continue to set strategy
at monthly meeting and hire investment managers.  Unlike the plan backed by Bloomberg and Liu, the
counterproposal would leave the comptroller in charge of the
chief investment officer.  Roy Richter, president of the Captain’s Endowment
Association, presented the plan to a group of pension-fund
trustees in a meeting yesterday. He declined to comment when
reached by telephone.  “There shall be no reduction, elimination or minimization
of the authority and fiduciary responsibility of current
trustees of the five pension funds in the  New York  City Pension
System,” according to the proposal from the New York City
Police-Fire Superior Officers Alliance.  Bloomberg News obtained the document from a person involved
in the discussions who declined to be identified because the
meeting was private.  Spin Off  The superior officers also oppose the city’s plan to spin
off the Asset Management Bureau, now under the comptroller, into
a separate investment-management group under the independent
board.  New York’s pension funds for teachers, police officers,
firefighters, civil employees and school administrators each
have their own boards, consultants and investment policies. Liu,
who’s elected, serves as  investment adviser  to the funds.
Representatives of the comptroller and mayor also are trustees.  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for Bloomberg, said he hadn’t
seen the proposal and declined to comment further. Michael Loughran, a spokesman for Liu, also said he hadn’t seen it.  “The current investment reform proposal will depoliticize
the investment process, benefit the city’s pensioners and
taxpayers and modernize a system that has operated the same way
for 70 years,” Loughran said in an e-mail.  Management Merger  When Bloomberg, an independent, and Liu, a Democrat,
 announced  an “agreement in principle” to merge  investment
management  in October, they were joined by leaders of the
police, fire, teachers and civilian employees unions.  New York City’s retirement costs have increased more than
fivefold to $8.5 billion this year from $1.5 billion in 2002,
when Bloomberg took office, representing almost 13 percent of
the $66 billion budget for the current fiscal year. The pension
funds had $395.7 million in investment expenses in fiscal 2011,
according to New York’s  annual financial report .  Boosting returns and lowering investment costs would allow
the city to spend more on services, Bloomberg and Liu said in
October.  The invested pension assets returned about 23 percent in
the fiscal year ended June 30, according to the comptroller’s
office.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  