-- Tobacco Policies ‘Abysmal’ in U.S. States, Lung Group Says
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/tobacco-policies-abysmal-in-u-s-states-lung-association-says.html
Anti-tobacco efforts by U.S. states
were “abysmal” last year as their collective spending on anti-
smoking programs declined 11 percent and only two raised
cigarette taxes, the  American Lung Association  said.  While more than half the states already ban the use of
cigarettes in restaurants, bars and workplaces, no additional
states passed comprehensive anti-smoking laws last year, the
Washington-based health advocacy group said today in a report.  Forty-three states and the  District of Columbia  earned
grades of “F” for funding smoking-prevention programs at less
than half the levels the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  urged in a 2007  report , the lung group said. Smoking
costs the  U.S. economy  almost $193 billion a year in medical
expenses and lost productivity, said  Charles Connor , the
association’s president and chief executive officer.  “At a time when our country is trying to get a handle on
health-care spending, this is an enormous expense that could be
avoided by investing in effective tobacco-prevention and
cessation programs and policies,” Connor said yesterday on a
conference call.  More than 20 percent of adults in the U.S., or  46 million
people , smoke cigarettes, according to the Atlanta-based CDC.
Smoking is the biggest cause of preventable death in the U.S.,
killing about 443,000 people a year.  Nationwide, state investments in tobacco control dropped 11
percent to $477 million in 2011 from $534 million in 2010,
according to the report. Washington, Iowa and  Wisconsin  were
among states that reduced spending.  Alaska Spending  Alaska was the only state that funded tobacco programs at
levels suggested by the CDC, allocating $10.8 million for
tobacco control in fiscal 2012, according to the lung
association’s report. In 2007, the CDC recommended anti-tobacco
funding levels for each state.  Vermont and  Connecticut  were the only states that raised
tobacco taxes last year, while eight states rejected proposed
increases. New Hampshire reduced its cigarette tax 10 cents per
pack, the survey found.  While 26 states and the District of Columbia enacted laws
in the past decade that ban smoking in public places such as
restaurants, 2011 was the first year since 2001 when no state
passed a comprehensive anti-smoking law, the report said.  “What we saw last year was virtually no progress” by
states, said Danny McGoldrick, vice president for research at
the  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids  in  Washington . “That leads
us to fear what’s going to happen in the future in terms of our
youth smoking rates and adult smoking rates.”  Teen Smoking Rate  Teen smoking dropped last year to the lowest level since
1975, researchers at the University of Michigan said Dec. 14 in
a  survey  funded by the  National Institute on Drug Abuse . About
 11.7 percent  of eighth-, 10th- and 12th-graders said they had
smoked in the previous 30 days, compared with 12.8 percent in
2010.  The decline signaled that state tobacco-prevention policies
enacted before 2011 were working, McGoldrick said.  “You’re not saving money by cutting these programs,” he
said. “It’s like a person who says, ‘My medicine was working so
I stopped taking it.’ If it works, we need to keep doing it, and
we know it works.”  None of the states earned “A” grades in all four policy
areas covered in the report: cigarette taxes, smoking bans,
tobacco-prevention spending and cessation coverage.  Delaware ,
Hawaii, Maine and Oklahoma were the only states that received
passing grades in all four areas.  Failing Grades  Six states --  Alabama ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri ,  South
Carolina ,  Virginia  and  West Virginia  -- scored grades of “F”
in all four areas, according to the report.  Most states’ anti-smoking scores lagged behind those of the
federal government, which didn’t receive any failing grades in
four categories and earned an “A” for the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s implementation of a 2009 law that restricts
tobacco marketing.  The U.S. earned a “C” in smoking-cessation programs, for
partially covering the programs for beneficiaries of Medicaid,
the health program for the poor, and other federal benefits
programs.  “The federal government has made real progress in helping
many Americans end their deadly addiction to tobacco, but state
policy makers must step up and close the gap,” Thomas Carr, the
lung association’s director of national policy and the report’s
lead author, said on the conference call.  The 2009 tobacco law bars companies led by  Altria Group
Inc. (MO) ,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  from marketing
tobacco to young people. It also bans the use of the words
“mild,” “light” and “low-tar” on cigarette packs.  While the law also calls for all cigarette packs to carry
graphic warning labels, a U.S. judge blocked those rules in
November, saying the required images may violate tobacco
companies’ free-speech rights. The FDA is appealing the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  