-- Obama’s Rejection of Keystone Pipeline Sets Up Campaign Battle
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/obama-s-rejection-of-keystone-pipeline-sets-up-campaign-battle.html
President  Barack Obama ’s rejection
of  TransCanada (TRP)  Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline permit exposed a
split in a core Democratic constituency and handed Republicans a
new line of election-year attack.  Unions representing construction workers condemned the move
while labor groups including the United Steel Workers, the
 United Auto Workers  and the  Service Employees International
Union  joined with environmental advocates in saying they support
Obama’s decision. It also triggered swift criticism from
congressional Republicans and the party’s presidential
candidates.  “The Republicans’ argument that he’s trying to run a
populist campaign firing up the liberal base and that this is
all politics at the expense of jobs is going to be an important
continuing issue through much of the campaign,” said  David Gergen , director of Harvard University’s Center for Public
Leadership in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and an adviser to
presidents of both parties.  Obama is heading into his re-election campaign with the
U.S. still rebounding from the worst recession since the Great
Depression and an  unemployment rate  that has been stuck above 8
percent for almost three years. The economy will be a prime
focus of Obama’s State of the Union address on Jan. 24.  The jobs promised by the building of the Keystone pipeline
were central to union support for the project originally and the
focal point of Republican criticism of Obama. TransCanada said
the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) project would carry 700,000
barrels of crude a day from  Alberta ’s oil sands to refineries on
the U.S. Gulf coast, crossing six U.S. states and requiring as
many as 20,000 workers to build.  Big Decline  TransCanada fell 33 cents to $41.41 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York , and earlier today fell 4.8 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since June 2009.  Republicans joined in criticism by the oil and gas industry
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, saying the president is
sacrificing the nation’s energy independence and the creation of
U.S. jobs to win the election.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said in
a statement yesterday the president’s “decision shows a
fundamental disconnect with  job creation  in this country, and
sadly, that his focus is on appealing to his liberal
environmental base rather than taking steps that can lead to
thousands of jobs and  energy security  for our nation.”  ‘Lack of Seriousness’  Former  Massachusetts  Governor  Mitt Romney , the front-runner
for the Republican nomination, released a statement saying
Obama’s decision shows “a lack of seriousness” about
unemployment, economic growth and U.S. energy independence.  “He seems to have confused the national interest with his
own interest in pleasing the environmentalists in his political
base,” Romney said.  Another Republican contender, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , called it “a stunningly stupid thing to do.”  “Maybe when they’re unemployed in November, they’ll figure
out that jobs matter,” he said while campaigning in
Warrenville,  South Carolina .  Gergen said the Republican presidential candidates will
“pounce” on the issue at their debate in South Carolina
tonight, two days before the state’s Jan. 21 primary.  Obama blamed Republicans for forcing the action by setting
a deadline as part of legislation that temporarily extended a
payroll tax cut. Obama in November had postponed the pipeline
decision until after the election while the State Department
reviewed a revised route that avoided a Nebraska aquifer that is
the drinking-water source for 1.5 million people.  ‘Arbitrary Deadline’  “The rushed and arbitrary deadline insisted on by
congressional Republicans prevented a full assessment of the
pipeline’s impact, especially the health and safety of the
American people, as well as our environment,” Obama said in a
statement after the rejection was announced.  The issue had pitted unions and environmentalists, two
groups Democrats rely on for campaign cash and volunteers,
against each other. The White House reached out to labor groups,
as well as the business community, to try to smooth over
tensions, according to an administration official who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  The effort was partially successful as the steel and
autoworkers and the SEIU joined with two other unions to express
support.  “President Obama has acted wisely,” they said in a
statement. “Addressing global climate change, establishing
sustainable and secure energy sources and creating and retaining
safe and family-supportive jobs are keys to a positive future.”  Environmental Groups  Environmental groups also hailed the decision.  Michael Brune , the Sierra Club’s executive director, called the
announcement “a huge victory” and said it will energize the
Democratic base.  “We’re confident that the Sierra Club volunteers who were
working and volunteering countless hours in 2008 will feel the
same way,” he said in an interview.  Wendy Abrams, who raised $50,000 to $100,000 for Obama in
2008, according to the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington, said rallying her friends around the president would
have been hard if he had approved the pipeline. She said Obama’s
decision shows that he’s not “in the pocket of big oil.”  The support wasn’t universal among Democratic supporters.  The administration should “hug a jobless, construction
worker” instead of “hugging a tree,” Terry O’Sullivan,
president of the Laborers Union International, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Blue collar construction workers across the
U.S. will not forget this.”  Money Commitment  Susie Tompkins Buell, a co-founder of clothing maker Esprit
Holdings Ltd., said she won’t be raising money for Obama until
she hears more about his commitment to environmental concerns in
the State of the Union.  “I put my money where my mouth is,” Buell, who has raised
at least $20 million for Democratic candidates and causes over
the last decade, said in an interview. “I want to support
people that I believe in and are doing the right things and I
come from a very concerned environmental perspective; for me
it’s much bigger than the economy.”  Jared Bernstein , former chief economist for Vice President
 Joe Biden , said the timing of the announcement yesterday
suggests Obama “doesn’t want to fight about Keystone for the
next month.”  Gergen said he thinks the White House wanted the decision
made before the president’s address next week “so they can
counter the idea that they are against jobs by having a strong
State of the Union on jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  