-- Obama Campaign Set to Run First Campaign Advertising in Six Swing States
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/obama-campaign-set-to-run-first-campaign-advertising-in-six-swing-states.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign is releasing its first 2012 broadcast advertisement as
his team seeks to counter attacks and get a jump on Republicans
while they battle over selecting their nominee to challenge him.  The ad, called “Unprecedented,” highlights Obama’s record
on clean energy and responds to what it says are “secretive oil
billionaires” making inaccurate charges against him. It begins
running today in  Iowa ,  Michigan , North Carolina,  Ohio ,  Virginia 
and  Wisconsin , according to a campaign official.  The move begins a new phase in the campaign cycle and
provides another outlet for Obama’s drive to engage Republican
candidates and outside groups supporting them with millions of
dollars in ads aimed at the president.  This week the independent group Americans for Prosperity,
founded by billionaire  David Koch , started a $6 million ad
campaign in swing states Obama won in 2008 that spotlights the
president’s ties to bankrupt solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC. The
Obama campaign official declined to disclose the cost of the ad
buy.  The ad, which closes with a narrator saying Obama has kept
his promise to “strengthen America’s energy economy,” follows
by one day the administration’s denial of a permit to build
TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL oil pipeline. That announcement,
while expected, has drawn criticism from Republicans, including
presidential candidate Mitt Romney. He said the decision shows
Obama isn’t serious about “achieving energy independence.” The
Obama campaign official said the ad’s timing is unrelated.  Florida as Battleground  Even though the ad won’t air in the battleground state of
 Florida  today, Obama will be traveling there to announce a
strategy for promoting tourism. The state, where the
 unemployment rate  is 10 percent, will award 29 of the 270
electoral votes needed to win the presidency. The Democratic
candidate carried the state twice and the Republican twice in
the last four elections.  Priorities USA, an independent political action committee
founded by former administration officials to support Obama,
already has run ads in several states. The super-PAC is banned
by law from coordinating its activities with Obama’s re-election
campaign.  The group has spent an estimated $660,640 in this cycle,
according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a
company that tracks advertising. Priorities USA has spent the
most in Florida: $214,310.  The Tea Party-aligned Americans for Prosperity is spending
$5.2 million to place its  ad , called “Obama Sacrifices Pawns
for Politics,” on network and cable stations, as well as
another $1 million through social media forums.  Opposition Ads  The group’s ad hit the airwaves yesterday in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , where Democrats will hold their national
convention in September. Americans for Prosperity also plans to
air it in states that include Ohio, Iowa, Virginia, Wisconsin
and Michigan, according to Tim Phillips, the group’s president.
All are battleground states that Obama won in 2008.  The Obama administration’s $535 million loan guarantee to
Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy in September, has become a
focal point for the president’s Republican critics. House
Republicans, who are investigating the bankruptcy and the
administration’s ties to the company, have said politics
influenced the Department of Energy guarantee, which the White
House and Solyndra’s backers have denied.  ‘Very Concerning Thing’  Koch and his brother, Charles, control Koch Industries
Inc., a closely held refining and chemicals company.  Obama’s advisers have said spending by independent groups
will change the landscape of this election. His chief political
strategist, David Axelrod, said that is among his top concerns
for the re-election effort this year.  “They’re talking upwards of half a billion in negative ads
aimed at the president from interest groups who don’t disclose
and who can raise unlimited amounts of money,” he said on Jan.
15 on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  The president’s campaign committee and the Democratic
National Committee raised a combined $224 million last year,
including $68 million in the last three months of 2011.  By comparison, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
who won the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary and is
the leading contender for the Republican nomination, reported
raising $56 million in 2011, the most among the party’s
presidential contenders.  The Republican National Committee, which will support the
party’s eventual nominee, had raised almost $77 million through
November, according to a report filed with the Federal Election
Commission. Finance reports for the final quarter are due at the
end of the month.  The Obama campaign also is considering running ads in media
markets for  Arizona ,  Colorado , Florida,  Minnesota , New
Hampshire, New Mexico, Nevada and  Pennsylvania , the official
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  