-- Obama Takes Steps to Boost Foreign Travel to U.S. to Create Tourism Jobs
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/obama-orders-steps-to-bolster-foreign-travel-to-u-s-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  is taking
steps to increase the number of non-immigrant visas,
particularly in  China  and  Brazil , and speed their approval to
help create tourism jobs in the U.S.  Obama, who highlighted the initiative yesterday in Orlando,
Florida, also called for the Commerce and Interior Departments
to make recommendations on promoting domestic and international
travel in the U.S., including national parks and historic sites.  “More money spent by more tourists means more business and
more jobs,” Obama said at the Walt Disney World theme park. The
U.S. should be “the top tourist destination in the world.”  Travel and tourism represented about 2.7 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product and supported 7.5 million jobs in 2010,
according to a White House statement.  The order and the visit to  Orlando  are part of the
administration’s run-up to the president’s State of the Union
address on Jan. 24. The speech will focus on the economy and the
steps Obama is taking that don’t require action by Congress.
Republican lawmakers are intensifying resistance to his agenda
as both parties seek the advantage for November elections that
will decide the presidency and control of the House and Senate.  Florida is a major prize in the presidential election, with
29 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House and
a recent history of swinging between the Democratic and
Republican candidates. Obama won the state in 2008 while
Republican  George W. Bush  won in 2000 and 2004.  Fundraisers in New York  Obama followed the stop in Orlando with four fundraisers
last night in  Manhattan .  As part of yesterday’s action, he ordered the Departments
of State and  Homeland Security  to increase non-immigrant
processing capacity in China and Brazil by 40 percent this year
and ensure that 80 percent of those applicants are interviewed
within three weeks. The administration is also seeking to speed
up clearance for pre-approved, “low-risk” travelers entering
the U.S.  The administration projects the number of travelers from
Brazil will increase 274 percent from 2010 to 2016 and the
number from China will rise 15 percent. More than 1 million U.S.
jobs can be created over the next 10 years if the country
expands its share of the international travel market, according
to the White House statement accompanying the order.  Tourism is a major component of  Florida ’s economy, which is
still struggling to rebound from the recession. The president
last visited Florida on Oct. 11 when his $447 billion American
Jobs Act was being debated in the Senate.  Unemployment Drops  Since then, the state’s unemployment rate has improved, to
10 percent in November from 10.4 percent the previous month,
according to the Department of Labor. The national rate was 8.5
percent in December, down from 8.7 percent in November.  Still, Florida’s economic health declined 2.1 percent over
the first three quarters of 2011, according to a Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States Index, which uses employment, real
estate, taxes and local stocks to track the direction of state
economies.  Florida’s mortgage delinquency rate was the highest in the
country through the first nine months of 2011, at 18.9 percent
compared with 15.7 percent at the beginning of Obama’s
presidency. The national rate was 7.9 percent at the end of
September, when the latest data was available from the  Mortgage
Bankers Association .  Obama’s favorability rating in the state was 45 percent,
with 50 percent of the state’s registered voters saying they had
an unfavorable opinion, according to a Jan. 4-8 Quinnipiac
University Poll. The margin of error was plus or minus 2.6
percentage points.  Presidential Contest  In the Republican presidential race, former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , the current front-runner for his party’s
nomination, gets support from 46 percent compared with 43
percent who said they supported Obama.  In a conference call yesterday, Romney referred to Obama’s
venue at Disney World to talk about the economy.  “There’s some poetic justice in the president speaking
from Fantasyland because, I’m afraid, he’s been speaking from
Fantasyland for some time now,” Romney said.  Romney, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , former Senator
 Rick Santorum  and Representative  Ron Paul  debated last night in
 South Carolina  before the state’s primary tomorrow. Florida will
hold its primary Jan. 31.  New York  Fundraiser  Obama, speaking later to a fundraiser for Jewish leaders in
New York, predicted that hard economic times would make his re-
election difficult.  “Unemployment is still too high, and a lot of people are
still hurting and the housing market is still weak,” he said at
Daniel restaurant in New York. “In that environment, this is
going to be a tough race, regardless of who they nominate.”  In New York, Obama started his fundraising rounds with two
separate events at the restaurant on the Upper East Side. About
100 donors will be at the first with ticket prices starting at
$5,000, according to an official with Obama’s campaign who
wasn’t authorized to discuss the arrangements publicly. The
second event is for 60 guests paying a minimum of $15,000 each.  Later, he also spoke with contributors at the home of film
director Spike Lee. Tickets for that event are $35,800,
according to the official.  Obama finished his evening in New York at a fundraiser held
at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. The estimated 1,400 donors also
saw performances by singers Al Green and India.Arie. The
official said tickets start at $200.  Obama Victory Fund  All of the money collected is for the Obama Victory Fund, a
joint fundraising committee put together by Obama’s campaign and
the  Democratic National Committee .  At his first event, he said that international sanctions
have put  Iran ’s economy in “shambles.”  “We have a united international community that is saying
to Iran, you’ve got to change your ways,” Obama said. Sanctions
have been “so effective, even the Iranians have had to
acknowledge that their economy is in shambles,” he said.  On the Middle East peace process, he expressed
disappointment and said, “We still have not seen the kind of
progress that I would have liked to have seen.”  He insisted that “ Israel ’s security is non-negotiable”
and pledged, “We will do everything that is necessary to make
sure that Israel is able to thrive and prosper as a secure
Jewish state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  