-- Lockheed’s F-35B Said to Be Getting Panetta’s Backing
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-20T15:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/lockheed-s-f-35b-should-be-off-probation-marines-say-1-.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. will win
backing from Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  for the F-35B, the
most complex model of the fighter jet, a U.S. official said.  Panetta will lift a yearlong “probation” on the Marine
Corps version of the jet, according to the official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity in advance of the announcement to be
made today at the F-35B test facility at Naval Air Station
Patuxent River in  Maryland .  The B model is being watched as a bellwether for the $382
billion F-35 program, the Pentagon’s most costly. The Marine
Corps plans to buy about 340 of the aircraft that can take off
like a conventional fighter and land like a helicopter. Italy
also is buying as many as 60 of the jets.  “The news is important and suggests a solid outlook for
the F-35B in the upcoming budget,”  Byron Callan , a defense-
market analyst for Capital Alpha Partners LLC in Washington,
said in an e-mail. “It’s a positive for  Lockheed Martin (LMT)  stock
as well as other partners.”  Congress will still be “keenly interested in the details
of what hurdles have been cleared to take the program off
probation,” he said.  Lockheed Martin fell 1 percent to $82.80 at 10:06 a.m. in
New York trading.  Gates Decision  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  decided in January 2011 to
put the Marine Corps jet on what was then envisioned to be a
two-year “probation” to give Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin more time to demonstrate the fighter’s reliability.  The fighter jet should be taken off probation because of
the results in testing last year, Marine Corps General James Amos said in a letter to Panetta dated Jan. 10 and obtained
yesterday.  “Since the F-35B program is moving forward without any
unique issues that require additional scrutiny, I am
recommending rescission of the probation,” Amos, the Marine
Corps commandant, said.  Amos, who tracks the aircraft’s testing and assembly
progress from a computer terminal at his desk, said he was
“confident the F-35B’s development and testing is on track,”
citing what he said was “excellent progress” during tests
designed to assess its ground and sea-based operations.  ‘Significant Work’ Remains  The Pentagon’s test office said in its annual report
released last week that the Marine Corps version successfully
conducted initial trials in October from a ship at sea and
through Nov. 30 had exceeded by 40 the planned number of test
flights designed to demonstrate flight characteristics.  “However, significant work and flight tests remain to
verify and incorporate modifications to aircraft required to
correct known deficiencies and prepare the system for
operational use,” Michael Gilmore, the Pentagon’s director of
operational test and evaluation, said in the report.  “A significant amount of flight test and development
remains to be accomplished” with troubled components, including
the propulsion system’s driveshaft, clutch and an actuator, he
said.  Amos said the Pentagon program office “‘has thoroughly
assessed and rapidly developed engineering solutions’’ for
questions about the propulsion system’s auxiliary air inlet
doors, actuators and bulkhead fatigue cracks as well as the
clutch and drive shaft concerns.  Gates, Panetta’s predecessor, said last year the F-35B was
‘‘experiencing significant testing problems” that “could lead
to a redesign of the aircraft’s structure and propulsion --
changes that could add yet more weight and more cost to an
aircraft that has little capacity to absorb.”  “If we cannot fix this variant during this time and get
back on track in terms of performance, cost and schedule, then I
believe it should be canceled,” Gates said.  Amos wrote that “an aggressive weight growth process” has
been started “to ensure vertical lift performance” continues
to meet combat requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  