-- Ohioans Want Benefits of Fracking for Gas Without Earthquakes, Poll Says
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-19T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/ohioans-want-benefits-of-fracking-without-earthquakes-poll-says.html
Residents of  Ohio (STOOH1) , where
unprecedented earthquakes are under investigation, say the
benefits of drilling for natural gas and oil outweigh
environmental concerns, a  Quinnipiac University  poll shows. They
also say fracking should stop until more studies on its impact
are done.  Sixty-four percent of voters think there should be drilling
despite possible harm, according to results released today. When
asked whether hydraulic fracturing, also called fracking, should
be halted for more study, 72 percent said that was a good idea.  “Ohio voters are conflicted,” Peter A. Brown, assistant
director of the Hamden,  Connecticut , school’s Polling Institute,
said in a statement. “They recognize the economic value of
drilling for fossil fuels in the state but are worried about
potential environmental risks of the specific technique.”  Drillers have turned to fracking -- which injects water,
sand and chemicals into rock to free natural gas -- in shale
formations under U.S. states including  Ohio .  A production boom helped cut prices 32 percent last year.
It’s spurring investment such as a new $650 million pipe mill in
Youngstown, Ohio, even as the U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  studies the effects on drinking water.  Meanwhile, the Ohio Natural Resources Department is
reviewing data from 11 earthquakes that shook Youngstown last
year near an injection well used for disposing fracking
wastewater. No quakes had been recorded there before.  The survey of 1,610 registered voters by land-line and
mobile telephones was conducted Jan. 9-16 and had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage points, the university
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  