-- Tomlinson Says New York Jets’ Dysfunction Was as Bad as He’s Been Around
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/tomlinson-says-new-york-jets-dysfunction-was-as-bad-as-he-s-been-around.html
LaDainian Tomlinson said the drama
in the  New York Jets ’ locker room got out of hand by the end of
this season and that quarterback  Mark Sanchez  was pampered
because his  job security  was never in question.  Tomlinson was asked about the Jets’ lack of chemistry
during an interview with Showtime’s “Inside the NFL” program
yesterday and said the team’s dysfunction was as bad as he’s
seen in his 11-year National Football League career.  The Jets finished 8-8, losing their final three games to
miss the NFL playoffs for the first time during  Rex Ryan ’s
tenure as coach. The slump was capped by the benching of captain
 Santonio Holmes  following a verbal altercation with teammates,
including Tomlinson and Sanchez, during the fourth quarter of a
season-ending loss in Miami.  “I’ve been around some locker rooms and quarterback-
receiver situations and what not,'' Tomlinson, whose 13,684 
career yards rushing rank fifth in NFL history, said in the 
interview. ``But it was as bad as I’ve been around. It was at 
the point where I think the players could no longer do anything
about it. So when it gets to that point, there are certain
changes that need to happen.”  Ryan said after the season that the Jets lacked the
chemistry they had the previous two years, when they reached the
American Football Conference championship game. Rookie
quarterback Greg McElroy told a Birmingham, Alabama, radio
station two days later that he had never seen so many selfish
players on a team.  Last week, a story in the New York Daily News quoted
anonymous Jets players who said Sanchez is lazy because he has
no challenger for the starting quarterback role and that he
hadn’t improved as much as expected in his third year.  Sanchez Not Lazy  Tomlinson said he disagrees with anyone who contends
Sanchez doesn’t work hard enough.  “He is not a lazy guy,” Tomlinson said. “He puts in the
time after practice in the film room. He can get it done. He
just has to have pieces around him to help him get it done.”  When asked if Sanchez was pampered by the Jets’ coaching
staff, however, Tomlinson agreed.  “I would say a bit pampered because he has no
competition,” said Tomlinson, who was the team’s second-leading
rusher last season. “He has no real threat to say, ‘This guy
may take my job.’”  Tomlinson said he doesn’t know if Sanchez and Holmes will
be able to co-exist and that the Jets’ organization fostered an
atmosphere that helped cause infighting.  Tomlinson was one of the players to criticize Holmes, who
signed a five-year, $50 million contract in July, after the
season-ending loss to Miami. While that dispute was public, the
team’s internal squabbles had started by Week 3 or 4 of the
regular season, Tomlinson said.  Players Went Public  “It got out of hand toward the end of the season,” Tomlinson 
said. ``That is why it got out in the media. Nobody knew about it
 because the players kept it under wraps. Until we went on that 
losing streak and guys started to speak up and speak out about 
certain things.”  Ryan and General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said Jan. 2 that
they would spend the offseason assessing what went wrong and how
to improve. Brian Schottenheimer resigned as offensive
coordinator and was replaced by former Miami Dolphins head coach
 Tony Sparano . Tomlinson said the feud between Sanchez and Holmes
still needs to be addressed.  “Can it be fixed? I think absolutely it can be,”
Tomlinson said in the interview. “But they’re going to have to
make some tough decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  