-- Monti Takes Ax to Mussolini-Era Guilds to Bolster Italian Economic Growth
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-01-20T10:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/monti-takes-ax-to-mussolini-era-guilds.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet
will pass a plan today designed to boost competition and spur
 economic  growth by targeting Italian professional guilds, some
of which date to the Fascist era.  The package, Monti’s second major legislative effort since
last month’s 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) austerity plan, will
facilitate access to and reduce the privileges of many so-called
closed professions, such as notaries. It seeks to improve
competition by having  Eni SpA (ENI)  sell off gas-transport unit  Snam
Rete Gas SpA. (SRG)  Monti’s Cabinet is meeting in Rome to pass the
plan.  The legislation “contains measures to reduce rents and
privileges, which also include the professions, pharmacies and
public services,” Monti told a Jan. 18 news briefing in London.
The new package aims to “distribute sacrifices needed to boost
economic growth.”  Monti, who as European Union competition commissioner
blocked  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s $47 billion takeover of  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , is lobbying European leaders to commit to
growth policies as the euro-area economy slips into a recession
amid a wave of austerity measures demanded to fight the debt
crisis. Monti has said jumpstarting the expansion is vital to
cutting the 1.9 trillion-euro debt of Italy, whose economy may
shrink 1.5 percent in 2012, the  Bank of Italy  said on Jan. 17.  Growth Boost  Italy’s Antitrust Authority has said that a gradual opening
of the professions may add an estimated 1.5 percent a year over
the next decade or more to the $2.3 trillion economy. By
combining such measures with policies to eliminate barriers to
business and commerce, Italy could boost productivity 14.1
percent over 10 years, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development has said.  Italy may be in its fourth  recession  since 2001, after the
country’s growth averaged 0.2 percent annually in the decade to
2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area.  “Italy runs the risk of transitioning from a recession to
a lasting period of stagnation, and only an epic effort on
growth-enhancing reforms can materially change this prospect,”
said Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe Generale SA in
 London . said.  Il Duce  Italy’s 28 professional guilds, many of which were set up
under dictator  Benito Mussolini , take a different view. The 
measures would seek to boost competition and lower costs by 
eliminating fixed minimum rates for service providers such as 
architects, engineers and notaries. The decree may also lead to 
increasing the number of taxi licenses.  “I’m very worried they want to liberalize taxi licenses
and give everyone a chance to work, but without basic regulation
or professionalism,” Andrea Erhauz, a  taxi driver  from Trieste,
said at a protest of cab drivers against the measures this week
in Rome. “Everything at the moment is regulated, but I think it
will become wild.”  The guilds, which first arose in medieval  Italy , became a
key part of Mussolini’s state “corporations” that grouped all
facets of the economy by industry. In a 1933 speech, the leader
known as “Il Duce” said it was a “disciplined economy, and
thus a controlled one, because one can’t think of a discipline
that isn’t controlled.”  Institutional Nepotism  The guilds were meant “to protect citizens from possible
abuse by professionals by setting and enforcing high
standards,” said Franco Stefanoni, author of the “The Real
Untouchables,” a book about the guilds. “Nowadays, that
function is reduced and research shows their members are often
the children or relatives of members.”  Gabriele Noto, an official at the notaries’ lobby, said
that only 17 percent of his profession are relatives of notaries.
He also defended relatively high fees for notaries compared with
countries such as the U.S., saying the so-called robo-signer
mortgage-document scandal couldn’t happen in Italy.  “We have faith in the government, which we know is working
to improve Italy,” Noto said, while opposing a “lowering of
notary standards” that could lead to “fraud and lawsuits that
have a social cost in the end that taxpayers must bear.”  With a jobless rate of about 30 percent among Italians
between the ages of 15 and 24, Monti’s package seeks to make it
easier to join professions. The decree would create 1,500 new
notary jobs through 2014.  Monti Yields  Italian borrowing costs have fallen since Monti took over
from former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  on Nov. 16, when the yield
on the nation’s 10-year benchmark bond was 7.37 percent. The
yield was 6.38 percent at 10:35 a.m.  Rome  time, pushing the
difference with equivalent-maturity German bunds to 454 basis
points, compared with a record 576 basis points on Nov. 9.  “This is a chance in a lifetime that Italy has to
introduce and adopt much-needed structural reforms,” Salvatore Zecchini, a former  executive director  at the  International
Monetary Fund  and a professor at Rome’s Tor Vergata University,
said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television.  Under  drafts  of the decree published by newspaper  Corriere
della Sera , operators of gas stations were to be given the right
to purchase gas from any supplier, a change that may not be
included in the final version, according to operators’ unions,
which yesterday threatened to hold a 10-day strike in protest.  The legislation also simplifies rules for oil and gas
exploration to promote development of domestic resources.
Offshore drilling will be allowed in some instances, though not
in protected areas and at least five miles from the coast, the
draft said.  The decree goes into effect immediately after its passage
by the Cabinet, and Parliament must approve it within 60 days
for the law to remain in force. Andrea Giuricin, economist at
Bruno Leoni Institute in Turin, said he’s concerned that it may
be watered down by lawmakers.  “The resistance in Parliament may be huge because many
lawmakers are part of the same categories that have to be
liberalized,” he said. “But we have to push forward with these
reforms to modernize the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  