-- Too Big to Sail Question in Costa Concordia Safety Fiasco: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-19T00:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/too-big-to-sail-question-raised-by-costa-concordia-safety-calamity-view.html
In 1912, the RMS Titanic, the
largest and most advanced passenger liner of its day, sank in
the Atlantic Ocean, reminding the world there was no such thing
as an invincible ship.  The Costa Concordia, a cruise ship so enormous that it is
essentially a floating town, lies half submerged off the coast
of  Italy , making the same point today. The Titanic tragedy,
which claimed some 1,500 lives, ushered in  a new era in maritime
safety law . A century later,  the Costa Concordia debacle , in
which 11 people have died and more than 20 are missing, raises
the question of whether those measures are being effectively
enforced.  The answer has direct implications for millions of seaborne
travelers. The number of passengers on cruise ships has grown
every year by an average of  7.6 percent since 1980 , reaching 15
million last year.  To contain the pools, gyms, zip-lines, rock-climbing
facades and multiple restaurants today’s cruisers expect, the
ships keep getting bigger and bigger. The Costa Concordia
carried more than 4,000 passengers and crew. Larger ships hold
6,000 people. With so many passengers on board comes the
potential for great loss should disaster strike.  Deviation From Course  For the Costa Concordia, that moment came on Jan. 13, when
its captain, Francesco Schettino, deviated from an authorized,
computerized course to maneuver the ship close to the island of
Giglio and ran it into a reef.  The cruise line, Costa Crociere SpA, and its parent,
 Carnival Corp. (CCL) , have been eager to paint the disaster as the
fault of Schettino, who is under house arrest and is expected to
be charged with manslaughter. The companies’ position may be
justified, but only up to a point. Costa Crociere has
acknowledged previously giving Schettino permission to skirt the
coast of Giglio. The practice of saluting ports in this way
demands scrutiny. So does the record of the captain -- who not
only wrecked the ship but also abandoned it and refused an order
by the Italian Coast Guard to return to help evacuate passengers
-- and the competence of those who promoted him.  Regardless, the responsibility for what happened after the
ship ran aground suggests a wider circle of blame.  Passenger accounts strongly suggest that the Costa
Concordia crew lacked training and discipline, and ignored basic
international standards for passenger safety. At least some
passengers say they received no safety briefing onboard. When
the ship ran aground, passengers were given conflicting
instructions about whether to stay in their rooms or abandon the
Costa Concordia. Crew assistance to passengers trying to get off
the listing vessel was haphazard at best, leading to panic and
chaos.  The  International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ,
adopted after the Titanic sank, clearly states that there should
have been an emergency drill within 24 hours of the start of the
ship’s voyage. Passengers who boarded afterward should have
received safety briefings. From the moment the captain gave the
signal to abandon ship, the crew should have loaded and launched
the lifeboats within 30 minutes. As the search for missing
vacationers attests, that was not accomplished.  Clearing the ship of all passengers in half an hour may
sound like a tall order for a vessel with more than 4,000 people
aboard. It’s not. First, for every three passengers, one crew
member was there to assist with the effort. Second, these large
ships are designed to hit a 30-minute evacuation deadline.
Cruise ships that take on or drop off passengers at U.S. ports
must pass this test twice a year in drills required and
monitored by the  U.S. Coast Guard .  Weekly Drills Required  The U.S. Coast Guard also requires that such ships present
records proving that they have completed fire and evacuation
drills once a week and that each crew member has participated in
such drills at least once a month. These standards, established
by the Safety of Life at Sea convention, have been promulgated
by the  International Maritime Organization . But as part of the
 United Nations , the organization relies on the coast guards and
navies of member states to enforce the rules.  The Costa Concordia, which was plying a circular route
around the Mediterranean, was well beyond the jurisdiction of
the U.S. Coast Guard. Further investigation will determine
whether the crew was sufficiently trained, and whether the
maritime authorities of Italy, where the ship is flagged, and
the other ports it visited were vigilant in enforcing the
international standards. Any deficiencies will need to be
addressed.  In the meantime, the ship’s ultimate owner, Carnival,
which dominates the cruise industry with 49 percent of the
business, should tighten the discipline on its ships, beginning
with stricter control of routes, passenger safety briefings and
crew training. The No. 2 in the industry, Royal Caribbean, would
probably follow suit. Together, the companies control more than
70 percent of all cruising.  Both are already suffering the consequences of falling
public confidence. Not only are travel agents reporting a drop
in bookings during what should be peak season, but Carnival
stock tumbled 14 percent after the shipwreck and Royal Caribbean
fell 5 percent. If the companies take responsible action now,
they would protect their businesses and perhaps prevent a new
disaster.  While they’re at it, they might want to reconsider an old
question from a new perspective: How big is too big? For years,
industry insiders have debated ship sizing by looking at factors
such as hull safety and shipboard experience. This most recent
accident suggests a different line of inquiry: However many
passengers a ship has, their safety depends critically on the
captain, who may fail miserably. Do we want the fate of 6,000
pleasure-seekers resting on the judgment of just one man?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 