-- Top-Ranked Forecaster John Herrmann Among State Street Job Cuts
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-19T21:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/top-ranked-forecaster-john-herrmann-among-state-street-job-cuts.html
John Herrmann , a top-ranked economic
forecaster, had his job eliminated yesterday at  State Street (STT) 
Global Markets LLC as the company exited its fixed-income
business as part of a cost-cutting effort.  Herrmann began working in February 2010 as a senior fixed-
income strategist in the research and trading arm of State
Street Corp., the third-largest custody bank. He holds the No. 2
spot among forecasters of the  U.S. economy  for the two years
through November, according to Bloomberg Rankings.  “Our entire fixed-income group wound down,” Herrmann said
today in a telephone interview. “What we saw at the end of 2009
was that a bunch of companies tried to launch fixed-income
departments and it was met with mixed results.”  Custody banks, hurt by record-low  interest rates  that
reduce the return on investments and lending and by a decline in
equity markets in 2011, have worked to bolster profits by
cutting expenses. State Street has eliminated 2,250 jobs in the
past 13 months as part of a plan to reduce costs by at least
$575 million annually by 2015.  Joseph Hooley, chief executive officer of the Boston-based
firm, explained some of the cuts on a conference call yesterday.  “As part of our annual review of all of our businesses, we
also recently announced our withdrawal from the fixed-income
trading initiative,” he said. “This decision reflects a number
of factors, including continuing market turmoil and regulatory
changes, both in the U.S. and  Europe , that likely would’ve
required us to increase capital and expenses associated with
this initiative.”  Carolyn Cichon, a spokeswoman for State Street, confirmed
by e-mail today that Herrmann is no longer employed by the
company.  “I’m definitely looking to join another firm,” said
Herrmann, now president of Summit, New Jersey-based Herrmann
Forecasting LLC. “You basically have to find positions where an
employer is committed to a fixed-income universe for a long time
and not just on a lark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  