-- Orange Juice Heads for Biggest Month Since 2009; Cotton Advances
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-19T20:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/orange-juice-heads-for-biggest-month-since-2009-cotton-rallies.html
Orange-juice  futures rose the most
in a week, heading for the biggest monthly gain in more than two
years, on mounting concern that U.S. supplies will be limited by
a government probe of imports. Cotton also rallied.  The Food and Drug Administration has been temporarily
holding imported orange juice to test for a banned fungicide
used in Brazil. The agency said it may continue the practice for
as long as half a year, reporting test results on Fridays.
Prices on ICE Futures U.S. are up 19 percent in January, heading
for the biggest monthly gain since October 2009.  “Testing of the imported juices could take this into
summer,”  Jack Scoville , a vice president at Price Futures Group
in  Chicago , said in an e-mail.  Orange-juice futures for March delivery climbed 4.9 percent
to settle at $2.0065 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE in New York, the
biggest advance since Jan. 10. Earlier, prices jumped the
exchange’s 10-cent limit. For a second straight session, the
commodity posted the biggest increase among the 19 raw materials
tracked by the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  While prices will remain “elevated,” orange juice
probably will stay below $2.1275 unless there is “another
unforeseeable impact” on supply, analysts at London-based
Rabobank International wrote today in a report.  The rally may boost costs for companies including Purchase,
New York-based  PepsiCo (PEP)  Inc., the maker of Tropicana, and
Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola (KO)  Co., which sells Minute Maid.  Stockpiles of frozen orange juice at facilities monitored
by ICE tumbled to 22.785 million pounds as of Jan. 18, down 64
percent from a year earlier, exchange data show.  Citrus Disease  Texas , the third-biggest orange grower in the U.S., has
confirmed a case of citrus greening, a disease transmitted by an
insect that in the past caused extensive damage to crops in
Florida, the top orange grower. The disease was found in a tree
in a grove in the city of  San Juan , in Hidalgo County, part of
which has been placed under quarantine, the state’s Department
of Agriculture said yesterday.  Cotton futures for March delivery gained 0.7 percent to
close at 98.17 cents a pound on ICE. The fiber has risen 6.9
percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  