-- Orban Bows to Pressure as Hungary Signals Compromise in EU Feud
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-01-19T11:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/orban-bows-to-pressure-as-hungary-signals-will-to-compromise-in-eu-dispute.html
Hungary bowed to mounting pressure
from lenders and regulators as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
signaled he would compromise over disputed laws that halted
bailout talks, boosting the country’s currency and stocks.  “I’m only tough when the interests of my country require
me to be and I compromise when the interests of the Hungarian
people require me to do so,” Orban told reporters in
Strasbourg,  France , yesterday. The government is ready to
“entirely rework” two temporary provisions of the constitution
that took effect Jan. 1 if the EU requests, he said.  Orban is trying to revive bailout talks with the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  after discussions
broke down in December over Orban’s refusal to change a central
bank law that the institutions said may weaken monetary-policy
independence. The EU also threatened a lawsuit against  Hungary 
for encroaching on the central bank’s independence and political
meddling with the judiciary and the data-protection authority.  The forint strengthened for a third day, gaining 0.9
percent to 302.35 per euro by 12:20 p.m. in Budapest, its
strongest since Dec. 21. The benchmark BUX stock index fell 0.1
percent to 18,126.37 after jumping 3.1 percent yesterday.  ‘Right Rhetoric’  “The Hungarian prime minister continues to provide the
right rhetoric,” Simon-Quijano Evans, economist at ING Groep NV
in  London , said in a report today.  The cost of insuring Hungarian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps dropped to 663 basis
points from 691 basis points on Jan. 17, reaching the lowest in
more than two weeks, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers.
The gauge reached a record 735 basis points on Jan. 5.  Orban told European Parliament lawmakers yesterday in
Strasbourg that he sent a letter to European Commission
President  Jose Barroso , showing his desire to work out an
agreement.  Hungary and the EU’s executive arm disagree on one last
point regarding central bank independence, namely whether the
bank’s president and members of the rate-setting Monetary
Council should be asked to take an oath on the Constitution,
Orban said, adding that he’ll consider the issue.  ‘Easily, Simply, Fast’  “I’ve expressed my opinion that the issues raised by the
commission can be solved easily, simply and fast,” he said. “I
hope for swift results from our meeting next week” with
Barroso, he said.  Hungary has become a test case for democratic principles
and economic-policy rules in the EU, forcing the Commission to
make good on a pledge to use all its powers to enforce the 27-
nation bloc’s norms. The country, which isn’t part of the euro
area, risks compounding the two-year-old European debt-crisis
centered on the single currency.  Hungary disagrees with the Commission on the lowering of
the mandatory  retirement age  for judges, government spokesman
Andras Giro-Szasz said today, adding that the EU is
“fundamentally wrong” to consider the decrease of the
retirement age as early retirement.  “Risk aversion towards Hungary will remain high until
formal talks begin,” Mai Doan, a London-based economist at Bank
of America Corp., wrote in a research report today. An agreement
with the international organizations may materialize by the end
of March or in the second quarter, Doan wrote.  ‘Weak’ Hungary  Hungary, which is “weak and has a high debt level,” wants
a “precautionary instrument” rather than drawing funds  from
the EU, Orban said.  “We’re willing to sell our bonds even with a higher
 interest rate  rather than use cheap European money,” he said.  Orban said he expected financial aid talks with the two
international institutions to involve “grave” economic issues.  The IMF may require Hungary to change its flat personal
income tax as part as part of a bailout agreement, according to
a person familiar with the Washington-based lender’s
preparations for the talks. The flat tax will be an important
part in any program discussion and the Hungarian levy being
regressive is the main issue, said the person, who declined to
be identified because official talks haven’t started.  Orban introduced the flat tax, a cornerstone of his
economic policy, last year to simplify tax administration, boost
growth and reward higher-income earners. The measure contributed
to a decline in government revenue and an increase in the
structural  budget deficit .  ‘Tangible Steps’  Hungary will have to show “tangible steps” on economic
policy before the IMF can determine “when and whether to
start” aid negotiations, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said on Jan. 12 after meeting Hungarian chief negotiator
Tamas Fellegi in  Washington . The government didn’t take
“effective action” to rein in its budget deficit as Orban’s
measures weren’t of a “sustainable nature,” the European
Commission said on Jan. 11.  The Cabinet pledged to keep the budget  deficit  within 3
percent of gross domestic product this year and in 2013.  Hungary wants to start negotiations with the IMF and the EU
“as soon as possible,” Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said yesterday.  The country would abandon a plan to merge the central bank
and the markets watchdog should the Commission request it, Orban
said. Barroso told the same session of European lawmakers that
he called on Orban to address concerns about new Hungarian laws
“in a determined and unambiguous way.”  ‘Bow Anyway’  “We will not hesitate to take further steps if deemed
appropriate,” Barroso said.  The Hungarian Cabinet is ready to amend regulations that
haven’t changed for 20 years and haven’t drawn objections from
the Commission in the past, Orban said.  “I can’t bow to the force of the arguments, but if the
Commission deems it important, we’ll bow anyway.”  Hungary, which became the first EU country to receive an
IMF-led bailout in 2008, shunned fresh aid in 2010 when Orban
became prime minister. He reversed his policy last year as the
government struggled to meet its targets at debt auctions and
the forint plummeted.  The EU’s most-indebted eastern member received its third
sovereign-credit downgrade to junk in the last two months when
 Fitch Ratings  on Jan. 6 followed moves by Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘No Alternative’  Hungary has “no alternative” to reaching a bailout
agreement,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  Chief Executive
Officer Herbert Stepic said on Bloomberg Television on Jan. 17.  “If there was no IMF agreement then, of course, the
country would in the medium-term default, which we don’t see,”
Stepic said.  Hungary will have to make payments on its 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) 2008 bailout this year, with installments of about
700 million euros due in February and then the same amount at
quarterly intervals, plus 300 million euros in June and 500
million euros in each of September and December, according to
researcher  Capital Economics .  The country also has a 1 billion-euro bond maturing in
November and a smaller yen note due in July, according to data
on the Hungarian Debt Management Agency’s website. Against that,
the agency has deposits of 2.5 billion euros, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  