-- Morgan Stanley Shares Rise After Bank Reports Smaller-Than-Estimated Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-19T21:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/morgan-stanley-reports-smaller-than-estimated-loss-on-trading-shares-rise.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  rose to the highest
in almost three months in New York trading after reporting a
smaller fourth-quarter loss than analysts estimated on gains in
equities trading.  The shares climbed 93 cents, or 5.4 percent, to $18.28 at 4
p.m., the highest since Oct. 28. The firm’s net loss was $250
million, or 15 cents a share, compared with profit of $836
million, or 41 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based company
said today in a statement.  Morgan Stanley posted the only increase in trading revenue
excluding accounting gains among the five largest Wall Street
banks in 2011, making progress toward Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman ’s goal of boosting market share.
The firm still had per-share losses in two of the past three
quarters as it took charges to eliminate swap contracts
purchased from  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and to convert Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.’s preferred stake to common shares.  “Their institutional business is performing quite well
relative to the other firms,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness.” “On the trading side, their equity
business was very strong.”  The loss from continuing operations was 14 cents, compared
with the 57-cent average  estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs  Morgan Stanley’s shares gained 6.8 percent yesterday after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reported profit that beat estimates on
compensation cuts.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the biggest  U.S. bank 
by assets, fell 2.5 percent on Jan. 13, when it reported trading
revenue dropped 11 percent from the third quarter, excluding
accounting adjustments.  “The bar is pretty low” for Morgan Stanley, said Ralph Cole, a senior vice president in research at Ferguson Wellman
Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon , which manages $2.8 billion. “It’s
partly how they look compared to competitors. If they can show
less weakness than their peers, that appears to be strength.”  Revenue at Morgan Stanley dropped 26 percent to $5.71
billion from a year earlier. Book value per share rose to $31.42
from $31.29 at the end of September.  Fourth-quarter revenue from fixed-income sales and trading,
which is run by Ken deRegt along with commodity trading co-heads
Colin Bryce and Simon Greenshields, was negative $257 million.
Excluding the MBIA charge and the effect of accounting gains
tied to the firm’s credit spreads, revenue was about $1.2
billion. That was higher than the $1.09 billion posted in the
third quarter and $813 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Fixed Income  Fixed-income trading revenue included about $600 million
related to the restructuring of derivatives tied to so-called
peripheral European countries. The transaction reduced the
firm’s risks before hedges by $3.38 billion, by lowering net
counterparty exposure related to Italian sovereigns, Morgan
Stanley Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in an interview.  Fixed-income revenue, excluding accounting gains and losses
known as DVA, was $2.63 billion at JPMorgan, $1.72 billion at
Citigroup Inc. and $1.36 billion at Goldman Sachs. All three
firms are based in  New York .  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley’s
revenue was $1.28 billion, excluding DVA, up from $1.18 billion
in the fourth-quarter of 2010. That compared with the third
quarter’s $1.34 billion, and with $1.69 billion at Goldman Sachs
and $806 million at JPMorgan.  Broad-Based Gains  “We had broad-based market-share gains in equities, and
very strong performance this quarter in cash equities and
electronic trading,” Porat said.  Morgan Stanley generated $883 million in fourth-quarter
revenue from  investment banking , which is overseen by Paul J. Taubman. That figure, down 42 percent from a year earlier,
included $406 million from financial advisory, $189 million from
equity underwriting and $288 million from debt underwriting.  Global  wealth management , overseen by  Greg Fleming , posted
pretax income of $244 million, down from $390 million in the
fourth quarter of 2010. The division’s pretax profit margin fell
to 8 percent from 10 percent in the first nine months of 2011.
Gorman has said the unit should eventually post a pretax profit
margin of more than 20 percent.  Smith Barney  Purchasing an additional 14 percent stake in the Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney brokerage joint venture with Citigroup is a
“core plank” of the firm’s strategy, Gorman said today on a
conference call with analysts. Whether the firm moves
immediately on that purchase when it becomes available later
this year will partly depend on price, he said.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $78 million,
down from $353 million in the previous year’s period.  “We ended the year in better shape than where we started
and we are well positioned to deliver improved returns to
shareholders in 2012 and beyond,” Gorman, 53, said in the
statement.  Compensation and benefits decreased 6 percent from the
year-earlier quarter to $3.81 billion, or 67 percent of the
firm’s overall revenue. The ratio was higher than in the fourth
quarter of 2010, when the bank set aside 52 percent of revenue.  Concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread
led to lower trading and fewer deals in the fourth quarter.
While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 11 percent in the
period, the biggest jump in more than two years, average daily
volume on major U.S. exchanges dropped 15 percent from the third
quarter.  Headcount Reductions  Morgan Stanley responded by cutting headcount and deferring
more employee compensation, including a December announcement
that it’s eliminating 1,600 jobs. It told employees this week
that immediate cash bonuses would be capped at $125,000, with
amounts beyond that deferred over two years, according to a
person briefed on the plans.  Compensation and costs “are things that they have some
control over, and they’re doing what they can in this tough
revenue environment,”  Roger Freeman , an analyst at  Barclays
Capital , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness” before earnings were released. Freeman has a
“neutral” rating on Morgan Stanley’s stock.  Morgan Stanley took a pretax charge of $1.74 billion
related to a settlement reached last month with bond insurer
MBIA. The settlement canceled credit-default swaps bought by
Morgan Stanley from MBIA and ended lawsuits between the two
firms.  Morgan Stanley’s exposure to MBIA, and its attempts to
hedge those risks, resulted in losses of about $3 billion since
the start of 2008, not including the charge taken in the fourth
quarter. The settlement will increase Morgan Stanley’s capital,
boosting the Tier 1 common ratio under new rules by about 75
basis points, the bank said last month.  “The settlement with MBIA put our last major legacy issue
behind us while freeing up $5 billion in capital,” Porat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  