-- Mortgage Rates for U.S. 30-Year Fixed Loans Decline to Record Low of 3.88%
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-01-19T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/mortgage-rates-for-u-s-30-year-fixed-loans-decline-to-record-low-of-3-88-.html
Rates for U.S. 30-year mortgages
dropped to the lowest level on record as the number of
homeowners seeking to reduce their monthly payments surged.  The average rate for a  30-year  fixed loan decreased to 3.88
percent in the week ended today, the lowest in records dating to
1971, from 3.89 percent,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The
average  15-year  rate increased to 3.17 percent from 3.16
percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company .  The U.S. housing market, weighed down by an 8.5 percent
unemployment rate, tight credit and foreclosures that drag down
values, has shown signs of improvement.  Refinancing (MBAVREFI)  applications
jumped 26 percent in the period ended Jan. 13 to the highest
level since August, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association
index. A measure of  purchase  applications rose 10 percent, the
Washington-based group said yesterday.  “It’s certainly good news,”  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S.
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “If people manage to refinance
at lower rates, reducing their monthly repayments, it will leave
them more money each month to spend elsewhere. For mortgage
purchases, if sustained, it is going to have some positive
impact on sales.”  New-home  sales  jumped to a seven-month high in November,
according to Commerce Department figures released Dec. 23. Sales
of  existing homes  rose in November to a 10-month high, the
National Association of Realtors said Dec. 21.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders increased in January to
the highest level in more than four years as sales and buyer
traffic improved, according to a National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment gauge released yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  