-- Thousands Protest in Romania Against Austerity for Eighth Day
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-01-19T15:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/thousands-protest-in-romania-against-austerity-for-eighth-day.html
Thousands of Romanians protested
against government austerity measures for an eighth day ahead of
general elections set for later this year.  As many as 7,000 people took to the streets in Bucharest
today at a protest organized by the opposition Social-Liberal
Union, a grouping of the  Social Democrats  and Liberals, said
riot police spokesman Florin Hulea by phone.  Prime Minister Emil Boc’s government is facing growing
opposition to its budget ahead of the vote after it froze wages
and pensions and announced plans to trim state jobs. Tens of
thousands have rallied across the country over the past week
against the government and President Traian Basescu, who is
backed by the Liberal Democrats.  “The government cut our salaries, we have low social
assistance, high taxes and we lost everything we gained after
the 1989 revolution,” said Florin Mihu, a 38-year-old teacher
who was chanting ‘Down with the Dictator.’ “A government that
no longer cares for its people has lost its legitimacy.”  The protests escalated on Jan. 14 and Jan. 15 in Bucharest,
when people threw stones, torched cars and broke into stores,
injuring about 60 persons, before winding down in the following
days after riot police tightened security and set up
checkpoints.  “We had enough, we supported them in 2004 and they mocked
us,” said Dumitru Levezean, a 47-year-old legal adviser. “We
are getting poorer and poorer and the corruption increased. We
love our country and we don’t want to emigrate as the president
suggested, but we want a better life here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  