-- Moynihan: Defections Abate After Fee Canceled
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-19T19:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/moynihan-says-customer-defections-from-bofa-abated-after-5-fee-canceled.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer Brian Moynihan said customer defections in the
U.S. slowed after the lender canceled plans to charge a $5-a-
month fee for debit cards amid a nationwide backlash.  “We saw an elevated level of account closings in the
quarter,” Moynihan said today during a conference call with
analysts to discuss fourth-quarter results. “Once we pulled it
back, you saw that mitigate,” he said.  Lenders including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  announced plans for
monthly charges as the government introduced regulations that
limited fees they could charge for debit purchases. Bank of
America reversed its decision in November, after rivals halted
their own plans. The proposed fees fueled demonstrations in  Los
Angeles  and  Boston  and prompted a Washington woman to collect
more than 300,000 petitions in protest. President  Barack Obama 
criticized the moves as “not necessarily fair to consumers.”  Interest-bearing deposits at Bank of America’s U.S. offices
fell to $624.8 billion as of Dec. 31 from $629.2 billion on
Sept. 30, according to a financial  supplement  posted on the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender’s website.  “Yes, we had some impact from the $5 debit fee,” Moynihan
said. “That’s why we made the decision to reverse it. Those
impacts in the scheme of things will be manageable.”  The largest banks are seeking to replace revenue lost after
regulators limited fee income from debit-card usage and
overdrafts. Non-interest income at the company’s deposits
segment fell 20 percent in 2011 to $4.22 billion, according to
the supplement.  Moynihan’s company swung to a fourth-quarter profit, as the
bank sold assets and built capital, posting  net income  of $1.99
billion, compared with a loss of $1.24 billion a year earlier.  The lender had planned to charge debit card-using customers
if they had less than $20,000 in total balances or lacked a
mortgage or Merrill Lynch brokerage account. The proposal drew
criticism that it would mostly hurt lower-income customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  