-- Pakistani Court Postpones Gilani Contempt Case to Hear Immunity Arguments
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-01-19T09:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/pakistani-court-postpones-gilani-contempt-case-to-hear-immunity-arguments.html
Pakistan’s Supreme Court postponed
until Feb. 1 a contempt of court hearing against Prime Minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani  that could result in his dismissal.  Gilani, who appeared before the court, didn’t defy a court
order to pursue corruption cases against President Asif Ali Zardari because Zardari is legally immune from prosecution,
defense lawyer Aitzaz Ahsan said. The judges sought a commitment
from Ahsan that the prime minister will obey the order if the
court rules that Zardari has no immunity.  Today’s adjournment averted an immediate escalation of a
months-old struggle between the Zardari administration, the
court and the armed forces. The top court issued a contempt 
notice to Gilani on Jan. 16 after saying he violated his oath 
of office by failing to re-open graft investigations that former 
military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  suspended in 2007.  “It is a historic day for justice and law because the
prime minister’s appearance shows he accepts the majesty of the
court,” Ahsan told reporters outside the court. “I will
satisfy the court that immunity is full and complete” for
Zardari, he said.  The legal arguments hinge on Article 248 of Pakistan’s
constitution, which says that “no criminal proceedings
whatsoever shall be instituted or continued against the
president.” If found guilty of contempt, Gilani may be forced
to step down as prime minister.  Jan. 24 Hearing  The government faces a separate Jan. 24 hearing by judges
investigating an alleged Zardari administration request in May
for U.S. assistance against a possible military coup. The claim
has triggered the biggest confrontation between  Pakistan ’s
generals and elected leaders since army rule ended four years
ago. The showdown complicates U.S. efforts to restore a strained
relationship with Pakistan that is key to its bid to stabilize
 Afghanistan  before a planned troop withdrawal in 2014.  “These legal and political challenges aren’t going to end
soon for this government,” Farrukh Saleem, an independent
political analyst in Islamabad, said in a phone interview.
“Different state organs are trying to assert their authority.
The executive has the weakest position because it has not been
able to deliver and people are looking for a change.”  Gilani drove his own car the several hundred yards from his
official residence to the court, before walking in through the
common litigants’ entrance past journalists, lawyers and
policemen. Ahsan, his lawyer, has had close ties to Chief
Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. Ahsan served as Chaudhry’s
legal counsel and led public protests on the judge’s behalf in
2007 when Musharraf suspended him.  ‘Foreign Fire’  “I can’t think of not obeying the order of this court,”
Gilani told judges in a statement. “What’s been advised to me
is that he has complete immunity inside and outside Pakistan,”
he said in reference to Zardari.  The  Supreme Court  in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and his assassinated wife former Prime Minister  Benazir
Bhutto . A judge in Geneva charged Zardari and Bhutto in 2004
with accepting bribes to award contracts to companies, including
SGS Societe Generale de Surveillance Holding SA, the Swiss
newspaper Le Temps reported at the time.  Zardari has denied all charges against him and has never
been found guilty by a court.  Ahsan said the court’s order in the Swiss case is not
valid. “No Pakistani authority can push the president into a
foreign fire,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 