-- Pentagon Steers More Money to Eastern European Allies as West Cuts Budgets
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-19T19:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/pentagon-steers-money-to-eastern-europe-as-west-cuts-budgets.html
The Pentagon is steering  more money 
toward Eastern European allies fighting in  Afghanistan  even as
it prepares further reductions of U.S. forces in nations to the
west such as Germany.  The U.S. plans to spend as much as $100 million, 33 percent
more than last year, to provide training and equipment to
countries helping conduct special operations missions and
training for Afghan forces fighting the Taliban, according to
Pentagon figures released today.  The biggest increases are going to  Hungary ,  Poland ,  Romania 
and Lithuania, which  have made outsize contributions of troops
to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led coalition in
Afghanistan.  The Pentagon is relying more on Eastern European allies,
most of them in NATO, as traditional alliance members such as
the U.K., the Netherlands and  Germany  cut their own defense
budgets. Western European allies also are looking to reduce
their forces in Afghanistan in proportion to the Pentagon’s
withdrawal of about a third of its forces by September.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said last week that the U.S.
will halve the number of conventional brigades in  Europe  as it
cuts $490 billion over the next decade and turns more attention
to  Asia .  The planned cut to two brigades will remove 6,000 to 10,000
troops, most of them in Western Europe. The U.S. had almost
80,000 military personnel stationed in Europe as of December
2010, more than 54,000 of them in Germany, according to the
Defense Department’s website.  The Pentagon plans to compensate for the reductions by
rotating more troops into the region and conducting additional
joint training and exercises.  Building Partners  Lieutenant General Mark Hertling, the commander of U.S.
Army Europe, said in a Jan. 13 statement that “building partner
capacity” and preparing other militaries to work with the U.S.
in deployments elsewhere were priorities in the aftermath of the
cuts.  The U.S. will be “taking steps to enhance the
responsiveness of special operations forces in the region,”
Phil Gordon, the assistant secretary of state for Europe, told
reporters in  Washington  this month after the Pentagon unveiled
its revised strategy Jan. 5.  The Defense Department notified Congress this month of the
first phase of planned spending for this year from a fund that
provides training and equipment for partners in Afghanistan,
according to Lieutenant Colonel James Gregory, a spokesman for
the Pentagon.  Hungary, Poland, Romania  While the fund’s total remains unchanged at $350 million,
the portion going to nations in the Afghan coalition is rising
to $100 million from $75 million.  Hungary will receive $13.3 million in the fiscal year
ending Sept. 30, an increase from $2.87 million last year.
Poland’s share rises to $14 million from $2.85 million, Romania
increases to $14.3 million from $7.3 million and  Lithuania  will
get $12.8 million, up from $5.7 million.  The Obama administration, which continued the so-called
Section 1206 program started under President  George W. Bush ,
said in 2009 that the fund is “the single most important tool
for the department to shape the environment and counter
terrorism.”  The Pentagon reasoned that the money helped train and equip
foreign military forces to respond to “urgent and emergent
threats,” Nina Serafino, an analyst for the  Congressional
Research Service , said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  