-- Perry Said to Withdraw From Republican Race
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-19T14:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/perry-said-to-withdraw-from-republican-race.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  will
withdraw from the Republican presidential race and endorse rival
 Newt Gingrich , said an aide who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Perry, who has lagged below 10 percent in public opinion
polls since the New Hampshire primary, scheduled an 11 a.m. news
conference today in  South Carolina (BEESSC) , site of the next primary
election Jan. 21. Gingrich declined to comment on Perry’s
planned exit as he entered a campaign event in Bluffton, South
Carolina.  Perry was the last candidate to enter the presidential
race, on Aug. 13. His tenure in  Texas (BEESTX)  and standing with social
conservatives who place emphasis on opposition to abortion and
gay marriage raised expectations for his candidacy, as did his
fundraising prowess.  An NBC News-Marist College poll today showed Gingrich
gaining support in his challenge to former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , who leads in  South Carolina .  Perry’s early surge in national polls after he entered the
race was hurt by what he acknowledged were poor debate
performances. He also drew criticism after making disparaging
comments about Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
Social Security.  ‘Sorry. Oops’  During a November debate, he couldn’t remember the name of
the third government agency he would eliminate if he became
president.  He named two, the departments of Commerce and Education,
and then said he couldn’t remember the third. “I can’t. Sorry.
Oops,” he said.  Perry on Aug. 15 said things could get “ugly” for
Bernanke in Texas if he tried additional, “almost treasonous,”
monetary stimulus before the next presidential election.  Perry touted economic gains and  job  creation in  Texas 
during his 10 years as governor and portrayed himself as a
Washington outsider.  In an effort to distinguish himself from others in the
contest, Perry proposed giving individuals the option of paying
a 20 percent flat tax on their income as part of his economic
plan. He also proposed lowering the corporate  tax rate  to 20
percent from 35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Bluffton, South Carolina  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  