-- Perry Faces Fight to Restore ‘Mystique’ Dimmed by Failed Presidential Bid
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-01-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/perry-returning-from-presidential-flameout-may-regain-his-stature-in-texas.html
Rick Perry  will come home to  Texas (STOTX1) 
to reclaim power as the nation’s longest-serving governor, yet
now unable to say he never lost an election after halting his
bid for the Republican presidential nomination.  Perry, 61, lost momentum by stumbling in debates, including
his failure in November to name all three federal departments he
would eliminate. He fell from leading in voter surveys in
September to trailing rivals this month in  Iowa ’s caucuses and
 New Hampshire ’s first-in-the-nation vote. He ended his campaign
yesterday in South Carolina.  The governor remains powerful by virtue of 20 years in
statewide office and because he has appointed virtually everyone
who holds sway on Texas boards and commissions, said Calvin Jillson, who teaches politics at  Southern Methodist University 
in  University Park , abutting Dallas.  Yet Perry will have to work to regain his stature, Jillson
said yesterday by telephone. “The mystique of having never lost
an election is diminished.”  Perry, in his third full term as governor of the second
most-populous state, had never lost a race for political office
before jumping into the presidential campaign in August. A
former Democrat who once worked for  Al Gore , Perry has held
statewide office since his election as Agriculture Commissioner
in 1990. Rising to lieutenant governor, he took over the top job
when  George W. Bush  resigned in 2000 to become president.  Endorsed Gingrich  Perry endorsed  Newt Gingrich , the former speaker of the
U.S. House of Representatives and a fellow Southerner,
yesterday, ahead of the  South Carolina  primary on Jan. 21.  The governor traveled to the state in August to kick off
his campaign, ending months of speculation that he would run. He
based much of his appeal to voters on job growth in Texas since
he took office, buttressed with attacks on President Barack Obama’s foreign policy. Yet his comments on other matters
sometimes eclipsed his record and campaign themes.  Critics pounced when Perry, in his first day on the
presidential trail, said it would be “almost treacherous, or
treasonous” for Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to
increase the Fed’s economic-stimulus moves before this year’s
election.  In his first debate, Perry called Social Security a “ Ponzi
scheme ,” drawing further criticism. In a November forum, he
couldn’t come up with the name of the third federal agency --
the Energy Department -- that he had pledged to erase if
elected, carving a place for himself in American political lore.  ‘Oops’ Moment  “The third one I can’t. Sorry. Oops,” Perry said in the
Nov. 9 debate, after naming the Education and Commerce
Departments as targets for elimination.  Perry probably won’t lose much of his influence in Austin,
the state capital, if he reclaims his job without showing any
bitterness over his campaign failings, said  Bill Miller , co-
founder of HillCo Partners LLC, a lobbying firm in the city.  “The candidate who left  Texas  was hot, on top of his game
and unbeatable,” Miller said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The guy on the campaign trail turned out to be an
imposter, someone we’d never seen before. If he comes back as
the guy who left, things will be the same.”  Josh Havens, a spokesman for Perry in Austin, said the
governor’s situation isn’t expected to be any different than
when he began seeking the nomination last year.  “Perry has a strong, conservative record, and he will
continue working to make Texas this nation’s strongest economy,
and share the successes of the Lone Star State with employers
and families who are looking for a place to thrive,” Havens
said by e-mail.  Republicans Dominate  Perry’s national performance may have cost him some clout
among fellow Republicans, who dominate both the houses of the
state Legislature, said Richard Murray, a political science
professor at the  University of Houston .  “Perry is particularly vulnerable because he lost
credibility,” Murray said yesterday by telephone.  The 2011 legislative session left schools underfunded for
the next two years by more than $4 billion and when lawmakers
take their seats in 2013, they likely will still face a deficit
and demands for increased spending on education, Murray said.
Perry had refused to accept tax increases or the use of reserve
funds for the biennial budget in the 2011 lawmaking session.
Texas’s Legislature normally meets every two years.  “You’ve got a lot of Republican legislators now saying the
state has to find more money for public schools,” Murray said.
“It’s going to be a challenge over the next 18 months for Perry
to regain that credibility.”  Democrats Lash Out  Democrats unleashed critiques of Perry following his
withdrawal from the presidential sweepstakes yesterday, saying
his handling of the budget last year hurt the state.  “Rick Perry’s presidential run didn’t only damage his
ego,” Anthony Gutierrez, a Texas Democratic Party spokesman,
said by e-mail. “Perry used our last legislative session and
state budget as a prop to launch this run. He put his political
aspirations ahead of the needs of Texas children.”  The governor, who doesn’t face voters again until 2014, can
regain his footing as long as he doesn’t blame his aborted
presidential bid on “being too conservative,” said Jillson of
Southern Methodist.  “If he says, ‘Aw shucks,’ and kicks up some dust, he will
regain his credibility,” Jillson said. “If he tries to blame
his poor performance on being ‘too conservative’ for the
Republican party, people will see through that immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 