-- Peru Port Operator Andino Investment Halts IPO for Second Time on Price
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-01-19T21:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/peru-port-operator-andino-investment-halts-ipo-for-second-time-on-price.html
Andino Investment Holding SA (AIHC1) , a
Peruvian port operator, delayed an initial public offering for a
second time and will modify the proposed price for its shares.  A new date and price for the IPO, which initially was set
for Jan. 17, will be announced “in coming days,” Andino said
in a  statement  posted on the  Lima  securities exchange’s website
yesterday. The company didn’t specify the reason for the delay.  “It was priced expensively for the retail sector so
they’re going to have to cut their base price,” Jose Luis Bustamante, head of trading at Cartisa SAB in Lima, said by
telephone. “There are similar companies on the  exchange  that
are trading cheaper and Andino’s 2010 profit at 2.5 percent of
sales was very low.”  Andino planned to raise about $60 million in Peru’s first
IPO in more than a year to help prepay part of an $85 million
loan from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and invest in a $250 million
expansion of the northern coastal port of Paita, Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Vargas said in a Jan. 12 interview.  Andino, based in Lima, had registered to sell 15 million to
35 million shares for 4.70 soles each, according to the
prospectus published on the Lima exchange’s website. Lima-based
brokerage Credibolsa SAB is managing the sale.  The company plans to keep the share sale under a $100
million minimum for pension funds, allowing it to focus on
individual investors who typically keep trading volumes higher
than buy-and-hold institutional investors.  Vargas and Credibolsa Chief Executive Officer Jorge Monsante didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  ‘Modify strategies’  The IPO would be  Peru ’s first since fishmeal producer
 Pesquera Exalmar SAA (EXALMAC1)  sold $100 million of stock in November
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Peru’s port
operators will invest $3 billion in expansion projects over the
next four years to handle rising metals, gas and fishing
exports, according to the country’s port authority.  Mining, construction and agricultural companies may sell
shares for the first time this year to fund expansion projects,
Francis Stenning, chief executive officer of Bolsa de Valores de
Lima, which operates the exchange, said in a Dec. 20 interview.  Heavy equipment distributor  Ferreyros SA (FERREYC1)  announced plans to
sell new shares this quarter, while cement producer  Cementos
Pacasmayo SAA (CPACASC1)  said it will list American depositary receipts in
 New York  on Feb. 2. Peru’s government plans to sell stakes this
year in state companies Electroperu SA and Petroleos del Peru on
the Lima exchange, according toHector Rodriguez, director of
state investment promotion agency Proinversion.  “After this setback, the other companies are going to have
to modify their strategies,” Bustamante said. “It’s not a good
sign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  