-- Philippines Cuts Key Rate for First Time Since 2009 as Growth Outlook Dims
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-01-19T09:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/philippine-central-bank-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate-to-4-25-from-4-5-.html
The Philippines cut  interest rates 
for the first time since July 2009, joining  emerging markets 
from  Thailand  to  Indonesia  in easing monetary policy as a
deteriorating global economy threatens growth.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  lowered the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.25 percent, according to a statement in Manila today.
The decision was predicted by 13 of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey , with the rest expecting no change. The central bank
maintained the reserve requirement ratio at 21 percent.  “The Philippine economy is likely to face external
headwinds in 2012,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in the
statement. “The benign inflation outlook allowed some scope for
a reduction in policy rates to help boost economic activity and
support market confidence.”  Asian policy makers are under mounting pressure to protect
growth after the  World Bank  cut its global economic forecast
this week, saying a recession in the euro region could
exacerbate a slowdown in countries such as India and China.
Lower borrowing costs and slowing price gains may aid Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino ’s efforts to boost expansion as he
increases spending and seeks investment for roads and airports.  “The inflation environment gives the central bank
flexibility to take more insurance for growth,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based regional economist at  Barclays Capital .
“We expect one more rate cut in the second quarter.”  Stocks Climb  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose to a record this
month and became the best performer among 19 Asian share indexes
tracked by Bloomberg in the past six months as investors bet
policy makers will take steps to stimulate growth and counter
faltering global demand. It closed up 0.5 percent before the
decision today.  The peso fell to 43.495 per dollar today after climbing 0.5
percent to its highest level since Dec. 8 yesterday, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The World Bank cut its global growth forecast by the most
in three years this week, predicting the world economy will grow
2.5 percent this year, down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent.  Growth in Asian economies is faltering as  Europe ’s debt
woes hurt the region’s exports.  China  reported this week its
weakest expansion in 10 quarters. The Philippines’ $200 billion
economy expanded 3.2 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, holding near the 3.1 percent pace in the previous three
months that was the slowest since 2009.  Global Easing  Bank Indonesia, which kept its benchmark rate unchanged
last week for a second month after reductions in October and
November, widened the lower range of its interbank lending rate
this week in a de facto easing of monetary policy. Brazil and
Chile lowered borrowing costs this month.  Philippine inflation slowed to an 11-month low in December,
with consumer prices rising 4.2 percent from a year earlier.
 Exports (PHEXYOY)  fell for a seventh month in November. Average annual
inflation will probably fall within the lower half of the
central bank’s 3 percent-to-5 percent target up to 2013,
Tetangco said today.  The central bank forecasts an inflation rate of 3.1 percent
for 2012 and 3.4 percent for 2013, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said. While it is difficult to rule out price
pressures, the inflation outlook is very favorable, inflation
expectations are broadly anchored and the probability of upside
price risks is low, he told reporters in  Manila .  Bangko Sentral will consider the fourth-quarter growth rate
in its next policy meeting in March and may consider cutting
rates further should growth deteriorate, Guinigundo said.  Record Spending  President Aquino is increasing spending this year to a
record 1.83 trillion pesos ($42 billion) to help bolster growth
to as much as 8 percent annually. The government also plans to
offer as many as 16 projects to investors this year, compared
with one contract awarded in 2011.  Ayala Corp., leading a consortium that won a contract last
month to build a four-kilometer, four-lane paved toll road
leading to provinces south of the capital, may bid for two road
projects and a contract to run an airport, Managing Director
Eric Francia said Dec. 15.  Aquino has won sovereign-rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service after intensifying efforts to
narrow the budget gap from a record 314 billion pesos in 2010.
 Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on the country’s debt
rating last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  