-- Philadelphia-Area Manufacturing Increases
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-19T15:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-expands-as-fed-index-rises-to-7-3-from-6-8.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded at faster pace in January as employment picked
up and factories grew more optimistic about business in the next
six months.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  increased to a three-month high of 7.3 from 6.8 in
December, according to a report released today. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the gauge would rise to
10.3. Readings greater than zero indicate expansion in the area
covering eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.  Household and business demand, along with leaner
inventories, are encouraging factories to bring on more
employees and boost hours worked. At the same time, a possible
recession in Europe and a weaker euro pose a risk to U.S.
manufacturers’ overseas sales.  “The  U.S. economy  should grow moderately and that would
support decent gains in manufacturing,”  Joel Naroff , president
of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania , said
before the report. “How much that will continue is a question
as we really don’t know yet the extent of the European
downturn.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 56 economists ranged
from 7 to 16.8.  Another report today showed  jobless claims  plunged by
50,000 to 352,000 last week, the lowest level since April 2008,
according to Labor Department figures. The decline was the
biggest since September 2005, when claims first surged then
slumped in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.  Stocks Gain  Stocks gained after the claims figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbing 0.3 percent to 1,311.34 at 10:23 a.m.
in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
rose to 1.94 percent from 1.9 percent late yesterday.  The cost of living was little changed in December for a
second month, the Labor Department also reported. The unchanged
reading in the consumer-price index was less than the 0.1
percent gain median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Costs excluding food and energy rose 0.1 percent last
month as projected.  The Commerce Department said builders began work on fewer
homes in December, reflecting a slump in multi-family unit
construction. Home starts dropped 4.1 percent to a 657,000
annual rate.  The Philadelphia Fed bank’s  employment index  increased to
11.6, the highest level since May, from 11.5 in the prior month.
The new orders measure fell to 6.9 from 10.7 in December. A
measure of the average workweek climbed to 5 from 2.8.  Shipments and Prices  The shipments gauge decreased to 5.7 from 9.1 last month.
The index of prices paid rose to 31.8 from 30.4 in December, and
the measure of prices received advanced to 11.2 from 10.3.  The overall index isn’t composed of the individual
measures, so some economists consider it a gauge of sentiment
among manufacturers.  The group’s measure of  the outlook  for the next six months
improved to 49 in January, the highest level since March, from a
reading of 40 a month earlier.  The Philadelphia-area factory report follows data earlier
this week from the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  that showed
manufacturing in the area expanded in January at the fastest
pace in nine months.  Industrial Production  Industrial production in the U.S. rebounded last month,
reflecting gains in demand for business equipment, automobiles
and construction materials, figures from the Federal Reserve
showed yesterday in  Washington .  Factory production , which makes
up about 75 percent of total output, climbed by the most in a
year.  Last year “proved to be a challenging environment, most
notably with the difficulties in the European region,” Roger
Wood, president and chief executive officer at  Dana Holding
Corp. (DAN) , said Jan. 10 at an auto industry conference in  Detroit .  The head of the Maumee, Ohio-based maker of truck axles and
frames said  Europe  will also play an important role this year.
“Looking forward, we continue to foresee a mixed global
outlook. We expect slow growth in  North America  and much better
growth in both  Asia  and  South America . We believe that Europe
will continue to lag.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  