-- Philippine Peso Weakens on First Interest-Rate Cut Since 2009
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-01-19T10:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/philippine-peso-weakens-on-first-interest-rate-cut-since-2009.html
The Philippine peso fell, reversing
earlier gains, on concern the nation’s first interest-rate cut
since 2009 will shrink the country’s yield advantage and
discourage foreign investors. Bonds gained.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered its benchmark  rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent to support
economic growth, according to a statement issued in  Manila  after
the market closed. The decision was predicted by 13 of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, while four forecast no
change. The peso rose as much as 0.4 percent earlier after the
 International Monetary Fund  said it plans to expand its lending
resources to counter Europe’s debt crisis.  “The anticipation of a rate cut prevented the peso to
break below 43.25 and caused it to bounce back to 43.50,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist in Manila at Banco de
Oro Unibank Inc., the Philippines’ largest lender. “Improving
fundamentals in  Europe  has greatly weighed down on the dollar.”  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 43.495 per dollar at the close
in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency has
advanced 0.8 percent this month.  “The overall risk-on scenario may be positive for
emerging-market Asia currencies but the rate-cut decision on its
own could be marginally negative for the Philippine peso in
relative terms,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based fixed-
income strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note today.
The central bank “may opt for a more competitive currency than
aggressively cut rates to sustain growth.”  The yield on the government’s 7.125 percent notes due
November 2013 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point,
to 2.79 percent, according to the midday fixing prices from the
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 