-- Phoenix Housing Rises as Canadians Seek 55% Discount
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/phoenix-housing-rises-as-canada-buyers-seek-55-desert-discount.html
Bob Major returned to Phoenix in
October in search of more bargains like the four empty houses he
bought in 2010 at rock-bottom prices. The retired builder from
Vancouver instead found real estate about 20 percent higher and
stiff competition.  “There’s been an extreme turn,” Major, 66, said in an
interview at a Chandler,  Arizona , pizzeria, sitting beside his
wife, Wendy. “We put bids on 30 properties and only got two.”  The Phoenix housing market, down 55 percent from peak
values with more than two-thirds of borrowers owing more than
their properties are worth, is starting to recover as demand
grows and inventory shrinks. Sales rose in November for the 12th
straight month on a year-over-year basis, and distressed real
estate accounted for the smallest share of purchases since 2008,
according to research firm DataQuick.  “The laws of supply and demand are finally taking hold,”
said Jim Belfiore, president of Belfiore Real Estate Consulting
LLC in Phoenix. “We’ve cleaned house. This market is poised to
make a significant jump.”  Values may increase 9 percent this year in Phoenix, known
as the “Valley of the Sun” for its desert climate and triple-
digit summer temperatures, as homes in or near foreclosure are
bought up, according to Clear Capital Inc. Bank-owned property,
which made up two-thirds of sales at the May 2009 market trough,
now accounts for only one-third, said Alex Villacorta, director
of research at the real estate data company in Truckee,
 California .  ‘Pain Was Greater’  Pending foreclosures in Maricopa County, where Phoenix is
located, tumbled by almost two-thirds in two years to 18,325
this month, according to Mike Orr, publisher of the  Cromford
Report , a local housing information service. In December, first-
time foreclosure filings in Arizona fell 41 percent from the
previous month to the lowest since 2007, data firm RealtyTrac
Inc. said.  “The pain was greater here,” Orr said. “I think the
reward for that is we’ll be out of the woods faster.”  Arizona’s bank-owned inventory has shrunk relative to other
hard-hit housing states partly because courts don’t oversee
property seizures, said  Daren Blomquist , spokesman for  Irvine ,
California-based RealtyTrac. It takes an average of 125 days to
complete a bank-owned home sale in Arizona, compared with 217
days in  Florida , a “judicial state” with a foreclosure glut,
according to the company. The U.S. average is 193 days.  The winnowing has boosted the average Phoenix property sale
to $85 a square foot in December, up 7.6 percent from the market
bottom in August, according to Orr, who is also the real estate
center director at  Arizona State University ’s W.P. Carey School
of Business. Prices are still down from a peak of $190 a square
foot in June 2006, he said.  Only Gainer  “I never would have believed what Phoenix has gone
through, but the data speaks for itself,” said  Karl Case , co-
founder of an S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index that showed the
metropolitan area as the only gainer among its 20 members in
October. “When prices fall that much and  interest rates  are
this low, it’s got to be the case that the markets begin to
clear.”  The upturn follows more than five years of decline, the
worst housing bust in a city where  home construction  for new
Arizona residents has been the path to economic growth, Phoenix
Mayor Greg Stanton said in a telephone interview. Falling U.S.
prices and bloated  consumer debt  have arrested mobility,
trapping owners who can’t sell their homes, according to Orr.  Jobs Lost  Arizona lost about 324,000 jobs in three years -- about
one-third in construction -- before employment bottomed in
September 2010, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data show. The
state added about 45,000 jobs last year. At that pace, it will
take until 2015 to reach pre-bust levels, said Lee McPheters,
director of Arizona State’s  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  Economic Outlook
Center.  Even with fewer foreclosures and prices turning, Phoenix
has the sixth-highest U.S. metropolitan rate of foreclosure
filings per household, according to RealtyTrac. Phoenix led the
25 largest U.S. metropolitan areas with two-thirds of its
mortgaged homes in negative equity at the end of the third
quarter, Zillow Inc. said. Across the nation, 29 percent of all
mortgaged homes were “underwater,” meaning the properties were
worth less than their loan balances.  Buying Repossessed Homes  Steep discounts have lured investors such as American
Residential Properties LLC, which used more than half of a $100
million fund to buy 800 Phoenix-area homes at an average price
of $120,000, some down from as much as $400,000 five years ago,
said Laurie Hawkes, president of the Phoenix-based company. It’s
now teaming with New York-based Ranieri Partners LLC on a
proposal to buy repossessions from government mortgage companies
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  and manage the properties as rentals.  “Phoenix appears to be leading the nation in terms of
major metropolitan areas that are recovering,” Hawkes said.
“It’s considerably faster than many people thought.”  Bargain-hunting also attracted flocks of Canadians taking
advantage of a 28 percent currency gain versus the  U.S. dollar 
since March 2009 -- and winters with an average January high of
66 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees Celsius). Canadians edged out
Californians last year as the largest group of outside buyers,
with 4.2 percent of purchases, Orr said.  “My clients are here in full force,” said Diane Olson, a
Phoenix real estate agent who works with Canadian investors and
winter-home seekers. The transplant from Winnipeg, Manitoba,
where the temperature was minus 8 degrees Fahrenheit yesterday,
has brokered more than 500 deals since 2008 with Canadian
“snowbirds,” she said.  Six Arizona Months  Major, the retired  Vancouver  homebuilder, spent $400,000
for four properties during his 2010 investment foray, including
a three-bedroom foreclosure that he fixed up as his own winter
residence. He plans to spend six months a year in Arizona.  “There were so many listings the first time, you could
really take your pick,” Major said at the pizza restaurant,
where teenagers in shorts ate ice cream outside. “Now you can’t
bargain nearly as much. The whole attitude is different.”  A property similar to a house that Major bought for $85,000
in 2010 sold in October for about $102,000, he said.  Stanton, a Democratic former city councilman who was
elected mayor in November, said Phoenix needs to move from a
reliance on housing cycles toward more sustainable technology
and health-care jobs. His idea for a health and science
development, to be built on 600 acres (240 hectares) northeast
of downtown, was announced in his Jan. 3 inauguration speech. It
has the support of the  Mayo Clinic  and Arizona State University,
which would be partners in the project, Stanton said.  Phoenix Hit Hard  “Being disproportionately dependent on single-family homes
is the reason why this recession hit Phoenix so hard,” said
Stanton, himself the owner of an underwater house in central
Phoenix that he purchased in April 2007.  The hoped-for employment shift may already be under way.
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  broke ground last year on a $5 billion plant in
Chandler, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southeast of downtown
Phoenix, that will require “thousands” of temporary
construction and permanent jobs, said  Laura Anderson , a
spokeswoman for the world’s largest semiconductor maker. PayPal,
an online payment service owned by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , plans more hiring
after adding 700 jobs in 2011, said Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman
for the unit.  Phoenix had 30,000 of the state’s new positions in the 12
months through October, led by health care, transportation and
warehousing jobs, McPheters said.  Health-Care Growth  The proposed campus is “very exciting” and would attract
startup companies as well as international firms, said Wyatt Decker, chief executive officer of the Mayo Clinic’s Arizona
branch in Phoenix, which employs 400 physicians and scientists
and a total staff of 5,000. The state’s health-care sector has
grown even during the real estate recession, he said.  “We’re all rowing in the same direction,” Decker said of
policy makers such as Stanton and education and science
executives.  Even homebuilding has revived. Single-family construction
permits are expected to climb to 11,300 this year, up 66 percent
from a 2010 low, according to the average estimate of 13 Phoenix
market analysts surveyed by Arizona State University.  Meanwhile, investors like Major peck away at the real
estate overhang. Time spent in his new $25,000 outdoor spa, the
biggest cost of his foreclosure renovation, is a world away from
frozen Canadian winters, he said.  “We like it at night before bed, when it’s warm and all
the stars are out,” he said. “There’s an awful lot of rain and
dullness in Vancouver from October to April. And it’s cold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  