-- Qatar Islamic Drops as Earnings Miss Estimates, Dividend Cut: Doha Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-19T11:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/qatar-islamic-bank-drops-as-earnings-miss-estimates-doha-mover.html
Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK)  led declines in
the nation’s banking stocks after profit missed analysts’
estimates and the Shariah-compliant lender reduced its dividend.  The shares of the Persian Gulf country’s biggest Islamic
bank dropped 3.1 percent, the most since March 14, to 80.3
riyals, at the 1 p.m. close in Doha.  Doha Bank QSC (DHBK)  lost 2.9
percent after reporting earnings that matched estimates.  Qatar
National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the country’s biggest lender, retreated as
much as 0.5 percent. QIB and Doha Bank had the biggest
percentage declines on the country’s benchmark stock measure,
the  QE Index, (DSM)  which fell 1.1 percent.  QIB’s “net income missed consensus by a significant amount
which is now being priced in,” said  Ali Khan , London-based head
of Middle East and North Africa equities sales at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “The dividend has been reduced as well,
which usually creates negative price action.”  The bank’s full-year net income was  1.37 billion riyals 
($376 million) after 1.26 billion riyals a year earlier. The
 mean estimate  of eight analysts was for a profit of 1.46 billion
riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lender
plans to pay a 4.5 riyal-cash dividend compared with 5 riyals a
year earlier.  Qatar’s QE Banking Index dropped 1.5 percent, bringing its
drop for the year to 4.4 percent.  Doha Bank, the emirate’s third-largest bank by total loans,
posted an 18 percent increase in  2011 profit  to 1.24 billion
riyals. The company may increase the size of a $500 million bond
it plans to sell this quarter, said Chief Executive Officer
 Raghavan Seetharaman .  There are “limited positive surprises in bank earnings in
Qatar at the moment,” Khan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  