-- Qatar Airways Has Identified European Takeover Target, CEO Al Baker Says
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-19T17:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/qatar-airways-has-identified-european-takeover-target-chief-al-baker-says.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. is examining a
potential acquisition in  Europe , where it last year purchased a
stake in freight operator Cargolux International SA, Chief
Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said today.  The Gulf region’s second-largest airline has “identified”
a target or targets as it casts around for takeover prospects,
Al Baker said in a briefing at the Bahrain Air Show.  “We need to look at every business opportunity we can
get,” Al Baker said of prospects in Europe, while declining to
specify who talks are being held with. “I just want to make
sure Qatar Airways grows in a very sustained environment.”  Shares of Stockholm-based  SAS Group (SAS) , which said last week
it wasn’t in talks about a takeover by Qatar Air, rose as much
as 7.8 percent in the Swedish capital. Ireland’s  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL) , another state-backed European carrier linked with a
Middle Eastern takeover, advanced 9.1 percent.  Qatar Air, the biggest Gulf airline after Dubai-based
Emirates, last year purchased a 35 percent stake in Luxembourg-
based Cargolux, Europe’s largest specialist freight operator,
saying it aims to become a major player in the market by 2015.  ‘Minority Stakes’  “The prospect of a cash infusion is something few airlines
would dismiss out of hand in the current environment, though the
legislation makes it difficult,” said  Douglas McNeill , a
transport analyst at  Charles Stanley  in  London , referring to
rules limiting non-European investments to 49 percent. “There’s
a danger of collecting a great number of minority stakes.”  Such investments make most sense in markets like  Germany ,
where Gulf carriers encounter obstacles to entry, McNeill said.  Closely held Qatar Air is also interested in investing in
 India , though overseas carriers currently face hurdles that make
such a move impractical, Al Baker said at the Bahrain briefing.  “The climate for airlines to invest in India should be
conducive to proper business processes,” he said. “We will not
go to India just to be a partner -- we are going to help them
become more profitable, to get further investment, further
capital, but we also need a return. We’re a business entity.”  Any investment in India would also depend on the target
carrier’s cost structure and organization,  Al Baker  said.  SAS, the Nordic region’s biggest airline, surged 17 percent
on Jan. 10 after Norwegian newspaper Dagens Naeringsliv said
Qatar Air was interested in a purchase. The carrier, part-owned
by the governments of Sweden, Norway and  Denmark , later rejected
the report and the stock closed up 8.3 percent.  Spanair, TAP  SAS advanced 1.1 percent to 9.10 kroner as of the close
today, valuing it at 2.99 billion kroner ($442 million).  Doha-based Qatar Air has also been linked with a bid for 49
percent of Spanair SA, the Barcelona-headquartered carrier
controlled by the regional government of Catalonia. Expansion,
citing people close to the airline, said Oct. 27 that a bid
might consist of cash or planes to begin a long-haul service.  Qatar Air doesn’t want to buy Lisbon-based TAP SGPS SA, Al
Baker said June 14 after Valor Economico reported he had told
the  Portuguese government  he was interested in acquiring 49
percent of the state-controlled company. International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA CEO  Willie Walsh  has said he’d
like to invest in TAP if the company becomes available.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways said Dec. 19 that it had
agreed to provide  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  with $350 million in equity
financing and funds for planes while lifting its stake in the
German discount carrier from 2.99 percent to 29.2 percent. The
deal was approved this week, the Bonn-based Federal Cartel
Office said in a statement on its website.  Iran  Route  Ireland has no plans to sell its stake in Aer Lingus to
Etihad, a spokesman said Jan. 6 after Transport Minister Leo Varadkar scheduled a meeting with the Gulf company’s CEO, James Hogan. Talks focused on “tourism matters,” the spokesman said.  Gulf News reported earlier that the meeting would include a
discussion of Ireland’s 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus. The
Dublin-based company closed up 6 cents at 72 cents today.  Al Baker said he isn’t familiar with, nor interested in,
Etihad’s investment strategy.  The CEO said that  Qatar Airways  will continue with
operations to Iran, even after an increase in tensions after the
Islamic republic threatened to close the Straits of Hormuz if
western nations block its crude oil sales.  “We want to serve the people of Iran and we will continue
to go there,” he said. Qatar Air was due to last week add a
fourth Iranian city, Isfahan, to the network, it said Oc. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid at the Bahrain Air Show via 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  