-- Rand Strengthens to Two-Month High as South Africa Rates on Hold
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-19T14:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/rand-strengthens-to-two-month-high-amid-signs-that-china-may-relax-lending.html
The rand climbed to a two-month high
against the dollar after  South Africa ’s central bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said policy makers didn’t discuss the possibility of
cutting borrowing costs as they left  interest rates  unchanged.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 1.1 percent
to 7.9028 per dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 14. It
traded 0.7 percent up at 7.9363 per dollar as of 4:23 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Against the euro, it climbed 0.4 percent to
10.2296, the strongest on a closing basis since Sept. 15.  The Reserve Bank left the  repurchase rate  at 5.5 percent
for a seventh consecutive meeting, maintaining the country’s
yield advantage. South Africa’s benchmark rate compares with
0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.75 percent in the euro region.  “We view the  Reserve Bank ’s decision as positive for the
rand,” Tebogo Mosepele, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Interest rates at
current levels should continue to encourage rand bulls given
South Africa’s favorable relative yield differential.”  The rand has returned 2.6 percent this year in the carry
trade, in which investors borrow in countries that have low
interest rates and invest in high-yielding currencies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank kept its key rate steady in 2011 as the
worsening European debt crisis outweighed concerns about rising
prices. Inflation was unchanged at 6.1 percent in December,
exceeding the bank’s target for a second month, though lower
than economists forecast.  Accommodative Policy  The monetary policy stance is “accommodative and
supportive of the real economy,” Marcus said, adding that the
European debt crisis, which began in 2009 in  Greece  and has
spread to Italy and  Spain , threatens to erode growth in a region
that buys about a third of South African manufactured exports.  Investors have pared bets the central bank will increase
interest rates, with the three-month forward-rate agreement
contract starting in six months dropping for a third day to 5.65
percent, from a high of 5.71 percent on Jan. 16.  The rand advanced earlier after French and Spanish
borrowing costs decreased, adding to signs the European debt
crisis is easing.  The  European Central Bank  said in its monthly report today
that there are signs the economy is stabilizing and the ECB’s
record loans to financial institutions will help support growth.
The central bank said it will continue to support euro-area
banks.  “The worst-case  euro-zone  risk is now off the table,
although the outlook for the euro zone remains bleak,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote
in e-mailed comments today. “This is exactly the kind of
environment that might fuel a resurgence in risk appetite” and
boost investor demand for emerging-market assets, he added.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 pared gains,
with the yield falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.66 percent. The yield had dropped as low as 6.61
percent before the rate announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  