-- TransCanada May Shorten Keystone XL
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-01-19T20:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/transcanada-may-shorten-keystone-xl-bypass-federal-review.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  may shorten the
initial path for its rejected Keystone XL project, bringing oil
from Montana’s Bakken Shale to refiners in the  Gulf of Mexico 
and removing the need for federal approval.  “There certainly is a potential opportunity to connect the
Bakken to the  Gulf Coast ,” Alex Pourbaix, TransCanada’s
president of energy and oil pipelines, said in a telephone
interview today. “That is obviously something we’ll be looking
into over the next few weeks.”  TransCanada’s $7 billion Keystone XL proposal to bring
crude from  Canada ’s oil sands to the Gulf was rejected yesterday
by the Obama administration. The project required U.S. approval
because it crossed the border with Canada. The company may seek
that approval after it builds the segment from  Montana  to the
Gulf, Pourbaix said.  The Bakken shale-rock formation is estimated to hold as
much as 4.3 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil in
 North Dakota  and Montana, according to a 2008 U.S. Geological
Survey  report . Oil production in North Dakota surged 42 percent
to 510,000 barrels a day in November, exceeding the output of
Ecuador.  Production in the Bakken field may reach 750,000 barrels a
day this year,  Edward Morse , managing director of commodities
research for Citigroup Inc., said at a conference in Calgary
today.  Cushing Pipeline  As originally envisioned, Keystone XL would have carried as
much as 830,000 barrels a day from Canada’s oil sands and the
Bakken field along a 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) path to  Texas 
refineries. The Bakken drilling boom may allow TransCanada to
begin building the portion from Baker, Montana, to the Gulf,
using much of the original route, Pourbaix said.  The company is also mulling whether to build the pipeline
from Cushing, Oklahoma, to the Gulf, he said. If customers
prefer the Bakken-to-Texas route, Calgary-based TransCanada
would build that first.  Changing the project would allow TransCanada to use
existing pipe materials and rights-of-way. The company would
apply later for federal permission to connect the pipeline to
Canadian oil sands and complete Keystone XL as originally
envisioned, Pourbaix said.  “We believe there may be the potential to accelerate the
construction of some elements of the pipeline,” he said.  Nebraska Re-Route  TransCanada has already paid C$1.9 billion ($1.88 billion)
for the Keystone XL project, which could still be completed by
2014, Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said in a
presentation to investors today. The company owns the rights to
93 percent of the land it needed to build the original Keystone
XL route, Girling said.  Quanta Services (PWR)  Inc. was contracted to
build the Keystone XL pipeline for TransCanada.  TransCanada agreed in November to re-route the project to
avoid the environmentally sensitive Sandhills region in
Nebraska. Discussions with the state on a new route may be
completed by September, Pourbaix said.  The U.S. State Department rejected the permit application
yesterday after Congress set a Feb. 21 deadline for a decision.
President Barack Obama said the “arbitrary” time line wouldn’t
have allowed enough time to make a decision on the new Nebraska
path.  The pipeline has already won support in Montana,  South
Dakota , Oklahoma and Texas.  “There’s no bigger advocate for the Keystone pipeline than
me,” Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We have plenty of oil in
Montana, we need the ability to get it to market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  