-- RBS Says Former Trader in Singapore Sought to Manipulate Libor for Profits
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-01-19T05:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/rbs-says-former-singapore-trader-sought-to-manipulate-libor-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
said it did nothing wrong when it fired a former  Singapore 
trader because he sought to manipulate London interbank offered
rates to boost his own profits.  Tan Chi Min, the former trader, sued the bank over his
dismissal and is seeking to recoup $1.5 million in bonuses and
3.3 million RBS shares that he claims he’s owed.  Tan deserved to be fired because he was guilty of “gross
misconduct,” RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender,
said in court papers filed in Singapore High Court late
yesterday. He tried to improperly influence RBS’s rate setters
from 2007 to 2011 and persuade them to submit Libor rates at
particular levels to his benefit, RBS said.  RBS is cooperating with investigations by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission,  U.S. Department of Justice 
and European Commission into whether Libor had been manipulated.
Since as early as 2007, investors have accused several banks on
the Libor panel of distorting market prices by hiding true
borrowing costs, leading to a series of lawsuits filed in 2011
that are making their way through courts in Europe and the U.S.  Tan said in his complaint dated Dec. 27 that he was in no
position to influence the rate on his own. The former head of
delta trading for  RBS’s (RBS)  global banking and markets division in
Singapore said the bank failed to detail the allegations against
him and didn’t specify how he had improperly influenced the
setting of Libor.  Suresh Nair, Tan’s lawyer, declined today to comment.  Rate Setting  The British Bankers’ Association sets the Libor rate after
receiving input from 16 banks, including RBS. The data from the
banks reflect how much it would cost them to borrow from each
other for various periods of time, in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Thomson Reuters Corp. compiles the rates
daily for the association.  The benchmark determines  interest rates  on an estimated
$360 trillion of financial instruments around the world,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements . The rate
represents the average of the collected figures, minus several
of the highest and lowest quotes.  The delta trading desks at investment banks handle trades
for clients, typically helping them to speculate on, or hedge
the performance of, a basket of securities.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  