-- Reading Lips Reveals That Presidents Keep Promises: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/reading-lips-reveals-that-presidents-keep-promises-ezra-klein.html
I’ve been taking a hard look at the
policy platforms of the Republican presidential contenders --
with some surprising results.  For all the attention that  Jon Huntsman  got as the race’s
sole moderate, his plan called for more -- and more regressive -
- tax cuts than anything Mitt Romney put forward, and his
 approach  to entitlement reform was well to Romney’s right.  Rick Santorum ’s post-Iowa boomlet focused on his blue-collar
credentials, but on close analysis, his  plans  were far more
regressive than those offered by silver-spoon candidates Romney
and Huntsman. And though Romney is probably the most moderate
candidate in the race, his campaign is well to the  right  of
George W. Bush’s 2000 effort.  I keep running into the same reaction: Who cares? It’s a
fool’s game to spend too much time analyzing campaign policy
proposals. Everyone knows that politicians make all kinds of
crazy promises during elections that they jettison as soon as
they take office.  At least everyone thinks they know that. But it’s not true.
In an  article  for the January/February issue of the Washington
Monthly, political scientist Jonathan Bernstein argues that the
evidence on this point is clear: “Presidents usually try to
enact the policies they advocate during the campaign.”  We can all think of exceptions, of course.  George H.W. Bush 
told the country to read his lips -- a turn of speech that’s
always confused me, incidentally; is lip-reading really so much
more accurate than listening? -- and then he raised taxes
anyway. But such betrayals are not the rule.  Promises Made  Bernstein relies on two studies from the 1980s to make his
point. In 1984, Michael Krukones published “Promises and
Performance: Presidential Campaigns as Policy Predictors,” and
found that “about 75 percent of the promises made by presidents
from  Woodrow Wilson  through  Jimmy Carter  were kept.” In 1985,
Jeff Fishel published “Presidents and Promises: From Campaign
Pledge to Presidential Performance,” which argued “that
presidents invariably attempt to carry out their promises; the
main reason some pledges are not redeemed is congressional
opposition, not presidential flip-flopping.”  More recent evidence supports this view, too.
PolitiFact.com is  tracking  more than 500 promises  Barack Obama 
made during the 2008 presidential campaign. So far, it has found
he kept 162, passed a compromised version of 50, and has either
been rebuffed by Congress or is making progress toward 238. In
only 56 cases -- about 10 percent -- has Obama actually broken a
promise, and in the biggest of those cases -- ending the Bush
tax cuts for families making more than $250,000 -- there’s a
good chance the promise will be kept when the tax cuts expire at
the end of this year.  Even the elder Bush’s famed betrayal on taxes shows the
importance of campaign promises. Bush, who was dealing with
large deficits created, in part, by tax cuts passed by his
predecessor, tried mightily to balance the  budget  using spending
cuts. But Bush wasn’t a dictator, and Congress was controlled by
Democrats. So Bush eventually compromised.  Reasonable people disagree about whether the conservative
backlash to Bush’s compromise was a significant factor in his
1992 loss. But it certainly didn’t help. The resulting suspicion
among conservatives that anti-tax politicians would renege on
their campaign promises led to  Grover Norquist ’s anti-tax
pledge, a highly effective enforcement device. Bush’s betrayal,
in other words, was swiftly punished by his base and led to more
effective policing of Republican politicians. It turns out that
“Read my Lips” isn’t evidence that politicians don’t keep their
campaign promises. It’s one of many reasons that they do.  Promises Broken  Bernstein speculates that the public believes politicians
routinely backtrack because promises that are betrayed “get a
lot more attention than do the ones that are redeemed, which
often can seem by the time they are finally acted on as foregone
conclusions, not news.” That’s probably part of it. Another
part, I think, is that the public conflates “promises that are
broken” with “promises that are not kept.” Presidents support
all kinds of policies that Congress ignores, opposes or
modifies. As a result, presidents routinely overpromise and
underdeliver. But the fact remains: Presidents at least try to
deliver on the vast majority of their campaign promises.  In fact, it’s worth asking why presidents don’t backtrack
on their promises more often. Given that many of these vows are
made during primary campaigns, when candidates are eager to
appeal to a narrow slice of the electorate, often in a single
state, you would think that, once elected, presidents would
jettison far more of their promises.  Bush’s experience surely serves as a deterrent. But
candidates also tend to promise the kind of policies that they
actually think are good. They promise policies that attract
strong backing in their political party, which is another
argument for watching their policy proposals closely. If you
take seriously the idea that political parties are composed of
people who try to use the most appealing candidate as a vehicle
for the most extreme agenda they can get away with -- and, as
I’ve  argued  previously, you should take that idea seriously --
then watching candidates’ policy promises tells us what their
party actually wants. Once in office, politicians will try to
please their party, if only to forestall a primary challenge.  Ultimately, there is no alternative to taking policy
positions seriously. Should we watch a candidate’s political
positioning? His ads? His record in a state where the political
parties and interest groups are very different from what they
are on the national level?  The evidence says no. Although presidents mostly follow
their policy promises, they typically ignore their political
positioning. Obama ran on changing Washington, but he’s worked
within the system to achieve his goals.  George W. Bush  ran as a
“uniter not a divider,” but his agenda caused deep divisions,
and he decisively chose a side. In the end, politicians position
themselves in whatever way advances their goals. And those
goals, put simply, are getting elected and passing their policy
preferences into law. We don’t yet know who will be elected in
2012. But we do know the policy preferences of the major
contenders. As a result, long before he is elected, we will know
the agenda of the next president.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in  Washington  at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 