-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Rise Most This Year as Investor Risk Demand Climbs
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-19T22:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/treasuries-drop-after-u-s-jobless-claims-decline-more-than-expected.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
the most this year after fewer Americans than forecast filed for
 unemployment benefits  and demand for  U.S. debt  as a refuge eased
following successful bond auctions by Spain and  France .  Even with investor demand for riskier asset rising, the
Treasury sold $15 billion of 10-year inflation-indexed notes at
a negative  yield  for the first time. The difference in yields
between two- and 10-year notes widened to 175 basis points, the
most since Dec. 12.  “We are seeing a flight away from Treasuries into riskier
assets,” said  Ian Lyngen , a strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC
in Stamford,  Connecticut . “The dramatic drop in jobless claims
reflects a healing job market and the job situation is the one
part of the recovery that had been missing so far.”  Yields on  10-year  notes rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in November 2021 fell 23/32, or $7.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32. Two-year note yields rose one
basis point to 0.23 percent. Thirty-year bond yields increased
eight basis points to 3.04 percent.  The 10-year yield earlier rose 10 basis points, the most
since Dec. 20.  Jobless  claims  plunged by 50,000 to 352,000 in the week
ended Jan. 14, the lowest level since April 2008, the Labor
Department said.  Greece  began a second day of talks with its
creditors to reach an accord to lower its debt, reducing concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen.  Corporate Offerings  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold $4.5 billion of bonds, while
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. plan offerings, as
lenders lock in reduced borrowing costs amid a rally in their
debt.  “The corporate supply adds pressure on Treasuries as it’s
just more supply that has to be digested in the market,” said
 Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York at  Societe Generale ,
one of the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at
Treasury auctions. “The market is more comfortable dipping into
risk assets right now.”  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, rise or
fall in value tracking changes in the  consumer price index 
calculated by the Labor Department. Inflation adjustments will
be added to the notes’ principal and be payable at maturity.
Today’s auction was sold at a so-called high yield of negative
0.046 percent.  ‘Solid’ Auction  “The auction was solid across the board at record low
yields,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in  New
York  BNP Paribas, a primary dealer. “There is concern about
potential inflation going forward. Broadly, the core of U.S
inflation remains very strong, and that is positive for the TIPS
market.”  The cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in
December for a second month. The unchanged reading in the
consumer-price index reported by the Labor Department today in
 Washington  compared with a median forecast of a 0.1 percent
gain, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 78 economists.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.91 higher than the
average of 2.79 for the past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 36.3 percent of the securities,
compared with 41.46 percent at the past 10 sales.  Direct
bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, bought 13.4 percent of the sale,
versus 9.67 percent of the last 10 auctions.  Break-Even Rate  The last offering of 10-year TIPS, an $11 billion sale on
Nov. 17, drew a yield of 0.099 percent.  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation over the life of the
debt known as the break-even rate, was 2.10 percentage points.
The average over the past decade is 2.13 percentage points.  TIPS returned 14 percent in 2011, versus 9.8 percent for
conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  “The global economic outlook will remain challenged,”
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist in
 Stamford , Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS
Securities primary dealer unit, wrote in a note to clients. “We
advocate that longer-term investors use back-ups to reload on
longs,” or bets bonds will gain.  The Fed bought $4.9 billion of notes due from January 2018
to November 2019. The central bank is replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries including TIPS in its holdings with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs under a plan announced
in September.  Spain, Greece  Next week’s government auctions include $35 billion of two-
year notes on Jan. 24, the same amount of five-year debt on the
following day and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Jan.
26, according the Treasury department.  Spain  sold 6.61 billion euros ($8.5 billion) of bonds,
compared with a maximum target of 4.5 billion euros, while
French yields fell to 1.05 percent from 1.58 percent in October
at its auction of 2014 notes.  Greece’s government and private creditors headed into a
second day of talks in a push to reach an accord that would
reduce the nation’s debt and avert a collapse of the economy.  “There is more optimism on a Greece deal, good auctions in
Spain and France, and the economic data was generally good
across the board, which is weighing on Treasuries,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “Still, we will need a lot more positive news here
and abroad to get us much higher in yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  