-- Treasury Auctions 10-Year Inflation Debt at Negative Yields for First Time
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-01-19T21:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/treasury-auctions-10-year-inflation-debt-at-negative-yields-for-first-time.html
The U.S. sold a record $15 billion
in 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities at a negative
yield for the first time with investors willing to pay a premium
to guard against the threat of rising consumer prices.  The TIPS were auctioned at a so-called high yield of
negative 0.046 percent, compared with a forecast of negative
0.027 percent, the average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of eight of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers that are
required to bid on U.S. debt sales. The last four sales of five-
year TIPS were at negative yields.  Inflation-indexed notes rise or fall in value tracking
changes in the consumer price index calculated by the Labor
Department. Inflation adjustments will be added to the notes’
principal and be payable at maturity. Yields on conventional
Treasuries at almost record lows has raised the attractiveness
of TIPS to some investors as a hedge against inflation as the
economy shows signs of strengthening.  “You’re losing purchasing power for the privilege of
lending to the U.S. government,” said Eric Van Nostrand, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at primary dealer Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The success of this auction suggests demand
for TIPS remains strong.”  The cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in
December for a second month. The unchanged reading in the
 consumer-price index  reported by the Labor Department today in
 Washington  compared with a median forecast of a 0.1 percent
gain, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 78 economists.  Break-Even Rate  Consumer prices increased 3 percent in the 12 months ended
in December, the biggest annual gain since 2007, or since the
start of the global financial crisis.  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation over the life of the
debt known as the break-even rate, was 2.10 percentage points.
The average over the past decade is 2.13 percentage points.  TIPS returned 14 percent in 2011, versus 9.8 percent for
conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  The 2.91 ratio of bids to debt sold today topped the
average of 2.79 at the previous 10 offerings. Indirect bidders,
a class of investors that includes foreign central banks,
purchased 36.3 percent of the securities, compared with 41.5
percent at the past 10 sales. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer
investors that place their bids directly with the Treasury,
bought 13.4 percent, versus 9.67 percent of the last 10
auctions.  The last offering of 10-year TIPS, an $11 billion sale on
Nov. 17, drew a yield of 0.099 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  