-- Record Philippine Stock Inflows Show Confidence in Aquino GDP Growth Plans
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-20T08:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/record-philippine-stock-inflows-show-confidence-in-aquino-gdp-growth-plans.html
Investors are pouring record amounts
of money into  Philippine stocks , a sign of growing confidence in
President  Benigno Aquino ’s plan to boost economic growth to a
level that may exceed  China ’s expansion.  Foreign investors  bought $1.1 billion of Philippine shares
in the past two months, the most since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in 1999. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 9.2
percent in the period, the most among benchmark equity gauges in
 emerging markets , and closed at an all-time high yesterday.  Aquino, 51, is boosting government spending to a record
this year as he seeks to spur the $200 billion economy’s growth
rate to as fast as 8 percent from about 5 percent last year.
While Bank of the Philippine Islands, the nation’s top-
performing equity  fund  manager, says the rally will continue as
falling interest rates boost  earnings  and infrastructure
spending accelerates, Manulife Asset Management says the most
expensive  valuations  since 2004 will limit gains.  “The story of the Philippines is that it’s getting re-
rated by the market for its resilient, domestic driven
economy,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage about $15.3
billion at Manila-based Bank of the Philippine Islands.
“ Consumer spending  will grow at a healthy clip this year on the
back of aggressive government pump priming.”  Relative Value  The Southeast Asian nation is pursuing faster growth just
as China, the biggest emerging economy, tempers its expansion
goals and India struggles to maintain economic momentum. China
has set a 7 percent growth target in its five-year plan that
runs through 2015, down from more than 9 percent last year.
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said this month that his
nation’s gross domestic product will rise about 7 percent in the
year ending March 31, less than the 7.5 percent rate he forecast
in December.  The  Philippine stock index  is valued at 17 times earnings,
or 39 percent higher than the Shanghai Composite Index, the
widest gap in nine years, according to monthly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Philippine gauge trades at an 11 percent premium
to the BSE  India  Sensitive Index, the biggest since February
2009, the data show.  The Philippine stock measure gained 1 percent today to a
record 4,747.90. The country’s currency, the peso, rose 0.5
percent, while the yield on the government’s 7.125 percent notes
due November 2013 fell 14 basis points to 2.65 percent. The
central bank lowered yesterday its benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 4.25 percent,
matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Infrastructure Growth  Domestic spending will probably support economic growth as
overseas demand weakens,  Amando Tetangco , governor of  Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas , said in a statement yesterday.  “This is a very stable economy,” Stephen Corry, the Hong
Kong-based chief investment strategist at LGT Group, which
oversees about $12 billion of client assets in  Asia , said by
telephone yesterday. “Valuations in the equity market are high
relative to the rest of the region but there is still potential
for growth there, particularly in regards to infrastructure.”  Aquino unveiled a 72 billion-peso ($1.7 billion) stimulus
package of public works and poverty reduction projects in
October to bolster growth. Property and construction stocks have
climbed during the past two months on speculation Aquino’s
program will boost profits.  Vista Land, Ayala  Vista Land & Lifescapes Inc. , a Manila-based homebuilder,
advanced 9.3 percent after the government named  Ayala Corp. (AC)  as
the preferred bidder for a road project on Dec. 15, the first
development to be awarded under Aquino’s program.  Vista Land plans to build houses and commercial buildings
on more than 500 hectares of land it owns near the road. The
shares climbed 1 percent yesterday and trade for 6.4 times
estimated 2012 earnings, according to the average of six analyst
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have had the land for years and this road project will
certainly enhance the value,” Ricardo Tan, a vice president at
Vista Land, said by phone on Jan. 17. “This will make life
easier for us to attract partners and customers for the
development.”  The government said on Jan. 3 it may offer eight to 16
infrastructure projects to investors worth up to $3.2 billion
this year. Ayala and  Metro Pacific Tollways Corp. (TOL)  are among
companies that have expressed interest in the projects,
according to Cosette Canilao, executive director of the program.  Aquino Is Bullish  Manila-based Ayala, which owns the nation’s largest
building company, has climbed 16 percent in the past two months
and trades for 17 times estimated profit.  Metro Pacific
Investments Corp. (MPI) , the Manila-based parent of Metro Pacific
Tollways, gained 7.4 percent and is valued at 14 times earnings
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are eagerly waiting for the projects to come on
stream,” Jose Lim, president at Metro Pacific, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Certainly we intend to participate in
these projects and at the moment Metro Pacific has made
unsolicited proposals for several projects.”  Aquino said in a Jan. 11 speech in  Manila  that the stock
market may extend gains because the country has become “more
economically stable” and businesses are “more profitable.”
Earnings in the  Philippines  index may climb 20 percent in the
next 12 months, compared with the 14 percent gain forecast for
the MSCI emerging markets index, according to analyst
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Cheap’  Stocks in the Philippines and other Southeast Asian
countries may lag behind other Asian markets this year because
their valuations are “not cheap”, Linda Csellak, the Hong
Kong-based head of Asia Pacific equities at Manulife Asset
Management, said in a Jan. 17 interview. Csellak said her firm
is buying shares in China and India on expectations their
central banks will ease monetary policy as inflation slows.  The last time Philippine stock purchases by foreign
investors approached current levels was in July 2007, just as
the Philippine  stock index  entered a  bear market , data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  A potential credit-rating upgrade by S&P will spur further
gains in stocks, according to Rico Gomez, a  money manager  at
Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.  The ratings company raised its outlook on the country’s
long-term foreign-currency rating Dec. 16, citing “strong
external liquidity and signs of improving growth prospects.”
The Philippines is rated BB, or two levels below investment
grade. The government is hoping for an upgrade in the next two
to three months, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said on Jan. 13.  “A ratings upgrade will allow investors to re-rate the
market,” said Gomez, who helps manage about $1.5 billion and
favors infrastructure and property stocks. “That could push the
index to go beyond 5,000 within the year and sustain
valuations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 