-- Remy Cointreau Sales Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-01-19T09:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/remy-sales-growth-beats-estimates-as-chinese-cognac-sales-soar.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ,  France ’s second-
biggest distiller, fell the most in more than three months in
Paris trading after forecasting a slower rate of profit growth
in the second half of the financial year.  Operating profit for the year through March may rise 15
percent to 18 percent, excluding acquisitions and currency
shifts, Finance Director Frederic Pflanz said on a conference
call today. Remy reported a 31 percent gain in the first half.  “He’s given very cautious guidance,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London . Pflanz
didn’t give a reason for the probable slowdown in earnings
growth, though he said the Paris-based company plans to boost
advertising and promotional spending.  Remy shares fell as much as 5.9 percent, the  steepest 
intraday decline since Oct. 4, even after the company reported
growth in third-quarter sales that was double the pace analysts
expected. Cognac sales in  Asia  boomed in advance of the Chinese
New Year, which occurs 11 days earlier than last year.  So-called organic sales, which exclude acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations, rose 31 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31. The median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was for 15 percent growth.  Revenue for the nine months through December rose to 821
million euros ($1.1 billion), representing organic growth of 23
percent, the company said. Sales rose 18 percent on that basis
in the first six months of the year, Remy said in November.  Chinese New Year  Organic sales at the cognac unit soared 37 percent over the
nine-month period, aided by the early Chinese New Year and
drinkers buying more-expensive bottles of  Remy Martin . The
Chinese New Year is Jan. 23, while it was on Feb. 3 in 2011.  “Taking into account the exceptional items included in the
third quarter, the group anticipates a decline in the fourth
quarter,” the company said. “However, a strong full-year
increase in turnover should be posted.”  Remy was down 4 percent at 63.74 euros as of 10:38 a.m.,
reducing the  stock’s gain  this year to 2.7 percent.  Sales at the liqueurs and spirits unit rose 8 percent in
the nine months and 10 percent in the third quarter as more
consumers in the U.S. and  Europe  bought Cointreau.  Remy got about three-quarters of operating income from
cognac sales last year, and has benefited for strong demand for
the spirit in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  