-- Renewable Energy Little Changed in Trading Debut After Pricing Below Offer
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/renewable-energy-rises-in-public-debut-after-pricing-below-range.html
Renewable Energy Group Inc. (REGI) , the
biggest U.S. biodiesel maker, was little changed in its trading
debut after raising $72 million in an initial public offering,
less than first proposed.  The shares rose 1 percent to $10.10 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The Ames, Iowa-based company, which turns ingredients
including soybean oil into biodiesel for cars and trucks, sold
7.2 million shares for $10 apiece after earlier offering them
for $13 to $15.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  led the offering
for the company, which is trading under the symbol REGI on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  Renewable failed to fetch its asking price after seeking a
valuation three times higher than Archer Daniels Midland Co.,
the world’s biggest grain processor and a competing biodiesel
producer. The IPO is the first in the U.S. this year after
stocks that debuted in 2011 lost an average of 4.2 percent
percent through yesterday, as global economic turmoil sapped
investors’ appetite for risk.  The midpoint of the IPO price range valued  Renewable Energy 
at $401 million, or about 0.6 times revenue of $627 million in
the 12 months through Sept. 30. That’s about three times the
comparable ratio of 0.2 for ADM, which has a market value of
more than $19 billion. The IPO was the first biofuel offering
since June, when Kior Inc. raised $162 million and then lost
more than 30 percent of its value.  Renewable Energy is a “pure commodity business,” whose
profitability depends on how it hedges against price changes,
said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. Prices for agricultural commodities such as soybeans are
tougher to predict than diesel prices linked to crude oil
because they are affected by factors such as weather and how
many crops farmers choose to plant, he said.  First IPO  The company has been reducing its dependence on  soybean oil 
since 2009 after prices of the commodity increased almost
fivefold in seven years to 70 cents a pound, according to its
filing. About 9 percent of Renewable Energy’s feedstock was
soybean oil in 2010, compared with 22 percent in 2009, with the
remainder coming from inedible animal fat, used cooking oil and
inedible corn oil, its filing shows.  Still, “the markets for used cooking oil and inedible corn
oil are in their nascent stages,” meaning Renewable Energy
can’t make forward contracts for its ingredients at fixed
prices, the filing shows. Losses from hedging in 2010 widened to
$1.2 million from $1.1 million in 2009.  On-Road Vehicles  Most biodiesel in the U.S. is used as part of a  blend  with
petroleum-based  diesel fuel  for on-road vehicles, according to
the filing.  Oil companies  must blend 36 billion gallons of
biofuel by 2022, including 1 billion gallons a year of biodiesel
starting in 2012, according to a U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency  regulation .  Pilot Travel Centers LLC, the operator of highway truck
stops, is Renewable Energy’s biggest customer, accounting for 29
percent of revenue in 2010, according to the filing.  Kior,  Gevo Inc. (GEVO)  and  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , all backed by billionaire
 Vinod Khosla , are developing so-called advanced biofuels,
including hydrocarbons that can be processed into replacements
for gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. Renewable Energy, in
contrast, is considered a “first generation” biofuel company
and is more similar to corn ethanol producers, Molchanov said.  Gevo, valued at about 2.6 times sales in the 12 months
through Sept. 30, dropped 58 percent in trading through
yesterday since its IPO in February 2011. Amyris was down about
34 percent since its debut in September 2010. None of the
companies is profitable.  Annual Losses  Renewable Energy’s net income in the first nine months of
2011 was $781,000, following annual net losses from 2008 through
2010 totaling $106.3 million. The U.S. biodiesel industry faced
a downturn starting in 2008 because of anti-dumping duties
imposed by the European Union, the global financial crisis and a
higher cost of soybean oil, according to the filing.  The company planned to offer about 6.9 million shares, and
owners including U.S. Renewables Group LLC,  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , ED&F Man
Holdings Ltd. and NGP Energy Technology Partners planned to sell
about 343,000 shares, according to the original terms of the
offering.  Renewable Energy planned to use the proceeds to buy a
factory it is currently leasing and to invest in new processing
technologies, its prospectus showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  