-- Renewable Energy Raises $72 Million, Pricing Shares Below Range
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-19T13:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/renewable-energy-raises-72-million-pricing-shares-below-range.html
Renewable Energy Group Inc. (REGI) , the
biggest U.S. biodiesel maker, raised $72 million in its initial
public offering, pricing the shares below the proposed range.  The company, which turns ingredients including  soybean oil 
into biodiesel for cars and trucks, sold 7.2 million shares for
$10 each, according to a statement today. Renewable Energy had
earlier offered them for $13 to $15. The stock will begin
trading today on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol REGI.  Renewable Energy completed the first IPO this year and was
one of at least nine companies that have scheduled dates to
complete U.S. offerings in 2012, even as those that went public
last year dropped an average of 4.2 percent through yesterday,
Bloomberg data show. The IPO was the first biofuel offering
since June, when Kior Inc. raised $162 million and then lost 30
percent of its value.  The midpoint of the IPO price range valued  Renewable Energy 
at $401 million, or about 0.6 times revenue of $627 million in
the 12 months through Sept. 30. That’s about three times the
comparable ratio of 0.2 for  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest grain processor, which has a market value of
more than $19 billion and also makes biodiesel.  Renewable Energy is a “pure commodity business,” whose
profitability depends on how it hedges against price changes,
said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. Prices for agricultural commodities such as soybeans are
tougher to predict than diesel prices linked to crude oil
because they are affected by factors such as weather and how
many crops farmers choose to plant, he said.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  led the offering for the
Ames, Iowa-based company.  Soybean Prices  Renewable Energy has been reducing its dependence on
soybean oil since 2009 after prices of the commodity increased
almost fivefold in seven years to 70 cents a pound, according to
its filing. About 9 percent of Renewable Energy’s feedstock was
soybean oil in 2010, compared with 22 percent in 2009, with the
remainder coming from inedible animal fat, used cooking oil and
inedible corn oil, its filing shows.  Still, “the markets for used cooking oil and inedible corn
oil are in their nascent stages,” meaning Renewable Energy
can’t make forward contracts for its ingredients at fixed
prices, the filing shows. Losses from hedging in 2010 widened to
$1.2 million from $1.1 million in 2009.  On-Road Vehicles  Most biodiesel in the U.S. is used as part of a  blend  with
petroleum-based  diesel fuel  for on-road vehicles, according to
the filing.  Oil companies  must blend 36 billion gallons of
biofuel by 2022, including 1 billion gallons a year of biodiesel
starting in 2012, according to a U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency  regulation .  Pilot Travel Centers LLC, the operator of highway truck
stops, is Renewable Energy’s biggest customer, accounting for 29
percent of revenue in 2010, according to the filing.  Kior,  Gevo Inc. (GEVO)  and  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , all backed by billionaire
 Vinod Khosla , are developing so-called advanced biofuels,
including hydrocarbons that can be processed into replacements
for gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. Renewable Energy, in
contrast, is considered a “first generation” biofuel company
and is more similar to corn ethanol producers, Molchanov said.  Gevo, which is valued at about 2.6 times sales in the 12
months through Sept. 30, dropped 58 percent in trading through
yesterday since its IPO in February 2011. Amyris is down about
34 percent since its debut in September 2010. None of the
companies is profitable.  Annual Losses  Renewable Energy’s net income in the first nine months of
2011 was $781,000, following annual net losses from 2008 through
2010 totaling $106.3 million. The U.S. biodiesel industry faced
a downturn starting in 2008 because of anti-dumping duties
imposed by the European Union, the global financial crisis and a
higher cost of soybean oil, according to the filing.  The company planned to offer about 6.9 million shares, and
owners including U.S. Renewables Group LLC,  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , ED&F Man
Holdings Ltd. and NGP Energy Technology Partners planned to sell
about 343,000 shares, according to the original terms of the
offering.  Renewable Energy planned to use the proceeds to buy a
factory it is currently leasing and to invest in new processing
technologies, its prospectus showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  