-- Republicans Running as Outsiders Getting Taxpayer-Paid Pensions
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/republicans-running-as-outsiders-are-recipients-of-taxpayer-paid-pensions.html
While campaigning on calls to reduce
 government spending , three of the five Republican presidential
candidates are receiving or will be eligible to draw taxpayer-
financed pensions. So would a fourth if he hadn’t opted out of
the plan.  Newt Gingrich , 68, gets a gross annual federal pension of
more than $100,000, according to a report from the U.S. Office
of Personnel Management released through the Freedom of
Information Act.  He’s not alone; more than 350 former U.S. lawmakers and
congressional staff top $100,000 a year, and many more get lower
pensions.  “If there’s one thing that can present a PR problem for a
self-identified fiscal conservative, it’s the pay and perks that
such a person can earn in elective office,” said Pete Sepp,
executive vice president at the National Taxpayers’ Union, an
Alexandria, Virginia-based group that advocates for lower taxes.  Rick Perry , 61, is getting a Texas state pension of more
than $92,000 a year for past jobs even as he draws a taxpayer
salary as governor. Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum ,
53, will be eligible for a reduced pension at age 56 or a full
one at 62. Santorum, who served for four years in the House and
12 in the Senate, would likely be eligible for an annual pension
of almost $40,000, Sepp estimated.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, 64, isn’t
eligible for a state pension, having served only four years in
his post and declining to take a salary. Representative  Ron Paul , 76, has refused to participate in the federal system
during his almost 22 years representing  Texas  in Congress.  ‘It is Immoral’  “It is immoral that someone spend so much time in Congress
that they even should think about getting retirement benefits,”
Paul said in a 1997 release on his House website. “To expect
those benefits to be paid by taxpayers at rates no citizen can
ever hope to  actually earn  is even more unreasonable.”  Gingrich opposed the pension system as too lavish when he
first entered Congress and then decided to participate in 1989,
according to a 1995 New York Times story. The payments are set
by years of participation and salary levels, and the system was
revised in 1987.  Gingrich, who served in the House from 1979 to 1999,
including four years as speaker, was receiving $8,350 a month as
of Sept. 29, according to the OPM report. The net payout varies,
depending on deductions for items such as health care. In
Gingrich’s case, his net payment was $4,272.20 a month as of
Sept. 29, according to the report.  Targeting Salaries  Gingrich’s campaign spokesman, R.C. Hammond, didn’t respond
to a request to confirm the pension or say why Gingrich changed
his mind about entering the system.  Perry campaign spokesman Mark Miner didn’t respond to e-
mail and phone messages. Santorum’s campaign also didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  Gingrich in the past has taken aim at what he calls
excessive federal salaries, suggesting during a November 2010
speech that postal workers could be paid a third of what they
earn now. He also said states should be able to declare
bankruptcy to get out from under pension obligations.  Congress should create a venue for bankruptcy so, instead
of seeking federal aid, states will be told to “sit down with
all your government employee unions and look at their health
plans and their pension plans,” Gingrich said during the speech
at the Institute for Policy Innovation. “And frankly if they
don’t want to change, our recommendation is you go into
 bankruptcy court  and let the bankruptcy judge change it.”  Budget Balancer  Hammond suggested the former Georgia lawmaker’s pension
doesn’t contradict his drive to cut government spending.  “Hey, didn’t Newt balance the  federal budget  four times?”
Hammond said in an e-mail.  If a member of Congress were elected president, he or she
couldn’t collect a federal pension while in office, Sepp said.
After retiring as president, both pensions would be available
simultaneously.  Last year, Congress fully funded the U.S. General Services
Administration’s presidential pension request at $217,000 for
the last two presidents,  George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton . It
also funded a request of $205,000 for the two other living ex-
presidents,  George H.W. Bush  and  Jimmy Carter , according to
documents released by the administration.  The original argument for the congressional pension system
for lawmakers was that it would make them more independent and
encourage turnover, Sepp said. That hasn’t happened, he said.  “It is over-generous and has outgrown virtually all of its
justifications,” because members don’t need the safety net, he
said. “Congressional service is definitely a way to spin straw
into gold. Even if you were modestly skilled in office you can
likely land into a nice career outside of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  