-- Thai Rice Production Seen Climbing to Record After Floods
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-01-19T09:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/rice-output-in-biggest-shipper-thailand-seen-gaining-to-record-after-flood.html
Rice production in  Thailand , the
world’s largest exporter, may climb 16 percent to an all-time
high in the season from October as farmers expand plantings to
offset losses from floods that inundated farms this crop year.  Total output may surge to 36 million metric tons, split
between 25 million tons in the main crop and a second harvest of
11 million tons, Apichart Jongskul, secretary-general of the
Office of Agricultural Economics, said in an interview today.
Annual production may total 31.05 million tons in the current
crop year after the floods, down from 34.48 million tons the
previous season, data from the Bangkok-based office show.  Higher output from Thailand, together with a record crop
from India and shipments from  Vietnam , may depress global prices
even as the Thai government pursues a policy of purchasing rough
rice from farmers above local rates. It’s normal to see a  bumper
crop  after flooding, according to Korbsook Iamsuri, president of
Thai Rice Exporters Association, the largest shippers’ group.  “Farmers will increase production to make up for losses
from floods,” Apichart said. The government’s price-support
program -- introduced by Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra last
year -- will also encourage farmers to plant more, he said.  Thai rice prices surged to a three-year high of $663 per
ton in November as the government started buying the grain from
farmers to boost rural incomes. The  Asian benchmark price , for
100 percent grade B Thai rice, has since lost 18 percent to $546
as buyers turn to cheaper supplies from Vietnam and India.
Rough-rice futures in  Chicago  fell as much as 0.8 percent to
$14.465 per 100 pounds today, declining for a second day.  ‘Abundant Supplies’  The “Thai rice price may move in a range of $500 to $600 a
ton this year as other key exporters have abundant supplies and
buyers opt to purchase from cheaper sources,” Apichart said.  Shipments from Thailand may plunge 33 percent to 7 million
tons this year, the lowest level since 2000, according to a Jan.
12 forecast from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Vietnam may
export 6.7 million tons, the USDA said.  The worst floods since 1942, which struck Thailand during
the current crop year, damaged 16 percent of rice farms,
inundated more than 8,000 factories and caused $41 billion of
damage to the economy, according to government data. The
government plans to spend 350 billion baht on flood defenses.  A government plan to use some rice farms to store water
during the rainy season is unlikely to cut production as it will
just change the timing of planting, without cutting land sown to
rice, Apichart said.  India  may harvest a record 102 million tons in the 2011-
2012 season ending in June after farmers boosted planting and
the crop escaped damage from floods and pests, the All India
Rice Exporters’ Association said on Jan. 9.  Thailand’s output of sugar cane in the year from November
2011 will probably climb to a record 101.4 million tons, while
natural-rubber output may gain to 3.5 million tons this calendar
year, Apichart said. Thailand is the world’s largest rubber
exporter and second-biggest sugar shipper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  