-- Rockwell Collins Climbs as Chief Sees Improvement in Business-Jet Market
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-19T18:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/rockwell-collins-rises-as-business-jet-output-boost-predicted.html
Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL) , the
aerospace-equipment maker, climbed to the highest since July
after projecting corporate-jet production gains this year and
posting earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.  The  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based supplier also said it’s
doubling the parts it makes for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 787 Dreamliner
this quarter, to enough for four planes a month.  The shares gained 7 percent to $60.84 at 12:50 p.m. in  New
York  trading, after earlier rising to $61.46, the highest
intraday price since July 11.  The company was “able to generally meet expectations for
both revenue and profitability,” Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones said in an interview today. “Also the strength of our
commercial business and bullishness about business-jet recovery
in 2012, and the expressed confidence that once we get through
the negative comps, we should see growth in our government
business in the second half of the year.”  Business-jet production may increase in 2012 for the first
time in three years, Jones said during a conference call on
fiscal first-quarter earnings, attributing the gain to improving
corporate profitability and small-business activity. Planemakers
including Textron Inc.’s Cessna and Bombardier Inc.’s Learjet
had cut jobs and production during the recession.  “There’s no subtlety: they’re going up in rate,” Jones
said of the manufacturers. He added that while he’s believed a
recovery was coming for a long time, “now I can say that more
confidently.”  Jobs Plan  Net income fell to $130 million, or 86 cents a share, in
the company’s fiscal first quarter from $151 million, or 95
cents, a year earlier. The  average estimate  from 19 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey was 84 cents. The company reduced its share
count by more than 4 percent in the period through repurchases.  Rockwell Collins  cut about 400 jobs in its defense business
since Sept. 1, the beginning of its fiscal year, while adding
about the same on the commercial side, Jones said in the
interview. The company employs about 20,000.  If the Pentagon cuts more spending this year on programs
that affect the company, then Jones said he’ll have to reduce
defense employment further. He expects to keep hiring as
commercial planemakers boost output of jetliners, so the year
will be “net neutral on jobs,” he said, declining to predict
how many would be gained and lost.  Firm ‘Outlook’  Still, the defense “outlook remains firm,”  Howard Rubel ,
an analyst in New York with Jefferies & Co., said in a note. The
F-15 fighter jets for  Saudi Arabia  and KC-46 tanker programs are
helping offset canceled programs elsewhere, Rubel said, keeping
his  recommendation  that investors hold the shares.  Rockwell Collins, which builds about $3 million of parts
for each 787, had kept production at two jets’ worth a month
while Boeing burned off inventory during delays to the new
model’s entry into service.  As Boeing draws down that inventory, Rockwell Collins’s
production will be synchronized with the planemaker’s at four a
month going into fiscal year 2013 “and then accelerate from
there,” Jones said. The two companies’ manufacturing rates may
not match exactly until after Boeing has already reached the 10
a month planned by December 2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  