-- Roubini Says Global Risks That Sparked 2011 Volatility Will Stay
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-01-19T23:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/roubini-says-global-risks-that-sparked-2011-volatility-will-stay.html
The risks that spurred market
volatility last year will keep swaying asset prices and the
global economy, according to  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the 2008 financial crisis.  Roubini, co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said
in a talk today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  that
rising commodity prices, uncertainty in the  Middle East , the
spreading European debt crisis, increased frequency of “extreme
weather events” and U.S. fiscal issues are “persistent”
problems that will “stay with us.”  Some of the most volatile days on record occurred in 2011,
with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  posting four consecutive
days of 400-point swings, the longest streak since data began in
1896. The S&P 500’s average daily price move since its 2011 high
in April was 1.2 percentage points, or about twice the 50-year
average before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
September 2008.  “Last year was a year of risk, volatility, uncertainty and
surprises and the question is, ‘Are they going to happen
again?’” Roubini said. “If you think about all these tail
risks about the global economy, the reality is many of them are
not temporary. Many of them are not transitory and many of them
are not random events,” he said. “They’re going to be sources
of volatility.”  He said he’d buy the  U.S. dollar  and Treasuries since these
assets tend to perform better during periods of  risk aversion .
While the U.S. has a “large fiscal deficit,” it’s “the less
dirty shirt in a very dirty laundry bag,” Roubini said. Last
year, Treasuries had the biggest annual return since the depths
of the financial crisis in 2008 as  Europe ’s debt turmoil spurred
investor demand for refuge.  Roubini, a New York University professor, predicted the
U.S. housing bubble before the market peaked in 2006, while
failing to foresee a rebound in global stocks in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  