-- SABMiller Volume Gains on Asia, Africa
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-01-19T08:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/sabmiller-volume-gains-on-asia-africa.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the brewer that
bought Foster’s Group Ltd. last year, reported third-quarter
volume growth that met estimates as improved sales in Africa and
 Asia  offset larger-than-expected declines in  Europe  and the U.S.  The amount of beer sold increased 3 percent, excluding
acquisitions and disposals, in the three months ended Dec. 31,
the London-based company said today. That matched the median
 estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Volume in Europe unexpectedly fell amid what the maker of
Grolsch and Peroni described as “intense competition” and
“fragile economic conditions.” SABMiller, the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, is among beermakers seeking to expand
outside the U.S. and Europe as economic turmoil, unemployment
and government budget-cuts weigh on  consumer confidence .  “There are signs it’s getting tough in Europe -- not just
in  Russia , but in the other regions,” said  Trevor Stirling , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  SABMiller fell 0.1 percent to 2,293.5 pence at 8:28 a.m. in
London trading. The  stock  has risen 1.2 percent this year.  The amount of beer sold in Europe slid 2 percent, missing
the median estimate of nine analysts for unchanged volume.  Sales climbed in SABMiller’s biggest market, Latin America,
as well as in Africa and Asia. Volume dropped 3.3 percent at the
MillerCoors LLC joint venture in  North America , compared with a
median estimate for a 3 percent decline, as sales of Miller Lite
and Coors Lite fell in the region.  Foster’s Takeover  SABMiller bought Australia’s Foster’s in September in a
A$10.5 billion ($10.9 billion) acquisition, and the following
month announced plans to acquire a stake in Turkey’s Anadolu
Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS.  Foster’s volume for the quarter slid 6 percent on a pro-
forma basis, SABMiller said, adding that the Australian beer
market “declined at a slightly slower rate in the quarter.”  Foster’s CEO Ari Mervis “has his work cut out in a
difficult market,”  Martin Deboo  and Gideon Adler, analysts at
Investec Plc in  London , wrote in a note. SABMiller named Mervis
as the head of Foster’s, replacing  John Pollaers , in December.  The brewer said that financial performance in the quarter
was in line with its forecasts. Revenue rose 7 percent, compared
with the median estimate of 6 percent growth.  Europe, Africa  European volume was held back by a 6 percent decline in
Russia “in a declining beer market.” The company competes with
 Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  in the country, the fourth-biggest beer market in
the world by volume. SABMiller, through the agreement with
Anadolu Efes, will become Russia’s second-largest brewer,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Volume rose 11 percent in  Africa , and 2 percent in South
Africa “in a challenging economic environment,” aided by sales
of Castle Lite and Castle Lager. The brewer originated in the
country, selling beer to gold prospectors in 1895.  SABMiller said this month it will take management control
of the Nigerian operations of an African joint venture with
Groupe Castel as part of an organisational shakeup at the unit.  SABMiller is the first of the world’s four biggest brewers
to report on trading for the final three months of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  