-- Santorum 34 Votes Over Romney in Iowa, Paper Says
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-19T14:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/santorum-finished-34-votes-over-romney-in-iowa-des-moines-register-says.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  finished the  Iowa  caucuses 34 votes ahead of  Mitt Romney , who previously was declared the winner, the state party
said.  The Iowa Republican Party released the certified results
more than two weeks after the Jan. 3 voting. The party said
certified totals were unavailable for eight precincts.  Romney, 64, called the result a “virtual tie” in a
statement that recognized Santorum’s “strong performance.” He
said the caucuses were a “great start” to the party’s efforts
to defeat President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  The former Massachusetts governor and business executive
can no longer claim to have made history by becoming the first
Republican non-incumbent to win both the  Iowa caucuses  and  New
Hampshire  primary since the caucuses became the start of the
presidential nominating process in 1976.  Iowa party officials had announced Romney as the winner
early morning on Jan. 4 because he was ahead of Santorum by
eight votes in its initial tabulation from the 1,774 precincts
where voting was held in the state’s 99 counties.  The closeness of the Iowa results revealed a divided party,
still undecided over whether to compromise fiscal and social
conservative ideology for a candidate -- Romney -- who polls
show is better positioned to attract independent voters needed
to beat Obama general election.  Santorum, 53, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania ,
surged in the closing days of the Iowa campaign, as social
conservatives who give greater weight to the opposition of
abortion and gay marriage rallied around him.  Jan. 21 Primary  In  South Carolina , where the third nomination contest will
be held Jan. 21, Santorum talked at events about how he might
have actually won the caucuses. Such statements have been an
attempt to cut into the argument Romney’s campaign has tried to
make that his showings in Iowa and New Hampshire signify he has
momentum and it’s inevitable he’ll secure the nomination.  Former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who polls show is
gaining on Romney in South Carolina, said the Iowa results
shouldn’t be a boost for Santorum.  “Rick Santorum is a fine person, but I think he’s running
in fourth place in South Carolina,” Gingrich said on NBC’s
“Today” program. “South Carolina conservatives, if they want
to stop a Massachusetts moderate, only have one effective vote,
and that’s for  Newt Gingrich .”  Before the certification, Romney expressed little concern
about the outcome.  “I’m not sure that changes much,” he said Jan. 17, when
asked about the possibility that the Iowa results could change.  The totals won’t affect the delegate count for the
nomination because Iowa will award its delegates to the national
party convention later this year, after a state convention.  The night of the caucuses, Romney attempted to play down
the results by stressing the smaller effort he made in Iowa,
compared with four years ago when he ran for president.  “When I ran four years ago we had 42 members of our full-
time staff,” he said. “This time we had five.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  