-- Santorum Lobbyist Meetings Part of ‘Insider’ History He Rejects
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-20T00:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/santorum-lobbyist-meetings-part-of-insider-history-he-rejects.html
Soon after Dan Glickman became head
of the  Motion Picture Association  of America in 2004, he began
to hear from studio lobbyists that U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania  and other Republicans weren’t happy about it.  Glickman, a Democrat, didn’t fit into Republicans’ plans to
place more members of their party on K Street, the term used for
Washington’s lobbying corridor. Once they filled those jobs, the
former Republican aides and lawmakers could direct campaign cash
back to their old bosses on Capitol Hill.  The operation became loosely known as “The K Street
Project,” and it involved lawmakers working in tandem with
partisan-friendly lobbyists to boost campaign donations and
drive shared agendas.  Santorum “was kind of a crusader and certainly wanted to
extend the reach of conservative Republicans into K Street,
which is ordinarily a pretty pragmatic group of people,” said
Burdett Loomis, a political science professor at the University
of  Kansas  in Lawrence, Kansas, who has studied the project.  While campaigning for president, Santorum portrays himself
as the candidate of the working class who grew up as the
grandson of a coal miner. Opponents of the former senator accuse
him of being a Washington insider unable to fix a system he
helped design.  Insider Versus Outsider  “He became a high-powered lobbyist,” said Texas
Representative Ron Paul during a presidential debate in  New
Hampshire  on Jan. 7 in a reference to Santorum’s post-
congressional career in which he earned millions as a consultant
to businesses and organizations advocating in Washington.  When reporters in Ridgeway,  South Carolina , last week asked
about accusations that the 16-year veteran of Congress who rose
to the third-highest post in the  U.S. Senate  is a Washington
“insider,” Santorum laughed.  “Ha!” he said. “You look at my record. I’ve been as much
of a reformer, and someone who has been able to shake things up
both from the inside and the outside better than anybody else.”  His campaign didn’t respond to requests for comment for
this story.  Santorum’s role in the K Street Project included regularly
coordinated meetings with Republican-leaning lobbyists.  Glickman’s Hiring  In 2004, he met with other senators to discuss Glickman’s
hiring as chief executive officer of the movie industry group,
which is one of the most coveted trade association posts because
of its salary of about $1.3 million and access to Hollywood’s
biggest stars and studio heads.  “We talked about making sure that we have fair
representation on K Street,” Santorum told the newspaper Roll
Call in 2004. “I admit that I pay attention to who is hiring,
and I think it’s important for leadership to pay attention.”  The project was started by  Grover Norquist , an anti-tax
activist, in 1989 in an effort to fill more lobbying jobs with
Republicans. The project “urged all trade associations and
companies to hire lobbyists who understood and agreed with their
free market views -- not to hire for access. The unions behave
that way. Corporate America should too,” said Norquist.  The name later came to be associated with Santorum’s
lobbyist meetings and a parallel effort by former House Majority
Leader Tom DeLay of  Texas  to increase the flow of campaign
donations to his party.  Counting Contributions  DeLay kept a book on his office desk in which organizations
were dubbed “friendly” or “unfriendly” based on their
contributions, according to a 1995 Washington Post story. He was
convicted by a Texas jury in 2010 of illegally funneling
corporate money to help elect Republicans to the state House in
2002.  At his biweekly Tuesday morning meetings, Santorum would
share information about the legislative agenda and field
questions from lobbyists, said Norquist, who attended one of
them in 2002. He estimated there were 30 to 40 Republican-
leaning lobbyists.  Santorum’s meetings regularly included job discussions,
according to two people who attended and spoke on condition of
anonymity because they didn’t want their organizations to be
dragged into the presidential campaign.  Santorum didn’t lean on groups to hire Republicans the way
DeLay did, the people who attended the Senate meetings said.
Still, he made no secret of his desire that they do.  “The K Street Project is purely to make sure we have
qualified applicants for positions that are in town,” Santorum
said, according to a November 2005 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
story. “From my perspective, it’s a good government thing.”  Disavowing the Project  A year later, Santorum disavowed the project during his
2006 re-election race as he faced fire from Democrats who said
it was part of a “culture of corruption.”  “We don’t have a K Street Project,” Santorum said,
according to a  Washington  Times report in January of that year.
He lost his Senate seat to Democrat Bob Casey Jr.  Santorum, Norquist and DeLay “were aiming at much the same
thing,” said Loomis. “They had different levers from which
they could at least theoretically try to exact some kind of
retribution if their wishes weren’t adhered to.”  In the case of the  movie industry  association, the
retribution may have been the loss of a $1.5 billion tax break
pending in the House. “We could never prove that one way or
another,” Glickman said.  Glickman Recovers  Glickman, a former Clinton administration agriculture
secretary, said he didn’t have any personal dealings with
Santorum at the time. He reached out to a Santorum staff member
and said his relationship eventually improved with the
Republican leadership in the House and Senate. Member companies
urged him to hire more Republicans, and he did.  Lost in the talk of high-profile jobs is the placing of
lesser-known Republican congressional staff members on K Street,
Loomis said.  For instance, at least 23 of Santorum’s  former aides  left
 Capitol Hill  to become lobbyists, according to data collected by
the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks political
giving. They went to work for companies and trade groups
including the Bond Market Association, the  National Retail
Federation  and the American Hospital Association.  “Their sponsors were the Santorums and DeLays of the
world,” Loomis said. “That might have had as much of an impact
overall as some of the bigger names.”  Over the course of Santorum’s congressional career,
lobbyists ranked 10th among his groups of donors, contributing
$731,937 to his campaigns, according to the center’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  