-- Sao Paulo May Sell Cesp Stake Once Tussle Over Licenses Settled, CEO Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-01-19T17:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/sao-paulo-govt-may-sell-cesp-stake-once-concessions-settled-ceo-says.html
Sao Paulo state may sell its 36
percent  stake  in  Cia Energetica de Sao Paulo ,  Brazil ’s second-
biggest utility by market value, after a tussle over licenses is
resolved, Chief Executive Officer Mauro Arce said.  The company, known as Cesp, is pressing the federal
government to extend concessions on 67 percent of its generating
assets, which expire in 2015, Arce said in an interview in
Madrid today.  “Once that’s resolved, we can think about it,” he said.
“Just now, all our effort is trying to have a modification of
the law that can permit an extension of the concession period.”  Sao Paulo’s state government unsuccessfully tried to sell
its stake in Cesp three times since 2000. The last attempt was
in 2008, when it canceled an auction after failing to attract
bidders because the federal government didn’t ensure it would
renew Cesp’s licenses.  “Arce’s comments bring hope that negotiations are going
on,” Marco Saravalle, an equity analyst at Coinvalores
Corretora de Valores who has a “hold” recommendation on the
stock, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “You get
the impression that the licenses will be renewed.”  Cesp fell 1.4 percent to 33.02 reais at 3:30 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading, after climbing earlier on the news to 34.33
reais, the highest since Dec. 23. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
stock index rose 0.5 percent.  The utility, based in the state’s namesake capital, has
power generation capacity of 7,455 megawatts, about 7 percent of
the country’s output, according to information on its website.
It operates seven hydroelectric plants.  Cesp and government-run Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA,
 Latin America ’s largest power company by market value, and Cia
Energetica de Minas Gerais have power licenses that will start
expiring in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid   at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  