-- Scene Last Night: Martha Stewart, Charles Royce, Church’s Olana
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-19T16:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/scene-last-night-martha-stewart-charles-royce-boulud-aid-church-s-olana.html
In a room filled with palm trees and
lush bouquets of roses, Charles Royce of Royce & Associates LLC
and lifestyle empress  Martha Stewart  last night celebrated a
creaky old house known as Olana.  The venue was the  New York  Public Library’s Edna Barnes
Salomon Room, and the occasion a fundraiser for the  Olana
Partnership , which helps maintain Olana.  That’s the name landscape painter Frederic Edwin Church
gave to the Persian-style pile he built in Hudson, New York,
after visiting Damascus, Jerusalem and  Beirut .  “It’s a fantasyland,” said Morrison Heckscher, chairman
of the just-reopened, renovated American Wing at the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Even a fantasyland requires upkeep. This summer the roof
will be repaired with a $1 million grant from New York State,
the Olana Partnership’s president, Sara Johns Griffen, said. A
restoration of the stone walls and farm pastures on the
property, which is two hours’ drive north of  Manhattan , is under
way with $350,000 raised privately, Griffen said.  On the wish list: funds to put carriages back on the paths.  “Church had donkeys for his,” Griffen said.  Richard Sharp, a securities lawyer and chairman of the
Olana Partnership, traced his own path to becoming a supporter.  “I love hiking,” Sharp said. “Then, I started collecting
Hudson River School paintings -- they captured the same views I
saw on my hikes. And then, I discovered Olana.”  His goal as chairman is simple enough: “We can make our
dreams a reality if we’re able to be successful with the
fundraising,” he said.  ‘Foie Gras’  Helping butter up guests last night was a fine meal
prepared by the staff of  Daniel Boulud . It included foie gras
and creamy sunchoke soup.  “After taping two shows, it’s really lovely to come to a
dinner like this,” Stewart said.  Heckscher and Stewart were the honorees of the event.
Stewart said she visited Olana on Saturday. “I could feel what
Church must have felt when he found that property,” she said.
“I was jealous, really jealous.”  Heckscher, meanwhile, was thankful that so many senior
staff from the Met had come to the dinner in his honor. Among
them: the museum’s director,  Thomas Campbell , President Emily Rafferty and trustee Lulu Wang.  The honorees received miniature replicas of the frame of
Emanuel Leutze’s “Washington Crossing the  Delaware ,” made by
fine-art framer Eli Wilner.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 