-- Sears Rises on Report CIT Approving Orders as Early as Today
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-19T19:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/sears-rises-on-report-cit-approving-orders-as-early-as-today-1-.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  advanced in New
York trading following a report that CIT Group Inc. will approve
financing for the retailer’s vendors as soon as today.  Sears  rose  7.6 percent to $42.50 at 2:35 p.m., after
earlier increasing as much as 11 percent. The shares dropped 56
percent last year.  CIT is looking for more detailed information on Sears’s
financing and may require letters of credit for all orders,
Women’s Wear Daily reported, citing unidentified people familiar
with the plan. CIT is the largest U.S. company that provides
what’s known as factoring.  Last week, two people familiar with the situation told
Bloomberg that Sears’s suppliers were unable to get loans from
CIT for their shipments to the retailer. CIT told clients it
would no longer approve credit for orders after Jan. 11,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the information wasn’t public.  Chris Brathwaite, a Sears spokesman, and  Curt Ritter , a CIT
spokesman, both declined to comment.  Goods factored by CIT represent less than 5 percent of the
company’s inventory, Sears has said. Factoring companies such as
New York-based CIT provide money on a short-term basis for
manufacturers to produce goods for retailers. In return, they
get a fee based on a percentage of the total order.  Lost Customers  Sears has lost customers and market share to discounters
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , which are
attracting budget-minded consumers. Chairman  Edward Lampert , who
along with his hedge fund owns about 60 percent of the U.S.
department store chain, has presided over four years of
declining sales since merging Sears Roebuck with Kmart in 2005.  Last month, Sears announced plans to close as many as 120
stores. Same store sales fell 5.2 percent in the eight weeks
ended Dec. 25.  Sears rose 9.5 percent Jan. 17 amid speculation that the
company will go private. Lampert bought 4.46 million shares from
his ESL hedge fund at $29.20 per share, according to a
regulatory filing last week.  Sears is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on
Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  