-- Seattle Ice Storm Grounds Flights as 180,000 Left Without Power
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-01-19T21:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/seattle-airport-closed-for-de-icing-dozens-of-flights-canceled.html
An ice storm closed runways at
Seattle’s main airport and cut power to more than 180,000 people
across the Puget Sound region.  Alaska Air Group Inc., (ALK)  the largest carrier at Seattle-
Tacoma International Airport, planned to cancel as much as 70
percent of today’s schedule, President Brad Tilden said in a
King 5 television interview.  Freezing rain on top of near-record snowfall yesterday in
parts of the region led to ice accumulations that made travel
dangerous, according to the  National Weather Service .  Washington 
Governor Christine Gregoire declared a state of emergency,
allowing her to activate the National Guard if needed.  By 11 a.m., 184,000 customers in counties including King,
Thurston and Pierce had lost power, local utility Puget Sound
Energy wrote on its Twitter feed. Tree limbs weighed down by ice
were breaking and damaging  power lines , the utility said.  Boeing Co. (BA) , whose commercial-airplane operations are
centered on Seattle, idled a plant in Frederickson, Washington,
while other facilities in the region stayed open. The closed
factory makes parts for jets that include the 787 Dreamliner.  At least 64 flights have been pulled in Seattle, according
to  FlightAware.com , a flight-data tracking company based in
Houston.  Rebooking Fliers  Passengers on scrubbed flights will be rebooked later at no
charge, Seattle-based Alaska Air said in a message on Twitter.
Two of three Seattle-Tacoma runways were open at midday, the
 airport said  in a statement on its website.  The  University of Washington  canceled classes at three
sites, including its Seattle campus, while Washington State
University in Pullman closed and  Seattle  public schools were
also shut for a second full day, according to their websites.  Interstate 90 east of Seattle was closed in some stretches
after “multiple collisions,” according to the Washington State
Department of Transportation. Fallen trees blocked other roads.
Bus and train service was limited.  “This is purely a precautionary measure,” Gregoire said
in a statement accompanying the emergency declaration. “So far,
we haven’t received any requests for state assistance -- but we
know weather conditions are rapidly changing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  