-- Seducer Malkovich Resumes Dangerous Liaisons in Paris: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-01-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/seducer-malkovich-resumes-dangerous-liaisons-in-paris-review.html
Few characters in world literature
are more sinister than the Marquise de Merteuil and the Vicomte
de Valmont.  That hasn’t prevented readers from being fascinated by the
two schemers for more than 200 years. “Les Liaisons
Dangereuses,” Choderlos de Laclos’s 1782 epistolary novel, has
been translated into countless languages.  The story of how an innocent girl and a married woman are
corrupted and driven to despair has found its way to the stage
and has been adapted for the screen three times.  In the most successful of the three movies, Stephen Frears’s 1988 “Dangerous Liaisons,”  John Malkovich  played the
demonic seducer. Now he’s back in Paris, directing Christopher Hampton’s play, on which the film was based, at the venerable
Theatre de l’Atelier.  His troupe is young, and the publicity promises a
contemporary look at the old material.  The opulence of the movie has been whittled down to an
almost bare set with cheap furniture and a vaguely palatial
backdrop. The actors wear crinolines and redingotes over jeans.  They still write and read letters -- the novel contains 175
of them -- yet they also use cellphones, mostly for taking
pornographic pictures. They never leave the scene: When they
have nothing to do, they sit down in a corner and watch their
colleagues.  No-frills stagings can work provided you have good actors
at hand. That’s where the shoe pinches.  Unconvincing Tandem  Julie Moulier and Yannik Landrein are simply too young to
be convincing as the cynical tandem. It’s almost moving to watch
the attempts of these brave kids to appear callous and depraved.  Among the rest of the cast, Rosa Bursztejn stands out as
Cecile who is deflowered by Valmont and becomes a nymphomaniac.
Here a comic talent seems to be in the making.  The evening reminded me of the tradition at the
Conservatoire National Superieur d’Art Dramatique,  France ’s
national acting school, to open its doors to outsiders twice a
year: Although discoveries are few and far between, it’s always
fun to have a peek at the students’ work.  Rating: **.  Sentimental Love  It would have been instructive to compare Laclos’s dry-eyed
view of 18th-century aristocrats with “La Dame aux Camelias,”
Alexandre Dumas Fils’s sentimental 1852 play about love among
members of the 19th-century bourgeoisie.  Sadly, the Theatre de l’Odeon has entrusted the old
warhorse to Frank Castorf, a paragon of what the Germans call
“Regietheater,” or director’s theater.  A glimpse into the program informs you that Dumas’s text
has been stirred into “The History of the Eye,” Georges Bataille’s obscene novel, and “The Mission,” Heiner Muller’s
drama about a slave revolt in  Jamaica .  Marguerite, the eponymous heroine, is played by four
actresses -- presumably because she symbolizes all female
victims of society.  While she is dying on the upper floor of what looks like a
Brazilian favela, her former lover Armand (Jean-Damien Barbin)
downstairs has audible problems with his digestion.  Another character with a top hat, addressed as
“Alexandre” (Vladislav Galard), seems to be the author of the
play. He prepares a soup and a chicken for his ailing hero who
then throws them up.  Later, Armand morphs into Hitchcock’s Norman Bates and,
dressed as a woman, stabs one of the four Marguerites in the
shower. Her body, wrapped like a parcel, emerges from a
cardboard coffin while  Muammar Qaddafi  and  Silvio Berlusconi 
grin down from a giant poster.  Another scene, for no discernible reason, is entirely
spoken in Russian with French surtitles. The set (Aleksandar
Denic) is dominated by a rotating neon sign “Anus Mundi Global
Network”.  All this is doubtless very deep. Unfortunately, you’d
better be a post-structuralist to understand what it all means.  Rating: *.  “Les Liaisons Dangereuses” runs at the Theatre de
l’Atelier. Information:  http://www.theatre-atelier.com . “La
Dame aux Camelias” is at the Theatre de l’Odeon through Feb.
15. Information:  http://www.theatre-odeon.eu .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 