-- Serb Central Bank Cuts Benchmark Interest Rate on Slowing Inflation, GDP
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-19T15:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/serb-central-bank-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate-on-slowing-inflation-gdp.html
Serbia ’s central bank cut its
 benchmark   interest rate  for the seventh time since June amid
slowing inflation and a faltering economy.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije lowered its two-
week repurchase rate by a quarter-point to 9.5 percent, matching
the expectations of 13 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .
Two saw a half-point drop, seven expected the bank to hold rates
and one called for an increase.  Policy makers are struggling to keep the economy growing as
concern increases that the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis
is spilling over into the Balkan region. Gross domestic product
almost stalled in the third quarter and the Belgrade-based
Economics Institute on Jan. 17 warned that manufacturing output
may have contracted in 2011.  The central bank expects “a further drop in inflation with
a chance of it falling below the lower limit of the target band
at the end of the first quarter,” the bank said in a statement
on its website. The bank will next meet on rates on Feb. 9.  The dinar traded at 105.1741 to the euro at 3:30 p.m. in
Belgrade, up from 105.5807 to the euro at 12:16 p.m. after the
rate announcement and erasing a 0.3 percent weakening earlier in
the day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dinar Gains  “The dinar reversed most of today’s early losses,
suggesting the rate cut was largely priced in,” analysts of
Zagreb-based unit of Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank said in a note.
“However, we see the dinar risks tilted to the downside given
the NBS easing bias, external refinancing risks, deteriorating
goods trade trends and fiscal risks.”  Still, the “currency weakness and volatility could limit
the extent” of future rate cuts, Barclays Capital analysts
Eldar Vakhitov and  Daniel Hewitt  said in a note to clients.  The inflation rate dropped to 7 percent in December from a
peak of 14.7 percent in April. Rate cuts since May, totaling 3
percentage points including today’s move, have pushed the dinar
7.4 percent lower against the euro.  The central bank expects the inflation rate to fall to 4.3
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, by the end of the
first quarter and drop by the end of 2012 to 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points. Inflation should stabilize in the
third quarter of the year, it said today.  Further Measures  Policy makers will remain “cautious not to overdo” rate
cuts to keep inflation pressure in check, central bank Vice
Governor Bojan Markovic said in a Jan. 17 interview in Vienna.  “Under the circumstances, the central bank is doing all it
can, but if conditions deteriorate, they may be forced to take
even more drastic relaxation measures,” Miladin Kovacevic, the
deputy chief of the Statistics Office, said on the same day.  Gross domestic product grew an estimated 0.5 percent in the
third quarter, following a 2.5 percent expansion in the previous
three-month period. The  World Bank , following a similar move by
the  International Monetary Fund , reduced Serbia’s 2012 growth
forecast to 1.5 percent from 2 percent. The economy should
expand 4 percent in 2013, it predicted.  Still, a reduction may further weaken the dinar, which has
dropped to the lowest in two weeks, raising concerns that
imported goods will become more expensive.  The decline followed a  drop  in the outstanding repo stock
to 120 billion dinars ($1.46 billion), or 12 billion dinars less
than the level following yesterday’s repo sale, according to
central bank figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  