-- Williams Gets 500th Victory at Australian Open as Sharapova, Djokovic Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-19T15:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/sharapova-ivanovic-win-to-reach-the-third-round-of-australian-open-tennis.html
Serena Williams and  Maria Sharapova 
dropped a combined five games to reach the third round of the
Australian Open tennis tournament. Defending champion Novak Djokovic took just one game more to advance.  Five-time winner Williams, the No. 12 seed from the U.S.,
followed Sharapova’s 6-0, 6-1 win against unseeded American
Jamie Hampton by defeating Czech Barbora Zahlavova Strycova 6-0,
6-4 at Rod Laver Arena. Djokovic then closed play on the main
show court by routing Santiago Giraldo 6-3, 6-2, 6-1.  Williams’s 500th career victory extended her streak at
Melbourne Park to 16 straight wins after back-to-back titles in
2009 and 2010. She missed the season-opening Grand Slam last
year as she recovered from two operations on her foot. Her
preparations this year were disrupted by an ankle sprain.  “Five hundred is a lot of matches to play, let alone to
win, so it’s pretty cool,” Williams, 30, whose  first victory  in
a WTA tournament was in  Los Angeles  in 1997, told reporters.  The 13-time Grand Slam champion said reaching the mark was
something she’d wanted to achieve to emulate older sister Venus,
who has 598 career wins. Venus Williams, 31, who has seven major
titles, isn’t playing at the Australian Open as she recovers
from illness.  In action today, 2009 champion Rafael Nadal of Spain plays
Lukas Lacko from Slovakia, followed by four-time winner  Roger Federer  of Switzerland against Ivo Karlovic of Croatia. Last
year’s runner-up  Li Na  of  China  meets Spain’s Anabel Medina Garrigues, while defending champion Kim Clijsters of Belgium
plays Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia.  Roddick Out For Three Weeks  In the final night match on  Rod Laver  Arena, local wild-
card entry and former top-ranked  Lleyton Hewitt  advanced when
 Andy Roddick  retired with a hamstring tendon injury. Hewitt
faces Canada’s No. 23 seed Milos Raonic next.  Roddick, the last American man to have won a major title at
the 2003  U.S. Open , told reporters afterwards he’d probably be
out for three weeks.  Roddick, 29, had just lost the third set to trail 3-6, 6-3,
6-4 when he told his Australian opponent that he couldn’t
continue. He had a medical timeout when 0-3 down in the second
set, having earlier slipped on the court.  “It’s a miserable, terrible thing being out there
compromised like that,” Roddick said.  His injury means he won’t be playing mixed doubles at
Melbourne Park with  Serena Williams . The pair had entered the
competition in order to prepare for the London Olympics in the
summer, when the tennis will be held at Wimbledon.  Sharapova on a Roll  No. 4 seed Sharapova, one of four women who can finish the
tournament as the WTA’s No. 1-ranked player, took 64 minutes to
beat Hampton in her second match since October following a left
ankle sprain. The Russian has dropped just two games in
Melbourne, where she spent nearly two weeks ahead of the
tournament while she rested her injured ankle.  “The goal is to get through and keep playing more,” said
Sharapova, who won the last of her three major titles at the
2008 Australian Open. “It’s just about taking it one at a time
and improving, because it’s only going to get tougher from
here.”  Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic
needed three sets to beat Spaniard Carla Suarez Navarro, who
upset  Venus Williams  in the second round in Melbourne in 2009
and was beaten by the eventual champion the past two years.  Second-seeded Kvitova had to come from a break down in the
third set to win 6-2, 2-6, 6-4 against her 58th-ranked opponent.  “It was good preparation,” Kvitova said. “I know that I
can fight and I can win if I’m playing badly.”  Former world No. 1 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, whom Sharapova
beat in the 2008 final, advanced along with No. 7 seed Vera Zvonareva of  Russia , No. 9 Marion Bartoli of  France  and 18th-
seeded Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova. Zheng Jie of China upset
 Roberta Vinci , the No. 23 seed from  Italy .  Three Straight Slams  Djokovic, who earned 10 titles last year including three of
the four majors, had seven breaks of serve in overpowering
Giraldo of Colombia in 1 hour, 42 minutes. The Serb is trying to
become the fifth man after Rod Laver,  Pete Sampras , Roger Federer and  Rafael Nadal  to win three straight Grand Slam
championships since tennis’s Open era began in 1968.  “A win is a win, however it comes to you,” Djokovic, who
next plays Nicolas Mahut of France, told reporters.  Andy Murray , last year’s finalist from Britain, got his
seventh straight victory in 2012 by beating Edouard Roger-
Vasselin 6-1, 6-4, 6-4. Murray, who hired eight-time Grand Slam
champion Ivan Lendl as his new coach, won the Brisbane
International earlier this month for his fifth title in his last
eight events.  French Victories  Five fellow Frenchmen joined Mahut in the third round on
day four. No. 6 seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and 14th-seeded Gael Monfils beat Brazilians Ricardo Mello and Thomaz Bellucci, while
No. 17 Richard Gasquet advanced when Andrey Golubev retired
injured from their match.  Twelfth-seeded Gilles Simon was beaten by Julien Benneteau
in an all-French encounter that went five sets, while Michael Llodra outlasted 32nd-seeded Russian Alex Bogomolov Jr. in a
match that also went to a deciding fifth set.  Spanish No. 5 seed David Ferrer battled past American Ryan
Sweeting in five sets to set up a third-round meeting with Juan Ignacio Chela, the No. 27 seed from Argentina. No. 9 Janko Tipsarevic defeated Australian wild-card entrant James Duckworth
in four sets. Fellow Serb  Viktor Troicki , the No. 19 seed, lost
in five sets to Mikhail Kukushkin of Kazakhstan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  