-- Siemens Pumps $1.3 Billion Into Gas Turbines to Fend Off GE
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-19T15:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/siemens-to-pump-1-3-billion-into-gas-turbines-to-fend-off-ge.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  has earmarked more than 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) to expand production of gas-
turbines and fend off  General Electric Co. (GE)  as they jostle for
share of the expanding market.  A “genuine boom” is under way in some regions, with the
gas-turbine market growing more than 9 percent annually in the
 Commonwealth of Independent States , Roland Fischer, the head of
Munich-based Siemens’ Fossil Power Division, said in an
interview. The division generated 14 percent of Siemens’s total
74 billion euros in  revenue  last year.  Siemens, which claims the No. 1 spot in larger, flexible
turbines, is betting rising U.S. shale-gas output and its focus
on gas-turbines will help it outflank GE and  Alstom SA (ALO) , which
focused more on steam-turbines. U.S. spending on upgrading power
plants to meet tighter emission rules may touch $100 billion,
and falling gas prices will likely tempt utilities away from
coal, said Peter Reilly, an analyst at Deutsche Bank.  “We believe our technology is two to three years ahead of
the competition,” Fischer said by phone on Jan. 17.
“Competition is tough. It’s been hard work to get where we are
today. Our rivals are surely not happy. We will do our utmost
not to allow anyone to take that position from us.” His unit
added 3,000  employees  in the past 1 1/2 years, Fischer said.  Statistics on turbine suppliers are compiled by McCoy Power
Reports. Since 2003, GE has averaged 44 percent of the market
for 20 megawatt or more plants, though a single large order
could swing annual market share figures, Paul Browning,
president of thermal products at GE’s energy division, said in
an interview. Figures for 2011 will be released around March,
and McCoy declined to give details before then.  Profit Generator  Fossil power-generation, the largest of Siemens’ 10 main
divisions, has long been an  earnings  driver and a swelling order
book will help offset sluggish demand in areas such as  health-
care equipment. Under Fischer, sales last year rose 6.8 percent
to 10.2 billion euros and earnings jumped 85 percent to 2.83
billion euros, eclipsing the entire profit produced by the
Munich-based company’s health-care operation.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is banking on energy
products to help push sales past 100 billion euros. The company
is expanding gas-turbine factories in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina 
and Berlin, as well as building new ones in  Saudi Arabia  and  St.
Petersburg ,  Russia . Northeast  Asia , including China, and the
 Middle East  will also show above-average growth in gas turbines
going forward, Fischer said.  Crack Cocaine   Siemens, which has about 1,300 gas turbines installed, has
almost doubled its market share to 40 percent in larger turbines
with power output exceeding 100 megawatts in recent years,
Fischer said, without giving a specific time frame.  “They are clean to operate and cheap and quick to build,
that’s how gas-fired  power plants  became, as one utility
executive put it, the ’crack cocaine’ of the power industry,”
said Martin Prozesky, a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst.  Alstom today  reported  a 20 percent gain in thermal-power
orders, helped by gas-turbine orders in  Iraq  and the U.S. It
booked orders for 13 turbines in the first nine months of its
current fiscal year, compared with nine in the entire previous
year. Alstom in September said it’s targeting U.S. orders in the
U.S. with a new turbine, and CEO Patrick Kron today said he is
considering entering the Chinese market.  Emissions Boost  The German company spent a decade and 500 million euros on
developing its flagship turbine for the so-called H-Class
market. Siemens has had the minimum 10-unit-a-year market to
itself while  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and GE developed
their own offerings, Fischer said.  Mitsubishi has been testing it’s “J-Series” since
February 2011. It has sold eight of the turbines, the first of
which will begin commercial operation in 2013.  “We expect to sell additional J-Series turbines within the
next few months,” said Takao Tsukui, director of business
development at Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas. During the
next few years, Mitsubishi plans to produce as many as 50 gas
turbines per year, including the J-Series, Tsukui said.  Nuclear Fallout  As well as replacing aging power plants, the turbine market
is also driven by stricter legislation on emissions, with gas
being a lower carbon polluter than coal. That will ultimately
lead to half of all U.S. coal plants being upgraded or replaced,
Deutsche Bank’s Reilly said.  “Over the next decade, unconventional gas is going to
become a major source of fuel around the world,” GE’s Browning
said. “That’s a near enough timeframe that customers are going
to start betting on it now.”  GE in September told investors its goal for the energy
division, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s largest
industrial unit, expects about $45 billion in sales this year,
with a goal of more than doubling that over the next decade.  Siemens is also poised to benefit from growing resistance
against nuclear power, said Bernstein analyst Prozesky.  Germany 
has opted to shutter its atomic sites by 2022 and  China  halted
new projects after  Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear disaster.  In the U.S., the gas glut created by the development of
shale gas reserves is set to push the gradual transition toward
gas-powered plants.  “Gas-power plants have been cheaper and faster to build
for some time now, but what’s really changed is that the fuel
cost with a $3 Henry Hub price is now also cheaper than coal,”
said Heenal Patel, a Bloomberg Industries Analyst. “It’s this
fact which may impact most on U.S. utilities coal plant
retirement plans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  