-- Slovenia Nominates Gaspari for ECB, Seeks to Break Spain’s Hold
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-19T14:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/slovenia-nominates-gaspari-for-ecb-seeks-to-break-spain-s-hold.html
Slovenia nominated Mitja Gaspari for
the next vacancy at the  European Central Bank , challenging
 Spain ’s claim to a permanent seat on the ECB board as the bank
grapples with the debt crisis.  Gaspari, former head of Slovenia’s central bank, will face
off against Spain’s nominee, Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, to win a
post that has been in Spanish hands since the euro’s debut.  Slovenia is counting on smaller countries to band together
to wrest the seat away from Spain, in the fifth changeover on
the ECB’s six-member Executive Board in less than a year.  “Slovenia has officially submitted the candidacy of Mitja
Gaspari for the ECB post,” the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement in Ljubljana today.  Further nominations are possible before tonight’s deadline,
leading to a first discussion at a Jan. 23 meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels. The board seat opens on June 1
when the term of Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo ends.  In the past, Spain,  Germany ,  France  and  Italy  have used
their combined voting strength to rotate four board seats among
themselves, leaving the other euro region governments to fight
over the remaining two seats.  While six smaller countries would be enough to block the
Spanish candidate, they would need backing from Germany, France
and Italy to push through their own nominee, raising the risk of
a protracted fight.  Northern Countries  With the ECB run by an Italian with a Portuguese vice
president, some northern countries like the Netherlands also
want to redress what they see as overrepresentation by southern
countries caught up in the debt crisis.  Gaspari, 60, helped make Slovenia the first eastern state
to use the euro during six years as central bank chief. Gaspari
closed out his term by attending ECB interest-rate meetings
after  Slovenia  adopted the currency in 2007. He is currently
Slovenia’s economic development and European affairs minister.  Sainz de Vicuna, 63, became general counsel to the ECB’s
predecessor institution in 1994 and has stayed in that role
since the ECB was set up in 1998, according to an ECB biography.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  