-- Slovenian President Proposes KBC’s Voljc to Form Cabinet
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-19T09:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/slovenian-president-proposes-voljc-to-form-cabinet-correct-.html
Slovenian President Danilo Turk
offered Marko Voljc,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s head of central and eastern
Europe and  Russia , the chance to form a government and break a
stalemate about who will lead the former Yugoslav republic.  Voljc, a former chief of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., would
be the second person since a Dec. 4 snap election asked to build
a proposed coalition government. To succeed, he would need to
garner at least 46 votes in Parliament to be confirmed.  “I have asked Mr. Voljc if he would be ready to form a
government, and he agreed,” Turk told reporters in Ljubljana
yesterday. “He will, of course, need broad support from
political parties. Slovenia needs a premier with credibility and
high reputation to bring it out of crisis.”  Lawmakers on Jan. 11 rejected Ljubljana Mayor  Zoran
Jankovic ’s effort to form a government after he won the most
votes in last month’s early election. The euro-region nation has
been without an official government since Borut Pahor’s
administration was toppled in a no-confidence vote in September.  Slovenia, whose borrowing costs surged after the rejection
of pension changes in June, is probably sliding into a
 recession , outgoing Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said. Gross
domestic product is forecast to shrink 0.6 percent this year,
according to a UniCredit SpA report to clients.  The nomination of Voljc was reported yesterday by the
Ljubljana-based Delo newspaper. A KBC spokeswoman suggested he
would not accept the offer, contradicting Turk’s statement.
Voljc has yet to publicly state his intention.  “Marko is, and will remain, chief executive officer of the
central and eastern  Europe  business unit and a member of KBC’s
executive committee,” said Viviane Huybrecht, a KBC spokeswoman
in Brussels, in a text message sent late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  