-- Smart Money Owns More Equities Says IQ Study of Who Buys Stocks
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-01-19T01:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/smart-money-owning-more-equities-says-finland-iq-study-of-who-buys-stock.html
The smarter you are, the more stock
you probably own, according to researchers who say they found a
direct link between IQ and equity market participation.  Intelligence, as measured by tests given to 158,044 Finnish
soldiers over 19 years, outweighed income in determining whether
someone owns shares and how many companies he invests in. Among
draftees scoring highest on the exams, the rate of ownership
later in life was 21 percentage points above those who tested
lowest, researchers found. The study, published in last month’s
Journal of Finance, ignored bonds and other investments.  Economists have debated for decades what they call the
participation puzzle, trying to explain why more people don’t
take advantage of the higher returns stocks have historically
paid on savings. As few as 51 percent of American households own
them, a 2009 study by the  Federal Reserve  found. Individual
investors have pulled record cash out of U.S. equity mutual
funds in the last five years as shares suffered the worst  bear
market  since the 1930s.  “It’s what we see anecdotally: higher-IQ investors tend to
be more willing to commit financial resources, to put skin in
the game,” said Jason Hsu, chief investment officer of  Newport
Beach , California-based Research Affiliates LLC. About $85
billion is managed using his firm’s strategies. “You can
generalize a whole literature on this. It seems to suggest that
whatever attributes are driving people to not participate in the
stock market are related to the cost of processing financial
information.”  Military Records  Mark Grinblatt of the University of  California ,  Los
Angeles , Matti Keloharju of Aalto University in Espoo and
Helsinki, Finland, and Juhani Linnainmaa at the University of
Chicago compared results from intelligence tests given by the
Finnish military between 1982 and 2001 to government records
showing investments the draftees later held. They found the rate
of stock ownership for people with the lowest scores trailed
those with the highest even after adjusting for wealth, income,
age and profession.  Three years after $37 trillion of global share value was
 erased  in a 16-month bear market, not everyone considers
limiting equity ownership to be a mistake. Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , author of “The  Black Swan ,” said in October 2010 that
investors should sue the Swedish Central Bank for awarding Nobel
Prizes to economists such as  William Sharpe  for theories that
made it seem like stocks were safe. He declined to comment on
the study.  ‘Really Saddened’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 9.8 percent
annually including dividends since 1926, compared with 5.7
percent for U.S. Treasury bonds, according to Ibbotson
Associates, a research unit of Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Returns (SPX)  from the  stock index  have dwindled to about 0.6
percent a year since the end of 1999, and investors had two
opportunities to sell after losing more than one-third of their
money, in October 2002 and March 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “When I saw this paper, I was really, really saddened that
it would actually get published,” said Brian Jacobsen, who
helps oversee $219 billion as chief portfolio strategist at
Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .
“What they basically do is look at a very specific subset of
the world’s population and try to infer how this group of 19-
and 20-year-old Finnish males did on a particular standardized
test. To me, it really fails in the truth-in-advertising
arena.”  ‘So Strong’  While intelligence influenced things that might naturally
increase equity ownership such as wealth and income, the authors
said IQ determined who owned the most stocks within those
categories as well. Among the 10 percent of individuals with the
highest salary, “IQ significantly predicts participation” in
the stock market, they wrote. For example, people in the
highest-income ranking who scored lowest on the test had a rate
of equity market participation that was 15.7 percentage points
lower than those with the highest IQ.  “If you look at the significance of IQ related to other
factors like income or wealth, certainly it plays a very large
role,” Keloharju, a finance professor at Aalto, said in a phone
interview. “It’s very difficult to get around that problem, but
the results are so strong here. We are playing with lots of
different controls and lots of different specifications, and all
the time things work really well.”  American economist Harry Markowitz won a  Nobel Prize  in
1990 for his theory that owning a larger variety of assets
tended to maximize returns for a certain amount of risk. The
2009 study by the Fed found that 51.1 percent of American
families own stocks directly or indirectly, and of those who do,
36 percent have shares in one company.  ‘Difficult to Justify’  “It’s difficult to justify why someone wouldn’t invest in
the stock market, knowing what a good deal it has been,” said
Linnainmaa, a co-author of the study from the  University of
Chicago ’s Booth School of Business. “The classical explanations
for non-participation have been participation costs. It’s not
just that it may be expensive to buy stocks and mutual funds,
but people may not have enough knowledge about them.”  Finnish soldiers were an ideal sample because differences
in race, schooling and market access are minimized, the authors
said. Draftees were about 20 years old when they were given 120
questions in math, language and logic. The authors divided the
results into rankings and compared them with stock-ownership
records. People who don’t serve in the country’s military such
as women weren’t in the sample.  Robert Shiller  “There is an older literature on whether SAT scores of an
investment manager’s college helps predict his or her success,”
 Robert Shiller , an economics professor at  Yale University  and
co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, said in an
e-mail. “This paper has a much better measure of
intelligence,” and the “results are therefore a significant
advance,” he wrote.  Finnish draftees aren’t representative of typical
investors, said Wells Fargo’s Jacobsen. IQ is a function of
culture and shouldn’t be generalized across borders, he said.
The authors also failed to discuss whether the test given to the
soldiers was a valid way to grade thinking.  “They should’ve been at least honest about it from the
outset, and say, ‘Hey, this is not about IQ and investing, this
is about Finnish males that took this particular test,’” he
said in a telephone interview.  Finland ’s lack of ethnic
diversity “invalidates it for extrapolating it to other
cultures,” he said. “That makes it that much more
inappropriate to draw inferences from it about other cultures.”  Fund Outflows  Owning stocks isn’t always the best option or even a good
idea, according to Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages
$54 billion. Investors pulled money out of mutual funds that buy
U.S. stocks for a fifth straight year in 2011, the longest
streak in data going back to 1984, according to the  Investment
Company Institute  in  Washington . Last year, an estimated $135
billion was withdrawn, the second-highest annual total after
2008, preliminary data from ICI show.  “I hate words like always or never,” Luschini said.
“It’s always important to consider owning stocks, but in the
context of what’s important to your particular circumstances,
it’s not so much a question of whether to own them, but to what
degree you should be exposed to them. For a couple who is
retired and is more in the wealth preservation mode, perhaps
they’d want to dial down their exposure.”  Finnish soldiers who scored lowest on the test and still
owned stocks usually made the worst asset-allocation decisions,
the authors wrote. They purchased too few companies, bought in
more volatile industries, and got the worst bang for the buck as
measured by the so-called Sharpe ratio, which adjusts return for
risk taken. As a result, they were less likely to buy more
shares in the future, the researchers said.  Social Policy  The study’s authors said the findings have implications for
social policy. Avoiding stock investments cuts returns and may
widen income gaps, they said. Individuals scoring lowest on the
tests who still owned equities earned as much as 33 basis
points, or 0.33 percentage point, a year less than the highest
scorers. One way governments could promote better savings might
be with plans that let people opt out of stocks, like 401(k)
plans, as opposed to opting in, said Keloharju.  “If you look at these people over time, people with higher
IQ scores and stocks become wealthier and wealthier at a much
faster rate than people with lower IQ scores,” said Linnainmaa.
“It makes them worse off in the long run, even more so than the
difference in income.”  Financial Education  Hsu of Research Affiliates said an explanation for why
draftees with lower test scores owned less stock is that they
found it harder and more expensive to receive financial
education. Getting people information on investing at a younger
age may help limit the disparity, he said.  “The costs to achieve that are certainly higher if someone
isn’t providing that at an earlier stage in one’s education,”
said Hsu. “If we could provide advice, or provide education, to
help reduce the cost of acquiring financial knowledge, that
would seem like a good thing.”  The paper is part of a broader debate about the role
individual characteristics such as affluence and education play
in investor actions. In the 1980s, so-called behavioral
economists broke away from theorists such as  Sharpe , who tended
to think of all investors as rational.  Greg Davies, head of behavioral finance at  Barclays Wealth 
in  London , said his team tries to gauge clients’ risk tolerance
with personality profiles and investment strategies that appeal
to “emotional needs.”  Implications  “As advisers, of course, we see our role in overcoming the
irrational, emotional, inaccurate elements on behalf of our
clients,” said Davies. “But the implications of this for the
mass markets are much greater.”  Markowitz said the argument that intelligence and
personality sometimes trump rationality in guiding investors has
little bearing on his work. His theory comes down to the view
that anyone hoping to get the highest payout at the lowest risk
should broaden their asset ownership.  “It’s advice for the individual investor,” Markowitz, 84,
said in a telephone interview. “I am delighted to learn the
more intelligent a person is, the more likely they are to act in
the spirit of what I  wrote .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  