-- Soccer Body Must Enforce Penalties for Club Overspending, Bayern CEO Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-19T21:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/soccer-body-must-enforce-penalties-for-club-overspending-bayern-ceo-says.html
Bayern Munich officials say it would
be “a total disaster” should European soccer’s governing body
fail to release tough sanctions for clubs that violate new rules
on spending.  The four-time European champion has made a profit in each
of the last 20 years, and is counting on  UEFA ’s Financial Fair
Play rules to penalize teams that spend more than they earn,
President Uli Hoeness said. The body now needs to put the
policies in place after much discussion, he said.  “It’s now time to finalize everything because clubs have
to know what is happening in case they break the rules and that
is very important,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, who also chairs the European Club Association, a
body representing 200 top teams, said at Bayern’s training
ground this week. “The rules can’t be on a very low level
because then you have nothing.”  UEFA has told clubs they may be barred from its  Champions
League  and Europa League competitions should they fail to meet
targets stipulating maximum losses of as much as 45 million
euros ($58.1 million) for a three-year stretch starting last
July. The stipulation must now be written into the Swiss-based
organization’s rule book, Rummenigge, 56, said.  UEFA  next week will announce results of an audit of
European soccer teams. Last year it found more than half of the
near-650 teams it looked at reported losses, with 28 percent
spending 12 euros ($15.56) for every 10 euros they received,
while auditors reported concerns about future trading for more
than one in eight of them.  Russia  and Gulf  The arrival of wealthy owners from Russia and the  Middle
East  has increased the number of teams willing to spend. Russian
billionaire Roman Abramovich and Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al
Nahyan have used almost $1 billion each to add players at
Chelsea and  Manchester City .  Qatar’s royal family is now spending millions of euros on
Paris Saint-Germain and FC Anzhi Makhachkala of Dagestan is
bringing in players including Samuel Eto’o, who’s being paid 10
million euros a year.  Rummenigge said he’ll meet with UEFA President  Michel Platini  to remind him about his backing of the regulations,
saying he feels the Frenchman isn’t as committed to financial
fair play as when he first announced the plans in 2009.  “He, as a president and coming from  France , maybe should
remind certain clubs that the rules are running since July 1,”
Rummenigge said.  Not Happy  Bayern won the last of its four European Cups in 2001 and
came close to adding a fifth when it was beaten in the 2010
final by debt-laden  Inter Milan , which announced a 69 million-
euro loss the same year.  “I would not be happy if I win a Champions League like
that,” Hoeness said at a restaurant in Munich this week. “If I
win a Champions League, I want to be in profit.”  Since swapping the playing field for the boardroom in 1979
Hoeness, 60, has increased Bayern’s sales to 320 million euros
from 6 million euros. The team has balanced its budget this year
and is now moving into profit, he said.  Bayern isn’t willing to overspend to win or acquire players,
Hoeness said. He said his team was offered  Sergio Aguero , who
now plays at City, for about 15 million euros when  Felix Magath 
coached the team four seasons ago. Aguero joined City for 38
million pounds in July 2011.  “Those are prices we would normally never do,” he said.  Hoeness said he didn’t like how Manchester City has spent
to built its team, which resulted in a record $312 million loss
for the year ending May 2011.  Investors  Still, he said he prefers the Arab owners to investors such
as the Glazer family, which owns Manchester United, and former
Liverpool owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  who took control
of their teams using borrowed funds.  “Before Mr. Glazer bought  Manchester United , he didn’t
know there was air in the ball,” Hoeness said. “That’s not
something that I accept. His target is making money. I would
accept Mr. Glazer immediately if he says ‘OK, the price of
Manchester United is 800 million pounds ($1.2 billion). That’s
my money, my risk and now we are working.’ But what did he do?
He bought the club and said ‘OK, I don’t have the money, how can
we finance it?’ That’s something that I never accept.”  United’s parent company had a pretax profit of 29.7 million
pounds in the year through June, compared with a loss on that
measure of 15 million pounds a year earlier, as revenue climbed
16 percent to 331.4 million pounds and net debt dropped to 308.3
million pounds.  “Hoeness has a right to an opinion, but results over the
last seven years speak for themselves and Manchester United is
in a healthy position, both on and off the pitch,” Philip Townsend, a spokesman for Manchester United, said in an e-mail.
“The Glazer family have been integral in boosting the club’s
revenues, which have seen United become world leaders in the
breadth and depth of our commercial partnerships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 