-- Red Bulls Soccer Team Ordered to Pay Taxes on New Jersey Home-Field Arena
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-20T21:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/soccer-s-red-bulls-must-pay-taxes-on-arena-in-harrison-n-j-judge-rules.html
The New York Red Bulls, the soccer
team owned by Austrian billionaire Dietrich Mateschitz, owes
property taxes to Harrison,  New Jersey , a tax-court judge ruled.  The Major League Soccer franchise named for Mateschitz’s
energy-drink company is facing $3.6 million in 2010 and 2011 tax
bills from the town where it plays home games. The team has
refused to pay, saying the land where its stadium is located is
owned by the tax-exempt Harrison Redevelopment Agency.  Judge Christine Nugent in Newark rejected that argument in
a Jan. 6 ruling from the bench. She also dismissed the claim
that because the team-owned stadium serves a public purpose, it
should be tax-exempt. The next step will be to figure out what
the Red Bulls will pay, said Al Cifelli, the town’s assessor.  “Harrison has had a difficult time as a municipal
entity,” he said by telephone. “This is a shot in the arm.”  Negotiations may take place privately, Cifelli said. The
1.2 square-mile (3.1 square-kilometer) town across the Passaic
River from  Newark  has said the tax bill should be paid in full.  Harrison, with 13,620 residents, had bet the soccer stadium
would jump-start redevelopment in a community where  per-capita
income  is 63 percent of the state average, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data. The town borrowed $39 million in 2006 to buy
and clean up the site, while Hudson County chipped in $45
million for a parking garage and the team paid $200 million to
build the Red Bull Arena.  Giants Tax Brawl  The dispute between the Red Bulls and Harrison is similar
to one pitting the  National Football League ’s New York Giants
against  East Rutherford , New Jersey, over the team’s Timex
Performance Center, said Victor Matheson, who teaches economics
at the College of the  Holy Cross  in Worcester,  Massachusetts .
The municipality had its general-obligation  credit rating  cut by
Moody’s Investors Service this month partly because of a lawsuit
concerning the matter.  The Giants franchise, which isn’t commenting on the issue,
is fighting the borough’s pursuit of property taxes on its
training center. The facility sits on land owned by a state
agency, the New Jersey Sports & Exposition Authority.  The cases show how public subsidies don’t end once a stadium
is completed, said Matheson, a sports-economics specialist.  “Sports teams seem to be more successful than most
businesses in securing tax breaks,” he said. That’s partly
because of the relative scarcity of alternatives, as there is
only one Red Bulls soccer or Giants football team, he said.  Payments Miss Mark  A transformation of the industrial area surrounding  Red
Bull  Arena into a neighborhood of shops and condominiums hasn’t
come to fruition, with developers’ payments to the town totaling
$1.34 million in the past year, compared with an estimated $11.5
million for 2011 when the project began.  In December, the town had to borrow almost $3 million to
cover debt service on securities issued in 2006, according to
Gabriela Simoes, Harrison’s finance officer. The municipality’s
lack of a long-term solution to handle its obligations triggered
a five-level rating cut by Moody’s in May. The Ba3 score is
three steps below investment grade.  “We are aware of the judge’s decision and are currently
reviewing its impact,” David Jacobson, a Moody’s spokesman,
said by e-mail.  The Red Bulls, because of the tax-court ruling, is now the
largest single taxpayer in the town, representing about 6
percent of the assessed property value, Cifelli said.  Concern Remains  Town Council member Maria McCormick, a critic of the
redevelopment project, said she’s concerned the team will refuse
to meet its financial obligations to the community.  “I feel it will be a long process of reassuring Harrison
taxpayers that they, Red Bull, will make that payment,” she
said by e-mail. “Harrison will just keep paying attorney fees
to keep fighting for this relief.”  Nugent pronounced her ruling at a hearing where a lawyer
for the team, Thomas Denitzio, said the franchise would appeal,
according to a transcript. The judge hasn’t issued a written
decision.  “We respect the ruling of the judge and will continue to
exercise our rights appealing the decision on several fronts,”
Jurgen Mainka, a team spokesman, said today by e-mail. “We
stand by and continue to be a willing and able partner for the
future growth and development of Harrison.”  The  town  hasn’t yet sent out 2012 tax bills. Its budget
will be proposed in February, Simoes said. Harrison approved a
property-tax increase to help balance its $43 million spending
plan last year and avoid dismissals of town workers, she said.  The case is Red Bull Arena Inc. v. Town of Harrison, 10999-
2010, Tax Court of New Jersey, Essex County (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 