-- SocGen Joins BNP Paribas in Cutting Jobs as French Banks’ Ambitions Wilt
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-01-20T17:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/socgen-joins-bnp-paribas-in-cutting-jobs-as-french-banks-ambitions-wilt.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s architects are
putting finishing touches on a spanking new, highway-straddling
building in La Defense, Paris’s financial district, designed to
house more than 3,000 markets employees.  The final construction phase of the 250 million-euro ($321
million), 43,000 square-meter, (462,848 square-foot) glass-front
structure, called “Basalte,” coincides with the bank’s talks
with unions on the deepest job cuts at its corporate- and
investment banking unit.  Conceived in 2008 as a showcase trading-floor facility, the
building -- set to be completed this year -- forms a grim
backdrop for job cuts by Societe Generale,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , showing how the European debt crisis is
eating into once-ambitious plans of French banks. Paris-based
lenders, which weathered the 2007 subprime crisis with smaller
writedowns than their U.S. rivals and expanded, are now beating
a retreat as the regional crisis enters its third year.  “Societe Generale’s job cuts are a symbol” of the broader
malaise in the French banking world, said Olivier Godechot, a
sociologist at the Paris-based National Center for Scientific
Research, or  CNRS , specializing in finance. “Its job cuts are
particularly striking because Societe Generale is the leading
and most innovative bank on the Paris marketplace.”  Paris Gloom  France ’s top three corporate-and-investment banking, or
CIB, units, with combined global sales of 25 billion euros in
2010, are cutting 1,800 jobs at home. Although a fraction of the
more than 200,000 job losses announced by financial firms
globally in 2011, the cuts, about 10 percent of the three banks'
total CIB staff in France, are the biggest for the business in
the country.  The reductions add to the economic gloom in France, where
the  unemployment rate  is just shy of 10 percent. The banks’
plans, including scaling back corporate businesses such as
aircraft financing, are diminishing any ambition of Paris
narrowing the gap with  London  as a major financial center.  “Paris was the center for project finance as well as
 aircraft  and shipping lending, and that proved very fragile,”
said Sofiane Aboura, a professor at Paris Dauphine University.
“It will be hard for Paris to win back any business leadership
it loses because London offers legal and fiscal advantages for
corporate and investment banking.”  Shrinking Operations  France’s top three CIB units employed just over 16,000
people in the country before their job-cutting announcements,
said Thierry Iochem, an analyst at eFinancialCareers in Paris.
 Barclays Capital (BARC)  alone employs about 14,000 people in London,
making it probably the City’s largest investment-banking
employer, estimated  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who faces a two-round
election in April and May, has been pushing companies not to cut
jobs in France -- something the banks have struggled with as
European writedowns eroded profit.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is threatening French banks’
revenue from trading and corporate financing. At the end of
September, French banks, the most exposed to public and private
debt from the euro-zone’s periphery, had taken about 5.4 billion
euros of losses on Greek sovereign bonds.  The banks’ regional woes have hurt their shares. Societe
Generale’s 4.5 percent increase today to 21 euros still left it
with a  decline  of more than 55 percent in the past year. BNP
Paribas rose 1.8 percent in Paris today to 35.33 euros, while
 Credit Agricole  rose 2.5 percent to 4.96 euros.  Second Round  Third-quarter net income for BNP Paribas, France’s biggest
bank, fell 72 percent on Greek write-offs and losses from
selling European  government bonds . Societe Generale’s profit
slid 31 percent, hurt by a Greek writedown and lower trading
revenue.  The two banks in September began a program to trim about
300 billion euros in assets by 2013, cutting dollar-funded
activities such as aircraft lending and export finance as
Europe’s debt woes squeezed funding.  “French banks are giving up businesses where they were
leaders worldwide,” said Gael de Roquefeuil, founder of Paris-
based finance headhunting firm ROCPartners. “If the banking
business climate remains depressed, there’s a strong risk of a
second round of jobs cuts after the presidential elections.”  Saphia Gaouaoui, a spokeswoman at Societe Generale in
Paris, declined to comment, as did Credit Agricole CIB’s
spokeswoman Anne Robert and BNP Paribas’s Julia Boyce.  Shot in Foot  Societe Generale, Paris’s biggest CIB employer, began talks
with unions in the fall on plans unveiled Jan. 4 to cut 880 of
the unit’s jobs, or about 14 percent of the business’s workforce
in France. The cuts may include 189 markets-related positions.
France’s second-largest bank had about 6,400 CIB employees in
the country as of September.  The bank, which is also shedding 700 jobs abroad, held its
French CIB workforce stable after the 2007 subprime crisis
roiled markets, and even added mergers and acquisitions bankers.
In 2008, when it suffered the biggest trading loss in banking
history on unauthorized transactions by  Jerome Kerviel , Societe
Generale boosted its French CIB staff by 7 percent.  The CIB unit is Societe Generale’s  earnings backbone ,
accounting for about 43 percent of the bank’s sales between 2000
and 2011, according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg
News last week. In August, Societe Generale scrapped its 6
billion-euro profit target for 2012.  “We wonder whether CIB isn’t being liquidated in pieces
and whether we aren’t shooting ourselves in the foot,” said
Michel Marchet, a CGT union representative at the bank.  An Adjustment?  To be sure, the bank has left intact its equity derivatives
business -- which according to a report this month by JPMorgan
Cazenove is the world’s second largest by sales behind New York-
based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   For its part, BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, in
November said it will shrink its CIB staff globally by more than
6 percent, with 373 job cuts at home. The bank increased its CIB
unit’s global staff with its Fortis acquisition in 2009. BNP
Paribas employs about 21,000 people at its CIB unit worldwide,
40 percent more than in 2007, according to its website.  Credit Agricole’s CIB division is cutting 550 jobs in
France and 1,200 abroad as it closes its equity-derivatives and
commodity-trading activities. France’s third-largest bank by
market value is closing operations in 21 countries. The bank is
also eliminating 600 consumer-finance positions worldwide.  Paris’s CIB jobs, which fell after the 1998 Asian crisis,
the 2000 technology bubble and the 2007 subprime crisis, haven’t
had such a severe reduction since most of the French capital’s
brokers lost their jobs in the early 90s, CNRS’s Godechot said.  “Every time there are strong job reductions, the question
remains: is it a durable correction or just an adjustment?” he
asked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 