-- Solar Panel Price Drop Slowing Amid Subsidy Cuts, CEO Asbeck Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-19T11:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/solar-panel-price-drop-slowing-amid-subsidy-cuts-ceo-asbeck-says.html
The pace at which prices of solar
panels are falling will slow this year amid steeper subsidy cuts
in  Germany , the world’s biggest market for the industry,
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  Chief Executive Officer Frank Asbeck said today.  Asbeck predicts module prices will drop 13 percent on
average in 2012, less than half the level of Germany’s expected
solar subsidy cuts.  “Last year module prices fell steeper than subsidies in
Germany, this year it will be the other way around,” Asbeck
said today in a phone interview.  Officials from the German solar industry, which has
struggled with foreign competition including from  China , will
meet German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen in Berlin
today. Talks will focus on possible adjustments to subsidies
after the country installed 7.5 gigawatts of panels last year,
more than double the government’s target, Roettgen said
yesterday.  The industry will put forward several proposals at the
meeting, Asbeck said, without elaborating. Officials will
propose smaller subsidy cuts instead of two larger ones to
reduce installations, the Financial Times Deutschland reported
today, citing unidentified company officials.  “This year will not see such steep cost reductions of
photovoltaic modules, as the wholesale price of $1 per watt
cannot be met by many producers without them losing money, and
they’re doing so already,” Martin Simonek, an analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.  Germany is expected to cut subsidies by 15 percent in July
after a 15 percent cut took effect at the start of the year.
Panel prices dropped about 50 percent last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, amid a 13 percent subsidy reduction
in Germany in that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  