-- Sony Ericsson Reports Fourth-Quarter Net Loss as Sales Decline
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-19T09:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/sony-ericsson-has-fourth-quarter-net-loss-of-207-million-euros.html
Sony (6758)  Ericsson Mobile Communications
AB, the mobile-phone joint venture being acquired by parent Sony
Corp., reported its second quarterly loss in a year as
competition in the Android smartphone segment increased.  The fourth-quarter net loss was 207 million euros ($266
million) compared with 8 million euros in profit a year earlier,
the 50-50 handset partnership of Sony and Ericsson AB said in a
statement today. Analysts had expected profit of 12.4 million
euros, according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales dropped 16 percent to 1.29 billion euros and
missed the 1.69 billion-euro average of nine estimates.  Sony agreed in October to buy Ericsson’s stake in the 10-
year-old joint venture for 1.05 billion euros to tap into demand
for smarter consumer electronics after its main television
business declined. The Tokyo-based company aims to compete with
companies such as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  by integrating the
smartphone business with other home electronics such as the
Xperia game consoles. London-based  Sony Ericsson  already makes
an Xperia Play handset.  “Our fourth-quarter results reflected intense competition,
unfavorable macroeconomic conditions” and floods in  Thailand 
that disrupted production, Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg
said in the statement.  The Sony acquisition is expected to  close  in late January
or February after receiving regulatory approvals, the joint
venture said.  Sony Ericsson shipped 9 million handsets in the quarter, 20
percent fewer than a year earlier, including low-end models that
are being phased out. Average selling price was 143 euros,
declining 14 percent from the third quarter. The company
estimated its share of the Android-technology handset market at
10 percent in volume and 7 percent in value for the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  