-- SOPA, Spider-Man, Alcatel-Lucent: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-19T12:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/sopa-spider-man-alcatel-lucent-cinven-intellectual-property.html
Six U.S. lawmakers dropped their
support for Hollywood-backed anti-piracy legislation as  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , Wikipedia and other websites protest the measures.  Co-sponsors who say they no longer support their own
legislation include Senators Marco Rubio, a  Florida  Republican,
Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, and Ben Cardin, a Maryland
Democrat. Republican Representatives Ben Quayle of  Arizona , Lee Terry of  Nebraska , and Dennis Ross of Florida also said they
would withdraw their backing of the House bill.  The Senate bill and the Stop Online Piracy Act in the House
are backed by the movie and music industries as a means to crack
down on the sale of counterfeit goods by non-U.S. websites.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
covered the “Google” icon on its home page yesterday with a
black box and linked to a website that says the bills may spur
censorship and slow U.S. economic growth.  Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia run by the nonprofit
 Wikimedia Foundation Inc. , shut the English version of its
website for 24 hours in protest against the bills. The home page
of the English website gives visitors information about how to
call their elected representatives.  Craigslist Inc., operator of the online classified ad
website, steered users to a  page  with a black background and a
message in white letters asking visitors to “imagine a world
without craigslist, Google, Wikipedia.” The  San Jose ,
California-based company provided visitors with a link to a page
with online tools for contacting lawmakers to voice opposition
to the Hollywood-backed legislation.  Rubio said he switched his position on the Senate measure,
the Protect IP Act, after examining opponents’ contention that
it would present a “potentially unreasonable expansion of the
federal government’s power to impact the Internet,” according
to a posting yesterday on Facebook. Blunt said in a statement he
is withdrawing as a co-sponsor of the Senate bill.  Ross said he was withdrawing support for the House
legislation in a Twitter post. Spokesmen for Quayle and Terry
said the lawmakers would no longer back the House measure.
Cardin said he couldn’t vote for the Senate bill in its current
form, according to a statement last week.  The Senate bill is S. 968 and the House bill is H.R. 3261.  ‘Spider-Man’ Producers Sue Spurned Director, Julie Taymor  After the first preview of “Spider-Man: Turn Off the
Dark” on Nov. 28, 2010,  Michael Cohl , a Canadian concert
promoter and lead producer of the $75 million musical, declared
himself “ecstatic.”  “I thought the audience enjoyed it,” he was quoted saying
on the website of “Entertainment Weekly” the following day.
“It was a 10 out of a 10 in the category of first previews.”  Cohl and the show’s other producers recalled the evening
differently in a complaint filed Jan. 17 in federal court in
Manhattan.  “The performance was a disaster,” they said in the
document -- a countersuit against the show’s former director,
Julie Taymor. The performance ran five hours, “suffered from
numerous technical problems, and had no ending.”  The 66-page countersuit includes the most complete
explanation to date of why producers early last year fired
Taymor, famed for her staging of “The Lion King” on Broadway.  She sued them in November, claiming that they refused to
pay royalties guaranteed by her contract and violated her
intellectual-property rights by changing the show without her
permission. As the co-writer, she said she worked on the script
for more than seven years.  Taymor’s lawyer, Charles T. Spada, called the countersuit
“baseless” in a statement distributed by her spokesman, Chris
Kanarick. “In her lawsuit, Ms. Taymor will continue to
vigorously seek enforcement of her creative rights and will
respond to the defendants’ counter-claims, as well as their
outrageous mischaracterization and attempts to besmirch her
reputation.”  The countersuit blames Taymor for production delays and
cost overruns. It said companies owned by Cohl and his partner,
Jeremiah Harris, “contributed over $20 million to support the
show.”  The case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The original case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged
Productions LLLC, 1:11-cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Copyrights on Foreign Works Upheld by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court upheld a federal law that gave
copyright protection to millions of foreign-produced books,
movies and musical pieces and may undermine Google Inc.’s effort
to create an online library.  Yesterday’s 6-2 ruling takes works by Alfred Hitchcock,
Pablo Picasso, Igor Stravinsky and J.R.R. Tolkien out of the
public domain, barring use without permission of the copyright
owner. The decision is a victory for the film and music
industries and a setback for Google.  The justices rejected arguments from orchestra conductors,
educators, performers, film archivists and movie distributors.
They argued that the 1994 law violates the constitutional
provision that lets Congress set up a copyright system, as well
as the Constitution’s free-speech guarantee.  The law “lies well within the ken of the political
branches,” Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote for the majority.
Justices Stephen Breyer and  Samuel Alito  dissented, and Justice
Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the case.  The statute aimed to harmonize U.S. copyright law with
rules in other countries. The measure applied to works that had
been excluded from the American copyright system for various
reasons, in some cases because the U.S. didn’t have copyright
relations with the author’s home country and in other cases
because the U.S. hadn’t yet recognized copyrights on sound
recordings.  The law gave rights-holders the copyright protection they
otherwise would have had. Affected works include Tolkien’s “The
Hobbit,” hundreds of Picasso paintings, several Hitchcock films
and the music of Stravinsky, Dmitri Shostakovich and other
Russian composers.  Congress approved the law to meet obligations stemming from
the so-called Uruguay Round of international trade talks. The
motion-picture and music industries pushed for the provision to
secure reciprocal copyright protection for American works
abroad.  The Obama administration defended the law, arguing that
Congress has the constitutional power to remove works from the
public domain.  In dissent, Breyer said the law went beyond Congress’s
constitutional power to confer copyrights for the purpose of
promoting science and knowledge.  Even if would-be users can track down the copyright owners,
they may face other obstacles, said Anthony Falzone, the lawyer
who represented the challengers to the law.  A Google spokesman, Jim Prosser, didn’t immediately return
a phone call seeking comment. In court papers, Google said the
law might affect as many as a million books the company has
already scanned as part of its book project.  The case is Golan v. Holder, 10-545.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , Microsoft Patent-Infringement Case Dismissed  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ’s patent-infringement lawsuit against
 Microsoft Corp., (MSFT)  the world’s largest maker of software, was
dismissed by a federal judge after both companies asked to end
the case.  U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff granted the joint motion
to end all claims in the suit with each side agreeing to bear
its own costs, according to a filing Jan. 17 in  San Diego . No
information was given on a possible settlement of the dispute.  In July, a jury awarded Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent
$70 million in damages. Huff reduced the award to $26.3 million
on Nov. 10.  Alcatel-Lucent sued over technology in Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft’s Outlook program and two other applications.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v. Microsoft Corp.,
07-02000, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Barroso Urges Accord on Common EU Patent in First Half of 2012  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  urged France,
 Germany  and the U.K. to “swiftly” reach a compromise to allow
agreement on a region-wide patent system.  “I fully expect negotiations on this to be completed early
in the Danish presidency” of the European Union, which ends on
June 30, Barroso told the European Parliament yesterday in
Strasbourg, France. “I call on three member states -- France,
Germany and the United Kingdom -- who are holding this up over a
side issue” to find a compromise, he said.  Governments from 25 EU nations have agreed on the basic
structure of the patent system, though discord remains over the
creation of a patent court, Pierre Delsaux, deputy director
general in EU Internal Markets Commissioner Michel Barnier’s
department, said last month. Italy and Spain have opted out of
the plans because they objected to the language proposals.  “It is not acceptable that such a crucial initiative is
blocked over such a trivial issue,” Barroso said.  Cinven Agrees to Buy Patents Company CPA From Intermediate  Cinven Ltd., the British buyout firm that owns the  Pizza
Express  restaurant chain, agreed to buy patents company CPA
Global Ltd. from Intermediate Capital Group Plc and other
shareholders.  The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is expected
to be completed in the first quarter, London-based Cinven said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The transaction values CPA
at about 950 million pounds ($1.5 billion), according to a
person with direct knowledge of the purchase, who declined to be
identified because the terms weren’t fully disclosed.  Cinven is investing the remainder of its 6.5 billion-euro
($8.3 billion) buyout fund while seeking 5 billion euros from
investors for another pool. Intermediate bought a minority stake
in CPA in 2010 with the company’s management and founding
shareholders, according to Intermediate’s website. CPA, based in
Jersey, has offices across  Europe , the United States and  Asia ,
Cinven said. It offers corporations and law firms intellectual
property-management services and software.  Intermediate, a London-based private-equity firm, said the
sale will generate 387 million pounds for itself and the funds
it advises. Of that, the firm will receive about 113 million
pounds, realizing a 43 million-pound gain, it said in a
statement.  Kodak Sues Samsung in Next Step on ‘Aggressive’ Patent Path  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  stepped up its campaign to extract more
cash from its patent portfolio by suing Samsung Electronics Co.
over claims Samsung’s Galaxy tablet infringes technology for
capturing and sending digital images.  The complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Rochester, New York, where Kodak is based, accuses Samsung of
infringing five patents, including one for technology already
licensed for Samsung’s mobile phones. The other four were cited
in lawsuits last week against Apple Inc. and HTC Corp.  Kodak said in November that selling or licensing patents,
as well as refinancing debt, will help determine its ability to
continue operating in the next 12 months as declines in the
company’s traditional photography business hurt sales and cash
reserves. Kodak last week sued HTC, Apple and Fujifilm Holdings
Corp., and also has a suit against Research In Motion Ltd.  “We’re continuing on our newly aggressive path” of
pursuing licensing revenue from the company’s intellectual
property,  Christopher Veronda , a Kodak spokesman, said
yesterday.  Samsung in 2010 agreed to pay Kodak $550 million to settle
another patent dispute in which the Suwon, South Korea-based
handset maker was accused of infringing a patent for a feature
that lets users preview images on their cameras using less
processing power and storage  The new case is Eastman Kodak Co. v.  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , 6:12-cv-06036, U.S. District Court for the Western District
of New York (Rochester).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  U.S. Piracy List ‘Irresponsible,’  China  Dissatisfied, Shen Says  A report from the U.S. Trade Representative’s office that
included Chinese Internet companies in a list of “notorious
markets” that help sustain piracy is “irresponsible” and
“not objective,” Shen Danyang, China’s commerce ministry
spokesman, said at a regular briefing in Beijing.  Shen said China urges the U.S. to recognize its efforts in
protecting intellectual property rights and help avoid a
negative impact on Chinese companies, he said.  China is paying great attention to the issue and is
expressing its serious dissatisfaction, he said. The report was
issued in December.  Baidu Inc., China’s biggest Internet company by market
value, was removed from the list. The U.S. cited “positive
action” by Baidu.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Leydig Opens Nor-Cal Office With Hire From Kilpatrick Townsend  Leydig Voit & Mayer Ltd.  is opening an office in Northern
 California  to serve the region’s technology industries, the
Chicago-based IP specialty firm said in a  statement .  The new office, in Walnut Creek, California, will be headed
by Gerald Gray, formerly of Atlanta’s  Kilpatrick Townsend &
Stockton LLP .  Gray does patent-acquisition work and counseling for
clients in the areas of physics, optics, electronics and
computers.  He has an undergraduate degree in physics from Columbia
College, a master’s degree in physics from the University of
California at San Diego and a law degree from George Washington
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 