-- Southwest May Start Red-Eye Flights as AirTran Is Absorbed
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-19T21:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/southwest-may-start-red-eye-flights-as-airtran-is-absorbed-1-.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  may offer its
first red-eye flights, the overnight trips pioneered decades
earlier by larger rivals, as it integrates operations with
AirTran Holdings Inc.  As many as 15 of the flights now flown by AirTran may
become part of Southwest’s schedule once the smaller airline’s
network is absorbed, Southwest Chief Commercial Officer Bob Jordan said today. He said the red-eye service generally is
profitable at AirTran, which was acquired in May.  “I wouldn’t rule out some modest red-eye flying in the
mix,” Jordan said on a conference call with reporters.
“Nothing dramatic, 10 to 15 flights.”  Southwest, the largest discount airline, has never operated
overnight flights because of its longtime focus on shorter,
point-to-point and high-frequency trips. The Dallas-based
carrier also flew to few eastern U.S. airports until 2004, so
overnight flights from western cities didn’t make sense.  “If it makes money for Southwest, they absolutely should
do that,” said  Henry Harteveldt , chief research officer at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Atmosphere Research Group. “It
allows the airline to increase the efficiency of its fleet,
generate revenue and serve the customer well.”  Merger Lessons  The move also shows Southwest is “approaching the merger
wisely by learning from AirTran what has worked well and made
money for them,” he said. JetBlue Airways Corp. and Virgin
America Inc. are among discount airlines with transcontinental
red-eyes.  AirTran’s current overnight offerings include nonstop trips
such as  Las Vegas  to Atlanta, according to the carrier’s
website.  Larger competitors such as  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s  American Airlines 
have long operated red-eye flights to help connect business
markets such as  Los Angeles  and  New York . An evening trip from
the west coast can reach New York in time for the next workday.  After cutting some evening flights that weren’t making
money in recent years, Southwest may restore some of that
service, Jordan said. The additions would be part of Southwest’s
plans to boost productivity and revenue after losing half of its
cost advantage over competitors.  “As we rework the network and as we get some economic
improvement in 2012, it does look like there’s a chance to
stretch the day out a bit and add some flights toward the end of
the day,” Jordan said.  Southwest expects to win regulatory approval this quarter
to combine operations with AirTran, Jordan said. By year’s end,
13 of AirTran’s  Boeing Co.  737s should be converted to the
Southwest brand, said Jordan, who is also AirTran president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  