-- Southwest May Delay Expansion Until 2014 With Oil Near $100
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-19T21:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/southwest-airlines-quarterly-profit-slides-43-amid-costlier-jet-fuel.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  may delay any
expansion to as late as 2014 as $100-a-barrel oil erodes profit
growth at the largest discount carrier, Chief Executive Officer
 Gary Kelly  said.  Flights and seating capacity at the biggest discount
carrier will be unchanged this year, and “we haven’t made a
final decision about 2013 yet,” Kelly said today in an
interview. “I don’t sense we’re going to see a significant
increase in capacity in 2013, if we have any at all.”  Analysts track capacity because a tighter supply of seats
improves pricing power. With Southwest paying an average of 35
percent more for each gallon of  jet fuel  in 2011, the Dallas-
based airline is under pressure to curb a history of expanding
faster than its peers. The shares rose the most in four weeks.  “Southwest has always been the bad boy for the industry,”
said  Ray Neidl , a Maxim Group LLC analyst in New York who has a
“hold” rating on the stock. “Southwest is realizing they have
to be a logical player as the other airlines reduce their costs
and become more competitive.”  Capacity rose 4.9 percent last year, Southwest said today.
Higher energy costs are helping drive renewed efforts to cut
spending and boost productivity at Southwest, which ordered more
fuel-efficient jets and will add six seats to most planes as it
refurbishes interiors.  ‘Never-Ending Search’  “There is waste in every company, and there is a never-
ending search to eliminate waste and increase productivity,”
Kelly said. “We’ll be ramping up those efforts this year more
than ever.”  Kelly said he also wants to assess Southwest’s success in
integrating operations with those of  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI) ,
which was acquired in May, and whether financial results improve
before making capacity decisions.  “Our earnings are not where I want them to be in terms of
expansion,” he said. “We’ll wait as long as possible before we
make any commitments to 2013.”  Southwest climbed 3.1 percent to $9.30 at the close in New
York, the biggest advance since Dec. 16. The shares have gained
8.6 percent this year.  The airline will receive 33 new planes in 2012 and retire
40, Chief Financial Officer Laura Wright said on a conference
call. She said capacity this quarter will be up about 1 percent
from a year earlier, and down as much as 2 percent next quarter.  Quarterly Earnings  Fourth-quarter net income rose 16 percent to $152 million,
or 20 cents a share, Southwest said today. Excluding benefits
linked to fuel-purchase contracts, profit fell 43 percent to $66
million, or 9 cents, from $115 million, or 15 cents. On that
basis, earnings exceeded the 8-cent average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 32 percent to a record $4.1 billion. Fuel was
the company’s largest expense at $1.49 billion. Crude oil
settled yesterday at $100.59 a barrel in  New York , the ninth
close at $100 or more through the year’s first 11 trading days.
The 50-day moving average before today was $98.90.  Southwest was the first major U.S. airline to report
quarter results. The six biggest are expected to have a combined
profit of $106.5 million, excluding one-time items, based on the
average  estimates  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s more
than 70 percent less than a year earlier as fuel and lagging
European demand weigh on results.  Travel demand and airlines’ revenue outlook remains
“strong,” Kelly said. Southwest’s revenue from each seat flown
a mile rose 8.2 percent in the quarter, and its average fare per
mile increased 4.1 percent. The extra seats on each plane should
produce $250 million in new annual sales, Southwest has said.  Southwest will add its own flights to Atlanta, AirTran’s
main base of operations, and doesn’t plan now to add any other
cities in 2012, Kelly said.  While AirTran will add some destinations in  Mexico  this
year, capacity gradually will be reduced as flights transfer
over to Southwest, he said. Kelly said the carriers are moving
toward receiving regulatory approval this quarter to combine
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  