-- South Africa Keeps Key Lending Rate at 5.5% to Bolster Economic Recovery
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-01-19T15:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/south-africa-keeps-key-lending-rate-unchanged-at-5-5-to-bolster-recovery.html
South  Africa ’s central bank kept its
 benchmark  lending rate at a 30-year low to support the recovery
in Africa’s biggest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at
5.5 percent for a seventh consecutive meeting, Governor Gill Marcus said today in a televised press conference from the
capital,  Pretoria . That was in line with the forecasts of all 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Concerns that  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis will stifle
growth in South Africa have outweighed those about rising
prices.  Inflation (SACPIYOY)  was unchanged at 6.1 percent in December,
exceeding the bank’s target for a second month, though lower
than economists forecast.  “The MPC maintains a preference for a stable interest rate
environment given the conflicting pressures on monetary
policy,” Marcus said. “The monetary policy stance is
‘‘accommodative and supportive of the real economy. The outlook
for domestic economic growth remains subdued.’’  The European debt crisis threatens to erode growth in a
region that buys about a third of South African manufactured
exports.  South Africa ’s government estimates the  economy  grew
3.1 percent last year, less than half the 7 percent expansion
needed to meet a goal to create 5 million new jobs by 2020.  The central bank today cut its growth forecast for this
year to 2.8 percent from a previous estimate of 3.3 percent,
while projected growth for next year was revised downward to 3.8
percent from 4.2 percent.  No Speedy Resolution  ‘‘The primary reason for the worsening domestic growth
outlook is the risk of contagion from the persistent crisis in
Europe, which shows no sign of a speedy resolution,’’ Marcus
said.  Investors have pared bets the central bank will increase
interest rates, with the yield on the forward-rate agreement
contract due in six months dropping for a third day. The rand
was at 7.9373 as of 4:20 p.m. in Johannesburg from 7.9309 before
Marcus began speaking.  ‘‘It is clear that the bank of late is focused on growth,’’
Arthur Kamp, an economist at Cape Town-based Sanlam Investment
Management, said in a telephone interview. ‘‘Rates are likely to
remain unchanged this year.’’  Inflation will probably remain outside the bank’s 3 percent
to 6 percent target range for 2012, peaking at about 6.6 percent
in the second quarter, Marcus said.  Rising Spending  The central bank ‘‘sees the risks to inflation as evenly
balanced,’’ Carmen Nel, an economist at Rand Merchant Bank, said
by telephone from Johannesburg. ‘‘That doesn’t mean they are not
worried about inflation. If they do see demand-led inflation
coming through, there is a possibility they may respond by
tightening.’’  Pressure to ease  interest rates  has abated as  consumer
spending  improved.  Borrowing (SACEIYOY)  by households and businesses rose
6.2 percent in November from the same month last year, the
fastest pace since April 2009, the central bank said on Dec. 30.
 Retail sales  rose 6.8 percent in November from a year ago, after
expanding 7.5 percent in the previous month, the statistics
office said yesterday.  ‘‘Christmas trading was above expectation across all
divisions with sales growth for December of 17.3 percent,’’
 Foschini Group Ltd. (FOS) , a Cape Town-based clothing retailer, said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  