-- Starbucks May Open First Store in India in Second Half
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-01-19T12:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/starbucks-may-open-first-india-store-with-tata-in-second-half.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s biggest
coffee shop operator, may open its first store in  India  in the
second half of this year as it seeks expansion in the fastest
growing major economy after  China .  Starbucks will open the stores after forming an alliance
with India’s Tata Group by the end of this month, Hameed Huq,
managing director of  Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO) , said in New Delhi today.
The Seattle-based company signed an agreement in January 2011 to
source beans from Tata Coffee.  Starbucks faces competition from Barista Coffee Co., a unit
of Italy’s  Lavazza SpA (LAVA) , and Café Coffee Day, run by the
Amalgamated Bean Coffee Trading Company Ltd. in India, where
consumption doubled to more than 100,000 metric tons between
2001 and 2010, the Coffee Board of India  estimates .  An agreement that may lead to opening the first store in
the second half of this year will be completed this month, Huq
said. He didn’t comment on terms of the expected accord.  An e-mail sent to Starbucks’s public-relations team in
 Seattle  outside business hours wasn’t immediately answered.  Tata Coffee’s  shares  rose 1 percent to 865.95 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai, while the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
gained 1.2 percent.  India’s government on Jan. 10 removed the 51 percent limit
on foreign ownership of stores selling a single brand, a
decision that will benefit companies including Starbucks and
Ikea. The new rules require the overseas companies to procure at
least 30 percent of their products or inputs from small Indian
companies if they own more than 51 percent in the venture.  Starbucks is “moving forward with MOU discussions and
planning” in India, John Culver, president of the coffee
chain’s international business, said in an e-mailed statement
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  