-- Super Bowl Chicken Wings Flying to Record High: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-01-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/super-bowl-chicken-wings-flying-to-record-high-chart-of-the-day.html
Chicken wings, a staple food of
 Super Bowl  parties in the U.S., will be the most expensive ever
during this year’s  National Football League  championship game as
demand rises and processors cut output to trim losses.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that wholesale prices for wings
sold by processors in  Georgia , the biggest chicken state, are up
52 percent in the past year, while whole birds rose just 6.2
percent. About 3.615 billion chickens were slaughtered in the
five months ended Nov. 30, down 3.5 percent from a year earlier
and the smallest total since 2000, government data show.  “Chickens only have two wings, so when the supply declines
the price will rise because demand is relatively inelastic,”
Paul Aho, an economist at Poultry Perspective, a broiler
industry consultant in Storrs,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “People really want wings, and the
recession doesn’t seem to have an effect on demand.”  Consumption usually peaks in the first three months of the
year, fueled by the American football title game, which will be
held on Feb. 5, and college basketball’s annual championship
tournament in March. About 23 percent of the people watching the
Super Bowl on television will eat wings, and 1.25 billion wings
will be eaten during that weekend, according to Harris
Interactive data supplied by the National Chicken Council  Prices rose to a record $1.79 a pound on Jan. 13, after
doubling in six months, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show. More than 13.5 billion wings were sold in 2011 with about
70 percent going to restaurants including Buffalo Wild Wings
Inc., said Tom Super, a vice president at the council. Whole
chickens advanced to a record 90.25 cents a pound last week, up
6.2 percent from a year earlier.  “Production has been declining since May, and that means
2012 should be positive for the chicken industry,” after
producers lost money on almost every pound they produced last
year because of high feed costs, Aho said. “Prices do rise when
you cut back on supply, confirming the laws of economics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  