-- Swiss Tap Alpine Thermals in Bid to Rival Russian Caviar
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-20T12:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/swiss-tap-alpine-thermals-in-bid-to-rival-russian-caviar-brands.html
Peter Hufschmied was the engineer
charged with diverting runoff water from a rail tunnel under the
Bernese Alps when he remembered a 1995 trip to Moscow’s Bolshoi
Theater and his first bite of caviar. Maybe the warm geothermal
streams could feed  Switzerland ’s first sturgeon farm, producing
Alpine caviar to rival Russian brands that dominate the market.  “Sturgeon was anchored in my memory,” Hufschmied said.
“After the first taste, I was hooked. I thought it was a great
product that would be a hit in Switzerland.”  The Tropenhaus farm envisioned by Hufschmied started to
deliver caviar from Siberian sturgeon in November after securing
$40 million of funds from Coop, the second-biggest Swiss
retailer, and lenders including Berner Kantonalbank. The project
is tapping global demand that is about 2 1/2 times last year’s
farmed output of 140 tons.  “The farmed sturgeon market is thriving,” Peter Rebeiz,
chief executive officer of Geneva-based Caviar House & Prunier
AG, which owns 50 shops worldwide. Switzerland ranks among the
four biggest caviar markets in  Europe , said Rebeiz, who owns the
largest sturgeon farm in  France .  The Tropenhaus’s No. 101  Oona  brand caviar costs as much as
1,530 Swiss francs ($1,632) for 250 grams, or about half a
pound, of the fish eggs. That compares with 2,400 euros ($3,091)
for the same-sized tin of Beluga caviar sold by Paris-based
Petrossian Inc., which sets a reference for global prices.  Extinction Threat  Wild sturgeon, which have been around since the time of the
dinosaurs, can take 20 years to reproduce and stocks have
slumped 90 percent from overfishing, according to the
International Union for Conservation of Nature in Gland,
Switzerland. Beluga and other Caspian Sea species, which can
grow to five meters (16.4 feet) in length and live for 100
years, are threatened by extinction, the  organization  said.  Using the 20 degrees Celsius (68 degrees) runoff water from
the Loetschberg Basis tunnel allows the Tropenhaus in Frutigen,
south of the Swiss capital Bern, to harvest roe from female fish
when they are just six years old.  “In Russian waters, the sturgeon live at temperatures of 2
degrees in the winter,” Patrick Guefel, head of aquaculture at
the Tropenhaus, said in an interview in Frutigen. “Here we can
provide them with permanent summer temperatures so they develop
more quickly.”  The warm mountain water not only serves the sturgeon farm,
it heats the Swiss greenhouse, where tropical plants and fruit
are grown.  ‘Sustainable’ Fish Farm  “I thought that the water’s energy could be used for a
sustainable warm-water fish farm,” said Hufschmied, adding that
the runoff was too warm to discharge into the nearby Kander
River.  To get its black caviar, the Tropenhaus anesthesizes the
sturgeon, as is required by Swiss animal rights law, before
killing it. The roe is then collected by hand and salted. The
fish filets are smoked and served in the adjacent restaurant.  “Brands are the future and will help consumers to
differentiate between the various qualities,” said Alexander
Zwyer, CEO of a Teufen, Switzerland-based family-run firm that
sells Uruguayan caviar to the Hotel Baur au Lac and Dolder Grand
in Zurich and Harrods in  London . “Switzerland will absolutely
be able to assert itself in the global caviar market, at least
in the premium sector.”  ‘Quality’ Farmed Caviar  Farmed production has soared to about 140 tons last year
from 500 kilograms in 1998, according to Armen Petrossian, head
of Petrossian Inc., the company that introduced caviar to the
West after the Russian Revolution.  “The quality of farmed caviar has improved with
improvements of the technical production,” Petrossian said in
an interview from Paris. “Nowadays there are methods to check
the quality of the roe, like doing an autopsy, which allows you
to see the eggs before harvesting.”  Petrossian, founded in Paris in 1920 and with restaurants
and shops in the French capital,  New York  and  Los Angeles ,
expects farmed caviar production to double in eight to 10 years.  The first 300 kilograms of Oona caviar is earmarked for the
local market, with the Swiss department store Jelmoli selling
the product since November. Tropenhaus is targeting annual
output of as much as three tons within four years with two-
thirds of that exported, said Andreas Schmid, the head of
marketing and sales.  Hufschmied, who owns a stake in the farm, hopes the brand
finds more fans when the  World Economic Forum  meets next week in
Davos.  “Our Oona caviar is produced in a sustainable, authentic
way, with the usual Swiss diligence,” Hufschmied said. “We are
proud of the quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  