-- Swiss Re Promotes Michel Lies to Be CEO After Lippe’s Early Retirement
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-01-19T08:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/swiss-re-names-michel-lies-as-next-ceo.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, promoted Michel Lies to succeed Stefan Lippe
as chief executive officer from next month.  Lies is the company’s chairman of global partnerships,
which manages relationships with governments and state entities.
He has “tremendous insights into the growth area of  emerging
markets , one of our main strategic pillars,” Zurich-based Swiss
Re said today on its website.  Swiss Re said in December that Lippe, 56, decided to retire
early after restoring the company to profit and repaying a loan
from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Martin Schwab, a Zurich-based
analyst with Bank Sarasin & Cie., was among analysts who
predicted Lippe would be replaced by Christian Mumenthaler, who
heads the company’s reinsurance operations.  “They like people who have made their career inside the
organization,” Schwab said by phone. “The best news is that
Mumenthaler, who is seen in the market as knowing the
reinsurance business, stays in his position.”  Mumenthaler was named reinsurance chief in October after
the company formed a new holding company that overarches its
reinsurance operations, which accounts for about 80 percent of
Swiss Re’s business.  “The CEO does not have the same influence on the
operations side anymore,” said Schwab.  ‘Healthy State’  Swiss Re shares  rose 1.4 percent to 50.25 francs at 9:47
a.m. in Zurich, outpacing the 0.9 percent gain by the  insurance
index  in the Stoxx 600, a pan-European benchmark.  Lies, a citizen of Luxembourg, was born in 1954 and has
worked for Swiss Re for 30 years. He was previously in charge of
all client relationships, and has been part of the executive
committee since 2005. He headed the company’s European and Latin
American units prior to that.  “The company is in a healthy state after the successful
turnaround,” Lies said in today’s statement. “I will ensure
that we continue to leverage our exceptional underwriting
capacity.”  Swiss Re also said today that Moses Ojeisekhoba will join
from Chubb Corp. as chief of Asian reinsurance from March 15,
reporting to Mumenthaler. He will also become regional
president, representing Swiss Re in  Asia  and join the group
executive committee, the company said.  Lippe was appointed CEO in 2009 after $8 billion of
securities-trading losses prompted Jacques Aigrain’s ouster.
Under his leadership, the company refocused on underwriting and
regained its AA credit rating with  Standard & Poor’s . Lippe had
been with the company for almost three decades.  In November, Swiss Re reported third-quarter net income
more than doubled to $1.35 billion amid fewer natural-disaster
claims, higher property-and-casualty premiums and gains on its
bond holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  