-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Declines to Near Record Low: Economy
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-01-19T11:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-as-outlook-for-economy-weakens.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  fell in
December to close to a record low as rising unemployment and the
euro debt crisis sapped Britons’ expectations for an economic
recovery.  An index of sentiment fell to 38 from 40 in November,
Swindon, England-based  Nationwide Building Society  said today.
It dropped to 36 in October, the lowest since the survey began
in 2004. A gauge of consumers’ expectations fell 5 points to 50,
also near a record low.  The impact of the euro-area debt turmoil and Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s austerity drive, which will lead to around
700,000 job cuts by 2017, are undermining confidence.
 Unemployment (UKUEILOR)  rose to the highest rate in 16 years in the three
months through November, data yesterday showed.  “Recent months have seen the labor-market outlook
deteriorate, while worries over the euro-area situation have
mounted,” said Chris Crowe, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
London. “However, inflation is on a clear downward trend,
easing the pressure on real household incomes. We expect the
outlook for consumers to stabilize in coming months, barring
further downside news,” and confidence is “probably at or
close to its trough.”  Britons’ assessment of their present situation rose to 19
in December from 18, Nationwide said. An index of shoppers’
views on whether it’s a good time to make a major purchase, such
as a house or a car, was unchanged. The report also showed that
consumers have become more pessimistic on the housing market.
They expect values to drop 1.3 percent in the next six months,
compared with a prediction of a 1.1 percent decline in November.  Unemployment Rises  Data yesterday showed that U.K.  jobless claims  rose for a
10th month to 1.6 million in December, the most since January
2010. In the quarter through November, the  unemployment rate 
based on International Labour Organization methods rose to 8.4
percent, the highest since January 1996, from 8.1 percent in the
three months through August.  Australia  unexpectedly  lost jobs  for a second straight
month in December, capping the nation’s worst year for
employment in almost two decades, according to a report today.
The number of people employed fell by 29,300 after a revised
7,500 drop in November, exceeding the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists for a 10,000 increase.  Stocks Gain  Most European stocks gained today, extending a five-month
high for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as  Spain  and  France  sold
bonds at lower yields. The  Stoxx 600  gained 0.3 percent as of
11:15 a.m. in  London . France’s CAC 40 Index jumped 0.8 percent
and  Germany ’s DAX rose 0.2 percent. U.S. stock futures were
little changed.  France auctioned 7.97 billion euros ($10.3 billion) of two-
, three- and four-year notes in its first sale of medium- and
long-term debt after losing its AAA rating at  Standard & Poor’s 
last week. Yields fell on all maturities. Spain sold 6.61
billion euros of bonds maturing in 2016, 2019 and 2022, compared
with a maximum target for the sale of 4.5 billion euros.  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.1 percent after holding steady
in November, according to the median forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Labor Department data today. The
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  may say  manufacturing  in
the Philadelphia region picked up in January. In  New Zealand ,
consumer prices unexpectedly dropped 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, government data showed.  The  World Bank  cut its global growth forecast this week,
saying the economy has entered a “dangerous period.” The world
economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down from a June
estimate of 3.6 percent, the institution said. It cut its U.S.
growth outlook to 2.2 percent from 2.9 percent.  Optimistic Signs  The Conference Board’s China leading economic index, which
captures prospects for the next six months, rose the most in
three months in December, adding to signs the slowdown in the
nation’s growth is stabilizing as the government eases monetary
policy.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  has
forecast that inflation will cool “sharply” in 2012, easing
the squeeze on consumers as rising unemployment restrains wage
growth.  Robert Gardner , chief economist at Nationwide, said that
while 2011 was “extremely tough,” there are some “positive
developments on the horizon” in terms of slowing price growth.  “This should help to ease the squeeze on household budgets
and help to lift spirits in the coming months,” Gardner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  