-- U.S. Consumer Comfort Falls as Gas Prices Climb
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-19T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-consumer-confidence-retreats-in-bloomberg-index-as-fuel-prices-climb.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
pulled back last week after reaching a six-month high, a sign
rising gasoline prices may be countering the benefits of an
improving job market.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  declined to minus 47.4
in the period ended Jan. 15 from a reading of minus 44.7 the
prior week. The monthly expectations gauge dropped to minus 19
for January from December’s seven-month high of minus 17.  An almost 20-cent per gallon increase in  gasoline costs 
over the past month may be starting to sting households faced
with limited wage gains, falling real estate values and post-
holiday bills. At the same time, the lowest  unemployment rate  in
almost three years and sustained job gains may give Americans
reason to be more upbeat in coming months.  “Consumer sentiment is particularly sensitive to shifts in
the price of gasoline,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Consumer balance sheets
remain stressed due to lackluster wage growth, despite a modest
improvement in the labor market.”  Jobless  claims  plunged by 50,000 to 352,000 last week, the
lowest level since April 2008, the Labor Department reported
today. The decline was the biggest since September 2005, when
claims first surged then slumped in the aftermath of  Hurricane
Katrina .  Last week’s decline reflected normal seasonal volatility
during this time of year, a Labor Department spokesman said as
the data was released.  The decrease helped push up stocks. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,310.31 at 9:41 a.m. in  New
York .  Consumer Prices  The cost of living was little changed in December for a
second month, the Labor Department also reported today. The
unchanged reading in the consumer-price index was less than the
0.1 percent gain median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Costs excluding food and energy rose 0.1 percent
last month as projected.  The Commerce Department said builders began work on fewer
homes in December, reflecting a slump in construction of
multifamily units.  Home starts  dropped 4.1 percent to a 657,000
annual rate.  All three components of the weekly comfort index declined,
today’s report showed. The measure of Americans’ views of the
current  state of the economy  fell to minus 82.5 last week from
minus 82.1 in the prior period, and the buying climate index
decreased to minus 52.2 from minus 49.4. The gauge of personal
finances dropped to minus 7.5 from minus 2.6.  Dimmer Outlook  In a separate forward-looking question, 19 percent of
Americans this month said the economy is getting better and 38
percent said it is getting worse. Men and  Republicans (COMFREP)  were among
groups with the dimmest outlooks, while households in the
Northeast were among the most optimistic.  Data in recent weeks showed the economy strengthened at the
end of last year and into 2012, easing concern that the European
debt crisis will cause the U.S. to falter.  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell last month to 8.5
percent, the lowest since February 2009, Labor Department
figures showed earlier this month. The world’s largest economy
increased payrolls by 200,000 in December, twice as much as the
previous month, the agency also said.  Confidence among Americans earning more than $100,000 a
year is making headway. Their comfort index of minus 0.2 last
week was the highest since May.  Gasoline Prices  “The question from these data is whether the better-off
boat floats into positive territory -- and whether the rest of
Americans find cause to follow,”  Gary Langer , president of
Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. “Gasoline prices are
a major concern. Their run-up early last year quickly cut short
a would-be rally in confidence.”  The average price of regular unleaded gasoline at the pump
was $3.39 a gallon Jan. 12 and 13, up from a 10-month low of
$3.20 reached on Dec. 20, according to AAA, the biggest U.S.
auto group. The last time fuel costs climbed as much in a
similar period was in April.  Confidence among registered  Democrats (COMFDEM)  fell last week to the
lowest level in four months, while the measure for political
independents climbed to the highest since April.  Last week’s erosion in confidence may be the first sign
that other measures have temporarily peaked. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan  preliminary index  of consumer
sentiment climbed in January to the highest level in eight
months. The Conference Board’s index of confidence in December
also rose to an eight-month high.  Number of Respondents  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
at least 18 years old. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses for each measure
is subtracted from the share of positive views. The results are
then summed and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index, which began in December 1985, averaged
minus 46.8 last year, compared with minus 45.7 for all of 2010
and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading on record,
the report showed.  “We had wobbly confidence throughout 2011,” Ellen Hughes- Cromwick, chief economist at Ford Motor Co., said on a Jan. 4
conference call. “We need to see an uptick in the labor market
and better  job creation . That will fundamentally feed into
improved confidence.”  The Bloomberg comfort index can range from 100, indicating
every participant in the survey had a positive response to all
three components, to minus 100, signaling all views were
negative. The margin of error for the headline reading is 3
percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  