-- U.S. Agency Said to Urge Closing 1,600 Deportation Cases
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-01-20T00:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-agency-said-to-recommend-closing-1-600-deportation-cases.html
The U.S. Homeland Security
Department urges closing more than 1,600 deportation cases of
people who don’t pose a danger and focus resources instead on
illegal immigrants who are criminals and national security
threats, a federal immigration official said.  In a pilot program begun last month to speed reviews, 30
federal prosecutors in Denver and Baltimore reviewed 11,682
cases and recommended closing 1,667 of them, said the official,
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the initiative.
The recommendations are being given to judges handling the cases
of the detainees.  Federal lawyers are undertaking a slower review of an
additional 280,000 deportation cases in the rest of the country,
the official said.  The program is part of the Obama administration’s effort,
announced last year, to concentrate more on deporting those who
are threats to public safety rather than those whose only crime
may have been crossing the border illegally. The Republican
presidential candidates have said the Obama administration
hasn’t done enough to stem the flow of illegal immigration.  The effort also gives priority to deporting those who have
re-entered the U.S. illegally after being sent to their home
country, recent border crossers and people who have ignored
deportation orders, the official said.  Immigration Courts  To speed up the review of the Baltimore and Denver cases,
the U.S. government shut down some immigration courts in both
cities, the official said. Even if the lawyers have recommended
that a case be set aside, prosecutors still have the option of
re-opening it if the person is accused of a future crime, the
official said.  Also, the recommendation doesn’t make it easier for an
immigrant to receive authorization to work in the country, the
official said.  In the Denver region, lawyers examined 7,923 cases, urging
that 1,301 be closed. In the Baltimore area, 366 of the 3,759
cases looked were recommended for closing, the official said.  If implemented successfully nationwide, the initiative will
help unclog immigration courts of defendants who aren’t a
danger, said David Leopold, a Cleveland-based attorney and
former president of American Immigration Lawyers Association, a
pro-immigrant group.  Improved Enforcement  “That’s what I call a great way to enforce the law,” he
said in an interview. “We need to spend the money to deal with
the drug dealers, the violent criminals and the terrorists.”  The program will encourage more people to illegally enter
the U.S., said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based group that
supports tighter enforcement of immigration laws.  The administration is saying, “Come to the U.S. As long as
you don’t commit some other crime, no one is going to bother
you,” he said in an interview.  FAIR has objected to Republican and Democratic leaders who
have supported a path to legal status for illegal immigrants.  “What President Obama is doing takes it to a whole new
level” of illegality, Mehlman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  