-- U.S. January Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-19T15:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-january-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Jan-12  Results from the Business Outlook Survey suggest that regional
manufacturing activity continued to expand at a moderate pace in
January. All of the broad indicators remained positive this
month, and firms continued to report increases in employment.
Firms polled reported higher input prices this month, with a
notable share of firms reporting price increases for their own
manufactured goods. The survey’s broad indicators of future
activity improved again this month.  Indicators Suggest Continued Growth  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, edged up slightly from a
revised reading of 6.8 in December to 7.3 in January.* The
demand for manufactured goods showed continued growth this
month: The new orders index remained positive for the fourth
consecutive month but declined from a revised reading of 10.7 in
December to 6.9 this month. The shipments index also remained
positive but fell 3 points. The indexes for both delivery times
and unfilled orders recorded slightly negative readings this
month.  Firms’ responses continue to suggest that labor market
conditions are improving. The current employment index has now
been positive for five consecutive months but was virtually
unchanged from last month’s reading. The percentage of firms
reporting an increase in employment (21 percent) was higher than
the percentage reporting a decline (10 percent).  Firms
reporting a longer workweek (23 percent) only narrowly
outnumbered those reporting a shorter one (18 percent).  Prices Edge Higher  Indexes for prices paid and prices received increased slightly
this month. Thirty-five percent of the firms reported higher
prices for inputs. The prices paid index increased 1 point and
has now edged higher for three consecutive months.  On balance,
firms also reported a rise in prices for manufactured goods:
More firms reported increases in prices (21 percent) than
reported decreases (10 percent). The prices received index
increased 1 point, marking its third consecutive increase.  Firms’ Outlook Improves  The future general activity index increased from a revised
reading of 40 in December to 49 this month.  The index has
increased for five consecutive months and is now at its highest
reading in 10 months (see Chart).  The indexes for future new
orders and shipments remained at relatively high levels and also
improved, increasing 6 points and 12 points, respectively.  The
future employment index increased 8 points. Firms expecting to
increase employment over the next six months (28 percent)
outnumber those expecting to decrease it (9 percent).  In this month’s special questions, firms were asked about the
factors that are influencing their hiring plans over the next 12
months (see Special Questions). Among firms planning to increase
employment over the next six to 12 months, the most frequently
cited reason influencing this decision was the expectation of
high sales growth.  The most frequently cited factors among
firms restraining hiring were the need to keep operating costs
low and low expectations for sales growth. Uncertainty about
regulations and government policies and the inability to find
workers with required skills were also highly ranked factors.  Summary  According to respondents to the January Business Outlook Survey,
the region’s manufacturing sector continued to expand at a
moderate pace this month. All of the broad indicators remained
positive, with firms reporting a pickup in hiring in recent
months. Firms’ outlook showed further improvement this month,
with a majority of firms expecting to expand manufacturing
activity through the first half of the year.  * The survey’s annual historical revisions, which incorporate
new seasonal adjustment factors, were released on January 12,
2012. Revisions for selected series from 2007 to 2011 are listed
on pages 3-4 of this release. The full set of revised historical
data is available at:  http://www.philadelphiafed.org/research -
and-data/regional-economy/business-outlo ok-survey/historical-
data/revisions/historical-revisions-2012.cfm. 