-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Jan. 19 to April 2012 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-01-19T13:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-jan-19-to-april-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The drought outlook for January 19
-April 30, 2012 was based upon climate anomalies associated with
La Nina, short to medium range forecasts, climatology, and
initial conditions. Frequent periods of precipitation somewhat
improved drought conditions across the southern Plains and parts
of the Southeast during the past two months. However, a return
of dry weather and the ongoing La Nina favor persistence across
most of eastern  New Mexico ,  Texas , southern Kansas, western
Oklahoma, and Texas. Farther east, persistence or development
can be expected across much of the lower Southeast, with the
highest forecast confidence in  Florida . Some improvement is
possible along the northern drought boundary in the South with
short and medium-term heavy precipitation expected, plus
favorable odds of above-normal FMA precipitation in the Ohio and
Tennessee Valleys and Great Lakes region. The lack of early
winter precipitation, unexpected in the Northwest during a La
Nina, resulted in moderate drought development and expansion of
abnormal dryness across eastern  Washington , southern Idaho, most
of Oregon,  California , and Nevada, and northern Utah. However,
short and medium-term forecasts and the 3-month (FMA’12)
precipitation outlook favor improvement in northern sections
(Washington, Oregon, northern California), with some improvement
in northeastern California and northwestern Nevada. Despite the
early winter snowfall in  Arizona  and New Mexico, the odds for
drought persistence and development across the Southwest are
elevated. Therefore, persistence or development is forecasted
across central and southern California, Arizona, southern
sections of Nevada, Utah, and Colorado, and western New Mexico.
A relatively dry winter climatology and equal odd chances (1-
and 3-month outlooks) elevates the chances for persistence
across the western Corn Belt and upper Midwest. An exception was
near Lake Superior (Some Improvement) where the 3-month
precipitation outlook slightly favored above-normal
precipitation. In Hawaii, a La Nina event is normally considered
to bring enhanced rainfall to the islands. However, a new study
comparing Hawaiian rainfall during recent La Nina’s, El Nino’s,
and Neutral conditions indicated minimal odds for improvement on
the leeward sides during La Nina’s, so only some improvement was
forecast for the Hawaiian leeward sides. Improvement was kept
for Oahu’s windward side.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  