-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Jan. 17 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-01-19T13:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-jan-17-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The onset of a wet pattern in the northwestern U.S. is creating
a pause in the development of drought in the western states.
Much of the northern tier states remained unchanged, while the
southeast continues to suffer from mounting deficits of
precipitation and severe impacts.  The West: Over most of the western region of the U.S., quiet
weather conditions prevailed, but a strong system was beginning
to impact the northwest and northern Rockies just as this week’s
U.S. Drought Monitor was completed.  As a result, most of the
region remained unchanged from the previous map.  Notable
exceptions are an expansion of D0, Abnormally Dry, conditions
across the remainder of  Idaho .  Similarly, much of northwestern
 Colorado  is also designated as D0 from Steamboat Springs in the
north to Glenwood Springs and Grand Junction in Interstate 70.
These were motivated by low snowpack values reported this week,
as well as some areas beginning to suffer from lower than normal
soil moisture conditions.  Water supply reservoirs appear to be
at near-normal or above-normal levels, however, with carryover
from the previous wet year evident across the region.  Further south in  Arizona , a downgrade to D0 is also made in the
northwestern counties of Mohave, Coconino and Yavapai due to
short term shortage in precipitation this winter season.  Two
areas of improvement are noted in  New Mexico , around Las Cruces
and west of  Albuquerque . Precipitation over the last two to four
weeks in these areas was nearly two inches above normal.  Northern Plains and Midwest: No changes were made this week to
this northern tier of states from  Montana  to  Pennsylvania .
Temperatures during this U.S. Drought Monitor period remained
above the seasonal average.  Scattered light precipitation
across the region staved off any further degradation.  A strong
system moved through the Ohio River Valley, but as this region
was already drought-free on the map, no changes were warranted.
As much as two to three inches of precipitation was reported for
the week in parts of central and southern  Indiana .  Southern and Central Plains: A welcome sign of drought relief
came in the form of rain to parts of eastern  Oklahoma .  A one-
category improvement was made along the Canadian River, and
south to the Texas border.  Other areas warranted changes in
southern  Arkansas  and northern  Louisiana , after a review of the
last 30 to 45 days of above normal precipitation.  This area is
now mostly in D0, Abnormally Dry, conditions.  A small area of
southwestern Kansas is degraded this week to D3, Extreme
Drought.  Ongoing precipitation deficits and declining
vegetation health were motivation for this one-category change.
D0 is also expanded in western  Kansas  to include Greeley and
Wichita counties, and areas just north of there, to account for
short-term rainfall deficits.  The Southeast and Mid-Atlantic: The Southeastern U.S. continues
to suffer from shortages of precipitation, extremely low
streamflow in area rivers and streams, and increased wildland
fire danger.  Despite a small reprieve in northwestern  Alabama 
during this U.S. Drought Monitor period, much of the area is
experiencing degrading conditions.  A new area of Exceptional
Drought, D4, is introduced to the Alabama-Georgia border to
reflect the record low precipitation, streamflow, and other
forage impacts.  A one-category downgrade is made across
Florida’s northern border and the nearby states of Alabama and
Georgia, as deficits and impact reports mount.  Moderate
Drought, D1, is expanded from Sarasota to Daytona Beach,
 Florida .  A new D1 area is introduced in southern Florida
counties of Monroe and Miami-Dade as well.  The Northeast: Abnormally Dry designation is expanded to include
northeastern  New York  and northern  Vermont  to reflect lack of
snowfall in the region.  A large area of D0 is also introduced
to most of  Maine  as a result of short term below-normal
precipitation over the last 30 to 90 days.  Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico: Alaska is one state that has no
drought at this time as many locations continue to report record
snowfall.  Cities such as Valdez, Anchorage, Juneau, and up into
central Alaska have had two to three times their normal snowfall
this season, with below average temperatures the last couple of
weeks.  The western slopes of Maui in the state of Hawaii are being
affected by reduced rangeland quality and is now in D3, Extreme
Drought, up the coast to Lahaina.  No changes are made to the depiction in Puerto Rico this week.  Looking Ahead: The outlook is encouraging for snow seekers as a
large-scale pattern has finally shifted into a wetter regime for
many states over the next several days.  Forecasts are
projecting 10-15 inches of rain over the next five days along
the Pacific coast of northern  California  and  Oregon .  At least a
few feet of snow is possible in the mountain ranges of the
northwest states to include the Cascades, Rockies and Sierra
Nevada.  Lesser amounts of snow and rain are projected across
the eastern half of the Lower 48.  Widespread totals over the
five day period could amount to about an inch, with localized
areas possibly reporting more than two inches in the southern
Appalachians.  Colder than normal temperatures will continue to
hold on to  Alaska , while warmer than normal temperatures may
build over much of the contiguous U.S. by the end of the next
U.S. Drought Monitor period. After a frontal system just
affected Hawaii over the last day or so, it appears as if it
will be set into a drier trend for the next couple of days,
before the next system passes through.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  