-- U.S. Vows to Expand Insider Trading Investigation as Fourth Ring Charged
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-01-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-vows-to-expand-insider-trading-probe-as-fourth-ring-charged.html
The U.S. government vowed to
continue its five-year investigation into  insider trading  on
 Wall Street  as it charged a fourth ring of hedge-fund traders
with using illegal information to make millions of dollars.  Seven analysts and portfolio managers were accused of
 securities fraud  in the latest sweep, the  Justice Department 
said yesterday. The charges included the first current employee
of  Steven Cohen ’s $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors LP to be
caught up in the probe, and the highest-profile manager to be
arrested since Raj Rajaratnam was indicted in October 2009.  “Each wave of charges and arrests seems to produce leads
that lead us to the next phase,” Janice Fedarcyk, assistant
director at the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said yesterday
at a news conference in New York. “This initiative is far from
over.”  Anthony Chiasson, 38, who co-founded Level Global Investors
LP with David Ganek in 2003, was among those taken into custody.
He helped build New York-based Level Global into a $4 billion
firm before shutting it down last February because of the probe.
Chiasson and others at the fund made $57 million on illegal
trades on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and the alleged scheme netted $61.8 million
altogether, according to complaint. That’s almost as much as
Rajaratnam, who ran Galleon Group LLC and is now serving 11
years in prison for insider trading after being found guilty in
May.  Attorney Comments  “Anthony Chiasson categorically denies having done
anything improper over the course of his 16-year career in the
securities industry and intends to vigorously contest these
baseless charges in court,” said his attorney, Gregory Morvillo
of Morvillo Abramowitz in New York, in an e-mailed statement.
“He is looking forward to being vindicated at trial.”  The government also arrested Jon Horvath, a technology
analyst at SAC Capital’s Sigma Capital Management unit. Horvath,
42, allegedly traded on inside information provided by an
employee of Dell while working at SAC, according to the
complaint.  “Throughout a more than 10-year career as a respected
investment analyst, Jon Horvath has conducted himself with
honesty and integrity,” Horvath’s lawyer, Steven Peikin, said
after a court appearance yesterday. “He has done nothing wrong,
and the charges brought against him today will be shown to be
meritless.”  While at least four other investment professionals,
including Chiasson, charged in the probe, are former SAC
analysts or portfolio managers, Horvath was the first to be
working at SAC when he was arrested.  Freeman’s Testimony  Noah Freeman, a former analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, testified in June at a criminal trial in a related
case that he had traded on inside information a half-dozen times
while at the hedge fund. Freeman, who was fired from SAC in
January 2010, pleaded guilty in February to insider trading.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said the
hedge fund is continuing to cooperate with the government’s
investigation. He declined to comment further.  Yesterday’s charges involved a circle of friends “who
essentially formed a criminal club whose purpose was profit and
whose members regularly bartered lucrative inside information,”
said U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. “It was a club where everyone
scratched everyone else’s back.”  The group of friends all worked and lived in  San Francisco 
in 2006, according to a civil complaint filed by the Securities
and Exchange Commission and public records.  Sandeep Goyal, known as Sandy, worked at Dell for three
years before joining Prudential Equity Group in 2006, the SEC
said. There the analyst, now 39, met Spyridon Adondakis, known
as Sam, and 34-year-old Jesse Tortora, who later became an
analyst for Diamondback Capital Management.  New York Move  Horvath was working as an analyst for Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Danny Kuo, now 36, was an analyst at Merrill
Lynch & Co., according to the complaint.  The five friends moved to the New York area over the next
two years, and it was there the government started monitoring
their activities.  The criminal complaint outlines trades in Dell preceding
earnings results for the first two quarters of 2008. In the
first quarter, the computer company’s earnings beat estimates
and the shares rose, and in the second the  shares fell  after
Dell reported disappointing results.  Goyal, who in 2008 was working at  Neuberger Berman , an
investment firm he left last month, had a source at Dell in the
investor-relations department who was providing him with
confidential information, according to the complaint.  Dell Trades  Goyal shared the data with Tortora of Stamford-based
Diamondback. He in turn passed it on to his boss, Todd Newman,
who was also indicted yesterday, and to his friend Kuo, who was
then working at the South Pasadena,  California , office of a
hedge fund. Diamondback made $3.8 million on the inside
information about Dell, according to the government.  Adondakis, 40, who had gotten a job at Level Global, passed
information to his boss Chiasson, who along with others at the
New York-based firm made $57 million on the tips, according to
the complaint.  Tortora also passed information on to Horvath, the
government said. An unidentified portfolio manager at SAC traded
on that information and made about $1 million, the government
said.  Adondakis, Tortora and Goyal have pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with the probe, Bharara said. Justine Harris, a
lawyer for Adondakis; Jessica Margolis, who represents Goyal;
Alfred Pavlis, who represents Newman; and Ralph Caccia, who
represents Tortora, didn’t return phone messages seeking
comment. A lawyer representing Kuo, who was also accused,
couldn’t be determined.  ‘Proactively Assisting’  Diamondback told investors in a letter yesterday it has
been “proactively assisting the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the
SEC since we became aware of the inquiry.”  The government has caught high-profile targets, regulators
said yesterday.  “The illegal conduct alleged in today’s action was not
perpetrated by fringe players in the investment advisory
industry, but rather in the largest and most sophisticated
hedge-fund investors in the country,” said  Robert Khuzami , head
of enforcement at the SEC.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  