-- U.S. May Expand Corn Output to Offset Argentina’s Drought Losses, UN Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-19T06:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-may-expand-corn-output-to-offset-argentina-s-drought-losses-fao-says.html
While  Argentina ’s corn crop will
decline because of a drought, curbing exports from the world’s
second-largest shipper, U.S. farmers may expand planting and
make up for the potential damage, the  United Nations  said.  The crop may drop to 21.4 million metric tons in the year
starting in March from a record 23 million tons, said Liliana
Balbi, an economist at the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization
who’s tracked food markets for 27 years. “Exports could decline
in 2012-2013, but not dramatically,” Balbi said in a telephone
interview from  Rome  yesterday.  Argentine Agriculture Minister Norberto Yauhar has declared
a state of emergency in the provinces most affected by the dry
weather, according to Hugo Biolcati, president of the country’s
biggest farm group. The crop losses in Argentina won’t have a
huge impact upon global output, according to  Michael Pitts ,
commodity sales director at National Australia Bank Ltd.  “The U.S. has the bulk of the maize  production  and
exports,” said Balbi, who leads a FAO team in charge of the
early-warning system for food issues in  Latin America ,  Asia ,
 Europe  and the Caribbean. “They can increase their next
production to offset losses in Argentina.”  The U.S. grows about 39 percent of the global harvest and
ships 46 percent of world exports, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The forecast output in Argentina is about 8.3 percent
of the U.S.  harvest , U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  Corn’s Decline  Corn has dropped 7 percent in  Chicago  over the past year,
while wheat has shed 25 percent and soybeans have dropped 16
percent. The March-delivery corn contract traded at $5.9675 per
bushel at 12:51 p.m. in Singapore, 0.6 percent higher.  Global corn production will total a bigger-than-expected
868.06 million tons before this year’s northern hemisphere
harvest, the USDA said on Jan. 12. That exceeds demand for the
first time in three years as higher output in the U.S.,  Russia ,
Ukraine and Europe more than offsets Argentine losses, it said.  Argentina’s corn crop this season is still expected to
remain within its  historical average , Balbi said. While the
FAO’s latest outlook for the South American nation is 4.6
million tons lower than that from the USDA, that additional
potential damage is just 1.5 percent of the last harvest in the
U.S. of 313.92 million tons, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The crop in Argentina that’s harvested from March is
considered as part of the 2011-2012  marketing year  under the
outlook by the USDA, while the FAO counts it as the start of the
2012-2013 marketing year in its global supply estimates.  Argentina’s “severe” lack of rain over the last few weeks
will lower the corn crop yield to about 6 tons per hectare (2.5
acres) from the 6.9 tons initially expected, the Rosario Cereals
Exchange said in a Jan. 13 report.  The FAO’s harvest forecast matches the estimate by the
Rosario exchange issued that day. Before the drought, the
Argentine corn group Maizar had estimated in November that the
harvest would reach 30 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  