-- U.S. Payroll Tax-Cut Conferees Standing Firm on Differences
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-19T15:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-payroll-tax-cut-conferees-standing-firm-on-differences.html
Congressional negotiators are
refusing to budge from positions that could stall talks to
extend a payroll tax cut through 2012.  A House-Senate conference committee aimed at breaking the
deadlock may meet as soon as Jan. 24.  Democrats want to impose a  tax  on income exceeding $1
million and are warning Republicans against seeking to attach
policy proposals that aren’t linked to the tax cut, such as
loosening rules on industrial emissions. Republicans oppose the
tax on high earners to pay for the extension, while insisting
that the full $100 billion package must be offset.  After a month away from Washington, lawmakers haven’t moved
far from where they were in December, when Congress agreed to a
last-minute extension of the expiring tax cut through February.
The lack of movement indicates that the conferees will have
tough decisions to make before the short-term extension expires
Feb. 29.  “I can’t imagine until we have those discussions in a
thoughtful give-and-take that that’s going to happen soon,”
said Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican on the
conference committee. “There are a lot of key issues; a lot of
them aren’t easily solved.”  Unless Congress acts, the 2 percentage point tax cut for
employees will lapse. Workers who earn $50,000 a year and are
paid biweekly will see each paycheck decrease by $38.46 starting
in March without an extension. The  payroll  tax funds Social
Security.  Without action, emergency unemployment benefits also would
expire and physicians who are reimbursed through Medicare would
receive lower payments from the government.  High-Earner Surtax  The surtax on high earners -- which is one of the most
divisive elements of the payroll debate -- should be considered,
House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California told
reporters yesterday.  “If the Republicans insist on paying for payroll tax cuts
for the middle class, as they have not insisted on for tax cuts
for the wealthy, then we would have a way to do that,” Pelosi
said. “The surcharge is the simplest, easiest way to pay for
it.”  Pelosi said while she hadn’t advised appointees to the
panel that anything was off the table in the negotiations,
“they know what our values are.”  One of Pelosi’s appointees, Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , said Democrats would oppose policy
provisions that House Republicans included in a bill last year
to bolster support within their ranks. Some Republicans oppose
the payroll tax cut, saying it damages Social Security.  ‘Don’t Belong’  “We shouldn’t have any extraneous issues in the
conference,”  Van Hollen  said in an interview. “Those kind of
things don’t belong on a bill to reduce payroll taxes for 160
million Americans. We should focus on that and not allow the
process to be bogged down.”  Republicans aren’t backing away from another fight over
policy issues that could be attached to an extension.
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who is a
conferee, said there was “no excuse” for Democrats to oppose a
provision limiting the Environmental Protection Agency’s
authority to regulate industrial boilers.  Upton said Republicans also will push for inclusion in the
measure of a pay freeze, at least through 2013, for non-military
federal employees. That proposal, included in the House-passed
bill, drew criticism from Democrats. They may be less inclined
to budge now as President  Barack Obama  plans to propose a 0.5
percent increase in federal workers’ pay in his fiscal 2013
budget.  Seeking Agreement  House Republican conferees are seeking an agreement that
would let the panel hold its first meeting on the afternoon of
Jan. 24, hours before Obama will come to  Capitol Hill  to deliver
his State of the Union address, Upton said.  Several House Republican negotiators said yesterday that
they haven’t met directly with conferees on the Senate side or
with Democratic negotiators.  “Our discussions have been, as you can imagine,
preliminary, setting out broad parameters, procedural
considerations,” said Representative Nan Hayworth, a New York
Republican on the panel. “Specifics of offsets really have not
been our topic.”  Hayworth said the House-passed payroll bill should be “the
basis for negotiation.”  Brady said  House Republicans  on the panel want to avoid the
type of internal divisions that plagued the conference in
December and almost caused the tax cut to expire.  “Republican conferees in the House are committed to a
final solution that our conference can strongly support,” he
said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , who agreed to the two-month
extension only after public pressure increased, also is standing
by the approach the House took late last year.  “We were picking the right fight, but I would argue that
we probably picked it at the wrong time,” the Ohio Republican
told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  