-- U.S. Will Investigate Wind-Tower Makers From China, Vietnam
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-19T19:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/u-s-will-investigate-wind-tower-makers-from-china-vietnam-1-.html
The Commerce Department said it will
investigate U.S. producer complaints that wind-tower
manufacturers from  China  and Vietnam sell their renewable-energy
equipment below cost in the U.S.  The Wind Tower Trade Coalition, which includes  Broadwind
Energy Inc. (BWEN) ,  Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries, a unit of
 Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN)  and Katana Summit, said competitors from
both nations use unfair pricing to win sales in the U.S.,
according to a petition filed with the agency on Dec. 30.  The Commerce Department and International Trade Commission
separately have decided to investigate an Oct. 19 complaint from
U.S. solar manufacturers who say they are being harmed because
China’s government uses cash grants, discounts on raw materials,
preferential loans and tax incentives to benefit Chinese
companies.  The investigations may add tensions between the world’s two
largest economies, which have clashed over access to each
others’ markets for products including steel pipes, poultry,
tires, movie and music.  “The evidence of material injury and threat of additional
material injury by Chinese and Vietnamese imports are
overwhelming,”  Alan Price , a lawyer at Wiley Rein LLP for the
companies, said today at a meeting with staff from the U.S.
International Trade Commission, which is conducting a separate
investigation. “What should be a growing, profitable and
developing portion of the renewable-energy industry is instead
fighting for its survival today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  