-- Forint Gains to Four-Week High on Orban Retreat: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-19T17:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/hungarian-bonds-gain-2nd-day-as-orban-retreats-on-aid-conditions.html
The forint rose to the highest in
four weeks after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said he would
compromise with the European Union over disputed laws to revive
talks on a bailout.  Hungary’s currency appreciated as much as 1.1 percent,
before trading 0.3 percent stronger at 304.08 at 5 p.m. in
Budapest, the highest closing level since Dec. 21. That compares
with a record low of 324.24 reached on Jan. 5. Hungarian stocks
extended the longest winning streak since March 2010 and yields
fell at a debt auction.  Orban is trying to revive negotiations with the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  after discussions broke down in
December over his refusal to change a central bank law that the
institutions said may weaken monetary-policy independence. The
EU also threatened a lawsuit against  Hungary  for encroaching on
the central bank’s independence and political meddling with the
judiciary and the data-protection authority.  “Markets currently start pricing out a worst case scenario
for Hungary as Orban shows willingness to cooperate,” Felix Herrmann, a Frankfurt-based economist at  DZ Bank  AG, wrote in a
research report today.  Hungary sold a planned 45 billion forint ($192 million) in
one-year Treasury bills at an auction today at an average yield
of 8.19 percent, compared with 9.96 percent at the last sale of
that maturity two weeks ago, according to auction results from
the Debt Management Agency. That marked the  biggest drop  in
borrowing costs between two auctions of that maturity since
December 2008.  ‘Too Early’  Hungary and the commission have only one point of
disagreement remaining regarding the independence of the
country’s central bank, Orban told European lawmakers yesterday.  Hungary disagrees with the commission on the lowering of
the mandatory  retirement age  for judges, over which the European
Union has threatened a lawsuit, government spokesman Andras
Giro-Szasz said today in a television interview.  “It is too early to cheer,” DZ Bank’s Herrmann said.
“The IMF and the EU require new reforms that will most likely
lead to disputes with the Hungarian government.”  The benchmark BUX stock index rose 1.9 percent in a sixth
day of gains as OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, jumped
6.8 percent.  An improvement in global sentiment also had a role in the
rally besides Orban’s comments, Balint Hada, head of research at
Budapest-based broker Quaestor Zrt., said by telephone, adding
that the forint may strengthen beyond 300 per euro in the next
week.  ‘Unorthodox’  European stocks gained for a fourth day, extending a five-
month high for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as Spain and  France 
sold bonds at lower yields.  Orban had shunned the IMF since taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures. They included the effective nationalization of $13
billion of private pension-fund assets, extraordinary industry
taxes to raise revenue for the budget, Europe’s highest bank
levy and forcing lenders to accept exchange-rate losses on
foreign-currency mortgages  “Markets are again pricing a quicker deal,”  Gyula Toth , a
Vienna-based strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a research
report today. “Eurobonds also showed strong gains.”  Hungary’s euro-denominated notes due in July 2014 advanced
for a third day, cutting the yield 73 basis points to 10.02
percent.  The cost of insuring against a default on Hungary’s debt
fell to 625 basis points from 667 basis points yesterday and 691
basis points on Jan. 17. That’s the lowest this year, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  