-- UniCredit Is Open for Talks on Hungary Credit Pledge, Papa Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-19T13:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/unicredit-is-open-for-talks-on-hungary-credit-pledge-papa-says.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , eastern Europe’s
biggest bank, is keeping “an open door” for talks with Hungary
about what lenders may contribute to an aid deal with the
 International Monetary Fund .  The group would expect “clear signs” from the Hungarian
government to change policies that caused losses for banks,
Gianni Papa, the head of the Italian lender’s eastern European
business, said in an interview in Vienna yesterday. He declined
to elaborate.  “We have always kept an open door in the discussion with
the government,” Papa said in the interview during a Euromoney
conference. “We are ready to do what is needed to help the
local economy. On the other hand, it is clear that the
government has to give some clear signs that the banking
industry is not being penalized as in the past -- through taxes
and so on.”  A pledge by western European banks to keep lending and
other assets unchanged accompanied an IMF-led bailout for
Hungary in 2008. Similar declarations were part of IMF programs
in countries including Romania and Serbia. UniCredit owns
Hungary’s seventh-largest bank, trailing  OTP Bank (OTP)  Nyrt. and
units of  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  KBC Groep NV. (KBC)   Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is trying to revive
bailout talks with the European Union and the IMF after
discussions broke down in December over Orban’s refusal to
change a central bank law that the institutions said may weaken
monetary-policy independence.  ‘Extremely Important’  The EU also threatened a lawsuit against Hungary for
encroaching on the central bank’s independence and political
meddling with the judiciary and the data-protection authority.  The Hungarian premier yesterday told European lawmakers
that he is willing to compromise over the disputed laws,
boosting the country’s currency and stocks. The forint traded at
302.03 per euro at 1:49 p.m. in Budapest, its strongest since
Dec. 21. The benchmark BUX stock index rose 1.7 percent to
18,449.96, its highest since Sept. 8.  “It’s extremely important for  Hungary  to have a new deal
with the IMF and with the European community,” Papa said. “I
don’t think there is any alternative to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  