-- Union Pacific Rises to Highest Since 1980 as Profit Jumps
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-01-19T21:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/union-pacific-rises-to-highest-since-1980.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  rose to the
highest price in at least 31 years after the biggest U.S.
railroad’s profit topped estimates amid shipment-volume gains.  The shares increased 2.2 percent to $112.18 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , the highest since at least July 1980, the last date
for which Bloomberg data was available. Net income climbed 24
percent to $964 million, or $1.99 a share, compared with the
$1.82 average of 25  analyst estimates .  Carloads advanced 3 percent in the quarter, with auto and
chemical shipments leading gains as a strengthening recovery
boosted demand. The company plans about $3.6 billion in  capital
spending  this year, with about $1.3 billion for growth and
productivity improvements like new locomotives, freight cars and
track, Chief Executive Officer Jim Young said.  “The capacity piece is a little bit higher than what we’ve
done,” in the past, he said in a telephone interview. “It
reflects our confidence in the future in terms of how we see
demand for rail service will go.”  Chemical carloads benefited from a 46 percent surge in
petroleum shipments as Union Pacific transported more crude oil
from the Bakken and Eagle Ford Shale regions, according to the
company’s earnings conference call.  “There’s just a boom in drilling,” Young said. The
company hauls steel pipe, so-called frac sand used in drilling
and other materials in addition to moving petroleum from the
regions to refineries on the  Gulf Coast .  Petroleum Shipments  Union Pacific’s loads of steel, frac sand and petroleum may
double this year to 400,000, Young said. While the company
expects pipelines to eventually displace some petroleum
movements, deliveries of frac sand and steel pipe will continue
and railroad transportation of oil-drilling goods is “going to
be a good sound business for us for a long time,” he said.  Revenue at Union Pacific rose 16 percent to $5.11 billion
in the quarter, compared with the analysts’  average estimate  of
$5.06 billion. The company’s ratio of operating expenses to
sales, a measure of efficiency, declined to 68.3 percent, a
fourth-quarter record, from 70.2 percent in the same period of
2010. Rate increases propelled revenue advances in each of
Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific’s business groups.  “Their core pricing was up 5 percent in the fourth
quarter, which is very solid considering where we are in the
economy,” said  Lee Klaskow , a Bloomberg Industries analyst in
Skillman,  New Jersey . He said the increases are related to re-
pricing of legacy contracts and improving  customer service .  Customer Satisfaction  Union Pacific’s customer satisfaction index was 92 in the
quarter, an increase of 2 points from the same period in 2010.  “If customers are happy with the service you’re providing,
there’s going to be less pushback in terms of when you’re
increasing your prices,” Klaskow said by telephone.  Union Pacific re-priced contracts last year that hadn’t
been renegotiated since at least 2004, mostly in the fourth
quarter, Chief Financial Officer Rob Knight said in November.
The re-pricing should benefit the company this year, Young said.  “Last year was kind of legacy-light in terms of the impact
of pricing,” he said. “This year, we’re going to have a little
bit better kicker from it.”  Union Pacific is the first  major carrier  to report
financial results for the fourth quarter.  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk
Southern Corp. (NSC)  plan to report next week. Union Pacific’s main
rail competitor is Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , which is owned
by Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story: Natalie Doss in New York
at   ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Ed Dufner at
   edufner@bloomberg.net  