-- UnitedHealth Falls After CEO Says This Quarter Will Be Weaker Than Fourth
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-19T21:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/unitedhealth-affirms-full-year-outlook-after-fourth-quarter-beats-estimate.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ’s next
quarter won’t be as good as the one reported today, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley said in comments that dropped
the shares of the top U.S. health insurer by sales.  Fourth-quarter earnings were 21 percent higher than a year
earlier, beating analysts’ estimates, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based company said in a statement. The insurer enrolled 175,000
new members and kept costs under control, according to the
statement.  Investors had been watching to see whether UnitedHealth
would continue to save money on medical costs in the first full
year after President  Barack Obama  signed the health-care
overhaul into law. The  shares  fell 3 percent to $52.32 at the
close in  New York , after Hemsley suggested the law would create
new pressures on revenue in 2012.  “Our plans include a sequentially lower first quarter,”
Hemsley said during a call today with analysts and investors.  UnitedHealth expects to invest money to comply with the
health-care overhaul as reimbursements for medical care come
under pressure, he said. The company also expects people to use
the medical system more, Hemsley said.  Insurers Decline  The comments spurred a sharp turnaround in the company’s
stock, which had initially risen as a result of the fourth-
quarter earnings statement. Health insurers, including  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and Cigna Corp. also fell. UnitedHealth led a
1.7 percent decline in the six-member Standard & Poor’s 500
 Managed Health-Care Index. (S5MANH)   “They’re big and they’re national and they’re in every
marketplace, so their performance reflects what’s going on
nationally with health insurers,” said Dave Shove, an analyst
with Bank of Montreal in New York. He has an “outperform”
rating on UnitedHealth.  UnitedHealth reported  net income  climbed to $1.26 billion,
or $1.17 a share, beating by 13 cents the average estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 7.9 percent to
$25.9 billion.  Profit for UnitedHealth, the first major health insurer to
report, has exceeded the average estimate of analysts for 12
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The insurer
reiterated a 2012 forecast for profit of $4.55 to $4.75 a share.  Higher Enrollment  The higher membership in the fourth quarter was driven by
increases in enrollment for Medicaid and Medicare, and growth in
commercial membership, the company has said. Medicare is the
U.S. plan for the elderly and disabled, and Medicaid is the
joint state-federal program for the poor.  “They’re setting themselves up with a strong membership
base for 2012,” said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT
Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , in a telephone
interview. “To show any growth at all in either of those
commercial business lines in the fourth quarter is impressive.”  UnitedHealth is expanding services including mobile
technology and consulting. In November, the company purchased XL
Health Corp., a provider of managed care for chronically ill
Medicare members, to gain customers as insurers face heavier
regulation.  WellPoint, the largest U.S. health insurer by membership,
is scheduled to report earnings on Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  