-- Verizon, Comcast Send Marketing Deals to FCC in Airwaves Review
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-19T20:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/verizon-comcast-send-marketing-deals-to-fcc-in-airwaves-review.html
Verizon Wireless and cable companies
led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  filed agreements with the U.S. government
to sell each others’ services, and said the deals shouldn’t be
part of a regulatory review of their $3.6 billion airwaves sale.  The marketing arrangements announced alongside the airwaves
sale last month don’t require approval by the Federal
Communications Commission, the companies said in a filing posted
today on the FCC website. Under the proposed spectrum sale,
largest U.S. wireless company Verizon would buy airwaves from a
group made up of leading U.S. cable provider Comcast,  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and closely held Bright House Networks LLC.  The deal would let Verizon add airwaves as customers use
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone to watch video and
browse the Web.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S. wireless
operator, dropped a bid last month to increase its airwaves
holdings by buying rival T-Mobile USA Inc.  The proposed sale to Verizon “appears to be only one small
part of what could be a significant realignment of the
competitive landscape,” companies including mobile carriers T-
Mobile USA and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , and satellite-television
provider DirecTV said yesterday in a letter to FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski .  The competitors asked Genachowski to require Basking Ridge,
New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless and the cable companies to
divulge the marketing agreements, according to the letter, which
was also signed by Washington-based policy groups  Public
Knowledge  and Media Access Project.  FCC Jurisdiction  The deal would let the cable companies offer wireless
services to customers without investing in their own network or
acquiring a wireless company, Neil Smit, an executive vice
president at Philadelphia-based Comcast, said in an interview.  The companies submitted copies of the marketing agreements
to the FCC under confidentiality protections to avoid delay in
reviewing the airwaves sale, and to fulfill an agency request,
according to the filing posted today.  The companies’ filing “will eliminate a controversy that
surely would have taken place had they not done so,”  Harold Feld , legal director for Public Knowledge, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “No one should accept the companies’ claim that the
arrangements are outside of the FCC’s jurisdiction,” Feld said.
“They clearly are” within the agency’s purview, he said.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately provide a
comment.  The FCC will “undertake a thorough, fair and fact-based
review of the proposed transaction,” Grace said last month.  The FCC and  Justice Department  are likely to approve the
deal, though they may require the sale of assets in some
markets, said Jeff Silva, senior policy director for
telecommunications, media and technology at Medley Global
Advisors LLC in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  