-- Wales Names Ex-Fulham Manager Chris Coleman to Lead National Soccer Squad
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-19T13:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/wales-names-ex-fulham-manager-chris-coleman-to-lead-national-soccer-squad.html
Chris Coleman was named manager of
the  Wales  national soccer squad, taking over after the death of
Gary Speed in November.  “When your country asks you to come along and take charge,
it’s a calling and not something you should turn down,” Coleman
said at a televised news conference in Cardiff. “I’m very proud
of leading the challenge.”  Swansea-born Coleman made 32 appearances as a player for
Wales. He began his managing career at Fulham in 2003, spending
four years with the Premier League club before spells at Spain’s
Real Sociedad, Coventry and Greek team Larissa, which he left
earlier this month.  “This has been a very difficult process,” Football
Association of Wales Chief Executive Jonathan Ford said in a
statement. “Gary was the manager of Welsh football and of
course we want to continue his legacy. He was not a figurehead,
he was the manager and that is why we have decided on the
appointment of Chris Coleman to build on the excellent
foundation put in place by Gary.”  Coleman called the experience of replacing his friend a
“bittersweet” one.  “I was very close friends with Gary, 30 years, so it’s a
difficult experience for me,” he said. “But I’m very proud to
be the new manager and I’m also very sad because of the
situation we find ourselves in.”  Speed, a former Wales midfielder, was appointed manager in
December 2010. He won five and lost five and led Wales from a
FIFA world ranking of 112th when he took over to its current
place at No. 49.  “I’ll give it everything I’ve got and will be a very proud
man if I can keep progressing the team the way Gary had,”
Coleman said.  Wales next hosts  Costa Rica  on Feb. 29 in a memorial match
for Speed. It then begins qualifying for the 2014  World Cup  in
September against  Belgium .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 