-- WebMD Says Talks on Possible Sale Never Led to Any Formal Proposals
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-19T21:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/webmd-says-talks-on-possible-sale-never-led-to-any-formal-proposals.html
WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD) , the Internet
provider of medical information, said talks with potential
buyers led to the conclusion that any proposed offers would be
less than the market value of the company.  No formal proposals were ever received, the New York-based
company said in a regulatory  filing  today. WebMD had said on
Jan. 10 that it ended discussions that might have led to a
possible sale. No potential buyers were named by the company.  WebMD initially contacted five potential purchasers during
September and October after earlier receiving an expression of
interest from a private equity firm, according to the filing.
Seven potential private equity buyers received due diligence
materials on the company. Based on talks with the possible
bidders, WebMD concluded any formal proposals would be less than
the market price of the shares outstanding.  “Discussions with the potential private equity buyers
never progressed to the stage where the private equity firms
made a proposal,” WebMD said in the filing.  WebMD has no comment beyond the filing, said Kate Hahn, a
company spokeswoman.  WebMD rose 1.8 percent to $26.76 at the close in  New York .  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who owns or controls about
12 percent of WebMD’s shares outstanding, yesterday called for
the company to repurchase as much as $1 billion in stock through
a Dutch action with $30 at the high end of the range. WebMD said
today that its filing was in response to inquiries from Icahn
and other investors.  Icahn didn’t return a call left at his office seeking
comment.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  wasn’t involved in the potential sales
process, WebMD said. Tokyo-based Softbank Corp. may have been
interested in WebMD, The New York Post reported Dec. 30, without
saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 