-- Winsway Says Allegations on Coal Purchases in Report Are Unsubstantiated
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-20T09:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/winsway-denies-short-seller-s-claims-it-imported-less-coal-than-reported.html
Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. (1733) ,
which processes and transports coal to  China  from Mongolia,
denied allegations from a short seller that imports were less
than the company reported and inventories were overstated.  “This report is dead wrong,” Chief Financial Officer
Jerry Xie said today on a call with investors. “Winsway is
absolutely not a fraud,” as was alleged in a report from
Jonestown Research, an anonymous group, he said yesterday after
shares slid 8.6 percent.  Scrutiny of accounting standards of Chinese companies
intensified last June when short seller Carson Block’s Muddy
Waters LLC alleged Sino-Forest Corp. overstated its assets and
cash. Short sellers have targeted other Chinese companies
including vegetable producer  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings
Ltd. (682)  and software maker  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LGFTY)   “We believe the management has provided reasonable
explanations to handle the fraud accusation this time,” Shirley Zhao, an analyst at Mirae Assets Securities Co. in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a note to clients after the second conference call.
Zhao maintains a “buy” rating on the stock and a target price
of HK$3.63.  Winsway’s shares fell 5.8 percent to HK$1.80, the lowest
since Oct. 6, at the 4 p.m. close. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index
climbed 0.8 percent.  Winsway’s $500 million, 8.5 percent bond has fallen 9.5
cents since the report was released to 74 cents on the dollar to
yield 17.5 percent, according to BNP Paribas SA.  Possible Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service said it was reviewing its ratings
for Winsway for a possible downgrade.  “Moody’s is concerned that the company’s business plan and
operations, as well as its access to the financing market, will
be negatively affected in the interim,” Vice President and
Senior Analyst Ken Chan said in a statement today.  Jonestown doesn’t publicly disclose its contact
information, InvestDOOR, the website that published the
Jonestown Research report, said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg. InvestDOOR doesn’t research or analyze companies, it
said.  “We do ensure that the research published is clear, well-
supported and actionable,” the publisher said in the statement.
InvestDOOR is a platform to publish research for investors, it
said. There doesn’t appear to be any results on a research firm
named Jonestown Research using Google Inc.’s Internet search
engine.  Acquisition Proceeding  Winsway will proceed with its planned purchase of Canadian
metallurgical-coal producer  Grande Cache Coal Corp. (GCE) , Xie said.
It agreed in October to buy the miner with  Japan ’s Marubeni
Corp. for C$1 billion ($987 million) to take advantage of
surging demand from steel producers in China.  Grande Cache Coal, based in Calgary, fell 5.8 percent to
C$9.35 at the close yesterday in Toronto. The allegations
creates uncertainty about the acquisition, Moody’s said today.  Winsway should have enough cash to complete the
acquisition, Fitch Ratings Ltd. said today in a statement. The
allegations don’t “immediately affect the company’s liquidity
or broader credit profile.”  “Grande Cache Coal has no reason to believe that there is
any merit to the allegations,” the company said yesterday in a
statement. Grande Cache Coal “has been assured by Winsway that
the report is entirely without merit.”  ‘Red Flags’  Marubeni (8002)  will proceed with the deal as planned, it said in
a statement in response to questions today.  Distribution of a
shareholder document for the acquisition has been delayed to
finalize information and will be sent by Feb. 22, Winsway said
in a statement late yesterday.  Moody’s warned of “red flags” at 61 companies in a July
report, highlighting risky or opaque business models and poor
quality earnings. Winsway was given 11 flags out of a possible
20, with Moody’s citing related-party transactions as the
company’s chairman has a majority stake in both Winsway and
external commodity trading businesses.  Winsway’s transportation company in Mongolia, Moveday, used
to be part of the company and is “not legally attached”
anymore after it was spun off before Winsway’s initial public
offering in 2010, Xie said. Moveday is an “undisclosed related
party,” Jonestown said in the report.  Moveday handles half of all coal transportation in  Mongolia 
and also provides services to other coal suppliers, Xie said
today.  Mixed Record  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX Group Inc., owner of
the Toronto Stock Exchange, declined to comment on the issue,
citing company policy not to discuss individual companies.  Winsway hasn’t been contacted by Canadian regulators or
Hong Kong’s bourse, Xie said. Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the
city’s Securities and Futures Commission, declined to comment
when reached today by phone.  Reports alleging inaccurate reporting and fraud at
companies with operations in China have had a mixed record.  Silvercorp Metals Inc., the Vancouver-based mining company
that faced fraud allegations in August, said in October a
forensic investigation by accounting firm KPMG LLP found the
assertions in two anonymous reports were untrue. In September,
the miner with operations in China sued two websites and their
operators for allegedly spreading false information in an effort
to drive down the company’s stock price.  Short Selling  China vegetable supplier Chaoda, which plunged more than 80
percent last year in Hong Kong, delayed its annual earnings
release on Sept. 30 to audit its accounts after a report from
Anonymous Analytics questioned its finances. The shares were
suspended Sept. 26.  Longtop Financial’s shares plunged and were eventually
delisted in the U.S. after Citron Research and OLP Global LLC
alleged the company inflated profit margins by hiding expenses
and underpaying employee benefits.  Jonestown said in its report it’s betting that shares of
both Winsway and Grande Cache will decline. In short selling,
investors sell borrowed shares in anticipation that the
securities will decline and they can buy them back at a profit.  Winsway uses so-called intermediaries to import coal and
that may account for differences in Winsway’s own accounts and
Chinese import data as alleged in the report, Xie said.  Coal Deals  “The company stands by its audited inventory balances,”
Winsway said in a separate statement this morning to address the
allegations. Auditors KPMG LLC have studied the company’s
inventory, Xie said today. Jonestown’s methodology to calculate
its inventory is based on wrong assumptions, he said.  Winsway has four suppliers in Mongolia, including  Mongolian
Mining Corp. (975)  and  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (1878) , Xie said. It counts
China Minmetals Co. and Marubeni as its customers, he said. Ma
Jun, a spokesman of China Minmetals, said he has no information
about Winsway as the company has many suppliers.  There are eight “buy”  ratings  on Winsway, three “holds”
and no “sells,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Winsway started trading in October 2010 after selling shares at
HK$3.70 a piece, raising HK$3.66 billion ($470 million) in its
IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  