-- Spacey Stars as Twisted Fascist in ‘Richard III’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/twisted-spacey-stars-as-sneering-fascist-in-richard-iii-jeremy-gerard.html
King Richard III has 1,171 lines in
the drama Shakespeare named for him.  Kevin Spacey  mangles just
about every one of them, beginning with “Now is the winter of
our discontent made glorious summer by this sun of York” right
through “A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!” more than
three hours later.  Spacey is playing Shakespeare’s most comically evil
creation -- a hunchback even dogs bark at -- at the Brooklyn
Academy of Music. This is the last outing of the Bridge Project,
a three-year collaboration of American and British theater
artists.  Richard begins the play as the Duke of Gloucester, a
battlefield hero despite his hunch, his withered arm and bent
leg, jealous of the brother who has won the crown.  Nature, he assures us, has denied him a lover’s gifts, but
scorn and rejection have forged him into a survivor with a
thirst for power.  The production reunites Spacey and his “American Beauty”
director Sam Mendes.  Together they recycle every cliche in the contemporary
Shakespeare arsenal. Minimalist sets? Check. Monochrome costumes
with leather and hardware accents? Check. Tedious parallels to
Hitler and Mussolini? Check. Grainy newsreel footage projected
above the action? Of course.  Groucho Marx   To that dreary list, they’ve added dashes of  Neil Simon  and
Groucho Marx.  Spacey sets the shrieking campy tone, bellowing Richard’s
opening monologue and pausing just long enough to do a little
Groucho cigar waggling here, a little conspiratorial confiding
with the audience there.  Want a preview? Rent Simon’s “The Goodbye Girl” and
watch as poor Richard Dreyfuss lands the title role in this play
under a director with similarly kitsch designs, if more amusing
results.  Spacey’s not the only conspirator in this travesty. The
cast is full of names familiar to theatergoers on both sides of
the Atlantic.  Queen Elizabeth  -- why that’s Haydn Gwynne, the
world-weary dance teacher from “ Billy Elliot .” Margaret,
Shakespeare’s imperious Cassandra-like prophetess of doom, is
played with sourness but no venom by Gemma Jones. And Lady Anne,
wooed by Richard before the blood of her slaughtered father and
husband have had time to cool -- isn’t that  Anna Wintour ? No,
just icy Annabel Scholey, with Louise Brooks bangs.  It’s been a decade since Ian McKellen essayed this role at
BAM (similarly fascist-inspired but lots more engaging). What
McKellen (not to mention  Al Pacino ,  John Wood  and several other
great actors of our time) had that’s utterly lacking here are
the cunning, charm and wit that make us enablers in Richard’s
bloody scheme. Without these, he might as well be hollering to
himself.  Through March 4 at the BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton St.,
 Brooklyn . Information: +1-718-636-4100;  http://www.bam.org .
Rating: (no stars)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 