-- Yale’s Freshman Applications Increase 5.8% to Record 28,870
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-01-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/yale-s-freshman-applications-increase-to-record.html
Freshman applications to  Yale
University  increased by about 5.8 percent to a record high as
the school outpaced some of its Ivy League peers.  Yale received 28,870 applications for the 2011-12 year,
Jeffrey Brenzel, dean of undergraduate admissions for the school
in New Haven, Connecticut, said today in an e-mail.  Applications to Columbia University in  New York  declined
8.9 percent while the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia
saw a 1.7 percent drop. Both schools, which announced results
this week, are members of the Ivy League, a group of eight
colleges in the northeastern U.S. Applications to the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, increased by 1 percent, its slowest pace in seven
years, as its dean of admissions decreased marketing by 40
percent.  Brenzel declined to say why Yale’s applications rose. He
said the college has refrained from intense marketing and cut
Yale’s mailings to prospective students by one-third since 2005.  “Some schools drive application counts higher by heavy
solicitation of applications, even if the candidates are highly
unlikely to be competitive for admission,” Brenzel said in an
e-mail. Yale targets its “promotional efforts to the best-
qualified students overall, especially those who might be
otherwise underrepresented in our admissions pool but are highly
qualified for admission.”  Deans of admission at Columbia and Penn attributed their
decreases partly to reinstated early application programs at
 Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Princeton
University in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Yale admitted 7.4 percent of applicants in 2011 and costs
$55,850 for the 2011-12 academic year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 