-- Yapi Kredi Sigorta Jumps Most in 9 Months on Bid: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2012-01-19T17:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/yapi-kredi-sigorta-surges-on-report-of-zurich-offer-to-buy-istanbul-mover.html
Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR) , a Turkish
insurer, surged the most in nine months on a report that Zurich
Insurance Co. Ltd. offered to buy it.  Yapi Kredi Sigorta rose as much as 11 percent and gained
6.8 percent to 13.40 liras at the close in Istanbul, climbing
the most since April. Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, which owns the
insurer, jumped 5.2 percent to 3.05 liras.  Zurich Insurance made the offer to buy Yapi Kredi Sigorta
last week, Haberturk newspaper reported today, without saying
where it got the information. Yapi Kredi bank, the joint venture
between  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  of  Italy  and  Turkey ’s  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) ,
denied there was any sale process underway in a filing with the
stock exchange.  Insurers including Axa SA,  Allianz SE  and Aviva Plc have
bought stakes in Turkish insurers, seeking to grow in an
industry where premiums for non-life insurance account for about
1 percent of gross domestic product, less than one-third of
European Union averages. Metlife was the latest foreign company
to buy a stake in Turkey, acquiring the life insurance unit of
Dexia SA for 162 million euros ($208 million) in October.  An acquisition value for the non-life and pension units
might be $1.4 billion to $1.7 billion and boost Yapi Kredi
bank’s capital adequacy ratio by as much as 160 basis points,
according to a report by Istanbul-based Tera Brokers today.
Previous deals in the non-life insurance sector in Turkey have
been made for around $110 million per 1 percent market share,
Tera said. Yapi Kredi Sigorta has a 6.9 percent market share in
the non-life segment, Tera said.  Yapi Kredi Sigorta has a market value of 1 billion liras
($546 million), based on its share price yesterday. The insurer
had net income of 18.4 million liras in the third quarter,
almost double the year-earlier figure. The company had premiums
of 973 million liras last year, it informed the  Istanbul Stock
Exchange  on Jan. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  