-- ThyssenKrupp Rises on Speculation It May Sell New Plants
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-01-19T20:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-19/thyssenkrupp-rises-on-speculation-it-may-sell-brazil-u-s-sites.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest
steelmaker, rose to a 10-week high in Frankfurt trading on
speculation it may sell its new plants in Brazil and the U.S.  ThyssenKrupp (TKA)  climbed 4.2 percent to 20.80 euros, its
highest price since Nov. 8, after  Manager Magazin  said the
company may sell its facilities in Brazil and Alabama. Chief
Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger is studying selling the
Brazilian plant this year, possibly to  Vale SA (VALE5) , it said.  The Essen-based steelmaker has suffered delays at its
Brazilian project, contributing to impairment charges of 2.9
billion euros ($3.7 billion) in the last fiscal year when it
reported a loss. Rising raw-material costs and falling steel use
have hobbled producers’ efforts to emerge from the industry’s
worst downturn in 60 years after the recession sapped demand.  A ThyssenKrupp spokesman, who didn’t want to be identified
in line with company policy, declined to comment on “rumors”
and pointed to tomorrow’s annual general meeting when contacted
by telephone today. A Vale official in  Rio de Janeiro  also
declined to comment.  ThyssenKrupp started operating its CSA steel-slabs plant in
Rio de Janeiro state in 2010. The company controls 73.1 percent
of the venture, which can produce 5 million metric tons of slabs
a year, and Rio-based Vale owns the rest. ThyssenKrupp’s steel
mill in Calvert,  Alabama , also opened in 2010.  Vale, the world largest iron-ore producer,  fell  0.2 percent
to 41.05 reais in  Sao Paulo  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 