-- AB InBev Wins U.S. Approval for $20.1 Billion Modelo Deal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/ab-inbev-u-s-file-agreement-in-court-on-modelo-acquisition.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and the
U.S. Justice Department filed an agreement in court that
resolves an antitrust lawsuit and allows the brewer’s $20.1
billion purchase of Grupo Modelo SAB to proceed.  AB InBev, in a filing yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , made binding commitments to turn winemaker
 Constellation (STZ)  Brands Inc. into a competing brewer that will
produce and control all Modelo brands in the U.S., including
Corona, the country’s biggest import. The government said the
accord could save beer drinkers almost $1 billion a year due to
lower prices.  “This is a big win for consumers,” Bill Baer, assistant
attorney general in charge of the antitrust division, said in an
interview. “If the court accepts the agreement, you are going
to have a totally independent Constellation with all the
incentives to be a successful competitor.”  The agreement permits AB InBev, the world’s biggest
beermaker, to intensify its push into fast-growing  emerging
markets . It also allows Constellation to buy the stake that
Modelo holds in their joint U.S. distribution venture for $1.85
billion, as announced at the time of AB InBev’s original bid.
The Leuven, Belgium-based company expects the Modelo merger to
deliver cost and revenue benefits of at least $1 billion a year
as it extends its global lead over No. 2  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   AB InBev jumped as much 1.9 percent on news of the
agreement before closing in Brussels at 75.60 euros a share, up
1.5 percent from the previous day. Constellation rose as much as
1.2 percent on the news, and climbed 1.8 percent to $48.19 at
12:52 p.m. in  New York . Modelo dropped 0.3 percent to 111.82
pesos in Mexico City at 12:53 p.m. New York time.  ‘Binding Commitments’  The company said in a statement it expects to close the
transaction in June.  To promote the new beermaker’s independence, Mexico City-
based Modelo will sell control of all its brands in the U.S., as
well as a brewery it built in Piedras Negras,  Mexico , to
Constellation, a winemaker and drink-distribution company.  Constellation will be allowed to terminate Modelo
distribution contracts in the U.S. and establish its own terms
for selling the product. The settlement also bars AB InBev for
three years from penalizing distributors that carry Modelo brand
beers.  The proposed agreement filed yesterday adds Victor, New
York-based Constellation as a defendant to the case, binding the
company to the terms of the deal and allowing the government and
the court to continue oversight.  ‘Brewing Assets’  Unlike the original proposal that triggered the Jan. 31
lawsuit, the settlement “ensures Constellation will have
independent brewing assets and the ownership of the Modelo brand
beer for sale in the U.S. in perpetuity,” according to the
court filing.  The sale of the Mexican plant will maintain an incentive to
“resist following ABI’s price leadership” and expand market
share, the U.S. said in a competitive impact statement filed
yesterday.  AB InBev’s revised offer, made on Feb. 14, included a plan
to boost brewing capacity at the Piedras Negras plant by about
70 percent with an investment of about $400 million. The plant
produces Corona, Corona Light and Modelo Especial, allowing it
to supply all of Crown’s needs for the U.S. market.  Under the revised deal, AB InBev also gave up an option to
buy back a stake in Crown Imports LLC, the U.S. distributor of
Corona and the other Modelo brands.  Lessons Learned  “The most important lessons from this case are that the
 Justice Department  will sue on mergers it believes are
anticompetitive, and will do so even when the parties come up
with an inadequate fix,” Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer with
Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, who wasn’t involved in the
case, said in an interview. “It also shows that they will
accept settlements and not just continue to litigate when the
settlement is within the zone of reasonableness.”  Mexico’s antitrust regulator approved the new structure
with Constellation earlier this month, Modelo said in a
statement to the Mexican stock exchange.  The deal faces one more possible hurdle, a private
antitrust lawsuit filed by nine beer consumers in  California  who
claim the merger should be blocked because it would reduce
competition, raise beer prices and lead to price-fixing for
their products.  The case is U.S. v.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  