-- AB InBev Said to Reach Agreement With U.S. to Buy Modelo
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-19T14:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/ab-inbev-said-to-reach-agreement-with-u-s-on-modelo-acquisition.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and the
U.S.  Justice Department  reached an agreement over the company’s
acquisition of Grupo Modelo SAB, two people familiar with the
matter said.  A consent decree will be filed with a federal judge today
seeking court approval, said the people, who asked not to be
named because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly on the
matter.  News of the settlement agreement comes before the April 23
court deadline to report to U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts
in Washington. The agreement is based on AB InBev’s revised
proposal made Feb. 14 that would have Modelo sell control of all
its brands in the U.S., as well as a brewery it built in Piedras
Negras,  Mexico , to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) , a winemaker and
drink-distribution company.  The Justice Department sued Jan. 31 to block the merger,
saying the transaction as initially structured would have hurt
competition in the U.S. beer market and led to higher prices.  The U.S. has been reviewing Constellation’s plan to boost
brewing capacity at the Piedras Negras plant by about 70 percent
to ensure that Modelo-brand products remain viable competitors
in the U.S. beer market, two people familiar with the matter
said March 8.  Under the revised deal, AB InBev, which is based in Leuven,
 Belgium , also gave up an option to buy back a stake in Crown
Imports LLC, the U.S. distributor of Corona and the other  Modelo (GMODELOC) 
brands. As part of the plan, Crown, owned jointly by Mexico
City-based Modelo and Victor, New York-based Constellation,
would be entirely owned by Constellation.  Brewery Expansion  Constellation plans to invest about $400 million to expand
the Piedras Negras brewery, which produces Corona, Corona Light
and Modelo Especial, allowing it to supply all of Crown’s needs
for the U.S. market.  AB InBev rose 1.9 percent on news of the agreement and was 
trading at 75.59 euros at 4:18 p.m. in Brussels. Constellation 
rose 1.2 percent to $47.91 in  New York , while Modelo dropped 
0.58 percent to 111.48 pesos in Mexico City.  The case is U.S. v.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  