-- ENRC Co-Founder Machkevich May Form Group to Bid for Miner
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-04-19T17:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/machkevitch-may-form-group-to-make-takeover-offer-for-enrc.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) 
shareholder  Alexander Machkevitch  said he is considering joining
his two fellow founders and the Kazakh government to make an
offer for the mining company.  The deliberations are at a preliminary stage and there can
be no certainty that an offer will ultimately be made for ENRC,
Machkevitch said today in a statement. ENRC surged 27 percent to
291 pence in London trading, valuing the company at 3.7 billion
pounds ($5.6 billion).  Machkevitch and fellow controlling shareholders Patokh Chodiev and Alijan Ibragimov own almost 44 percent of the
company. ENRC has iron ore, ferroalloy and power-production
operations in Kazakhstan, copper and cobalt businesses in
 Africa , and a Brazilian iron ore project. Today’s announcement
followed a 58 percent slump in the past year because of lower
commodity prices and corporate governance concerns.  “An offer for the company appears opportunistic given ENRC
shares have been very weak,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a
note. About 18 percent of ENRC’s shares are freely tradable,
suggesting an acquisition cost of about $1 billion based on
today’s share price.  The mining company advised its shareholders to take no
action. “The board confirms that it has not received any
proposal that could result in an offer or possible offer for the
group,” ENRC said in a statement. Machkevitch has until May 17
to make a firm offer under U.K. takeover rules.  Asset Sale  ENRC’s owners may consider selling its international assets
after taking the company private, said Patrick Jones, a London-
based analyst at Nomura International Plc.  Glencore International Plc has expressed interest in ENRC
assets in the past, said  Jeff Largey , an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in London, and “there are certain components of it
they would find very attractive,” especially in Kazakhstan, he
said. The commodities trader and mining company might also be
interested in ENRC’s operations in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Largey said.  Glencore’s Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg
commented on the decline in ENRC’s stock at a Moscow conference
yesterday.  “Its share price has fallen considerably on the back of
commodity prices,” Glasenberg said. “Will there be some form
of consolidation in Kazakhstan with Kazakhmys with the copper,
with ENRC with their assets? I don’t know, but people will be
looking at them.”  ‘Owners Dissatisfied’  Shares in  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper
producer which owns about 26 percent of ENRC, jumped 24 percent
to 385.7 pence in London.  CEO Felix Vulis said March 20 ENRC was in talks with its
five main owners on selling new shares to expand its free float
and raise cash. The three founders each own 14.6 percent of the
company, with the Kazakh government holding 12 percent.  “The strong underperformance of ENRC’s share price
relative to its peers has presumably left the government and
three founders dissatisfied,”  Tony Robson , an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, said in a note to clients.  ENRC appointed Mehmet Dalman chairman in February 2012 to
oversee a reorganization and upgrade corporate governance after
corruption allegations. The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office is
investigating payments made by an ENRC unit in Kazakhstan, and
anti-corruption groups have questioned its dealings in the DRC.  Corruption Allegations  On April 11, the London-based company said Chief Commercial
Officer Jim Cochrane had stepped down. On the same day, ENRC
replaced Dechert LLP, a U.S. law firm hired to investigate
corruption allegations.  In 2010, ENRC made a deal with Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler to take control of copper and cobalt mines he’d obtained
from the DRC government, which had seized them from Vancouver-
based First Quantum Ltd.  Anti-corruption groups including Global Witness have
criticized the transaction, arguing Gertler obtained the assets
at knock-down prices from the state as a result of his close
relationship with the DRC president. Gertler denies he purchased
companies at below-market rates. First Quantum also sued ENRC,
which settled for $1.25 billion.  ENRC traces its roots to the founders’ participation in the
1990s privatizations of Kazakh state assets, which were
gradually combined into a single group of companies and listed
in  London  in 2007. Kazakhstan is ruled by Nursultan Nazarbayev,
who has been president of the central Asian country continuously
since its 1991 independence from the Soviet Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  