-- AIG Wins Ruling on Court for Its Bank of America Lawsuit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-20T00:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/aig-suit-against-bank-of-america-to-go-to-state-court.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
may succeed in returning its lawsuit against  Bank of America
Corp.  over mortgage securities to a New York state court.  A federal appeals court in  Manhattan  today ruled that the
Edge Act, a 1919 law that regulates international banking,
doesn’t give the federal court jurisdiction over AIG’s suit. New
York-based AIG sued Bank of America in state court in 2011 over
losses it claimed on mortgage bond investments.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , had
the case moved to federal court, and U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones denied AIG’s request to return it to state court. The U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan today vacated Jones’s
ruling and returned the case to the federal district court for
further action.  Jones, who has since left the bench for private practice,
didn’t rule on Bank of America’s argument that the case should
remain in federal court because it’s related to a bankruptcy
proceeding, the appeals court said. Bank of America can raise
that point in the lower court, it said.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, called the
decision “a narrow procedural ruling that has no bearing on the
merits of the case.”  “AIG is pleased that the Second Circuit found no merit to
Bank of America’s tactical effort based on the Edge Act to
remove AIG’s claims from AIG’s chosen jurisdiction in state
court to federal court,” an AIG spokesman, Jon Diat, said in a
statement.  AIG’s Claims  AIG claims Bank of America and units including Countrywide
Financial Corp. misrepresented the quality of 349 residential
mortgage-backed securities in which AIG invested $28 billion.
AIG claims it suffered heavy losses when the securities fell
into default.  In December 2011, claims by AIG relating to mortgage-backed
securities sold by Countrywide were transferred to a federal
court in  Los Angeles  for pretrial proceedings. The rest of AIG’s
claims remain in the New York litigation, which was the subject
of the appeal decided today.  The case is American International Group Inc. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 12-1640,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 