-- Taiwan Five-Year Bond Yield Drops Most This Week Since July
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-19T08:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/taiwan-yields-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-9-months-on-economy.html
The yield on  Taiwan ’s five-year
bonds dropped by the most this week since July amid concern
regional economic weakness will hurt the island’s exports. The
local currency strengthened.  Bonds rallied as investors sought the relative safety of
fixed-income securities. Global funds sold $318 million more
local stocks than they bought in the last four days, taking net
sales in April to $475 million, exchange data show. Economic
expansion in  China , Taiwan’s biggest overseas market, slowed in
the first quarter as factory output weakened, a sign the
nation’s recovery from the slowest expansion in 13 years has
lost momentum.  South Korea  lowered its 2013 forecast last month.  “Sentiment has been in favor of bonds this week,” said
 Albert Lee , a fixed-income trader in Taipei at Cathay United
Bank Co. “Investors are looking for a clearer trend to see
whether global growth is really returning to a downward trend.”  The yield on the 0.875 percent notes due January 2018
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week
to 0.939 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. That
was for a benchmark five-year security since the five days ended
July 13. The yield advanced two basis points today after
touching 0.918 percent yesterday, the lowest level since March 8.  The Taiex index of shares rallied the most in almost five
months today after Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the
world’s largest contract maker of computer chips, forecast
record quarterly sales and increased its spending plan amid
rising smartphone demand.  Taiwan Dollar  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.5 percent this week and 0.2
percent today to NT$29.84 against its U.S. counterpart, Taipei
Forex Inc. prices show. The central bank has sold the currency
in the run-up to the close on most days in the past year,
according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 44 basis points
since April 12 according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
increased one basis point today. The  overnight interbank lending 
rate was little changed at 0.385 percent, according to a
weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  