-- Amazon Threat Fails to Damp Saraiva Leading Retail Rally
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-19T15:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/amazon-threat-fails-to-damp-saraiva-leading-retail-rally.html
Saraiva SA Livreiros Editores,
 Brazil ’s biggest bookseller, is posting the industry’s best
rally as investors shrug off concern  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  will take
market share.  Saraiva  gained  23 percent, through yesterday, following
Amazon’s Dec. 6 announcement it opened a Kindle store in Brazil
after being in the country for several years. That beat the  7.8
percent drop  for the benchmark Bovespa index and was the most
among 13 publicly traded Brazilian retailers. Amazon rose 2.4
percent in the period.  Amazon, the world’s biggest seller of goods online, is
joining foreign retailers from Gap Inc. to Topshop in seeking a
foothold in Brazil, where retail sales surged 8.4 percent in
2012. Like its predecessors, Amazon may find navigating the
second-largest emerging market more difficult than anticipated,
said Marcelo Mesquita, a  fund manager  who helps oversee 650
million reais ($322 million) at Leblon Equities.  “Amazon has been in Brazil for three years trying to do
business and they are still unable to have a potent presence,”
Mesquita said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro . “With the
logistics, the language, Saraiva is much more prepared for the
Brazilian online market.”  Business Hurdles  Brazil ranks 130th out of 185 countries on the  World Bank ’s
2013 “ Ease of Doing Business ” list. In the area of “paying
taxes,” one of the most complex barriers to overcome, Brazil
fell to 156th place from 154th place last year.  An Amazon spokesman, Drew Herdener, didn’t return an e-mail
request for comment, and a message left at the Seattle-based
company’s general press line also wasn’t returned.  Saraiva fell 0.03 percent to 31.61 reais at 12:43 p.m. in
 Sao Paulo  trading.  Saraiva has more titles in Portuguese for e-books,
accessible on Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads, as well as other
tablet computers. The Sao Paulo-based company’s library of
copyrights for legal and academic titles also will help it
weather increased competition, saidRenato Prado, an analyst at
Fator Corretora.  “They have a strong range of copyrights,” Prado, who
rates the stock a buy, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Their biggest asset in the end is exactly this and the
right to sell books any way they want.”  More Titles  Saraiva offers 15,000 titles in Portuguese, compared with
13,000 for Amazon, and company sales of digital books more than
doubled last year to 159,000, according to a regulatory filing.  The stock  traded  at 12 times trailing 12-month earnings,
yesterday making it the cheapest Brazilian retailer. Rio de
Janeiro-based  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) , a seller of goods ranging
from electronics to toys to books,  traded  at 39 times earnings,
while publisher  Abril Educacao SA (ABRE11)  had a ratio of 105.  The market “has penalized Saraiva in excessive fear of
Amazon’s entry into Brazil,” Orbe Investimentos, which manages
430 million reais of assets in Sao Paulo, said in a March
report. The fund holds 193,900 shares of Saraiva, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Amazon may have a future advantage with more Brazilians
able to afford tablet computers and buy their goods online,
Pedro Guasti, general director of Brazilian researcher e-Bit,
said in an interview from Sao Paulo.  “Today in Brazil, we’re not sure who will be the leader
yet,” he said. The future for online sales is “promising, but
it will hurt publishers, especially those who have physical
bookstores.”  Retail Sales  A spokeswoman for Saraiva declined to comment on the
company’s rally and its advantage over Amazon.  Brazilian retail sales in February fell 0.2 percent from a
year earlier, surprising all 27 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Books and magazines were among one of the few segments to post
an increase, gaining 6.9 percent from a year earlier.  Saraiva, whose market value was 858.7 million reais at the
end of trading yesterday, posted a 19 percent increase in profit
last year to 77 million reais. Of the three analysts who rate
the stock, all recommend buying shares.  “I think it’s still a cheap stock despite peaks in recent
weeks,” Fator Corretora’s Prado said. “Given their market
share, the stock is trading at a big  discount .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  