-- Anglo American Says Platinum Output Declines 2% on Strikes
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-04-19T16:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/anglo-american-says-platinum-output-drops-2-on-labor-stoppages.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the world’s
biggest platinum producer, said output of the metal fell 2
percent in the first quarter because of strikes at some of its
operations.  Production dropped to 583,000 ounces in the three months
through March from a year earlier due to work stoppages and
lower output from its Unki mine in  Zimbabwe ,  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the London-based company’s platinum unit known as
Amplats, said in a statement. The shares rose for the first time
in three days, climbing 3.5 percent to 338.47 rand by the close
in Johannesburg.  “The global platinum market is likely to be balanced in
2013 as a result of reduced production,” Johannesburg-based
Amplats said. “If South African platinum production returns to
pre-strike levels, then the market would be oversupplied.”  Producers in South Africa, which has the world’s largest
known reserves of platinum, are struggling with higher costs
after strikes led to above-inflation wage gains, while demand
wanes. Amplats in January said it planned to cut 400,000 ounces
of platinum production annually, or 7 percent of global output,
to help return to profitability.  Amplats’ proposals include idling four shafts and
potentially cutting as many as 14,000 jobs. The company put the
plans on hold for 60 days for talks after the government
criticized its handling of the matter and threatened to revoke
some mining licenses. Amplats and the Department of Resources
have extended talks until April 30, it said.  Output Guidance  The company expects to refine and sell 2.2 million ounces
to 2.3 million ounces of platinum in 2013, subject to the
implementation of the review, it said.  Anglo American said the $8.8 billion Minas-Rio iron-ore
project in  Brazil  continued to progress with the target of its
first ore shipment by the end of 2014. Minas-Rio, Anglo’s
largest project, has suffered cost blowouts and delays.  Mark Cutifani  left  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  as chief
executive officer to replace Cynthia Carroll in the same role at
Anglo American at the start of this month. He needs to
concentrate on shareholder returns,  Clinton Duncan , a resource
analyst at Avior Research (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg.  “They’ve got to really focus on the assets in their
portfolio and try to make them as profitable as possible, given
Amplats at the moment and given Minas Rio,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  