-- Asian Currencies Set for Best Week in Seven Months on Inflows
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-19T09:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/asian-currencies-set-for-best-week-in-seven-months-on-inflows.html
Asian currencies headed for their
best week in seven months as  Japan ’s monetary easing spurred
inflows into the region’s assets, and  China ’s central bank said
it would widen the  yuan ’s trading band.  The Chinese currency rallied the most this week since March
and traded 0.1 percent off the 19-year high of 6.1723 reached on
April 17, the same day state-run media reported the limit would
be expanded. The baht retreated from a 16-year high today after
 Thailand ’s central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the
currency has started to move beyond its fundamentals. Global
funds bought $1.7 billion more local sovereign notes than they
sold this month, Thai Bond Market Association data show.  “Foreign direct divestment is particularly strong in
Southeast Asian countries like Thailand, as the return on assets
is high,” said Boon Peng Ooi, who oversees $20 billion as the
chief investment officer of fixed income at Eastspring
Investments Singapore Ltd. “We continue to see moderate gains
in Asian currencies.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia   Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies, rose 0.5 percent this week
to 117.98 as of 4:22 p.m. in  Hong Kong , the most since the
period ending Sept. 14.  South Korea ’s won strengthened 1.2
percent to 1,116.30, the baht climbed 1.4 percent to 28.65 per
dollar and the yuan advanced 0.2 percent to 6.1782.  Beyond Fundamentals  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  said April 4 it would buy 7.5 trillion
yen ($76 billion) of bonds per month. BOJ board member Ryuzo
Miyao said yesterday he expects investors based in the world’s
third-largest economy to buy more foreign debt. Thai central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the baht, which has
strengthened 6.8 percent against the dollar in Asia’s best
performance this year, has started to move beyond its
fundamentals.  “The amount of inflows into Thai bonds is so big, while
there is growing speculation Japanese investors will send more
money abroad,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the
Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
Tokyo. “An economic recovery in Japan due to these policies
will also help Thailand, as Japan is one of its major export
destinations.”  The won headed for its biggest weekly gain in two months as
tensions with North Korea eased after the U.S. agreed to
coordinate with South Korea, China and Japan to draw the country
into nuclear talks.  The yuan’s trading band is likely to be increased “in the
near future,” People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang 
said April 17 in Washington, where finance chiefs from the Group
of 20 nations are meeting to discuss exchange-rate policies.  Yuan Band  The yuan is currently allowed to fluctuate a maximum 1
percent either side of the central bank’s daily fixing. The last
expansion took effect on April 16, 2012. UBS AG said in a
research note yesterday the next move may be announced by Sunday
to coincide with the first anniversary as well as the G-20
talks. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said a revision is more likely in
2014.  “It’s not a good time to widen the trading band given that
capital inflows are big and pressure is on the appreciation
side,”  Zhu Haibin , JPMorgan’s chief China economist, said
yesterday in an interview in Shanghai. “If you widen the
trading band now, it will trigger more capital inflows and
people would expect further appreciation.”  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s dollar rallied 0.5 percent this
week to NT$29.813 against its U.S. counterpart. The Philippine
peso rose 0.5 percent to 41.06, Indonesia’s rupiah was steady at
9,713, while Vietnam’s dong slipped 0.2 percent to 20,900.
India’s rupee strengthened 1 percent to 53.9725 through
yesterday. Financial markets are closed in the country today for
a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  