-- Asia Stocks Post Weekly Drop Amid Global Growth Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-04-19T23:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/asia-stocks-post-weekly-drop-amid-global-growth-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell this week,
retreating from a 20-month high, as mining companies declined
after reports showed recovery in the Chinese and U.S. economies
may be stalling.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, sank 5.9
percent in Sydney after copper and gold plunged. Celltrion Inc.
tumbled 34 percent in Seoul as the South Korean maker of
arthritis medicine Abatacept postponed a late-stage drug trial.
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co., China’s
second-largest maker of construction equipment, sank 2.4 percent
after forecasting a drop in profit.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 1.4 percent to 136.29 this
week. The gauge retreated from the highest level since August
2011 after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
global economic growth,  China’s economy  expanded less than
economists’ estimates and industrial production in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped.  “The Chinese economy is heading toward slower growth than
what we’ve seen in the past decade, which means it’s a lot less
investment-intensive with less demand for commodities,” said
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages $126 billion. “We’ve
reduced our equity exposure in the short term as economic data
show signs of softening. The market needs to correct at least 10
percent.”  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) , which counts mining
companies BHP and  Rio Tinto  Group among its biggest components,
slipped 1.6 percent this week. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
fell 1.3 percent, snapping a three-week advance.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 0.9 percent this week. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 0.3 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 1.7 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
advanced 1.4 percent.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained more than 5 percent this
year amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering and as Japanese
equities rallied on speculation the  Bank of Japan  will step up
efforts to stimulate its economy. Shares on the gauge traded at
13.8 times estimated earnings yesterday compared with 13.9 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.3 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Raw-material producers and energy companies posted the
 biggest declines  amid concern demand from China, the world’s
biggest consumer of metals and fuel, will drop as economic
growth slows. Copper fell to the lowest since October 2011,
while gold posted its biggest daily drop since 1983 this week.
Silver and crude oil slipped.  BHP sank 5.9 percent to A$31.40 in Sydney. Rio Tinto, the
world’s second-largest mining company, dropped 4.5 percent to
A$54.32.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s No. 1 gold producer,
tumbled 15 percent to A$16.65. Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest
energy explorer, decreased 7.6 percent to 473,000 yen in Tokyo.  Calibre, Celltrion  Calibre Group Ltd. (CGH) , which provides engineering services to
mining and infrastructure companies, slumped 21 percent to
A$0.395 in Sydney. The company cut its full-year net income
forecast after clients delayed a number of projects on softening
demand for  iron ore  and coal.  Celltrion tumbled 34 percent to 31,350 won in Seoul, the
biggest weekly decline on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The
company said it postponed a late-stage trial of a biosimilar
version of Roche Holding AG’s best-selling Rituxan drug used in
treating non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients, potentially benefiting
competitors such as Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and Novartis AG.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry (1157)  fell 2.4 percent to HK$8.10 after
the Chinese cranemaker forecast first-quarter profit will fall
between 60 percent and 80 percent. Daphne International Holdings
Ltd. slumped 15 percent to HK$8.39 after reporting a drop in
sales.  ‘Risk-Off Mode’  “Weak corporate earnings results and renewed concerns
about the global economy saw traders switch to a risk-off
mode,” said Matthew Sherwood, Sydney-based head of markets
research at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25
billion.  Softbank Corp., Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone company,
declined 7.4 percent to 4,365 yen in Tokyo this week.  Dish
Network  offered $25.5 billion for control of Sprint, sparking
concerns the Japanese wireless carrier may raise its own bid.  Among stocks that advanced, Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract maker of chips,
gained 6 percent to NT$106.50 after forecasting record quarterly
sales and raising its spending plan amid rising smartphone
demand.  Lenovo Group Ltd., the second-largest maker of personal
computers, rose 6 percent to HK$7.06. The Chinese company has
emerged as the most likely bidder for International Business
Machines Corp.’s low-end server business, a person familiar with
the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  