-- Aso Says Cheaper Yen Is Byproduct Not Goal of Abe’s Policies
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-04-19T22:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/aso-says-cheaper-yen-is-byproduct-not-goal-of-abe-s-policies.html
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said a weaker yen is only a “byproduct,” rather than the goal,
of the government’s efforts to stimulate the economy.  “The yen has become cheaper as a result, but only as a
byproduct,” Aso said today in a speech at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington . “To say that
cheap yen is our goal would grossly miss the point,” Aso said,
adding that the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has
“redrawn the economic landscape.”  Aso spoke after a meeting of the Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers gave Japan leeway to reflate its
stagnant economy by indicating its newest monetary easing isn’t
an explicit effort to bring down the yen’s value.  While defending Japan’s efforts to revive growth and
eliminate deflation, Aso said officials in some emerging nations
are concerned Japan’s low yields may prompt excessive flows of
capital into their economies.  “There is fear among emerging nations of massive capital
inflows” as easing reduces bond yields in  Japan , he said.  As they warned of a weak global recovery, Group of 20
finance ministers and central bankers said today in Washington
the Bank of Japan’s new measures aimed at delivering 2 percent
inflation within two years are “intended to stop deflation and
support domestic demand.” They echoed their promise of February
that nations will refrain from “competitive devaluation.”  Aso likened the deflation that has afflicted the world’s No.
3 economy for 15 years to a gradual death.  “Deflation is like a slow-motion death by losing
temperature,” he said.  “In its early stage, it does not feel so painful,” Aso
said. “It is already too late when you have finally become
aware that you are a hostage and that you cannot escape the
vicious cycle.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Toru Fujioka at 
 Tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  