-- Azoty Dives on Polish Gambit to Thwart Russian Buy: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-04-19T12:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/azoty-dives-on-polish-gambit-to-thwart-russian-buy-warsaw-mover.html
Azoty Tarnow (ATT) , Poland’s biggest
chemicals producer, tumbled the most in 11 months after the
government sold shares at a 21 percent discount to the market
price as part of its plan that blocked a takeover by OAO Acron.  The  shares  fell as much as 5.5 percent, the most since May
2012, and traded 0.9 percent lower to 65.29 zloty at 2:20 p.m.
in Warsaw. The Treasury Ministry sold 12.1 percent in Azoty at
52 zloty a share, it said in on its website late yesterday, to
avoid an obligatory bid for more shares in the company after
raising its stake in 2012 to prevent Acron’s takeover.  “It’s part of a wider strategy of securing interests of
the Polish state and not selling assets to a Russian company,”
Lukasz Prokopiuk, an analyst at Dom Maklerski IDM SA in Warsaw,
said by phone today. “The discount is huge and it’s not fair
for minority shareholders who most likely couldn’t buy these
shares and earn 21 percent in just one day.”  Poland  had to cut its stake in Tarnow, Poland-based Azoty
to below 33 percent from 45 percent or announce a bid to raise
its holding to 66 percent by April 24 to comply with
regulations. Acron’s offer made in May 2012 didn’t factor in
“all synergies,” Deputy Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski said
a month after the Russian company’s bid was announced.  The stake sale comes after the government pushed through a
motion to change the company’s bylaws last month to limit all
other investors’ voting rights at 20 percent.  ‘Significant’ Shareholder  Velikiy Novgorod, Russia-based Acron failed to buy at least
66 percent of Azoty shares in a public bid last year as the
Polish chemicals maker decided to buy a stake in its local
competitor  Zaklady Azotowe Pulawy SA (ZAP)  to block the takeover.  Russian billionaire Viatcheslav Kantor, who controls Acron,
increased his holdings to 15.3 percent from 13.7 percent, Azoty
said in a filing today.  The government “plans to remain a long-term, significant
shareholder in Azoty and support its current strategy,” the
Treasury Ministry said on its website. It sold shares yesterday
to “stable and long-term investors,” including the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the statement said.  The EBRD pledged not to sell its shares in Azoty, a company
whose market value stands at 6.5 billion zloty ($2.1 billion),
for 12 months and gave the Ministry an option to buy back the
shares first, while “most other buyers” did the same,
according to the statement.  ‘Political Cost’  “Because of high political cost it’s unlikely that any
Polish government would sell such a big company whose gas needs
account for a significant chunk of consumption in Poland to a
Russian company,” IDM’s Prokopiuk said.  Poland imports about two-thirds of its gas from  Russia , the
world’s biggest energy exporter, according to data from  Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA . Russian companies have had
difficulties buying assets in the European Union’s biggest
eastern market since the Iron Curtain fell in 1989.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government in 2011 canceled
plans to sell Grupa Lotos SA, the country’s second-largest
refinery, after a report by PAP news agency that TNK-BP, the
Russian oil venture then half-owned by BP Plc, was among the
four bidders on the shortlist.  There should be “no ideological reasons” to reject
Russian investments even as a “certain amount of caution and
restraint” is warranted because of the dependence on Russian
energy supplies, Tusk said at the Lotos refinery in March, 2011.  Russian mergers and acquisitions from 1990 to 2010 totaled
$15 million in Poland, less than 1 percentage point of the $48
billion in cross-border mergers and acquisitions involving
Polish companies in the period, according to UNCTAD, a United
Nations body that tracks trade and investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  