-- Bahamas Expects to Strike Oil After Cuba Exploration Failed
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-04-19T15:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/bahamas-expects-to-strike-oil-even-after-cuba-exploration-failed.html
Bahamas Petroleum Co. (BPC) , the only
explorer searching for oil off the Atlantic archipelago, expects
to find crude even after efforts off nearby Cuba failed.  A seismic study by Bahamas Petroleum, or BPC, showed that
the  Great Bahama Bank  may have oil at shallower water depths,
making it easier to drill, and a layer of salt keeping the crude
in place, Chief Executive Officer Simon Potter said in London.  BPC is looking for a partner to raise at least $100 million
to drill the country’s first exploration well in about 27 years.
It holds five licenses covering more than 4 billion barrels of
potential oil resources and is seeking three more with  Statoil
ASA. (STL)  The nation in March allowed exploration to go ahead on the
condition a referendum be called before the first oil is pumped.  “Let’s go and bake the cake, let’s establish commercial
reserves,” Potter said in an interview. Should a discovery be
made, “there’ll be a much more positive issue to be managing.”  Oil extraction off the Bahamas, a tourism-based economy,
may help the nation reduce its mounting debt burden. Government
borrowings rose to 53 percent of gross domestic product last
year from 32 percent in 2007, according to a December report by
Moody’s Investors Service.  BPC’s planned well, to be started in about a year’s time,
will target a “distinct” structure about 12 miles (19
kilometers) from Cuba, Potter said.  The  shares  rose 1 percent to close at 5 pence in  London .  Commercial Quantities  While Cuba’s national oil company, known as Cupet, has been
pumping oil from the Caribbean island for decades, foreign
explorers including Repsol SA, Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
Petroleos de Venezuela SA have failed to find commercial
quantities of crude.  OAO Zarubezhneft , a Russian state-owned oil producer,
suspended drilling at its well off Cuba following a technical
malfunction,  Songa Offshore SE (SONG) , the rig operator, said April 4.
The well is the nearest to BPC’s planned drilling location.  “Zarubezhneft was targeting similar deep” geology, Potter
said. There are “concerns in Cuba that they won’t have time to
get this deep” before releasing the rig in June, he said.  Irina Brichkalevich, a spokeswoman for the Moscow-based
company, declined immediate comment.  “It’s the same geology but in a different structural
context,” Potter said. “We already understand that there is a
working hydrocarbon system here.”  BPC has studied results from the Bahamas’  Doubloon Saxon-1 
well, which was drilled to 21,740 feet (6,630 meters) in 1986 by
a former unit of  Tenneco Inc. (TEN)  That well found oil traces about
25 miles from BPC’s planned well location.  Cash Reserves  About 15 companies have visited BPC’s data room, open for
almost a year, to study a partnership. The Isle of Man-based
company, which had more than $21 million in cash as of Dec. 31,
expects renewed interest after the Bahamas government gave the
go-ahead to exploration.  Before 2009, BPC was known as Falkland Gold & Minerals
Ltd., which failed to find economically viable mineral deposits
in the South Atlantic archipelago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  