-- Barclays Top Lira Analyst Sees Bond Rally Fading: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-19T13:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/barclays-top-lira-analyst-sees-bond-rally-fading-turkey-credit.html
Turkey’s widening current-account
deficit and record low yields will weaken the lira over the next
three months, slamming the brakes on this year’s bond rally,
according to  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the top forecaster for the currency.  The lira will depreciate 4 percent to 1.87 per dollar,  Koon Chow , an emerging-market strategist at Barclays in London, said
by phone two days ago. The currency has outperformed all
emerging-market peers in  Europe  this year except for the
Romanian leu, spurring a 60 basis-point decline in two-year
 yields , the third-biggest drop among major emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  The country’s current-account gap widened to $5.13 billion
in February from $4.25 billion a year earlier, the first annual
increase since October 2011. The central bank took unprecedented
steps in the past week in a bid to support the economy and limit
lira gains, lowering its three main  interest rates , as the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth forecast.  “I am concerned about inflows because the global economy
seems to going into another weakening patch,” Chow said. “It
is going to leave the lira moderately vulnerable because the
current-account deficit is now widening. Yields may go up a
little bit.”  Turkey ’s currency declined less than 0.1 percent to 1.7969
per dollar at 3:27 p.m. in Istanbul today, paring this week’s
advance to 0.5 percent.  Weakening Bias  Bank of America  Corp., the second best lira forecaster in
the 12 months through March 31, is predicting the currency will
weaken to 1.88 per dollar in the third quarter and 1.90 in the
last three months of the year. That compares with median
forecasts of 1.81 for the third quarter and 1.80 for fourth in a
Bloomberg survey 25 analysts.  “The central bank is helping keep the lira with a mild
weakening bias and we don’t expect this to change,” Arko Sen,
debt and fixed-income strategist at Bank of America in  London ,
said in an e-mailed comment two days ago.  Turkey’s central bank cut its one-week repo rate for the
first time this year on April 16, reducing it by 50 basis
points, more than analysts anticipated, to a record 5 percent.
It also lowered the overnight lending and borrowing rates,
citing accelerating capital inflows and loan growth above its 15
percent target at about 19 percent.  Lending growth of 25 percent helped fueled demand for
imports in 2011, swelling the current-account gap to a record
$77 billion, the most worldwide after the U.S.  Falling Yields  Bond yields dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage
point, in four days to 5.54 percent today, the lowest since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2005. Yields have fallen
56 basis points over the past month, the biggest decline among
19  emerging markets .  “In the near term we still see some downside for bond
yields though the significant part of the move has already
happened,” Sen said.  Foreign investors poured $16 billion into Turkish bonds
last year, driving two-year yields down 483 basis points, the
most among emerging markets and strengthening the lira 6
percent. They added another $1.8 billion in the week ending
April 12, raising total foreign holdings to a record $68.5
billion, according to central bank data released on April 18.  Rating Outlook  Standard & Poor’s raised Turkey’s debt rating last month to
BB+, equivalent to its ranking from Moody’s Investors Service
and one step below investment grade, citing movement toward a
Kurdish settlement, a rebalancing of the economy and resilience
to potential shifts in capital inflows. Moody’s held out the
prospect of an upgrade on April 11, citing government efforts to
end the 30-year conflict with Kurdish militants.  Moody’s has a positive outlook for Turkey, while S&P’s
outlook is stable.  Fitch Ratings  lifted Turkey to investment
grade in November, the country’s first such ranking in 18 years.  The lira will probably strengthen to 1.75 against the
dollar, according to Swissquote Bank, the most bullish call
among 25 banks, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A potential rating hike is not too far,” Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a currency strategist at Swissquote Bank in
Geneva, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The deepening
euro-zone crisis should also trigger capital flight to Turkey if
financial stability is properly promoted.”  Default Risk  Credit-default swaps declined one basis point to 127 points
today, compared with 150 for  Russia , rated three steps higher
than Turkey at Moody’s. The contracts, which increase as
perceptions of creditworthiness deteriorate, pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries  fell two basis points to 205
today,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global index showed. That
compares with an average of 287 basis points for emerging
markets.  The central bank “cut rates in anticipation of more short-
term capital inflows,” Barclays’s Chow said. “However, the
capital inflows will only be increasing gradually over time, and
in the next three months we will have a period when they will
actually slow.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  