-- Barrick Said to Consider Sale of Three Australian Gold Mines
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-04-19T06:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/barrick-said-to-consider-sale-of-three-australian-gold-mines.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest
producer by sales, is working with Bank of America Corp. and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  on a possible sale of three  gold mines  in Australia,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Barrick is studying the sale of the Darlot, Granny Smith
and Lawlers mines in Western Australia, said the people,
declining to be identified as the details are private. The
mines, which comprise the  Yilgarn South division , together
produced 452,000 ounces of gold in 2012 at a cash cost of $768
an ounce, according to Barrick’s website. Celina Watt, a Barrick
spokeswoman in Perth, declined to comment when contacted by
phone.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky, who took over in
June, began selling assets, cutting costs and halting projects
before gold plunged the most in three decades on April 15. The
Toronto-based company plans to offload Barrick Energy Inc. and
Kabanga, its 50 percent-owned nickel project, after ending talks
in January to sell its 74 percent stake in  African Barrick Gold
Plc (ABG)  to China National Gold Group Corp.  Barrick said April 10 it was stopping construction of the
Pascua-Lama project, on the border between Chile and Argentina,
after a Chilean court accepted an injunction filed by indigenous
communities concerned about water supplies. It is also facing
difficulties over its newest mine, Pueblo Viejo in the  Dominican
Republic , which started production in August. President Danilo Medina said Feb. 27 that the mining contract was unacceptable
and must be revised.  The possible sale of the Australian mines was reported by
the West Australian newspaper earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  