-- Barrick Shareholders Oppose $11.9 Million Thornton Bonus
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-04-19T16:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/barrick-shareholders-oppose-11-9-million-thornton-bonus.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  investors
including Canada’s six biggest pension fund managers criticized
as excessive a $11.9 million signing bonus paid to John Thornton, co-chairman of the world’s biggest gold producer.  The eight investors, who collectively manage $916 billion,
will vote against Toronto-based Barrick’s resolution on
executive compensation and the election of the members of its
compensation committee at the company’s April 24 annual general
meeting, they said in a statement today.  Thornton, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. president and
co-chief operating officer, has been a Barrick director since
February 2012 and was appointed co-chairman in June. His total
compensation was $17 million last year, including the bonus,
Barrick said last month in a filing.  “This amount, for a signing bonus for a co-chairman of the
board is, to our knowledge, unprecedented in  Canada ,” said the
group, which includes Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ,
the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan.  “This compensation is inconsistent with the governance
principle of pay-for-performance and is therefore
disproportionate and sets a troubling precedent in Canadian
capital markets.”  The bonus was made as an “inducement for Mr. Thornton to
assume the co-chairman position and make a substantial
commitment of his time to Barrick,” the company said in a March
25 filing. Thornton used the payment, net of tax and
withholdings, to buy 177,600 Barrick shares, according to the
filing.  The investor group controls a “sizeable number” of
Barrick shares, Marie Giguere, executive vice-president, legal
affairs and secretariat at Caisse, said by phone today. She
declined to provide further details. Andy Lloyd, a Barrick
spokesman, declined to comment on the investors’ statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  