-- Bersani Blames Allies as He Resigns Democratic Party Leadership
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-20T08:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/bersani-to-resign-as-head-of-italy-s-democratic-party-on-impasse.html
Pier Luigi Bersani said he will
resign as head of  Italy ’s  Democratic Party , the biggest force in
parliament, and blamed his allies for the continuation of the
country’s eight-week political deadlock.  “This is too much for me,” Bersani, 61, said yesterday in
a statement on the Democratic Party website. “I cannot accept
that my party is standing in the way of a solution.”  The resignation wraps up five months of missteps and
setbacks for Bersani, who struggled to connect with voters,
failed to strike alliances and ultimately was deserted by
allies. The Democratic Party, or PD, is seeking to regroup as
special electors meet in  Rome  for a third day to select a new
president of Italy. Bersani’s candidates were rejected in the
first two days of voting.  Bersani squandered a 15 percentage-point lead in opinion
polls and barely beat former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in
the Feb. 24-25 general election, winning a majority in the
Chamber of Deputies while falling short in the Senate. Deadlock
ensued as Bersani, a former communist and ex-industry minister,
fruitlessly pressed rivals to back his bid to form a government.  “Bersani’s stock clearly went down within the party after
he squandered the center-left’s lead in the electoral campaign
and failed to produce a Senate majority,” said Peter Ceretti, a
Eurasia Group analyst in  New York . “The presidential election
has been a defeat for the PD, and it’s now difficult to see how
they will proceed.”  Presidential candidates capable of drawing consensus
include Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri and former
Prime Minister Giuliano Amato,  Corriere Della Sera  reported
today. Senate Speaker Pietro Grasso, a PD member, is in the
running, and a push to re-elect President Giorgio Napolitano is
also a possibility, La Repubblica reported.  Napolitano, 87, has previously said he wouldn’t accept a
second mandate.  First Nominee  The PD splintered after Bersani embraced Berlusconi with
his first nominee for president, ex-Senate Speaker Franco Marini. When that pick failed to pass on April 18, Bersani
reversed course and turned to former Prime Minister  Romano Prodi , a longtime adversary of Berlusconi.  Prodi’s candidacy was rejected yesterday in the Chamber of
Deputies in Rome, where 1,007 electors vote by secret ballot.
Prodi, who helped found the PD after serving as prime minister
and European Commission president, got just 395 votes, less than
the 496 electors in Bersani’s contingent.  ‘Betrayed’  “One in four among us betrayed” the party, Bersani said
in his statement. “There is a push to destroy the PD.”  Bersani said the PD’s presidential electors will cast blank
ballots in the first vote today as the party decides on its next
steps. Cancellieri’s candidacy is supported by Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and his Civic Choice, the fourth-biggest party in
parliament.  The electors, comprised of all national lawmakers and some
regional representatives, are casting two ballots a day until a
simple majority is created around a single candidate.  Napolitano’s successor will become the key figure in
resolving Italy’s political impasse. The president, given a
seven-year term, appoints prime ministers and, when stalemates
prove intractable, can call snap elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  