-- Biggest Rally of ’13 Signaling Fifth April Rebound: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/biggest-rally-of-13-signaling-fifth-april-rebound-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market
is extending its biggest rally this year as the end of tax-
filing season frees investors to buy into the biggest wave of
state and city debt issuance since June.  Municipal bonds have returned 0.9 percent in April, on pace
for the best month since November, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show. Benchmark tax-exempt  yields  have fallen to the lowest
since January even as localities from  California  to  Florida  are
set to borrow about $21 billion between last week and this week,
the busiest span in 10 months.  Local debt  historically  rebounds this month after
individuals sell to raise cash before the April 15 tax-filing
deadline. Munis have advanced in eight of the past 10 Aprils,
and it would be the fifth straight year in which April gains
followed March losses, Bank of America data show. Even though
investors withdrew the most money this year from muni funds in
the week through April 10, most of the retreat was from debt
used as a cash alternative, said Chris Mauro, head of muni
strategy at RBC Capital Markets LLC in  New York .  “The fact that the vast majority of outflows last week
were in ultra-short products is an encouraging sign for the
coming weeks,” Mauro said. “The market is doing well, and it’s
handling new deals.”  Rally Participant  Local debt has joined a rally in fixed-income securities as
signs of global economic weakness fuel demand for government
borrowings. Yields on 10-year benchmark Treasuries touched the
lowest since December this week.  With municipal interest rates below their five-decade
 average , states and cities are refinancing debt at lower yields.
Houston is set to sell $250 million next week to retire higher-
cost tax-free debt, as well as a $75 million taxable refunding.  About 60 percent of the $96 billion of securities issued
this year through April 11 has been for refunding, according to
Bank of America data. That approaches the pace of refinancing
last year, which saw the fastest clip since 1993, according to
John Hallacy, Bank of America’s head of muni research.  Such deals call higher-yielding bonds away from investors,
giving them cash to redeploy.  Bondholders are poised to get even more money back in
coming months, which should further fuel demand, Mauro said.
They’ll receive $18 billion in April from coupon payments,
maturities and calls, $26 billion in May and about $45 billion
in both June and July, he said.  ‘Fearless’ Investors  “The Street seems pretty fearless because we’re going into
the June-July coupon period” and yields are falling, said David Frank, managing director of muni trading at CastleOak Securities
LP in New York. “We’re cautious at these levels.”  California, the most-indebted U.S. state, increased its
general-obligation offer last week to $2.7 billion from $2
billion because of market reception that  Tom Dresslar , spokesman
for Treasurer Bill Lockyer, called “very positive.”  The deal pushed issuance to a combined $11.7 billion for
the week, the most since mid-June, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “We were seeing outflows and yet the market was performing
well,” said Jamie Pagliocco, director of bond managers in
Merrimack,  New Hampshire , at  Fidelity Investments , which
oversees $33 billion in local debt. “Our market tends to
shudder a little bit when there are a few big deals there isn’t
interest in.”  Cheapening Munis  Munis have failed to keep pace with Treasuries in the past
week. At 1.76 percent, yields on benchmark munis due in 2023 are
about 104 percent of the  interest rate  on like-maturity federal
securities. That  ratio  fell below 100 percent last week for the
first time since March 12. The higher the percentage, the
cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  Fidelity’s Pagliocco was among investors expressing concern
that a slowing economy could worsen the finances of local
governments, which are still mending their balance sheets almost
four years after the end of the 18-month recession.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report this month that
it has most areas of the municipal market on negative outlook
because of “lingering budgetary stress and weak revenue
growth.”  The  International Monetary Fund  trimmed its 2013 growth
forecast for a fourth time, with the U.S. outlook reduced to
incorporate government spending cuts. Payrolls in the U.S. had
the smallest gain in nine months in March.  At the same time, a slower economic expansion could
rekindle demand for fixed-income securities at a time when most
investors expect interest rates to rise. Ten-year Treasury
yields are expected to climb about 0.55 percentage point to 2.25
percent by year-end, according to the median forecast of 66
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The weak economic data we’ve seen over the last two weeks
diminishes the fear everyone had that rates were going up in
short order,” Mauro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  