-- Billionaire Indian Jeweler Says Gold Will Gain 27% in 2013
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-04-19T08:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/billionaire-indian-jeweler-says-gold-will-gain-27-in-2013-2-.html
Gold will rebound from its two-year
low and rally as much as 27 percent by December as skepticism
over the global recovery increases demand, according to
billionaire Indian jeweler T.S. Kalyanaraman.  Bullion, which lost 15 percent this year as it plunged into
a  bear market , will advance to $1,800 an ounce, Kalyanaraman,
chairman of Kalyan Jewellers, said in an e-mailed response. The
metal hasn’t traded at that level since November 2011.  Gold slumped by the most since 1983 on April 15, prompting
shoppers in India, the world’s biggest consumer, to advance
plans to buy wedding jewelry, while retail sales tripled in
 China .  Europe ’s debt concerns and a weaker dollar may reignite
demand for gold among investors, according to Dominic Schnider,
head of commodities research at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit.  “Investors, specially fund managers, will start collecting
gold since they have got an excellent  price range  to move their
funds,” said Kalyanaraman, whose closely-held Thrissur, Kerala-
based Kalyan Jewellers is valued at about $1 billion, according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . “The domestic market has
picked up strongly and there is huge demand.”  Gold, which rallied as much as 2.6 percent to $1,426.05 an
ounce today, may climb to $1,550 within six months on physical
and investment demand,  Mark Pervan , global head of commodity
strategy at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in
a note today. Still, Barclays Plc said that bullion may be among
the weakest commodity performers over the next few years.  Declining Stockpiles  A rush by Indian consumers to buy gold jewelry and coins
after the slump will boost imports this quarter as traders and
banks run out of stockpiles, Mohit Kamboj, president of the
Bombay Bullion Association Ltd., said yesterday.  In India, demand during recent days was the most this year,
the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation said. Gold is
bought during festivals and marriages, with the main festival
season from August to October followed by the wedding season
from November to December and late March through early May.  India ’s overseas purchases may jump 36 percent to 305
metric tons in the three months ending June from 225 tons a year
earlier, Kamboj said. Imports may climb as much as 20 percent
this month from year earlier, he said.  Gold for immediate delivery, which declined to $1,321.95 on
April 16, traded at $1,416.39 at 3:34 p.m. in Singapore. This
month’s drop brings gold closer to the global average production
cost of about $1,200 an ounce, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The miners who supply the gold have a break even of about
$1,250, below which they may not supply,” Kalyanaraman, 65,
said.  Closing Mines  Producers face closing mines or shutting themselves down
after the slump made about 15 percent of miners unprofitable.
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the two largest
producers, are among companies in the FTSE Gold Mines Index that
have collectively lost about $169 billion in market value since
bullion peaked in 2011.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Jeffrey Currie  on April 10
issued a sell recommendation on gold, before the metal plunged.
The bank’s 12-month forecast is for $1,390 an ounce. The target
for the end of 2014 is $1,270 and prices may drop below $1,200
temporarily, Currie said.  More than $1 trillion has been erased from the value of
equities worldwide this week as concern deepened that the global
recovery was weakening. Finance ministers from around the world
gather in  Washington  this week to discuss policies to support
the economy and strengthen financial systems.  “There is still a recession and market skepticism about it
internationally,” said Kalyanaraman. “And gold is the
traditional fund where investments are parked in such an
environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  