-- Blackstone Plans to Sell London West Hollywood Hotel
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-04-19T18:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/blackstone-plans-to-sell-london-west-hollywood-hotel.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  plans to sell
its London West Hollywood hotel to take advantage of a Los
Angeles lodging recovery, said  Jonathan Gray , global head of
real estate at the private-equity firm.  “We’ve owned this asset for a number of years,” he said
in an interview yesterday following a media tour of Barker
Block, a Los Angeles condominium development partly owned by New
York-based Blackstone. “We’ve invested in it, it’s performing
well,” Gray said of the hotel, which Blackstone spent $50
million to renovate.  The London West Hollywood, located just off Sunset
Boulevard and featuring a Gordon Ramsay restaurant, is part of
Blackstone’s LXR Luxury Resorts & Hotels unit. Blackstone sold
another LXR property, Golden Door Spa in Escondido,  California ,
for $24.8 million in December. Other resorts in the portfolio
include El Conquistador Resort in  Puerto Rico  and the Casa
Marina resort in Key West,  Florida , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We believed in the  lodging  recovery during the downturn
and we continue to believe in the lodging recovery and always
look for opportunities to invest,” Gray said. “Lodging went
through a pretty sharp downturn and a number of assets got into
financial trouble. That created opportunities to buy hotels.”  Hotels in the city of West Hollywood had an average
occupancy of 79 percent and revenue per available room, an
industry measure of occupancies and rates, of $186.86 last year,
according to Hendersonville, Tennessee-based research firm STR.
Both figures were the highest since at least 2006.  Eastdil Hired  Blackstone hired brokerage Eastdil Secured to help sell the
London West Hollywood, Gray said. He declined to disclose the
expected listing price for the property. A night at the hotel,
which has a rooftop pool, starts at $449 for the week of April
29, according to the property’s  website .  As Blackstone continues to look for lodging investments,
the firm favors markets with few new hotels, such as  Hawaii ,
Gray said. Blackstone agreed to buy the leasehold on the Hyatt
Regency Waikiki Beach Resort and Spa for $450 million and plans
to remodel the property, which includes a shopping mall, a
person with knowledge of the transaction said two days ago.  “Some places are becoming a little more challenging, like
 New York  City, because there is more new supply relative to,
say, Oahu or  San Francisco , where supply is relatively
limited,” Gray said yesterday.  Blackstone is the largest private-equity investor in real
estate, with $59.5 billion in property assets under management.
Last month, Blackstone sold the Miami Beach Resort in Florida to
Joseph Chetrit for $117 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  