-- BM&FBovespa Says It’s Done With Big Fee Cuts
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-04-19T18:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/bm-fbovespa-says-it-s-done-with-big-fee-cuts.html
(Corrects penultimate paragraph of story published April
18 to say companies not regulated by the government performed
well.)  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
 Latin America ’s biggest securities exchange, plans to hold fees
steady after cutting levies on equities trading by 82 percent
since 2011, Chief Financial Officer Eduardo Guardia said.  The Sao Paulo-based exchange this month lowered by 28.5
percent fees charged on equities trading, the second reduction
in two years, after a study commissioned by  Brazil ’s securities
regulator said increasing competition in the industry would
likely reduce trading costs. BM&FBovespa now charges trading
fees for equities that average 0.005 percent, down from 0.0285
percent in 2011.  BM&FBovespa is lowering fees in anticipation of increased
competition from foreign rivals seeking to take market share.
Direct Edge Holdings LLC and Bats Global Markets Inc. last year
showed interest in starting a trading platform in the world’s
second-largest emerging market.  “We’re in no hurry to change our fee policy, don’t expect
any big change,” Guardia said. “We have a series of fine
tuning to do going forward. We’re still evaluating the impact
that the changes put in place this month is having on the
market.”  Trading volume of stocks and derivatives contracts combined
increased 10 percent to 1.78 trillion in 2012 from a year before
after remaining unchanged in 2011, when the Bovespa index posted
an 18 percent decline, according to data from the exchange.
BM&FBovespa plans to create market-makers for certain assets
after doing so for 10 of the most-traded stocks in  Sao Paulo ,
which boosted volume for those contracts by 150 percent in eight
months, Guardia said.  ‘More Competition’  While a decision about opening its clearing house to other
operators hasn’t yet been reached, to do so could boost
BM&FBovespa’s  revenue  by possibly increasing trading volumes,
Guardia said.  “It all depends on what exactly more competition means,”
he said. “There could be a negative impact on our revenue from
trading fees, but we could gain more with post-trade fees.”  BM&FBovespa plans to expand its business with over-the-
counter trading, as lower  interest rates  will probably drive
investors toward higher-yielding fixed-income securities usually
negotiated in that segment, Guardia said. The initiative will
turn the BM&FBovespa into a competitor for Cetip SA-Mercados
Organizados, Brazil’s biggest securities depositary.  BM&FBovespa currently offers registry services for
securities backed by farm loans that are known in Brazil as LCA.
It has a 60 percent market share in this area and plans to
expand. The exchange is working with Calypso Technology Inc. to
develop a registry system that would work with other securities,
he said, without giving a time-frame for the project.  Brazil Underperformance  Shares of BM&FBovespa gained 18 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday, which compares with a 4.8 percent gain for
 CME Group (CME)  Inc. in  New York . CME is the world’s most-valuable
exchange operator and owns a minority stake in BM&FBovespa.
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index has declined 16 percent
in the same period, the seventh-worst performer among 94 equity
gauges.  The Bovespa index’s underperformance reflects a “very
bad” business environment in Brazil, spurred by the
government’s poor communication skills, Guardia said.  Foreign Outflows  Foreign investors pulled 989.6 million reais ($490.7
million) out of the Brazilian stock market this month through
April 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. April is
poised to be the first month since October when foreign
investors took money out of Brazil’s equity market.  “Brazil’s economic fundamentals don’t justify the Bovespa
index being at current levels,” he said. “Shares of companies
that are not regulated by the government actually performed
quite well, but in industries such as energy and utilities, it
was a very different scenario.”  Shares of retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  have jumped 53
percent in the past 12 months, the  most  on the Bovespa index,
while oil company  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  and power
utility Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA were among the worst
performers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  