-- BofA Sees ‘Impossible Trinity’ in Markets as Risks Underpriced
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-04-19T05:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/bofa-sees-impossible-trinity-in-markets-as-risks-underpriced.html
Commodities,  stocks  and bonds are
sending conflicting signals on the health of the global economy,
an “impossible trinity” that may end with a surge in market
volatility, according to Bank of America Corp.  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials has retreated
10 percent in the past two months, while the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.4 percent and bond yields in  emerging markets 
and so-called peripheral European nations declined.  Commodities are signaling a slowdown in global growth,
while  stocks  reflect expectations of strong U.S. consumer
spending and credit markets anticipate greater demand from
Japanese households for high-yielding assets, David Woo, the
head of global rates and currencies research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note dated yesterday. It’s unlikely
all these markets will prove correct and investors are
underestimating the risk of a “major re-alignment” of prices,
Woo said.  “Something will have to give,” Woo wrote. He recommended
a three-month risk reversal on  Australia ’s dollar, an options
trade that would benefit if the currency weakens against the
 U.S. dollar . The strategy offers “cheap insurance against the
possibility of a synchronized global slowdown,” Woo said.  Investors may be overestimating  China ’s scope for stimulus,
the economic tailwinds from a U.S. housing recovery and  Japan ’s
appetite for riskier overseas assets, the New York-based
strategist wrote.  China Stimulus  Economic growth in China, the world’s biggest consumer of
metals, missed estimates in the first quarter as industrial
production and fixed-asset investments in March fell short of
forecasts. At the same time, new  home prices  rose in all but two
cities tracked by the government last month, limiting scope for
monetary stimulus as policy makers seek to prevent a real-estate
bubble.  While new-home construction in the U.S. climbed last month
to the highest level in almost five years, the real-estate
recovery may not be enough to boost  consumer confidence  as
America’s government tightens fiscal policy, Woo wrote. U.S.
retail sales dropped in March by the most in nine months and the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan gauge of consumer
sentiment declined this month, reports showed last week.  Japan’s unprecedented monetary easing has spurred
speculation the country’s investors will put their money in
higher-yielding investments in emerging markets and indebted
European nations, Woo wrote. The yield on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
GBI-EM Global Diversified Composite Index of local currency debt
in emerging markets tumbled to a record low of 5.32 percent
yesterday, while Spanish five-year note  yields  reached 3.26
percent on April 18, the lowest level since November 2010.  Capital outflows from Japan may be limited by the country’s
shrinking current-account  surplus  during the past two years and
the already large holdings of foreign assets by Japanese pension
funds and insurance companies, Woo said.  “To the extent that these themes reflect market
expectations of reality, there seems to be three different
versions of reality right now,” he wrote. “It is unlikely that
all three markets will prove to be right. In this respect, we
are concerned that the current market equilibrium may not be a
stable one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  