-- BP Still Uncertain Over Spill Cost at Third Anniversary
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-04-20T17:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/bp-still-uncertain-over-spill-cost-at-third-anniversary.html
BP Plc (BP/)  faces the third anniversary
of the 2010  oil spill  in the Gulf of Mexico today with no sure
knowledge of how much more it will have to pay government and
private plaintiffs over the disaster.  Last year BP agreed to pay an estimated $8.5 billion to
settle lawsuits by most plaintiffs as well as $4 billion to the
U.S. government in criminal penalties. The company is also
facing claims from plaintiffs who weren’t covered by last year’s
settlement and as much as $17 billion in fines over violations
of the U.S.  Clean Water Act .  The company has been hit with a flurry of new suits filed
this month, including hundreds this week, by individuals,
businesses and governments attempting to meet the three-year
statute of limitations deadline.  Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood filed two separate
suits against BP this week in federal and state courts.  Florida 
Attorney General  Pam Bondi  filed today, on the anniversary of
the explosion. Alabama and Louisiana had sued previously.  What the company still may owe will hinge greatly on
decisions by U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing
litigation spurred by the April 20, 2010, blowout of BP’s
Macondo well and the subsequent explosion that sent 4 million
barrels of oil into the Gulf.  Trial Ends  Barbier will decide fault for the incident and whether BP
or its contractors were grossly negligent, which could trigger
higher damages or fines. As BP presented its last witness April
17 at the nonjury trial over liability for the accident, Barbier
said he wouldn’t issue an immediate decision.  The judge said he would probably give lawyers for BP, its
co-defendants, private party plaintiffs and the U.S. 60 days to
submit their arguments and proposed findings to him. He said he
would also provide 20 days for replies. Nothing will happen
before the filings and the decision may linger beyond this
summer.  Barbier has said that he may not issue a judgment on fault
and gross negligence before a scheduled second phase of the
trial set for Sept. 16. That phase will concern the size of the
 spill  and the efforts to contain it. Barbier said he’s
considering a third phase to determine penalties. Damages trials
would follow.  Pushing Resolutions  Barbier may issue the decision on liability and gross
negligence before the second phase as a means of forcing further
settlements, said John Levy, an attorney specializing in complex
litigation, including maritime and environmental law. Part of
the reason trials are split into separate phases is to push such
resolutions, Levy said.  “They help the parties see the light that is coming at the
end of the tunnel,” he said.  “His decision will help to simplify and narrow the case
going forward,” said Levy, of Montgomery McCracken in Cherry
Hill,  New Jersey . “Certain parties may settle out. Certain
issues may settle out.”  The blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed
11 workers and set off the largest offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against well
owner BP; Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of
the Deepwater Horizon; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services for the project.  Cameron, M-I Swaco  The plaintiffs also sued  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which
made blowout-prevention equipment used on the rig, and M-I
Swaco, a  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  unit that provided the rig’s drilling
fluids. Barbier dismissed both companies from the lawsuits
during the liability trial that began Feb. 25.  A key issue for the remaining defendants is whether Barbier
finds they acted with willful or wanton misconduct or reckless
indifference -- the legal requirement for establishing gross
negligence.  For London-based BP, a finding of gross negligence would
mean the company might be liable to the U.S. for more than $17
billion in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified
punitive damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5
billion settlement the company reached with most private-party
plaintiffs last year.  Transocean and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner. The companies aren’t facing compensatory damages, based
on a ruling by Barbier last year that the project contract
required BP to indemnify them such costs.  Well Unstable  Lawyers for the U.S. and oil-spill victims contended in the
nonjury trial that BP was over budget and behind schedule on the
deep-water Macondo well off the Louisiana coast, prompting the
 oil company  to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the
well was unstable.  They also alleged Halliburton’s cement job was defective
and Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not providing adequate training for its
crew.  BP claimed during the trial that Transocean failed to
maintain the drilling rig and Halliburton provided defective
cementing services. Transocean and Halliburton pointed fingers
back at BP.  Any decision by Barbier will be subject to appeal, which
would further delay determination of costs, Levy said. “An
appeal may have to wait until after additional phases,” he
said.  As attorneys prepare the post-trial legal arguments, new
lawsuits over the spill have been pouring into the federal
courts for several weeks, primarily by plaintiffs who were
excluded from last year’s settlement.  Casinos, States  The $8.5 billion agreement didn’t cover claims of financial
institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida
and  Texas , and residents and businesses claiming harm from the
deep-water drilling moratorium. It excluded federal government
claims and those of Gulf Coast states Louisiana and Alabama, and
lawsuits against other defendants.  Some of the new claims are substantial, including a lawsuit
brought in  New Orleans  federal court this month by  Vantage
Drilling Co. (VTG) , which alleged that it incurred a $265.5 million
increase in financing costs for a drilling rig as a result of
the spill.  ‘Considerable’ Losses  Florida officials filed suit today seeking to recover the
state’s damages suffered as a result of the spill. The lawsuit
covers cover only the state’s economic losses, and not any
injuries to natural resources or claims by individuals,
businesses or local governments, the state attorney general said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday before filing.  “The  State of Florida  suffered considerable economic
losses as a result of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and BP
and Halliburton must be held accountable,” Bondi said in the
statement.  Florida sued only BP and Halliburton. Florida reserves the
right to add other parties, such as Transocean, the state’s
lawyers said in the complaint.  Mississippi filed one claim in state court and another in
federal court in Gulfport against BP, Transocean, Halliburton
and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which owned a 25 percent stake in
the well.  Mississippi was forced to sue because BP wouldn’t negotiate
a “reasonable settlement,” said Hood, the state’s attorney
general. “BP would not even agree to waive the statute of
limitations while we negotiated, which could have prevented the
state from having to file suit and saved both them and the
taxpayers a lot of money paying lawyers and fighting in the
courts,” he said in a statement yesterday.  Cities, Counties  Other new lawsuits include one brought by the city of
Marathon, Florida, over environmental damage and lost  tax
revenue , and similar claims by several coastal counties in
southeast Texas, including Jefferson County and Chambers County,
which lie between Houston and the Louisiana border. The city of
St. Pete Beach, Florida, filed yesterday against BP, Halliburton
and Transocean.  “Texas will bring its claim against those responsible for
the Deepwater Horizon disaster at the appropriate time,” said
Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott . “Texas, along with the other Gulf Coast States and the
DOJ, have been engaged in settlement talks for quite some
time.”  Fresh Wave  Beyond government claims, a fresh wave of suits has been
filed by others excluded from the settlement, ranging from
Florida casino workers whose tips declined to real estate
developers who said they lost financing to build multimillion-
dollar oceanfront resorts.  Texas longshoremen, coastal insurance agencies, small-town
lenders, and several employment agencies are also suing. In each
of these cases, the victims say they presented their damages to
BP as required by law, and the company either rejected their
claims or failed to timely respond.  Mississippi’s Charter Bank filed a complaint in federal
court in Gulfport yesterday against BP, Halliburton and
Transocean, seeking reimbursement for losses related to the
spill. Following the incident, “banking activity and new loan
origination ground to a halt,” the bank said in its complaint.  Claims by excluded plaintiffs, if they’re not also settled,
would be considered in any damages trials.  BP and Transocean, which were both sued by the U.S. under
the Oil Pollution Act, also face unspecified costs from claims
by the federal government and the Gulf Coast states for natural
resource damages. Under the law, the owner of the oil spilled is
responsible for paying to put natural resources back to pre-
incident conditions.  Guilty Plea  When Transocean pleaded guilty in January to a misdemeanor
Clean Water Act violation and agreed to pay $1.4 billion,
including $400 million in criminal penalties, it didn’t resolve
the natural-resource damages claims. Transocean has said that
its liability for such damages is limited because the oil
spilled belonged to BP and its well partners, Anadarko and
 Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007, which had a 10 percent share.  MOEX settled government claims for $90 million last year,
while Anadarko still has U.S. Clean Water Act claims pending
against it. Anadarko wasn’t part of the liability trial. Barbier
said the company couldn’t be sued under maritime law because it
didn’t have control of the operation.  Government trustees for these natural resources have been
assessing the potential costs since the first weeks after the
spill. The assessments haven’t been completed and, while BP has
made interim payments, the final claims by these governments
remain unknown.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  