-- Brazil’s Biggest Banks Said to Be Avoiding Overnight Loan Market
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-04-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/brazil-s-biggest-banks-said-to-be-avoiding-overnight-loan-market.html
The Brazilian overnight loan market
between banks is shrinking as the biggest lenders have pulled
back, affecting the rate tied to $865 billion of securities and
mutual funds, said two people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  Large banks are instead following central bank directives
to purchase longer-term securities from smaller lenders, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
decisions aren’t public. The average number of daily
transactions in the  interbank market  fell to 16.8 last month
from as many as 47.2 in January 2011, according to securities
depository  Cetip SA Mercados Organizados (CTIP3) , while volume dropped
to 1.85 billion reais ($916.3 million) from 10.2 billion reais.  Smaller lenders are flush with cash from the purchases and
that, along with the absence of bigger rivals, has caused the
overnight loan rate, known as DI, to decouple from the central
bank’s benchmark, the people said. The DI was  7.24 percent 
yesterday, or a quarter-percentage point below the 7.5 percent
target rate. The differential is about double the average over
the past decade and compares with gaps of less than 0.1
percentage point in the U.S.,  Colombia  and  Chile .  “This market has been continually squeezing as currently
no bank wakes up needing to borrow in the overnight market,”
said Alfredo Moraes, chief executive officer of Sao Paulo-based
Banco Intercap SA, which uses DI rates for 90 percent of its
overnight transactions.  Repo Market  DI is one of the most important rates in  Brazil ’s economy,
with 89 percent of 1.68 trillion reais of outstanding corporate
debt linked to the index last month, according to Anbima, the
nation’s capital markets association. Funds with total assets of
250 billion reais are tied to DI.  Brazil’s legacy of hyperinflation, including a 6,000
percent increase in prices in 1990, has spawned an aversion to
long-term risk in the  bond market , where fixed-rate securities
represent just 1.6 percent of outstanding corporate debt. Most
DI contracts are for one day, compared with the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, which is a benchmark for borrowing costs
for as much as one year.  The biggest Brazilian banks prefer to lend to each other in
the repurchase agreement, or repo, market, where loans are
backed by Treasury bonds. The overnight repo market between
banks increased 30 percent to 658 billion reais outstanding in
February from a year earlier, according to data from the central
bank.  New Rules  Among Brazil’s largest lenders are  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)  Spokesmen for both banks declined to
comment on their firm’s involvement in the DI market.  The central bank also declined to comment, saying in an e-
mailed statement that it played no role in the DI market. It
said Cetip alone is responsible for calculating and releasing
the rate, and congratulated the company on recent improvements
to the way it arrives at the figure.  Cetip said this week it will create a so-called fallback
mechanism to be applied when the market’s volume is too low.
Triggered on days when the number of transactions used to
calculate DI drops below 10, the fallback will use historic data
to calculate an overnight rate that is less decoupled from the
central bank benchmark, according to an April 15 statement on
Cetip’s  website . The mechanism will be introduced April 22.  In December 2011, Brazil’s central bank provided a lifeline
to small lenders facing a funding squeeze by encouraging bigger
rivals to purchase some of their assets. Under the new rules,
firms can use part of their  reserve requirements  to buy credit
portfolios and longer-term bonds  from lenders whose capital
doesn’t exceed 2.2 billion reais. Failure to do so will result
in them losing interest payments on about 30 billion reais of
the funds they’re required to deposit at the central bank.  Time Deposits  Beginning in February 2012, the central bank no longer paid
interest on 27 percent of the funds that banks are required to
hold at the monetary authority as reserve requirements for time
deposits. That threshold rose to 36 percent in August.  Before the measure, reserve requirements on time deposits
were paid the central bank benchmark rate, known as Selic. The
relief program ends June 2014.  The new rule also prohibits bigger banks that make loans to
the smallest lenders then obtaining financing back from them on
the overnight markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  