-- Brokerage Bets Pay Off for Banks as Investors Yawn at Profit
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-04-19T14:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/brokerage-bets-pay-off-for-banks-as-investors-yawn-at-profits.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s bets on the brokerage business are finally paying off,
helped by U.S. stock indexes near  all-time highs . The firms’ own
shares aren’t getting the same benefit.  Morgan Stanley fell 5.4 percent to $20.31 yesterday after
saying profit from global wealth management jumped 33 percent to
$376 million in the first quarter. Shares of  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America slid 6.8 percent in the two days
after the firm reported that income from Merrill Lynch and
related units climbed 31 percent to a record $720 million.  “As a shareholder, you can’t be rewarded for a part of the
organization doing well if it’s lost in the mix,” said Joshua Siegel, founder of New York-based StoneCastle Partners LLC,
which invests in community banks and has $5.7 billion in assets
under management. “Investors are saying, let’s look at the rest
of the businesses, and the problem is they’re dull.”  Banks are betting more on the old-fashioned business of
investing for the rich after their strategy of making markets in
stocks, bonds and derivatives turned out to be riskier than
predicted. The higher profits at the two brokerages, the world’s
largest, are being overshadowed by a slowdown in institutional
trading and firm-wide drops in revenue at Morgan Stanley and
Bank of America.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54,
invested in the brokerage in 2009, creating and taking control
of a joint venture with Citigroup Inc.’s  Smith Barney . Former
Bank of America CEO Kenneth D. Lewis struck a deal to buy
Merrill Lynch and its “Thundering Herd” of brokers in 2008
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Bond Trading  Net revenue for Morgan Stanley’s brokerage, run by  Greg Fleming , rose to $3.47 billion in the first quarter, 41 percent
of the company’s total. The firm also said yesterday that bond-
trading revenue dropped 42 percent from a year earlier and
stock-trading revenue fell 19 percent, offsetting the gain.  Bank of America posted a net loss in consumer real estate
and set aside more money to cover defective mortgages from the
financial crisis. Meanwhile, revenue from its wealth division
rose 6.6 percent to $4.42 billion, or 19 percent of the bank’s
total revenue.  “Their results have been improving the last couple
quarters,” said Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis . “There are just other issues going on that
are overshadowing the strength that we’ve seen from wealth-
management units.”  Beating Estimates  Shares of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., along with Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley, have dropped since the companies posted first-quarter
results, even as four of them reported profits that beat
analysts’ estimates. With combined adjusted revenue down 2.5
percent, the firms relied on a mix of tax benefits, job cuts and
lower expenses from bad debts and  litigation  to fuel profit.  Bank of America and Morgan Stanley trade below tangible
book value, a measure of what a company would be worth if
liquidated. Smaller financial-services firms with brokerages
fare better:  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  trades for 2.02 times
tangible book, while  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  is at 1.65.  Christine Jockle, a spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, and Bank of America’s Susan McCabe declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley’s bet on the brokerage model may have
soothed creditors as the extra yield investors demand to own the
bank’s bonds instead of Treasuries fell by more than half in the
past year.  Government Debt  Low yields on government debt spurred investors to put
their money at risk, fueling gains in equities and the fees
brokers charge as a percentage of assets they manage. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  surged 10 percent  in the first
quarter and hit a record 1593.4 on April 11. In 2007, when the
benchmark touched its previous high, Merrill Lynch’s wealth-
management pretax earnings jumped 59 percent.  “A rising market definitely helps the  wealth-management 
space at any company,” said Tom Pacilio, who left Morgan
Stanley in 2011 to found Pacilio Wealth Management in Westport,
 Connecticut , which oversees about $200 million. “People are
more inclined to start investing or shifting some of their
investments.”  Morgan Stanley climbed 0.9 percent to $20.49 at 10:18 a.m.
in  New York  trading. Bank of America rose 0.8 percent to $11.54.  When Morgan Stanley agreed last year to buy the rest of its
joint venture from New York-based Citigroup, the two banks
agreed to value the entire unit at $13.5 billion after hiring an
outside appraiser to settle a protracted dispute. Morgan Stanley
is waiting on regulatory approval to complete the purchase of
the 35 percent it doesn’t yet own.  Financial Crisis  Gorman’s gambit may gain in value as investors return to
the markets after being burned by a drop of almost 40 percent in
the  S&P 500  in 2008 and a financial crisis that spurred
consolidation in the industry.  “We went through some very difficult times where client
trust and risk tolerance was eroded, and now we’re seeing a
normalization of how the market is perceived,” said Dick Risch,
founder of New York-based Risch Group, a search firm
specializing in private banking and wealth management.  Morgan Stanley had the highest inflows into its fee-based
accounts in two years during the first quarter. That helped the
unit post its highest pretax margin since the joint venture was
formed. Merrill Lynch’s revenue per financial adviser jumped 9
percent from a year earlier.  “It takes time to convince everybody of what you were and
what you’re becoming,” said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “We’re just
not there yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  