-- Bundesbank Said to Rebuff Italian Bid to Freeze Nomura Funds
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-19T14:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/bundesbank-said-to-rebuff-italian-bid-to-freeze-nomura-assets.html
The Bundesbank rebuffed an attempt
by Italian prosecutors to freeze assets held by  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  because it hasn’t received a request valid under German
law, said a person with knowledge of the decision.  The Bank of  Italy  has yet to present such a document on
behalf of prosecutors probing how  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA  used derivatives to hide losses, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the decision hasn’t been made
public yet.  Officials at the Bank of Italy and the Bundesbank didn’t
have any immediate comment on the move. A spokesman for Nomura
in  London  declined to comment on the asset freeze.  Italian prosecutors allege Nomura colluded with Monte
Paschi’s former managers to devise one of two derivatives in
2008 and 2009 that hid total losses of as much as 557 million
euros ($729 million). Magistrates are seeking to seize as much
as 1.9 billion euros of margin pledged by Monte Paschi to Nomura
as part of the derivative and deposited in  Germany .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Nomura’s 1.25
billion euros of 5.125 percent bonds due 2014 over government
debt of a similar maturity fell 10.5 basis points to 132 basis
points today, according to Bloomberg pricing data.  The prosecutors are also targeting Nomura accounts at
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. in the U.K., according
to the April 15 asset seizure decree, as well as deposits at
other banks that operate through Target2, Europe’s cross-border
payment system, the document shows.  Bond Wager  As part of the transaction arranged by Nomura and dubbed
Alexandria, Monte Paschi bought Italian government bonds using a
loan from the Japanese bank. It swapped the fixed-rate interest
payments on the bonds with a floating rate and guaranteed the
credit risk on the bonds, effectively making a bet on the future
value of Italian government bonds. As those securities tumbled
during  Europe ’s fiscal crisis, Monte Paschi was forced to post
more margin.  In addition to the collateral, magistrates are trying to
seize Nomura’s alleged profit on the transactions of about 88
million euros. The magistrates’ order to seize assets must be
ratified by a judge in Siena within 10 days of issue.  Nomura, which isn’t under investigation itself, said April
16 it will “vigorously” contest any suggestion of wrongdoing
in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  