-- Boston Manhunt Kept U.S. Riveted to TVs for Latest News
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/cable-news-audiences-spike-in-wake-of-boston-bombing-correct-.html
The  Boston Marathon bombings  and
ensuing manhunt kept Americans riveted to the television, radio
and the Internet this week as they followed the latest
developments.  The news cycle gained momentum in the final 24 hours after
one of the two brothers suspected in the April 15 bombings was
killed in a confrontation with police. Police yesterday
captured his 19-year-old brother in Watertown, Massachusetts.  “You don’t want to be too far away from your news feed,
whether it’s on TV or online, because you don’t want to miss
anything,” Bill Grueskin, dean of academic affairs at Columbia
University Journalism School, said in an interview.  Viewers flocked to Fox News,  CNN  and  MSNBC , the top U.S.
cable-news channels, which switched to near-constant coverage of
the investigation and manhunt for those responsible.  CNN’s average daily audience this week soared to 1.05
million viewers from 356,000 last week, according to Nielsen
data supplied by New York advertising agency  Horizon Media .  Fox
News , the most-watched cable-news outlet, jumped to 1.64 million
from 1.11 million. MSNBC rose to 514,000 from 374,000.  Citizen Input  Two bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston
Marathon, killing three, including an 8-year-old boy, a 29-year-
old woman and a Chinese graduate student.  Early yesterday, Boston police killed one suspect, 26-year-
old Tamerlan Tsarnaev. His brother, Dzhokar Tsarnaev, escaped on
foot, and was at large for much of yesterday. News crews staked
out a home in Watertown, about 8 miles west of Boston, where he
was reported to be hiding in a boat before his capture.  “We have people working around the clock on this story,”
Jeff Schneider, an ABC News spokesman, said in an interview
during the manhunt. “That’s what you do in these situations.”  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation had called on citizens
to help them identify two suspects in the attack, drawing
viewers in further to their TV and computer screens.  The newsgathering spilled into digital services such as
Twitter, Facebook and the online community Reddit, which tried
to identify the suspects. People even plugged into police
scanners online, sharing the latest updates.  “At what point is it news and what point is it
entertainment?” Grueskin asked. “What you see is the state of
interest in big breaking stories but rarely does that story gets
translated to real, mass journalism.”  The nonstop reporting included some errors, including CNN
saying on April 17 that authorities had arrested a suspect.
CNN’s John King  had to retract  the original report, saying,
“Anyone who says an arrest is ahead of themselves.” The
 Associated Press  and the Boston Globe also reported arrests had
been made.  CNN’s Gains  CNN saw the biggest percentage increase in viewers, helped
by a reputation for breaking news that it cultivated during the
first  Gulf War . It remained behind Fox News overall. CNN lost
its lead in 2002 and has struggled to find a formula that can
consistently hold viewers. CNN President  Jeff Zucker , the former
chief of  NBC Universal , has been retooling the network since
last year.  “CNN has been there for our audience in every possible way
-- on television, online and on our mobile platforms,” Zucker
told employees in a memo, Politico reported. “These are the
times that  define  what we do and why we do it.”  Shares of Time Warner Inc. , the New York-based owner of
CNN, gained 2.2 percent to $59.75 yesterday in New York.  News
Corp. (NWSA) , the parent company of Fox News, rose 2.5 percent to
$31.21, while NBC parent Comcast climbed 1.4 percent to $40.56.  Suspects’ Father  Nielsen estimates there are 114.2 million U.S. television
households in total, including about 100 million who subscribe
to cable or satellite services.  After  law enforcement  began a manhunt for the suspects and
put much of the Boston area on lockdown, the broadcast networks
began continuous coverage, beginning with the morning programs.
ABC News, part of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , switched over yesterday
morning, Schneider said.  ABC’s Bianna Golodryga was the first reporter to interview
the suspects’ father, Anzor Tsarnaev, from his home in
Makhachkala, Russia. He urged his surviving son to turn himself
in to police.  Fox News’  Bill O’Reilly , Sean Hannity and Greta Van Susteren, as well as CNN’s  Anderson Cooper , saw big audience
increases among individual cable programs, according to Nielsen
data.  ‘O’Reilly Factor’  “The  O’Reilly Factor ,” the most-watched cable news
program, saw its audience jump 77 percent on April 15 from a
week earlier, according to Nielsen data. The show averaged 4.83
million viewers, the biggest audience on cable that night,
compared with 2.73 million a week earlier, Nielsen data show.  On that date, “Hannity” had 4 million viewers, “On the
Record with Greta Van Susteren” drew 2.87 million, and CNN’s
“Anderson Cooper 360” attracted 2.96 million, according to
Nielsen data. That placed the shows among the top 10 most
watched programs on cable that evening. None of them ranked in
the top 40 a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  