-- California Settles High-Speed Rail Case for $5 Million
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/california-to-pay-5-million-to-resolve-high-speed-rail-case.html
The California High-Speed Rail
Authority will provide $4 million for an agriculture
preservation fund to resolve claims that part of its $86 billion
bullet train project could violate state environment law.  The accord resolves a lawsuit challenging the agency’s
approval of environmental impact reports for a section of the
planned railway that will cut though farmland in two counties of
central California. The authority will also pay about $1 million
in attorneys fees to county farm bureaus and other groups that
sued, according to documents filed in state court in  Sacramento .  Farmland will be protected in the state’s Central Valley
and local farm groups will have a say in agricultural
mitigation, according to the settlement. A state judge approved
the agreement yesterday, ahead of a court hearing that had been
set for today on the merits of the lawsuit.  “This settlement clears the way for the Authority to move
forward with construction of the first high-speed rail system in
the nation and shows we can build high-speed rail while
preserving precious resources,” Dan Richard, chairman of the
authority’s board, said in a statement.  Anja Raudabaugh, executive director of the Madera County
Farm Bureau, the lead plaintiff in the case, said the settlement
provides significant protection for landowners.  “We’re satisfied,” she said by phone.  California  is working to lay tracks for trains running as
fast as 220 miles (354 kilometers) an hour, after Congress cut
off 2012 funds for such projects. Construction on the system, to
link San Francisco with  Los Angeles , is to begin with a 130-mile
stretch of rail in the Central Valley.  The initial route will run from Merced, about 120 miles
south of Sacramento to the San Fernando Valley, north of Los
Angeles.  Three other lawsuits challenging the project have been
settled, the agency said in a statement. Others are still
pending, Raudabaugh said.  The case is County of Madera v. California High-Speed Rail
Authority, 34-2012-80001165, Sacramento County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen Gullo in  San
Francisco  at   kgullo@bloomberg.net.To  contact
the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha at
   mhytha@bloomberg.net  