-- California Adopts Regulation to Link Carbon Markets With Quebec
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-04-19T20:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/california-adopts-regulation-to-link-carbon-markets-with-quebec.html
California , the world’s ninth-
largest economy, adopted rules to link carbon markets with the
Canadian province of  Quebec , a move that will allow companies to
trade emissions allowances across the border.  The  California Air Resources Board  approved changes to the
state’s cap-and-trade regulation that align its carbon system
with that of Quebec and clears the way for links to other
governments in the future. Governor  Jerry Brown  approved the
connection with Quebec last week, saying the province’s program
was aggressive enough with its emissions targets and designed
similarly enough to work in tandem with California’s system.  California and Quebec are linking even as the emissions-
trading system across the European Union falters. EU carbon
allowance prices dropped to a record low April 17 after
lawmakers voted against a plan to ease a supply glut and
resuscitate the world’s biggest emissions market.  California’s approval of the link to Quebec “marks the
culmination of almost five years of work and coordination
between our two jurisdictions,”  Mary Nichols , chairman of
California’s air resources board, said in an e-mailed statement
before the vote in Sacramento today. “It is a clear recognition
that the danger we face in  climate change  -- the danger that we
are even now experiencing in a multitude of ways -- rises above
national, state or provincial boundaries.”  Expand Investments  The board’s staff has said a link with Quebec would expand
investments in low-carbon technologies, many of which are being
developed in California, and improve market liquidity for carbon
allowances. The move would also achieve higher greenhouse-gas
emissions cuts, the staff said in a  report  last year.  Futures contracts based on California carbon allowances for
2013 fell 10 cents, or 0.7 percent, yesterday to $14.50 per
metric ton, according to data compiled by Chicago-based  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  Prices reached a one-month high of $14.85 a metric
ton on April 15.  Under California’s program, the state is capping emissions
from power generators, oil refineries and other industrial
plants and cutting that limit gradually to reduce emissions to
1990 levels by 2020. The system will eventually regulate 85
percent of the  greenhouse gases  released in California.  Quebec plans to reduce emissions to 20 percent below 1990
levels by 2020 with its cap-and-trade program, which applies to
about 75 companies in the province.  Regulators in both jurisdictions are issuing carbon
allowances, each permitting the release of 1 metric ton, through
a combination of free allocations and auctions. Companies must
turn in carbon permits to cover their emissions, and those with
more allowances than they need can sell or trade the excess.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  