-- California Power Facing Biggest Test Since Enron: Energy Markets
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-04-19T18:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/california-power-facing-biggest-test-since-enron-energy-markets.html
California  may face the biggest
regional power shortages in more than a decade this summer,
sending wholesale prices higher, as idled nuclear reactors and
low hydroelectric output cut generating capacity.  The California Independent System Operator Corp.  said  last
month that managing the state grid, especially in parts of
 Southern California , will prove “difficult” because the system
will be operating without  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre
nuclear power plant and two natural gas-fired units, while
hydroelectric output will be at a three-year low. The nuclear
plant, California’s single largest source of baseload power,
accounts for 3.7 percent of the state’s capacity.  Southern California wholesale electricity for July through
September already is at the highest level for this season since
2008 on the outlook for a shift to costlier, more volatile
fossil fuels. A strain on the grid could lead to power failures
reminiscent of the state’s worst energy crisis in 2000 and 2001,
when generation shortfalls and market manipulation by traders at
companies including Enron Corp. sent prices to record highs and
triggered blackouts that affected millions of customers in the
most populous U.S. state.  “California may see the biggest test since Enron
manipulated the market,”  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., an energy consulting group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , said in an April 15 interview. “If you have a
reactor down and you don’t have as much hydro, your fuel for air
conditioning is going to have to come from gas.”  Electricity at Southern California’s SP15 hub for July
through September rose $1.55, or 2.6 percent, to $61.40 a
megawatt-hour yesterday, a five-year seasonal high. Prices today
fell 5 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $61.35.  Rising Prices  Electricity at the  SP15 hub  for next-day delivery has
averaged $49.70 a megawatt-hour this year through April 18 on
the Intercontinental Exchange, the most for the period in five
years. Northern California’s  NP15 hub  has averaged $41.99 this
year, the most since 2010.  The shutdown of the San Onofre reactors boosted prices at
the southern hub to an average premium of $7.81 a megawatt-hour
against the northern hub, the  most  in 12 years. The five-year
average is 95.65 cents.  Abundant hydroelectric generation made up for the lost
nuclear output in the  Los Angeles  basin last year, Michael Blaha, the principal analyst of North American power at Wood
Mackenzie Ltd. in Houston, said in an interview.  “There is always a threat of brownouts and blackouts and I
think it’s higher this summer because of San Onofre being out
and you’re not putting hydro into the basin,” he said.  Weaker Hydro  Final snowpack measurements, which are used to predict the
output at hydropower dams, will be 45 percent to 50 percent of
normal, according to Maurice Roos, chief hydrologist with the
state’s Department of Water Resources in  Sacramento . Only six
years in the past 60 have been that low, he said.  Low water levels in the U.S. Northwest may also cut
electricity exports to California this summer, according to the
Bonneville Power Administration, a federal agency that manages
Columbia River basin power supplies. Transmission lines across
the Oregon-California border have a combined capacity of 7,500
megawatts.  The snow-water equivalent in the region was 89 percent of
normal as of yesterday, the lowest level for the time of the
year since 2010, U.S. Agriculture Department data show. Genscape
Inc., which tracks real-time plant data, said April 4 that
Northwest hydropower is down 36 percent from a year ago.  Northwest Water  Unless there is a surge in precipitation in April through
June, the amount of water available for hydro in the Northwest
will be lower than it has been in the past two years,  Doug
Johnson , a spokesman for the BPA in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in an
April 18 e-mail. Water levels exceeded historical norms by 30
percent in 2011 and 20 percent last year, he said.  California, with a population of 38 million, struggled with
similar hydropower shortages during the electricity crisis of
2000 and 2001. The state, the world’s ninth largest economy, was
also dealing with unplanned power-plant shutdowns, a  natural-gas 
pipeline rupture, unseasonably high temperatures and price
manipulation by Enron and other companies.  Enron, once the world’s largest energy trader, filed for
bankruptcy in 2001 following revelations that it used off-
balance-sheet vehicles to hide billions of dollars in losses and
inflate its stock price. Chief Executive Officer Jeff Skilling
was convicted of fraud in 2006 and sentenced to 24 years in
prison.  The shortages prompted regulators to overhaul state energy
policy, which now requires utilities to show they’ve contracted
enough power to meet demand.  ‘Energy Crisis’  “The high Northwest hydro of last year probably obscured
potential operation problems” on the California grid because of
lower nuclear generation, Blaha said. “If we move to the other
extreme of low hydro, we can move back to an environment like
the energy crisis of 2000.”  The  San Onofre  generating station, located about 4 miles
(6.4 kilometers) southeast of San Clemente, has been shut since
January 2012, when workers discovered unusual wear on steam
generator tubes in both reactors. Edison International is
seeking federal permission to restart one of the reactors on
June 1 at a reduced capacity of 70 percent.  California’s demand for gas-fired power generation rose 24
percent from January through July 2012 from a year earlier
because of San Onofre, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the U.S. Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Natural Gas  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the biggest power provider to U.S.
utilities, has been running gas-fired  power plants  in California
two to three times more often than usual because of the
shutdown, John Chillemi, the company’s regional president, said
during a power conference in San Francisco on Feb. 26.  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the third-largest U.S. independent power
producer, is seeking to enter new bilateral contracts to operate
its gas-fired plants in Moss Landing and Morro Bay this summer,
CEO Robert Flexon said in an April 8 interview in  Las Vegas .  Natural gas  delivered by Southern California Gas Co. to
cities including Los Angeles rose on April 16 to $4.37 per
million Btu on the  Intercontinental Exchange , the most since
Sept. 1, 2011. Spot prices are at their  highest level  for this
time of the year since at least 2009, ICE data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The shutdown of the nuclear units in Southern California
also eliminates key voltage support on transmission lines, which
limits how much power can be imported into the region, Mark
Repsher, a Denver-based energy industry specialist at PA
Consulting Group, said in a telephone interview.  Reliability Questions  “It’ll be tight,” said Frank Wolak, an economics
professor at  Stanford University  and former chairman of
California ISO’s market surveillance committee for 13 years.
“There could be reliability events that crash the system.”  Supply constraints on the grid this summer may point to
even bigger shortages in the next decade as state environmental
regulations force coastal plants to shut while the intermittent
power from renewable sources gains, according to UBS AG and Wood
Mackenzie Ltd.  The California ISO, responsible for delivering power to
more than 30 million people, currently has about 60,000
megawatts of generating capacity.  About 16,000 megawatts from 18 units powered by fossil fuel
may shut through 2020 because of environmental rules that
restrict coastal-water intake by power plants, Julien Dumoulin- Smith, a utility analyst with UBS in  New York , said in an April
4 interview. State regulations  mandate  that 33 percent of power
come from renewable sources by 2020.  These regulations will reduce California’s reserve margins
from 40 percent this year to about half of that by 2020 and
shift supplies to more variable sources such as wind and solar
that depend on the weather, said Dumoulin-Smith.  “This summer if there is an issue, it would highlight
those structural problems because you are going to lose
capacity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 