-- Campaigning Kick Offs in Malaysia’s ‘Closest Ever’ Election
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-04-20T09:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/campaigning-to-kick-off-in-malaysia-s-closest-ever-election.html
Campaigning in  Malaysia ’s general
election got underway today with Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
coalition battling to extend its 55-year rule and the opposition
pledging to stamp out  graft  and cut living costs.  “This is one of the closest elections ever in Malaysia’s
history,” Albert Leung, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said by phone.  Candidates submitted nomination papers in their home
constituencies this morning for the May 5 poll, with Najib
returning to Pekan, Pahang, for a campaign march. Opposition
leader  Anwar Ibrahim  is running in Penang, one of five states
seized from the government in the last election in 2008.  Najib, facing the electorate for the first time as leader
after taking over mid-term four years ago, wants his own mandate
to complete government and economic transformation programs
started three years ago. Private investment has since tripled,
to 139.5 billion ringgit ($46 billion) last year, according to
government data.  “The opposition has managed to get its act together and
since 2008 has become a formidable rival,” Ooi Kee Beng, deputy
director of the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in
 Singapore , said in an interview yesterday. “Both coalitions are
business-friendly and their battle is about internal governance
such as corruption, transparency and cronyism.”  Flags, Banners  Supporters of both camps have erected thousands of flags
and banners around the country in preparation for the campaign.
More than 570 candidates are vying for 222 parliamentary seats,
the Star reported today, citing the Election Commission. Some
politicians chose to run as independents after being dropped or
snubbed by their own parties.  Najib’s Barisan Nasional coalition is fielding one third
new candidates, with veteran politicians including former Prime
Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and former Trade Minister Rafidah
Aziz stepping aside to make way for new talent. Both Najib and
Anwar have repeatedly said they’re “cautiously optimistic” of
winning.  Abdullah stepped down in 2009 to take responsibility for
leading Barisan Nasional to its narrowest election victory in
five decades in the last election. The government lost control
of five out of 13 state assemblies in that vote, before later
recovering Perak following defections.  Brokerages from RHB Investment Bank Bhd. to Citigroup Inc.
have said they expect a closer result this time.  Energy Minister Peter Chin, Tourism Minister Ng Yen Yen,
former ministers Syed Hamid Albar, Chua Soi Lek, Samy Vellu and
Shahrizat Abdul Jalil are among those not contesting.  ‘New Talent’  “Some people have to make way otherwise we cannot
reinvigorate the party with young and new faces,” said Najib,
59, in an April 17 interview in Putrajaya, outside of  Kuala
Lumpur . “I believe by introducing well-qualified people as MPs
and state assemblymen, we’ll have a good reservoir of new talent
from which we can choose to form the next government.”  Anwar, 65, leads an ideologically disparate opposition that
includes one party with mostly ethnic Chinese and another whose
members support the wider implementation of Islamic law.  Both Barisan Nasional and the opposition have made fighting
corruption and reducing living costs central to their respective
election manifestos. While Najib’s coalition has highlighted its
experience in government and attracting investment, Anwar’s
alliance is demanding electoral reform and an end to cronyism
and monopolies.  Malaysia moved to 54th from 60th place among 176 countries
in Transparency International’s  Corruption Perceptions Index 
last year, though it was ranked last for bribery among 30
countries surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  