-- Canadian Dollar Rises on Yen Selling Before Inflation Report
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-19T12:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/canadian-dollar-rises-on-yen-selling-before-inflation-report.html
The Canadian dollar rose for the
second day against its U.S. counterpart as  Japan  indicated its
policy of printing yen to stimulate the economy were unopposed
by the G-20, sending investors into higher yielding currencies.  The currency fell against the majority of its 16 most
traded peers ahead of data expected to show the  consumer price
index  fell to 0.3 percent in March from 1.2 percent the month
before, bringing the annual reading to 1.1 percent, close to the
bottom of the central bank’s target band between 1 percent and
3 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists.
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said Japan’s asset purchases
that have caused the currency to weaken were unopposed at a
Group-of-20 meeting in  Washington .  “We see a weaker yen and therefore there’s a move into
riskier assets, that could be why equity markets are higher,
because the market sees no opposition to Bank of Japan policy
and they see further quantitative easing which is going to buoy
equity markets and buoy the Canadian dollar along with it,”
said Eimear Daly, a currency market analyst at Monex Europe
Ltd., said by phone from London. “I think it’s going to weaken
off if the CPI number comes out less than expected, because
people are starting to think weaker CPI it increases the
possibility the  Bank of Canada  would have to ease, and so a
weaker Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0248
per  U.S. dollar  at 8:13 a.m. in  New York . One loonie buys 97.58
U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  