-- Canada Inflation Rate Slows to 1% in March on Gasoline
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-19T14:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/canada-inflation-rate-slows-to-1-in-march-on-gasoline.html
Canada ’s  inflation  rate slowed to
the bottom of the central bank’s target range last month as
gasoline prices dropped, further evidence that slack is building
up in the world’s 11th-largest economy.  The  consumer price index  rose 1 percent in March from a
year ago following a 1.2 percent gain the prior month,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The  core  rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, was unchanged at 1.4 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that the total rate
would be 1.1 percent and core would be 1.4 percent.  The Bank of Canada said April 17 that inflation will remain
below policy makers’ 2 percent target until the second quarter
of 2015 as weak investment and government spending curb output
gains. The bank’s benchmark interest rate has been 1 percent
since September 2010 and policy makers aim to keep inflation in
the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band.  “Both inflation and growth have much more consistently
surprised to the low side than the high side in recent months,
and that trend continues today,”  Doug Porter , chief economist
in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, wrote in a note to clients.  Statistics Canada gave further evidence of a weak economy
today in a report showing  wholesale sales  stalled in February at
C$48.8 billion as declines for computers and toiletries
countered gains at automobile dealers.  Canadian Dollar  The Canadian dollar was little changed at C$1.0256 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:19 a.m. in  New York . One Canadian dollar buys 97.50
U.S. cents.  The Bank of Canada on April 17 cut its 2013 growth forecast
to 1.5 percent from 2 percent, citing weakness in business and
government spending. Policy makers still expect the pace of
growth to accelerate, led by investment and exports that slumped
late last year.  The inflation report showed gasoline prices fell 0.3
percent from a year earlier in March, after they gained 3.9
percent in February. The cost of health and personal care
products were unchanged.  “It has to do with how far away Canada is from its
productive capacity,” Ian Pollick, a fixed-income strategist at
Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said by phone
from Toronto. The risk of slower inflation may lead policy
makers to drop their bias to raise rates, he said.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  and core prices both
rose 0.2 percent in March. Clothing and footwear prices grew 4.3
percent on the month, Statistics Canada said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that the total monthly rate
would advance 0.3 percent and core by 0.2 percent.  The monthly inflation rate slowed from February’s 1.2
percent, which was the fastest since January 1991 when the
country implemented a new  sales tax .  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.1 percent in March and
the adjusted core rate rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  