-- Canada February Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-19T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/canada-february-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada ’s wholesale trade report for February from
Statistics Canada.  Wholesale sales were unchanged at $48.8 billion in February,
after rising 0.5% in January.  In February, there were decreases in five of the seven
subsectors, especially machinery, equipment and supplies. These
declines were mostly offset by higher sales in the motor vehicle
and parts subsector.  The volume of wholesale sales was stable in February.  The computer and communications equipment and supplies industry
records the largest decline in sales  In February, the largest decrease in dollar terms was
reported by wholesalers in the machinery, equipment and supplies
subsector. Sales in this subsector fell 2.1% as a result of an
8.2% decline in sales of the computer and communications
equipment and supplies industry, which posted a strong gain in
January.  The second-largest decrease was in the personal and
household goods subsector (-1.5%). This subsector’s sales have
been relatively stable since the end of 2011. Several industries
were responsible for February’s decline, notably the toiletries,
cosmetics and sundries industry and the pharmaceuticals and
pharmacy supplies industry.  The largest advance in dollar terms was in the motor
vehicle and parts subsector (+3.0%). All three industries in the
subsector reported higher sales in February.  Sales were up 2.1% in the miscellaneous products subsector,
its second consecutive monthly increase. The five industries in
the subsector reported higher sales in February.  Sales down in Ontario  Wholesalers in seven provinces reported increases in sales
in February. These gains were largely offset by the 1.1% decline
in sales in Ontario. Sales in the province accounted for almost
half of total sales.  Ontario’s decline was mainly attributable to lower sales in
the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector and the personal
and household goods subsector.  Sales were up 0.3% in  Quebec , a second straight advance.
These advances followed a downward trend during the second half
of 2012.  The four western provinces posted increases. Alberta
(+2.0%) had the largest gain in dollar terms, in part a result
of higher sales in the farm, lawn and garden machinery and
equipment industry.  Increase in inventories  Wholesale inventories rose 0.6% to $61.6 billion in
February. Inventories were up in five of the seven subsectors.  The largest increases in dollar terms were in the
inventories of the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
(+1.2%) and the motor vehicle and parts subsector (+1.6%).  In the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector,
inventories increased in three of the four industries. The
computer and communications equipment and supplies industry
reported lower inventories, down 3.5%.  The inventory-to-sales ratio was unchanged at 1.26 in
February.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time in
months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain
at their current level.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted. For more information on
seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying
economic trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  Total wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using relevant price indexes.
The wholesale sales series in chained (2007) dollars is a
chained Fisher volume index with 2007 as the reference year. For
more information, see Sales in volume for Wholesale Trade.
( http://www23.statcan.gc.ca/imdb-bmdi/document/2401_D14_T9_V1 -
eng.htm)  With this release, wholesale trade data are based on the
2012 North American Industry Classification System. Unadjusted
and seasonally adjusted monthly data were revised back to
January 2004. Factors influencing revisions include late receipt
of respondent information, correction of information in the data
provided, the replacement of estimated figures with actual
values (once available), the reclassification of companies
within, into and out of the wholesale trade industry, and
updates to seasonal factors.  Data in volume terms have also been revised back to January
2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  