-- Capital One Rises Most in KBW as Profit Beats: Washington Mover
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-19T16:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/capital-one-rises-most-in-kbw-as-profit-beats-washington-mover.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
worst performer this year in the KBW Bank Index, rose the most
among peers in the gauge after posting first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates on improved lending margins.  Capital One rose as much as 6.2 percent in New York
trading, the biggest jump since November 2011. The McLean,
Virginia-based company yesterday posted net income from
continuing operations, which excludes some items, of $1.92 a
share, beating the $1.62 average  estimate  of 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank has spent more
than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005 to build what’s now
the eighth-largest U.S. lender by assets. The firm’s recent
deals, including last year’s purchase of ING Direct USA, haven’t
created the earnings that some analysts and investors expected.  “After a gruesome fourth-quarter report, COF’s first
quarter of 2013 was a tad better than we expected and way better
than our worst fears,” Chris Kotowski, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a note today, referring to the
firm’s stock ticker. “Knowing they disappointed in 4Q, they set
expectations they thought they could beat,” he said of
management.  First-quarter net income fell 24 percent to $1.07 billion,
or $1.79 a share, from $1.4 billion, or $2.72, a year earlier,
which was helped by an accounting gain, the company said
yesterday in a statement.  Capital One climbed 6 percent to $55.93 at 12:02 p.m. in
 New York  trading. The shares declined 8.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5.4 percent gain for the 24-
company bank index.  NIM Widens  “Each of our businesses delivered solid results in the
quarter and our  balance sheet  is strong,” Fairbank, 62, said in
the statement. “We continue to generate significant capital and
we’re focused on returning capital to our shareholders.”  Net interest margin, the difference between what banks pay
depositors and what’s earned on loans, widened by 0.51
percentage point to 6.71 percent from the first quarter of 2012,
according to the statement. Net revenue climbed 12 percent to
$5.55 billion from $4.94 billion, matching the  average estimate 
of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company included $107 million of reserves to cover
repurchases of soured mortgages in discontinued operations,
according to the statement.  Consumer spending is cooling as the bank struggles to boost
lending. Retail sales in the U.S., where Capital One gets more
than 90 percent of its  revenue , dropped in March by the most in
nine months. The firm’s U.S. card balances fell to $70.4 billion
in March, the third straight monthly decline, regulatory filings
show.  ‘Demonstrated Ability’  In February, the bank said it would sell about $7 billion
in Best Buy Co.-branded credit-card loans to Citigroup Inc.,
jettisoning more than 20 percent of the loans Capital One had
 purchased  last year from London-based HSBC Holdings Plc. Chief
Financial Officer Gary Perlin, 61, said in March the loans
didn’t meet Capital One’s criteria.  “Despite the fact that the card business is in a slow-
growth phase right now, we believe that it will remain the core
consumer payment and borrowing mechanism,” Kotowski wrote.
“Capital One has a demonstrated ability to manage this business
well.”  The firm said in March that the Federal Reserve didn’t
object to its 2013 capital plan, which included a proposal to
boost the quarterly dividend to 30 cents a share from 5 cents.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer
by customer purchases, said April 17 that first-quarter profit
climbed 1.9 percent to $1.28 billion as the New York-based
lender’s more affluent clients increased spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  