-- Capstone Seeking Copper Mines as BHP, Rio Sell: Corporate Canada
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/capstone-seeking-copper-mines-as-bhp-rio-sell-corporate-canada.html
Capstone Mining Corp. (CS) , the owner of
copper mines in  Mexico  and northern  Canada , is considering about
$500 million in acquisitions as the world’s biggest producers
sell assets amid a commodities rout.  Capstone has seen as many as eight mines that are up for
sale in about the past six months and expects that there will be
more, Chief Executive Officer Darren Pylot said. The company is
mainly scouting for producing copper mines in the Americas to
add about 100 million pounds of copper, he said. He declined to
name the assets attracting Capstone’s interest.  “It’s a buyers’ market,” Pylot, 45, said in an April 16
telephone interview from  Vancouver , where the company is based.
“There are more assets for sale than companies that have the
ability to buy them.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , based in  Melbourne , and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) 
are among mining and metals companies selling assets to shore up
earnings and cut costs after more than $60 billion of writedowns
in the industry. Copper has slumped 12 percent this year on
signs of slowing growth in  China , the world’s largest consumer
of the metal used in pipes and wiring. Nickel has dropped 9
percent on the London Metal Exchange, aluminum fell 7.8 percent,
while gold futures tumbled 17 percent in  New York  as its status
as a safe haven has diminished.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, has the potential
for asset sales of $25 billion and London-based Rio Tinto $10
billion, Deutsche Bank AG analysts said in a note last month.  China Slows  Jennifer White, a spokeswoman for BHP, and Illtud Harri, a
 Rio Tinto  spokesman, declined to comment on whether any of the
companies’ assets may be for sale.  There has been speculation that Capstone is interested in
acquiring BHP’s Pinto Valley copper mine in  Arizona , said Garnet Salmon, a Toronto-based analyst at Jennings Capital Inc.  “Pinto Valley is a fringe asset for BHP,” Salmon said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s an asset that could
provide the 100 million pounds Capstone is looking for.”  Capstone, which has been eyeing potential acquisitions for
more than a year, has seen its stock fall less than other mining
and materials producers. Capstone has fallen 19 percent to
C$1.95 this year through yesterday,  compared with  a 28 percent
drop in the Toronto Stock Exchange’s 59-company materials index.  ‘Good Look’  China’s economy   expanded  7.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, figures showed on April 14. That compared
with an 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and
7.9 percent in the prior quarter. China expanded last year at
the slowest pace since 1999 after growing at an average rate of
11 percent in the previous 10 years.  Because it’s a buyer’s market, Capstone is able to “get a
good look” before deciding whether an asset is a good fit,
Pylot said.  “If you looked at a 100 million pound producer or
thereabouts I think you are looking at somewhere in that half-a-
billion-dollar range,” the CEO said. “We could go slightly
higher than that or obviously slightly lower than that.”  A cautious approach makes sense, said George Topping, a
Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “The market would rather they took their time, or even do
nothing, rather than blow their brains out with a bad
acquisition,” Topping, who rates Capstone a buy, and has a 12-
month price target of C$3.80 ($3.70) on the stock, said
yesterday by phone. “Baby steps is what people want.”  HudBay, Lundin  Capstone isn’t alone in seeking deals.  HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM) , a Toronto-based copper and zinc
producer, is willing to spend about C$400 million on
acquisitions to replenish its pipeline of mine developments,
Chief Executive Officer David Garofalo said in February.  Lundin
Mining Corp. (LUN) , a Canadian metals producer based in Toronto, also
has assessed potential acquisitions in  Europe , Chief Executive
Officer Paul Conibear said in an interview in February.  “Everything that has been put out there for sale by majors
or other entities, private companies, we have had a very good
look at,” Capstone’s Pylot said.  Capstone, which had $500 million in cash on its  balance
sheet  as of Dec. 31 and a market capitalization of C$739.6
million as of yesterday, is scouting for producing mines
especially in Canada, the U.S., Mexico,  Chile  and  Peru , Pylot
said.  ‘Too Big’  “The key is it shouldn’t be too big, you know, that you’re
betting the entire company on the success of the acquired
asset,” Topping said.  Capstone has forecast output of 85 million pounds of copper
this year, which will rise to more than 300 million as it
increases production from its existing mines and starts
operations at the  Santo Domingo  copper project in Chile, Pylot
said. Capstone operates the Cozamin copper-silver-zinc-lead mine
in Mexico’s Zacatecas State and the Minto copper-gold-silver
mine in Canada’s Yukon Territory.  “We’d love to be at that 400-million-pound mark within the
next five years, when Santo Domingo is built, which means we’d
like to add another 100 million pounds of copper production
between now and 2018,” Pylot said.  Capstone bought the Santo Domingo project when it acquired
Far West Mining Ltd. in June 2011 for C$445 million. Seoul-based
Korea Resources Corp. owns 30 percent of the mine and is
Capstone’s biggest  shareholder , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Approaching Partners  Capstone could approach Korea Resources or another partner
to help fund a future acquisition if it decided the deal was too
large to take on alone, Pylot said.  Gook-Ho Lee, a Korea Resources representative on Capstone’s
board of directors, wasn’t immediately available to comment,
Andy Kim, manager of the company’s office in Toronto, said
yesterday by telephone.  Capstone plans to complete a feasibility study and file an
environmental-impact study for Santo Domingo this year, Pylot
said. The company is targeting production by 2018 and plans to
bring its Kutcho project in the Canadian province of British
Columbia on line by 2016.  Copper futures for July delivery rose 0.5 percent to settle
at $3.219 a pound on the Comex in New York yesterday. Prices
rebounded after dropping 3.6 percent on April 17, the biggest
decline for a most-active contract since Dec. 14, 2011.  Prices probably need to stay above at least $3 a pound to
provide an incentive for miners to invest in projects and
maintain supply, Pylot said.  “There is opportunity for an astute buyer to pick up an
asset on the cheap,” Topping said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  