-- Carbon Capped at 3.50 Euros Until Next EU Plan, Mercuria Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-19T11:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/carbon-capped-at-3-50-euros-until-next-eu-plan-mercuria-says.html
European Union carbon allowance
prices are probably capped at about 3.50 euros a metric ton as
traders await the bloc’s next plan to reduce a surplus of the
permits, according to Mercuria Energy Trading SA.  Carbon for December has plunged 37 percent since the
European Parliament voted on April 16 against a proposal to
temporarily withhold the sale of new permits. The 27 EU
governments made no progress in talks yesterday on a rescue for
the 54 billion-euro ($71 billion) greenhouse-gas market.  “We’re going to be in a very low price environment, and
just bounce around 2 or 3 euros from here,” Roger Jones,
Mercuria’s global head of non-oil trading, said in an interview
at the Financial Times Global Commodities Summit in Lausanne,
 Switzerland  on April 16. “The market feels capped at 3.50 euros
now. It’s going to range-trade until there’s a new
announcement.”  The Geneva-based commodities trader will stay in emissions
markets, even after prices fell more than 90 percent since their
high of 31 euros a ton in April 2006. They dropped 2.3 percent
today to 3 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at 11:32
a.m. in  London .  “We’ve had a carbon presence for a long time and we
certainly will continue to be involved,” Jones said. “We have
no plans to either grow or exit.”  European parliamentarians rejected the European
Commission’s proposal to change the bloc’s emissions-trading
law. The measure would have enabled the commission to ease the
oversupply by withholding allowances covering 900 million tons
of emissions through 2015 and reintroducing them at the end of
decade.  Additional permits being sold by the  European Investment
Bank  and Poland may help drive prices lower, Jones said.  “We hope for the market not to be changed too radically,
too often,” he said. “That makes it untradeable for
participants and will affect liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  