-- CBRC Renews Push to Regulate Wealth Management as Credit Expands
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-04-19T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/cbrc-renews-push-to-regulate-wealth-management-as-credit-expands.html
The China Banking Regulatory
Commission said it will scrutinize lenders’ wealth-management
and short-term note sales, control increases in bad loans and
focus on debts in an attempt to limit “severe risk.”  The regulator has told banks to improve the accuracy of how
they classify loans, to monitor non-performing loans and to
control total lending to local government financing vehicles,
according to a  statement  posted on the CBRC website yesterday.  “The authorities are serious about the whole explosion of
wealth management -- and they must also be concerned at the
scale of credit creation,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New
York-based Marketfield Asset Management LLC, said in an e-mail.
First-quarter credit creation was about $1 trillion, he said.  Chinese banks rely on wealth-management products, which pay
higher rates than regulated deposits, to retain clients who are
diverting savings to other investments. The sales are
transforming the stable and cheap deposit base that has
supported lenders into one that is “more mobile, expensive and
short-term,” creating repayment risk,  Fitch Ratings  has warned.  The outstanding balance of banks’ wealth-management
products may have been 13 trillion yuan ($2.1 trillion) at the
end of 2012, compared with 8.5 trillion yuan a year earlier,
according to Fitch. The pace of expansion is faster than during
the 2009 credit boom and is taking place through  wealth
management  and corporate debt-issuance systems, not through the
better regulated bank-loan system, Shaoul said.  Scale, Control  “The authorities now have a problem of both scale and
control to deal with,” Shaoul said. Bad loans right now aren’t
the main concern, it’s “the notion that an explosion of credit
granting will lead to problems later on,” he said.  The CBRC told lenders last month to limit investments of
client funds in debt that isn’t publicly traded and to isolate
such risks from their operations. Such investments can’t exceed
35 percent of all funds raised from the sale of wealth-
management products, or 4 percent of the lender’s total assets
at the end of the previous year.  Outstanding loans to small and micro companies rose 21
percent at the end of March from a year earlier to 15.5 trillion
 yuan , according to the statement. Outstanding loans for social
housing projects rose 35 percent to 700.6 billion yuan, the CBRC
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  