-- McDonald’s Profit Little Changed as U.S. Sales Slide
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-04-19T20:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/mcdonald-s-profit-little-changed-as-u-s-sales-slide.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain by sales, posted first-quarter profit
that was little changed as same-store sales dropped in the U.S.
for the first time since 2003 amid soft global demand.  Net income was about $1.27 billion, or $1.26 share,
compared with $1.27 billion, or $1.23, a year earlier, the Oak
Brook, Illinois-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts projected $1.26, the average of 29 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  While Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson has tried to
lure diners from competitors by advertising its dollar menu in
the U.S., its domestic comparable-store sales fell for the first
time in 10 years. Global sales at locations open at least 13
months fell 1 percent in the quarter, driven by a 1.2 percent
U.S. decline. Analysts projected a 1.1 percent drop for both
worldwide and in the U.S., the average of 25 estimates compiled
by Consensus Metrix.  “They need more new product news,” Jack Russo, a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said in a phone
interview. “Wendy’s is a better competitor than they used to
be, Burger King is a better competitor than it has been, and
Taco Bell is back -- you’ve got some good competition here in
the states.”  McDonald’s fell 2 percent to $99.92 at the close in New
York, the biggest  drop  since Nov. 8. The  shares  have gained 13
percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
advanced 9 percent.  New Menus  U.S. restaurant chains, including McDonald’s, are vying to
attract diners with the most exciting new menu item as  consumer
confidence  wanes. The Big Mac seller this year began selling
Fish McBites and sweet-chili chicken wraps. On April 22, it will
introduce a 250-calorie egg-white breakfast sandwich.  Burger
King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  last month started selling turkey and veggie
burgers, while Wendy’s Co. rolled out flatbread grilled-chicken
sandwiches.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in April to a nine-
month low as Americans grew more pessimistic about the economy
following the higher payroll tax. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment dropped to
72.3 this month, from 78.6 in March.  “For the month of April, global comparable sales are
expected to be slightly negative,” Thompson said in the
statement. “The challenging global environment and bottom-line
pressures are expected to persist.’  China Scrutiny  Even as McDonald’s faces declining confidence among
Americans, it’s also vulnerable to increased scrutiny from
Chinese consumers about the quality of fast-food chicken.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of KFC and Pizza Hut, said earlier
this month that same-store sales dropped 13 percent in  China  in
March. The company is trying to win back consumers after a
former supplier was investigated for supplying chicken with too
much antibiotics. Publicity associated with the deadly bird-flu
outbreak in China is also negatively affecting sales at KFC
stores, it said in a regulatory filing on April 10.  McDonald’s, which has more than 34,400 restaurants
worldwide, said currency translation negatively affected first-
quarter earnings by 1 cent a share.  Revenue climbed 1 percent to $6.61 billion in the quarter.
Analysts estimated $6.59 billion, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  