-- CFTC Sought Oil Trading Data Tied to BP, Canadian Natural
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-19T18:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/cftc-sought-oil-trading-data-tied-to-bp-canadian-natural.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and Alberta regulators sought oil trading information
last year as part of a probe of  BP Plc (BP/)  and Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd., according to a lawsuit.  The requests for information from  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG)  were
revealed in court documents filed as part of an Alberta
Securities Commission lawsuit this month to compel the Calgary-
based company to turn over documents. MEG, an oil-sands
developer, filed suit the same day to stop what it called
“unreasonable” data demands from the regulator.  The U.S. regulator in June requested the company provide
all oil trading files from the start of 2011, for a matter
involving BP’s North American unit and Canadian Natural,
according to a subpoena included as evidence in the suit.
Alberta’s securities regulator sought the same documents and
last month requested more files, saying it’s looking into
potential violations of fraud and manipulation rules.  “We have been asked to provide certain information to the
CFTC, which we have done,” Rob Larson, a spokesman for Calgary-
based  Canadian Natural (CNQ) , said in an e-mail. The CFTC hasn’t
indicated it has an active investigation into Canadian Natural,
he said.  MEG, BP and both the Alberta and U.S. regulators declined
to comment on the information requests.  The Alberta Court of Queen’s Bench in Calgary has scheduled
a hearing on the cases for April 22.  Calls, E-mails  The CFTC sought MEG documents related to oil trading and
shipments including daily positions, e-mails, phone calls and
instant messages, and files of employees involved in trading,
according to the June 22, 2012, subpoena. The Alberta regulator
asked MEG for the same files plus all documents tied to
interactions between the oil-sands developer, BP and Canadian
Natural.  The Alberta regulator’s request would cover more than
100,000 records, according to MEG.  At the time of the CFTC’s subpoena, MEG had never been
involved in derivative trading in commodities and none of its
oil transactions involved BP or Canadian Natural, the company
said in a filing. The CFTC didn’t say MEG was the subject of the
investigation, the company said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , has
filed suit against the CFTC challenging one of the agency’s
proposed swaps rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  