-- Chavez Heir Maduro Sworn in as Vote Dispute Roils Investors
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-04-19T21:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/chavez-heir-to-be-sworn-in-as-election-dispute-roils-investors.html
Nicolas Maduro was sworn in as
 Venezuela ’s president after a week in which rising tensions with
the opposition over the disputed April 14 vote undermined
investor confidence in how the government will manage the
world’s largest oil reserves.  Maduro, 50, accepted the yellow, blue and red presidential
sash from Maria Gabriela Chavez, the daughter of late President
 Hugo Chavez , after taking the oath of office at a ceremony in
Caracas. Maduro’s inauguration speech was briefly interrupted
when a man ran up to the podium at the National Assembly
building and grabbed the microphone away from him.  “To those who voted against me, I am the president for the
coming years,” Maduro said in his speech. “I was trained by
comandante Hugo Chavez.”  In the five days since the National Electoral Council named
Chavez’s political heir the winner of the April 14 vote, Maduro
has threatened Spanish energy company Repsol SA and accused
opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski of inciting a coup.
Political clashes left eight people dead, the government said.  “It’s the worst possible scenario for the industry: a
whole new level of volatility,” Carlos Bellorin, an oil analyst
at research company IHS, said by phone from  London . “I don’t
see any  oil company  committing a lot of resources to Venezuela
right now.”  Narrow Win  Maduro’s victory margin, the narrowest in 45 years, gives
him little room for maneuver to address  accelerating inflation ,
sparse supermarket shelves and slowing growth, said Cynthia
Arnson, Latin American program director at the Wilson
International Center for Scholars. Venezuelan bonds rose for a
third day in a row after falling the most in 15 years as
investor concerns that violence would spiral out of control
subsided and the electoral commission announced it would
complete an electronic audit of the 15 million votes cast.  Tensions in the country began to ease after Capriles, 40,
called off a planned rally in Caracas April 17 after the reports
of protester deaths and a speech by Maduro in which he vowed to
use a “firm hand” against the opposition. Maduro, who won 50.8
percent of the vote to Capriles’s 49 percent, had said he held
Capriles personally responsible for the deaths. Capriles also
said he accepted the electoral council’s decision to complete
the audit of votes.  ‘Consequences’  “This is a fight for the truth,” Capriles said. “I’m
certain that sooner rather than later, the truth will emerge.
The truth will not only emerge, but the truth will have
consequences.”  The country’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2027 rose 1.1
cents on the dollar to 97.09 cents. The yield fell 15 basis
points to 9.63 percent.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , Argentina President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  and Iranian President  Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad  were among the guests at today’s ceremony.  The 12-member Union of South American Nations in a
statement today urged all parties in Venezuela to respect the
voting results and congratulated Maduro for his election. The
group also gave support to the full audit of the votes.  Maduro, who served as Chavez’s foreign minister, told the
U.S. to take its “eyes off Venezuela” after Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said his government supports a recount and wouldn’t
send an envoy to the inauguration.  Falling Output  Maduro will confront declining investment in the oil
industry that has affected production. Output at state-owned
Petroleos de Venezuela SA fell 3 percent to 3.03 million barrels
of oil and natural gas liquids a day in 2012 from a year
earlier, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said April 7. Venezuela
relies on oil for 96 percent of export revenue.  Falling production is compounded by declining prices. Brent
oil for June settlement fell to $97.69 a barrel on April 17, the
lowest close since July 2. For every $10 drop in the price of
oil, PDVSA loses about $9 billion in revenue, according to
calculations by Jorge Piedrahita, CEO of New York-based
brokerage Torino Capital LLC.  Standard & Poor’s today cut its outlook on Venezuela to
negative from stable, citing “greater political uncertainty
that threatens to weaken the implementation of economic policies
and possibly undermine governability.”  Under Chavez, companies ranging from Repsol to  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  shook off expropriations, windfall profit taxes and
infrastructure delays to stay in the country.  Repsol Threat  Those looking for a new dawn may be disappointed. In his
first speech as president-elect, Maduro told Madrid-based Repsol
to be careful of its oil investments after  Spain ’s Foreign
Ministry suggested a recount was needed.  “And how is Repsol doing? They should ask themselves in
Spain,” Maduro said April 15. “We hope they rectify in time,
if not we will take exemplary actions.”  The following day, Maduro said Spanish companies were
welcome to invest in the country.  Kristian Rix, a Repsol spokesman in  Madrid , declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg. Chevron looks forward to
helping Venezuela develop its natural resources,  Kurt Glaubitz ,
a company spokesman in  San Ramon ,  California , said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Venezuela’s oil policy will not change under Maduro,
Ramirez told reporters in Caracas yesterday.  Maduro’s rhetoric won’t be backed up by action, said
 Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of America Corp., who
sees the small margin of victory as a constraint on Maduro’s
capacity to become more radical.  “In the end we will see a more moderate government emerge
from this,” Rodriguez said in a phone interview from  New York .
International  oil companies  “are safer now than if Maduro had
won by 15 points.”  25% Inflation  While the opposition questions his legitimacy, Maduro also
faces a raft of economic challenges left behind by Chavez, whose
spending led to a 2012 fiscal deficit for the central government
and PDVSA of 14.5 percent of gross domestic product, according
to BofA. Even after the government devalued the currency by 32
percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar in February, BofA said it
expects a deficit of 9.7 percent this year.  Inflation in Venezuela accelerated to 25 percent in March,
the fastest in the region. The central bank’s scarcity index,
which measures the amount of goods that are out of stock in the
market, rose to a record high in January. Venezuela experiences
sporadic shortages of products such as milk, sugar, chicken and
toilet paper.  Challenges  The cost of insuring Venezuela’s debt against default for
five years has climbed 99 basis points this week to 788, or
$812,000. The cost fell 27 basis points today.  Maduro will face as much pressure from within his own ranks
as from the opposition, said  Eric Farnsworth , vice president at
the Council of the Americas in Washington. National Assembly
President  Diosdado Cabello ’s comment on Twitter that the margin
of victory called for self-criticism is a “pretty sharp shot
across the bow,” Farnsworth said.  While a presidential term lasts six years, the opposition
is likely to seek a recall vote before then, said Arnson.  “Maduro is going to take office with close to half the
population believing that he’s not the legitimate president of
the country,” Arnson said in a phone interview from Washington.
“That is really going to create severe governability
challenges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  