-- Chelsea Set to Sign Schurrle on 5-Year Contract: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-19T08:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/chelsea-set-to-sign-schurrle-on-5-year-contract-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Five-Year Contract  Chelsea is close to signing Bayer Leverkusen striker Andre Schurrle on a five-year contract for 20 million pounds ($30.5
million), the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Leverkusen sporting director Rudi Voller traveled to  London 
yesterday to conclude negotiations over a deal for Schurrle, for
whom Chelsea unsuccessfully bid 16 million pounds and 18 million
pounds last year, the newspaper added.  Pellegrini Staying Put  Malaga coach Manuel Pellegrini said he isn’t interested in
becoming Chelsea’s new manager even though his current club is
behind with his wages, the  Sun reported .  “I’m not looking to change club,” the Sun cited
Pellegrini, 59, as saying. “My main objective is to finish my
contract with Malaga and continue the work we have started.”  Morrison Move  Manchester City  is considering a move former Manchester
United midfielder Ravel Morrison, who’s currently on loan at
Birmingham City from West Ham, the  Daily Mirror reported .  City has made discreet inquiries about the 20-year-old
midfielder once rated by United manager  Alex Ferguson  as one of
the best young players he’s ever worked with, the Mirror added.  Transfer Committee  Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said future player
trades will be decided by committee rather than giving full
control of buying and selling to manager  Brendan Rodgers , the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  “What we believe, and we continue to follow, is you need
many people involved in the process,” the Telegraph cited Ayre
as saying. “That doesn’t mean somebody else is picking the team
for Brendan, but Brendan needs to set out with his team of
people which positions we want to fill and what the key targets
would be for that.”  Relegation Refusal  English soccer clubs outside the Premier League discussed a
plan to refuse teams relegated from the top flight admission to
the Championship, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Lower-division clubs suggested the move as they fight for
better so-called solidarity payments from the elite league, the
Mirror said. Football League clubs fear the record 60 million-
pound parachute payments, which will be paid to each of the
three teams who drop down at the end of this season over the
ensuing four years, will make it difficult for others to compete
with them, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  