-- Chesapeake Founder Gets Payout as He Builds New Company
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-04-19T20:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/chesapeake-founder-gets-payout-as-he-builds-new-company.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  former
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  will be paid
$11.1 million in cash after leaving the company he founded 24
years ago. McClendon is already seeking assets as he builds a
new oil and natural gas company.  The terms of McClendon’s separation agreement also will
entitle him to a 28.125 percent interest in a Citation X
aircraft through the end of 2016, the Oklahoma City-based
company said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today.  McClendon, 53, stepped down on March 29 after a shareholder
revolt led by  Carl Icahn  and Southeastern Asset Management Inc.
In an April 16 e-mail to industry contacts, McClendon announced
he has formed  American Energy Partners LP , an Oklahoma City-
based enterprise that he wants to build into a “substantial”
exploration and production company.  “I will be looking for deals with a lot of drilling left
on them and will also consider undeveloped acreage,” McClendon
wrote in the e-mail, first reported yesterday by The Oklahoman
newspaper. “I am not scared of natural gas.”  McClendon didn’t respond to requests for comment about his
new company.  McClendon was stripped of his chairmanship and stepped down
as CEO after questions were raised about his use of personal
stakes in company-owned wells to obtain more than $800 million
in private loans. A board review of the transactions cleared him
of any intentional wrongdoing in February.  ‘Land Man’  The company today reiterated that McClendon still will buy
stakes in every well Chesapeake drills before June 30, 2014.  The man who was ranked 389th in Forbes magazine’s list of
the wealthiest Americans last year began his career as a “land
man,” acquiring drilling rights for properties that may hold
oil or gas. He formed Chesapeake with  Tom Ward , now the CEO of
 SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , with a $50,000 investment in 1989.  Thomas S. Price, Chesapeake’s senior vice president for
corporate development, will work with McClendon at the new
venture, Price told The Oklahoman in an interview this month.
Price’s departure was announced the same day the company said
Henry Hood, senior vice president for land and former general
counsel, will be leaving.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  