-- Chinese Winter Crops Seen With Enough Soil Moisture by USDA Unit
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-19T16:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/chinese-winter-crops-seen-with-enough-soil-moisture-by-usda-unit.html
China’s winter-wheat and rapeseed
crops have mostly adequate soil moisture for development in main
growing regions, a U.S. Department of Agriculture unit said.  Conditions on the North China Plain are generally
favorable, the USDA’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  wrote in an
 online report  dated April 16. Wheat and rapeseed development was
about a week to 10 days ahead of usual at the end of March after
above-normal temperatures last month combined with sufficient
soil moisture, the report showed.  China is the world’s biggest wheat grower and consumer,
with a crop estimated by the USDA at 120.6 million metric tons
in the 2012-13 season, or 18 percent of world production. That
compares with projected consumption of 120 million tons. The
Asian nation is the second-largest rapeseed consumer after the
European Union.  “April is a critical month in China for both winter crops
and spring planting,” the FAS wrote. “The country is currently
experiencing several different weather situations that may have
a significant impact on crop yields.”  In northeastern  China , unusually cool and wet weather
delayed the start of the season, according to the FAS. Planting
there normally starts in the middle of April to peak in early
May, based on the report.  Drought lowered water levels in Yunnan and other provinces
in the southwest, meaning some crops there could not be planted
or are under stress, according to the report.  “Winter-wheat and rapeseed yields are expected to decline
in the region due to stress during the budding/flowering stage,
and the spring planting of early rice, corn and potatoes had
been delayed by a serious lack of water for irrigation,” the
USDA unit wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  