-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Month on Profit, Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-19T07:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/china-stock-futures-rise-as-china-merchants-haier-report-profit.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in a
month after companies from  Qingdao Haier Co. (600690)  to Northeast
Securities Co. reported higher profit and a government economist
forecast growth will rebound this year.  Qingdao Haier, China’s biggest refrigerator maker, advanced
1.9 percent. Northeast Securities capped its biggest weekly gain
in two months.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech
Co. (600111) , the largest producer of the metal, paced a rebound for
material stocks before the release of earnings today. China
Southern Airlines Co., whose profit gets a boost from a stronger
yuan, added 2 percent on speculation the currency will gain
after the central bank signaled plans to widen a trading band.  “Listed companies will achieve profit growth in the first
quarter and that’ll provide support,” said Zhang Qi, an analyst
at Haitong Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “The slowdown in the
economy and expectations about tightening liquidity have already
pretty much been priced into stocks.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.1 percent to
2,244.64 at the close, capping its biggest gain since March 20.
It rose 1.7 percent this week. The CSI 300 added 2.8 percent to
2,533.83. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 2.4
percent.  Still, the Shanghai Composite has dropped 7.8 percent from
a Feb. 6 high, with losses triggered by concern measures to cool
 property  prices will hurt economic growth. Valuations on the
Shanghai gauge are 9.2 times projected 12-month earnings,
compared with the seven-year average of 15.8,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Brokers Gain  Chinese stocks extended gains today after the Shanghai
Securities News reported that regulators are studying plans that
would allow A shares to be added to international “well-known”
indexes to lure overseas funds. There’s market speculation that
MSCI Inc. is contacting “relevant departments” about adding A
shares to the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, the report said,
without saying where it got the information.  A Beijing-based press official at the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, who declined to be named because of the
agency’s policy, and Melita Renee Eclavea, a Philippines-based
marketing communications official at MSCI, said they could not
immediately comment on the report.  Northeast Securities rose 3 percent to 18.74  yuan , adding
to an 8.7 percent advance for the week. First-quarter net income
jumped 280 percent from a year earlier, the brokerage said in an
exchange statement yesterday.  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , China’s biggest listed brokerage,
climbed 5.5 percent to 12.82 yuan. Haitong Securities Co., the
second largest, rose 4.4 percent to 10.91 yuan.  Qingdao Haier advanced 1.9 percent to 13.46 yuan after
saying profit increased 16 percent in the first quarter.  Growth Outlook  Zhu Baoliang, head of the State Information Center’s
economic forecast department, said the nation’s economy may
rebound in the second and third quarters of the year.  China should stabilize money supply growth and loosen
fiscal policy to boost economic growth, Zhu said at forum in
Beijing. The center is a research institute under the National
Development and Reform Commission,  China ’s top economic planner.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 16 percent
higher than the 30-day average today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Thirty-day  volatility  was at 16.6, near the lowest
level since Dec. 4.  China Southern, the nation’s biggest carrier by fleet size,
gained 2 percent to 3.63 yuan.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the largest
international carrier, added 1.3 percent to 5.51 yuan.  Yuan forwards were within 0.1 percent of a record high and
set for a fourth weekly gain after the central bank said the
currency’s trading band will be widened soon. The band is likely
to be increased “in the near future,” the central bank’s
Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said April 17 in  Washington .  Yuan Prospects  “It seems that China’s government intends to reform the
currency,” said Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based chief investment
officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., which oversees about
$250 million.  A gauge of material stocks in the CSI 300 added 2.5
percent, rebounding from two days of losses. The 14-day relative
strength  measure  for the sub-index, measuring how rapidly prices
have advanced or dropped during a specified time period, was at
27.8 yesterday. Readings below 30 indicate it may be poised to
rise.  Baotou Rare-Earth rose 2.8 percent to 28.48 yuan. The
company may turn to profit in the first three months of the year
from a fourth-quarter loss, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.2 percent in New
York yesterday.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  gained after Bank
of America Corp. said rising smartphone use will boost Asian
semiconductor makers.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  