-- Christie Seeks Expanded Gun Checks, Video Game Crackdown
-- B y   S t a c i e   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-19T20:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/christie-seeks-expanded-gun-checks-video-game-crackdown.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
is seeking expanded background checks for gun purchases and
parental consent for minors to buy violent video games as part
of his response to the school shooting in Newtown,  Connecticut .  Christie, a first-term Republican seeking re-election, also
wants to ban purchases of the .50-caliber Barrett rifle, and to
make it easier for doctors and courts to commit “potentially
dangerous” people to mental-health treatment against their
will. His proposals come a week after a  task force  he created in
January released 50 recommendations to reduce violence.  The governor, a former U.S. prosecutor, has said since the
Dec. 14 slaying of 20 children and six educators in Newtown that
he’d be willing to discuss stricter controls as part of a more
comprehensive package that also deals with mental health,
substance abuse and violent video games.  “Ensuring there are common-sense safety measures when
purchasing guns is not enough,” Christie said today at a press
conference in Trenton. “We must address the many different
contributing factors.”  New York , Connecticut,  Colorado  and  Maryland  have tightened
gun laws following the Newtown killings. This week, the  U.S.
Senate  fell six votes short of enacting a stripped-down version
of gun controls that President  Barack Obama  had proposed in
response to the shootings.  Second-Toughest  Several post-Newtown gun-control measures have already been
proposed in New Jersey by Democrats who control the legislature.
Christie has said he wanted to wait for his task force to finish
studying the issue before taking action.  Christie said New Jersey’s gun-control laws are already
considered the second-toughest in the nation by the  Brady
Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence . He cited the state’s assault-
weapons ban, a seven-day waiting period prior to any firearm
purchase, the third-strictest capacity laws on magazine capacity
in the country and a one-gun-a-month law.  He is seeking to toughen laws by mandating that mental-
health records are included in the instant background-check
process at the time of a firearm purchase. He also is proposing
bills to impose or strengthen criminal penalties for selling
firearms to convicted felons, possessing a gun with the intent
to unlawfully transfer, unlawfully possessing ammunition and
engaging in firearms trafficking.  The governor said the bombings at the Boston Marathon this
week are “another painful reminder” that “violent things will
happen” no matter how many laws are passed.  “Some things, no matter how hard we try, are out of human
control,” he said. “Bad people are going to do bad things.”  Christie said the violence has shown the need to make
mental health a part of the proposals.  “You’ve had people who were deeply disturbed and for
whatever reason were not getting treatment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Sherman in Trenton,  New Jersey , at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  