-- Church-Burning Case Guides Patrick’s Boston Bomb Recovery
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/church-burning-case-guides-patrick-s-boston-bomb-recovery.html
Governor Deval Patrick, having
crowned the  Boston  Marathon winners, was heading to his home in
Milton, Massachusetts, for an afternoon of gardening when his
mobile phone rang.  “‘Dad, what is going on? I heard two booms,’” said his
daughter Katherine, 23. “I don’t know,” he said.  During the next two hours, Patrick was briefed on what
little was then known about the two bombs that killed three
people, injured more than 175 others, and thrust him into the
national spotlight. At 5 p.m. local time on April 15, Patrick,
56, wearing a button-down shirt and sweater, stood in front of a
wall of cameras answering questions in a cool, crisp style that
has become his hallmark in the state Capitol.  “You can’t be fiery,” said Richard Livingston, 59, who
attended a candlelight vigil for the youngest who died in the
blast, 8-year-old Martin Richard. “If your rhetoric is over the
top it can create more problems.” Livingston, a Republican,
said his Democratic governor “is balancing a tough situation.”  Managing tragedies or natural disasters are some of the
toughest, most complex jobs that confront governors, who must
reassure the public while coordinating and executing a response
effort in an unforgiving media glare. It’s a moment that can
make or break a career.  New York  City’s Rudy Giuliani became a symbol of resilience
after the World Trade Center terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001
and a Republican presidential contender. Democratic Louisiana
Governor Kathleen Blanco decided not to seek re-election after
mismanaging the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.  Political Future  Patrick has said he won’t seek a third term as governor,
and that he wants to return to practicing law. Yet a well-
received  speech  at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and a
roster of influential friends -- he is close to President  Barack Obama  and was appointed to head the Justice Department’s civil
rights division by President Bill Clinton -- prompt political
players in Boston to speculate on higher ambitions.  The governor fanned those flames with his handling of
appointments to two open U.S. Senate seats. In each case, he
avoided angering intra-party factions by naming low-profile
Democrats who promised not to seek full terms.  In January, he appointed his former chief of staff William
“Mo” Cowan to replace Senator John Kerry, who is now Obama’s
secretary of state. A special election for that seat will be
held on June 25. In 2009, he named Paul G. Kirk, a family friend
of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, whose death created the vacancy.
That position is now held by Senator Elizabeth Warren, a
Democrat elected last year.  ‘Cool, Calm’  “For most of the country they have a lightly sketched
picture of Deval Patrick,” said Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic
strategist with the Dewey Square Group, a Boston-based political
consulting firm. “Now they are seeing the Deval Patrick that
Massachusetts knows well -- cool, calm, collected and in
control.”  That demeanor has been on display in nationally televised
bomb briefings. The sessions are similar to ones covered by the
local media during other recent times of crisis -- tornadoes
that ripped through western Massachusetts killing three in June
2011, flooding from  Hurricane Sandy  in October 2012, and the
snowstorm in February where Patrick was the first governor in 35
years to shut the state’s roads.  Terse Response  “When will the troops be gone from the city?” one
reporter shouted the day after the bombing, referring to the men
in fatigues with machine guns who’ve become omnipresent since
the bombings.  “You mean the National Guard?” Patrick said. “When they
are not needed any more.”  At another session, an attendee demanded to know if the
bombings would be used to push tougher gun laws. An irritated
Patrick replied with a single word, “no,” and moved on.  “My job is to keep my head,” said Patrick in a telephone
interview. “I hope I’ve always been this way.” He said that at
his first briefing he was so focused on the investigation he
didn’t have the time to “suit up” and put on a tie. “That was
how I was dressed when I went to the marathon,” he said.  Patrick’s path to leadership in Massachusetts started in
the Midwest. He was born in a housing project on  Chicago ’s South
Side, and his mother went on welfare to make ends meet after his
father, Pat Patrick, a prominent jazz musician, left when Deval
was 4 years old. He came to Massachusetts at age 14 on a
scholarship to attend Milton Academy, a boarding school known to
educate the country’s elite. He went on to Harvard University,
graduating in 1978, and earned a diploma from its law school in
1982.  Political Entrance  In April 2005, as a political newcomer, he entered the
governor’s race and won a three-way Democratic primary the
following year against two better known candidates. He defeated
former Lieutenant Governor Kerry Healey, a Republican, to became
the state’s first black governor in 2007.  Patrick said his closest experience to handling the current
crisis came from investigating a different act of terror: a
series of arsons that broke out across the South during his term
at the Justice Department, from 1994 to 1997.  “We had a rash of attacks on synagogues and churches in
the South,” Patrick said. “There was tremendous concern and
hysteria outside of  Washington  and in Washington. Arsons are
very difficult crimes to solve,” he said.  At the time the investigation was the largest in American
history, he said. Agencies not accustomed to cooperating worked
together became part of the probe.  Careful Path  “The only way to do it was methodically,” Patrick said.
“And by trying to communicate facts.” More than 100 arrests
were made and roughly a third were African-American, dispelling
the initial belief that white supremacists were completely to
blame.  Patrick is following that same careful path as he
coordinates the bombing response.  The briefing stages in Boston are full of officials from
the local police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the
National Guard. The governor speaks briefly. He lets law
enforcement do the talking about the case.  In one he warned that residents shouldn’t jump to
conclusions. “These are times when all kinds of forces conspire
to make people think of categories of people in perhaps
uncharitable ways,” he said. “This community will recover and
heal if we turn to each other rather than on each other.”  Understated Tone  The governor’s tone is so understated that some haven’t
noticed him at all. Two Washington-based Republican strategists
declined to comment because they felt they hadn’t seen enough of
the governor to form an opinion.  Another, Terry Holt, the former campaign press secretary to
President George W. Bush, said the  Massachusetts  governor comes
across as “sincere and human” yet hasn’t grabbed the public in
the way Giuliani did. “Most people want to hear about who did
it and why,” Holt said.  Patrick’s cool performances belie a personal connection
with the Boston murders. He is close friends with the Richards,
Martin’s family. In a recent conversation, the boy’s father,
Bill Richard, reminded the governor that he has a photo of
Martin holding a Patrick campaign sign, the governor said.  When asked about the family, Patrick was philosophical.  “There is a face and a life behind these incidents,” he
said. “It is not numbers of casualties. It is not a news story.
It is not a symbol. It is somebody’s life. It is a human
being.”  Call for Healing  Before introducing Obama yesterday at an interfaith service
at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston, Patrick offered a
call for healing.  “We will have accountability, without vengeance.
Vigilance, without fear,” Patrick said. “And we will remember,
I hope and pray, long after the buzz of Boylston Street is back
and the media has turned its attention elsewhere, that the grace
this tragedy exposed is the best of who we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  