-- Colgate to Philip Morris Suffering With Dollar Gains
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-04-19T16:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/colgate-to-philip-morris-suffering-with-dollar-gains.html
Companies from  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  to  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  are finding that
overseas expansion has its drawbacks as a stronger dollar makes
it more expensive to repatriate profits from abroad.  Philip Morris , the New York-based maker of Marlboro
cigarettes, said yesterday unfavorable currency moves were one
of the reasons first-quarter earnings fell below analysts’
 estimates . The U.S. Dollar Index has soared more than 13 percent
from some of its lowest levels in a decade in 2011.  After depreciating while the  Federal Reserve  printed money
to bolster the economy following the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, the greenback is gaining favor with
growth forecasts to exceed that of the Group of 10 through at
least 2015. For companies with a big overseas presence, a
stronger dollar reduces the value of international profits and
makes their products more expensive in foreign countries.  “It’s not something you can avoid,” Linda Bolton Weiser,
a New York-based analyst at investment bank B. Riley & Co., said
in an April 17 phone interview. “Your sales, and therefore the
profit, you earn in the foreign country, will need to be
translated into U.S. dollars.”  The dollar’s advance probably hurts household and personal-
care products makers, including Colgate, the most, with beverage
and tobacco companies also affected, Lauren Lieberman, an
analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York , said in an April 5 report.
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest snack-food maker and producer
of soft drinks said yesterday that currency fluctuations reduced
its sales.  Sales Abroad  Philip Morris generates all of its sales outside of the
U.S. after its March 2008 spinoff by  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  The split
gave overseas markets to Philip Morris and left Altria with
sales of Marlboro cigarettes and other tobacco products in the
U.S. McDonald’s Corp., the biggest restaurant chain by sales, is
targeting new markets for much of its expansion.  A recession in the 17-nation euro region contributed to the
3.6 percent gain this year in the U.S. Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc,
Canadian dollar and Swedish krona. Since Feb. 1 the dollar has
strengthened 4.2 percent versus the euro, 3.2 percent against
the Colombian peso and 6.4 percent versus the yen.  Faster Growth  U.S. gross domestic product will likely be growing at a 2.6
percent annual rate by the end of the year, compared with an
average of 1.87 percent for G-10 nations, according to separate
surveys of economists by Bloomberg.  By year-end, the dollar will probably strengthen to $1.28
per euro, 100 yen and $1.49 per pound, Bloomberg surveys show.
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  may rise to 84.9 by the end of the third
quarter, from this year’s low of 78.918 on Feb. 1 and 82.659 at
12:18 p.m. in New York.  Philip Morris, whose iconic “Marlboro Man” cowboy has
advertised its cigarettes of the same name for decades, said net
income fell 1.7 percent to $2.13 billion, while profit per share
excluding certain items was $1.29, against analysts’ projections
of $1.34. Last year, 35 percent of the largest publicly traded
tobacco company’s sales came from the European Union.  Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. lowered its estimate for
McDonald’s earnings this year by 8 cents to $5.72 a share on
April 3. The restaurant chain’s profit may fall 25 cents a share
if the euro, British pound and Canadian and Australian dollars -
- the four currencies to which it has the most exposure -- drop
10 percent, according to Sara Senatore, a New York-based analyst
at Bernstein.  ‘Big Deal’  “That’s a big deal for them,” Senatore said in an
interview.  The average  estimate  for  McDonald’s (MCD)  profit of $5.78 a
share, from 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, is about 1.5
cents lower than four weeks ago. The company today reported
first-quarter profit that was little changed as U.S. same-store
sales declined for the first time since 2003.  Currency translations will cost McDonald’s 1 cent to 2
cents a share this year, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen
said on a conference call. The company had previously forecast a
benefit of 4 cents to 5 cents a share.  McDonald’s has gotten more of its revenue from overseas in
the past decade as it opened restaurants in  emerging markets 
such as China and entered new countries, including  Bosnia and
Herzegovina  and  Trinidad and Tobago .  Export Demand  The company, which has about 34,400 outlets worldwide, said
last year it received 39 percent of its  revenue  from Europe and
23 percent from Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and Africa. It
said yesterday it will increase the price of its burgers in
 Japan  for the first time since 2008.  The strong dollar isn’t all bad for food and restaurant
companies, according to Bryan Elliott, an analyst at  St.
Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James Financial Inc. An
appreciating currency will help American eateries by curbing
international demand for U.S. commodities, reducing prices for
raw ingredients at home, he said in an April 17 interview.  “The swings in the dollar will impact export demand for
grains and finished goods,” Elliott said.  PepsiCo reported first-quarter  profit  yesterday that topped
analysts’ estimates, though it also said unfavorable currency
fluctuations reduced sales.  Huggies, Avon  Cincinnati-based toiletries manufacturer  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  may earn $4.05 a share, while rival  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) ,
which produces Huggies diapers and Kleenex tissues, may have
profit of $5.58, according to Bernstein. Both forecasts are 4
cents lower than previously estimated.  New York-based  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the door-to-door
cosmetics seller, is exiting overseas markets including Ireland,
South Korea and Vietnam to save money. Chief Financial Officer
Kimberly A. Ross in February blamed the weaker Argentine peso
for the company’s “soft” sales in that country.  Bernstein estimates that Colgate-Palmolive, the New York-
based toothpaste maker, will earn $5.67 a share in 2013, 24
cents less than its analysts previously projected, mainly
because of currency moves.  The average estimate for Colgate’s earnings has slid 1 cent
in the past four weeks and 17 cents in the past three months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Colgate had 78 percent of its sales outside the U.S. last
year, including 29 percent from  Latin America . In the past, the
company could raise prices to compensate for currency
fluctuations, though together with its rivals, it no longer has
that option, said  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Bernstein based in
New York.  “Competition is great because the world is not growing as
quickly,” Dibadj said in an April 4 phone interview. “The
consumer in many categories isn’t accepting” price increases,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  