-- Commerzbank Sees First-Quarter Loss on Staff Reductions
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-04-19T08:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/commerzbank-sees-first-quarter-loss-on-staff-reductions.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank
that got 18.2 billion euros ($24 billion) in state bailout
funds, expects to report a loss in the first quarter due to the
cost of firing staff.  “The first quarter of 2013 will be affected by one-off
effects due to the planned job cuts,” Commerzbank said in a
written statement handed out at an annual  shareholders’ meeting 
in  Frankfurt  today. The lender said in March that it would incur
500 million euros of costs related to job reductions in the
first three months.  Commerzbank, which is shedding staff and shutting down
loss-making shipping and real estate units, is asking
shareholders to approve a fifth capital increase in four years
at today’s meeting as it seeks to repay a remaining 1.6 billion
euros in state aid. The bank, which had a loss of 716 million
euros in the fourth quarter, hasn’t paid a dividend since the
financial crisis erupted in September 2008 and its shares have
lost 93 percent of their value since then.  Commerzbank plans to sell shares in the capital increase
between mid-May and the start of June, the lender said in the
statement. By repaying the state aid, Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Blessing  said the bank will save 200 million euros in
annual interest payments.  “From our shareholders’ point of view there are many
reasons for repaying the silent participation as quickly as
possible,” Blessing said. “We are enhancing our future 
ability to pay dividends.”  Commerzbank will cut 4,000 to 6,000 positions by 2016,
including 1,800 at branches across the country, the firm said in
February.  The bank said it expects its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
key measure of financial strength, to be 9 percent at the end of
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  