-- Stocks Rise on Earnings as Yen Falls; Gold Tops $1,400
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2013-04-19T20:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/commodity-shares-in-asia-increase-with-oil-as-copper-retreats.html
U.S. stocks rose, paring the worst
weekly drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since November,
amid better-than-estimated earnings and Group of 20 nation talks
aimed at bolstering the global economy. The yen weakened, gold
climbed above $1,400 an ounce and oil advanced.  The S&P 500 gained 0.9 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York ,
trimming its weekly loss to 2.1 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average’s gain was limited to less than 0.1 percent
as International Business Machines Corp. plunged the most in
eight years after earnings trailed estimates. The yen tumbled at
least 1 percent against all 16 major peers. Ten-year Treasury
yields climbed two basis points to 1.70 percent. Gold for
immediate delivery rose for a fourth day and oil gained for a
second, while copper slid into a bear market. The pound weakened
as Britain lost its top credit grade at  Fitch Ratings .  Capital One Financial Corp., Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  climbed at least 3.4 percent to help lead
the market higher after reporting quarterly results that beat
estimates. G-20 finance chiefs handed Japan leeway to reflate
its stagnant economy by indicating its fresh round of monetary
stimulus doesn’t contravene a pact to avoid a currency war.  “Earnings have more of an impact on the market at this
time of the year,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-
based  fund manager  at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees
about $380 billion, said by phone. “Macro issues are taking a
bit of a backseat as investors stop to listen to what management
teams have to say. Today’s reports have been mainly good with
the exception of IBM.”  ‘Spring Break’  Trading  volume  for S&P 500 stocks was 16 percent higher
than the 30-day average. U.S. options contracts expire today,
leading investors to adjust their holdings of some stocks.  The S&P 500 retreated 3.3 percent from its record close on
April 11 through yesterday, spurring concern over what UBS AG
strategist  Jonathan Golub  called a “ spring break ” in equities.
Stocks began short-term declines in April of each of the last
three years. The benchmark measure had surged as much as 136
percent from a 12-year low in 2009 as the  Federal Reserve 
embarked on three rounds of bond purchases to stimulate the
economy.  Boeing Co. rallied 2.1 percent after winning U.S. approval
to return its 787 Dreamliner to service with a redesigned
lithium-ion battery, more than three months into the
government’s longest grounding of a commercial model in the jet
age.  IBM slid almost 8.3 percent, the most since April 2005,
after the computer-services provider posted profit that trailed
projections for the first time since 2005, hurt by a hardware
slump and failure to sign customers to contracts. IBM, which
accounts for 10 percent of the  price-weighted  Dow average for
its heaviest weighting, by itself took 131.7 points off the 30-
stock gauge today, limiting the average’s advance to 10 points.  ‘Selectively Flowing’  “IBM’s drop is weighing down on the Dow today,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based market strategist at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $130 billion, said
by telephone. “Capital is selectively flowing to where growth
is the best. We’re seeing a little of bit growth here in the
U.S. and that’s helping investor returns overall.”  General Electric Co., the largest maker of  jet engines ,
fell 4.1 percent and McDonald’s Corp., the biggest restaurant
chain by sales, declined 2 percent after profit matched
analysts’ estimates.  Earnings beat estimates at 72 percent of the 103 companies
in the S&P 500 that posted results so far  this season , while
less than 50 percent exceeded revenue projections, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.5 percent for the
first advance in six days. The gauge lost 2.5 percent this week,
the biggest drop since November.  L’Oreal Sales  Kazakhmys Plc surged 24 percent and Vedanta Resources Plc
rallied 6.1 percent as a gauge of European  mining companies 
rebounded from a 3 1/2-year low.  L’Oreal SA (OR)  rose 4.3 percent
after the world’s largest cosmetics maker reported an increase
in first-quarter revenue.  The euro was little changed $1.3056, while climbing against
11 of 16 major peers. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said the  European Central Bank  should reduce liquidity in the
euro area, according to Wirtschaftswoche magazine.  The pound weakened against 14 of 16 major peers, losing
more than 0.8 percent against the South Korean won and Brazilian
real and slipping 0.3 percent to $1.5229. Fitch lowered the U.K.
to AA+ from AAA on a weaker economic and fiscal outlook. It cut
its growth projection and forecast that debt would peak at 101
percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year 2015-2016.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 1.2 percent,
rebounding from the lowest level since November. The gauge has
fallen 4.3 percent this year, compared with a 6.2 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index of developed countries.
Benchmark indexes in Brazil, the Czech Republic and South Africa
rallied more than 1 percent.  Fund flows into developed-market equities beat emerging-
market peers for a ninth week, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by
 Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report, citing EPFR data. Inflows into
developed equities were dominated by the U.S. and Japan, while
emerging-market equities saw $964 million outflows, they wrote.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 3.1 percent today.  China’s economy 
may rebound in the second and third quarters of the year,  Zhu Baoliang , head of the State Information Center’s economic
forecast department, said at a forum in Beijing. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index climbed 1.8 percent after Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract maker of chips,
forecast record quarterly sales.  Asian Currencies  China’s  yuan  strengthened against the dollar after the
central bank signaled plans to widen a trading band that’s been
limiting appreciation since October. Thailand’s baht advanced to
a 16-year high, reversing earlier losses, even after central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the currency has
started to move beyond its fundamentals.  The yen depreciated for a fourth day against the dollar,
sliding 1.4 percent to 99.55. It also declined 1.4 percent
against the euro. Meeting for the first time since the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  unleashed new measures aimed at delivering 2 percent
inflation within two years, G-20 finance ministers and central
bankers said today in Washington that those actions are
“intended to stop deflation and support domestic demand.” They
echoed their promise of February that nations will refrain from
“competitive devaluation.”  Gold, Copper  Gold for immediate delivery pared gains after climbing as
much as 2.6 percent to $1,426.05 an ounce. It fell 9.1 percent
on April 15, the most in three decades. Prices fell about 5.5
percent this week, the fourth weekly decline, on concern
European governments will follow Cyprus in selling reserves.  Copper slumped into a  bear market  in London and New York,
capping the biggest weekly drop in 16 months, on concern that
slowing economies from China to the U.S. will reduce demand as
supply of the metal expands. Copper for delivery in three months
fell 1.4 percent to close at $6,990 a metric ton on the LME
today, marking a 20 percent drop from the February
2012 closing high.  China’s economy has grown by less than 8 percent in the
past four quarters, the longest streak in at least 20 years. An
index of leading U.S. leading economic indicators released
yesterday unexpectedly fell. Copper inventories tracked by the
London Metal Exchange almost doubled in 2013.  Commodities  Fourteen of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index advanced, sending the gauge up 0.3 percent and  trimming
its weekly decline to 2.5 percent. Crude oil for May delivery
rose 28 cents to settle at $88.01 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  European Union emission permits rose 2.9 percent after
yesterday’s 12 percent gain. The allowances dropped 42 percent
on April 16 and 17 when the European Parliament rejected a
proposed change to the region’s emissions-trading law that would
have curbed the supply of permits temporarily.  The won rose versus 15 of 16 major counterparts, climbing
to the strongest level versus the yen since October 2008. South
Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said Japan’s weakening
currency is hurting his country’s economy more than North Korean
threats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  