-- Commodities Supercycle Seen Intact by Mercuria Energy
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-04-19T15:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/commodities-supercycle-seen-intact-by-mercuria-energy.html
The commodity supercycle is in no
danger of ending even as raw materials prices head for their
worst month since May, according to Mercuria Energy Trading SA.  Economic growth in  China  will keep driving demand for
everything from oil to metals, with crude prices likely to
recover later this quarter, Roger Jones, Mercuria’s global head
of non-oil trading, said this week at the Financial Times Global
Commodities Summit in Lausanne, Switzerland.  “It’s been such a violent move over the last few days, but
I don’t think we are going to see a massive correction lower
from here,” Jones said in an April 16 interview. “The
commodity supercycle is in place.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
dropped to a nine-month low on April 17 after the International
Monetary Fund cut its world growth forecast and Chinese economic
expansion fell short of estimates. The index is down 7 percent
this month. Commodity traders have profited from four years of
rising prices in energy, metals and agricultural products.  Mercuria’s revenue rose to $100 billion in 2012, Marco Dunand, the company’s chief executive officer and co-founder,
said in January, up from $76 billion in 2011. The Geneva-based
company says it’s one of world’s five biggest independent energy
traders.  Brent crude slid below $100 a barrel on April 16 for the
first time since July on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. Copper
fell to $6,800 a metric ton yesterday, the lowest since October
2011, amid concern that economic growth will slow in China, the
metal’s biggest consumer.  Potential Investors  Mercuria is narrowing its list of potential buyers for a 10
to 20 percent stake in the company, Jones said, without naming
any. Credit Suisse Group AG is advising on the sale, which has
attracted interest from sovereign wealth funds, private equity
firms, natural resource producers and banks.  The commodity merchant is seeking to grow in Asia after
opening trading desks for metals in China and agriculture in
Singapore least year. It also plans to invest in logistics.  “We are actively building out assets in coal and on oil
transportation,” Jones said. “We’ve got a strong pipeline of
deals,” he said, without giving details.  Mercuria plans to stay privately owned in contrast to its
competitor  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , which carried out a $10
billion initial public offering in May 2011.  “Certainly for us, it’s not going to happen,” Dunand told
the conference. “It makes sense to remain private because you
can afford to have a much longer-term view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  