-- Copper Slumps Into Bear Market on Concern Metals Demand to Slow
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-04-19T18:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/copper-slumps-into-bear-market-on-concern-about-faltering-demand.html
Copper slumped into a bear market
in  London  and New York, capping the biggest weekly drop in 16
months, on concern that slowing economies from  China  to the U.S.
will reduce demand as supply of the metal expands.  China’s economy  has grown by less than 8 percent in the
past four quarters, the longest streak in at least 20 years. An
index of leading U.S. economic indicators released yesterday
unexpectedly fell. Copper inventories tracked by the London
Metal Exchange almost doubled in 2013.  “The copper market has been an accurate leading indicator,
and it’s not pointing to a good bottom for China’s economy,”
Jeffrey Sica, who helps oversee more than $1 billion as
president of SICA Wealth Management in Morristown,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s ominous, and it
continues to be a major concern in markets.”  Copper for delivery in three months fell 1.4 percent to
close at $6,990 a metric ton on the LME today. That was below
the level of $6,992, marking a 20 percent drop from the February
2012 closing high, meeting the common definition of a  bear
market . The weekly retreat of 5.6 percent was the biggest since
the week of Dec. 16, 2011.  Larger Surplus  Production of the metal will exceed demand by 341,000 tons
this year, more than last year’s 238,000 tons, according to
Citigroup Inc. LME copper  stocks  jumped 92 percent to 614,350
tons this year, exchange figures showed today.  “The increase in copper stocks gives reason to think
supplies are plentiful, and China’s growth is not what people
expected it to be,” Harry Denny, a broker at Hoboken, New
Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The market is well-supplied, and we’re going to
continue to see pressure on prices.”  Inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
declined to 223,663 tons this week, bourse data showed today.
Bonded warehouses in the country hold 600,000 tons of copper,
used in pipes and wiring, Paul Crone, chief investment officer
at Citrine Capital Management LCC, said April 17.  “It will still be down to China to support the market,”
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said
today by phone.  In New York, copper futures for delivery in July tumbled
1.7 percent to settle at $3.163 a pound on the Comex, also
capping a 5.6 percent weekly drop that was the biggest since
Dec. 16, 2011. With today’s close, futures have fallen 20
percent from the February 2012 peak, entering a bear market.  Weaker Expansion  Prices slid this week as the  International Monetary Fund 
lowered estimates for Chinese and world growth this year on
April 16. A deadly bird-flu outbreak is rippling through the
Asian nation, the world’s biggest consumer of raw materials from
copper to soybeans.  “Many base-metal prices are moving toward marginal
industry costs,”  Michael Lewis , head of commodities research at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a report today. “We expect
a more supportive environment for the sector will emerge during
the second half as Chinese growth recovers.”  Purchases of physical copper by Chinese buyers picked up
this week, according to Barclays Plc. The metal is
“vulnerable” to a short-covering rally as most investors have
bet on falling prices,  Gayle Berry , an analyst at Barclays in
London, said in a report today. Short-covering denotes purchases
to close out wagers on a falling market.  Also in London, nickel for delivery in three months
declined 2.4 percent to $15,170 a ton, after touching $15,160,
the lowest since July 2009. Macquarie Group Ltd. raised its
estimate for this year’s surplus to 82,000 tons from 54,000
tons.  Aluminum and zinc fell. Tin and lead rose on the LME.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  