-- Credit Suisse to Stop Relaying Dark-Pool Data, Tabb Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-04-19T20:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/credit-suisse-to-stop-relaying-u-s-dark-pool-data-tabb-says.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , operator of
the largest U.S. dark pool, said it will no longer publicly
disseminate monthly volume data for the private stock-trading
venue, according to an executive at Tabb Group LLC.  Credit Suisse will end its practice of voluntarily relaying
information about its Crossfinder pool to research firm Tabb and
Rosenblatt Securities Inc., which publish monthly statistics.
The Zurich-based bank will stop disclosing volume,  Adam Sussman ,
director of research at Tabb, said in a  posting  on the New York
firm’s website. Rosenblatt also won’t get the data, Justin Schack, a managing director at the New York-based broker, said.  The move comes 10 days after chief executive officers of
the biggest U.S. exchange operators urged regulators to follow
policy makers in  Canada  and  Australia  and curb trading that
occurs away from public venues. U.S. off-exchange volume  reached 
36.2 percent of all trading in the first quarter, compared with
32.8 percent last year, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Every month since March 2007, a wide swath of dark pool
operators have voluntarily disclosed various execution
statistics,” Sussman wrote. “Now these reports are in the
danger of becoming inaccurate, as Credit Suisse has decided to
stop reporting.”  Trading away from exchanges included 14.3 percent in dark
pools in February, with Crossfinder accounting for 1.9 percent
of overall equities volume, data compiled by Rosenblatt show.  Off Exchange  Brokers in the past have decided against supplying data
because they didn’t have enough volume or worried about
disclosing too much information, Sussman said in the posting.
They may also have disagreed with the methodology other dark
pools used to count volume since there’s no standard. Another
reason is that the company may be “inherently secretive,”
Sussman said. Now there may be a new reason.  “As the controversy over dark trading has erupted over the
past year, fueled by the rise in off-exchange trading in the
U.S. and the changes occurring in Canada and Australia, the
industry has focused more on the gross amount of shares traded
off-exchange, rather than the performance of any specific dark
pool,” Sussman wrote. A broker must decide “whether all of
this visibility is good for the rest of the company,” he wrote.
“What is it actually accomplishing? When you realize ‘going out
loud’ is only getting you burned, you go dark.”  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse,
declined to comment.  Alternative Trading  Schack said earlier this month that exchanges have stepped
up their criticism of trading away from their venues as overall
volume has declined, giving them a “smaller share of a
shrinking pie.” U.S. equities volume has  fallen  three years in
a row, to 6.42 billion shares a day last year from 9.77 billion
daily in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dark pools are broker-run alternative trading systems that
don’t publish bid and offer prices. They report trades
immediately, as do exchanges, and must execute orders at the
best price available nationally or better. They’re used by
brokers, asset managers and algorithms in an effort to trade
without pushing prices higher or lower.  The venues aren’t required by the Securities and Exchange
Commission to report volume publicly. While Tabb tracks data
from 16 brokers and Rosenblatt covers 19 venues, JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Bank of America Corp.,  Fidelity Investments  and Citadel
LLC don’t report activity to either firm.  Dark Volume  “We’re disappointed with Credit Suisse’s decision, but
respect that the firm must ultimately do what it believes is
best for its business,” Schack said in an e-mailed statement.
“We’re confident that we will continue to deliver the highest-
quality intelligence on dark-pool volumes and trends to our
institutional customers.”  The SEC proposed a  rule  requiring more transparency around
dark-pool trading in 2009. It never acted on that initiative.  Some dark pools may reconsider whether they want to
continue disseminating trade data after Credit Suisse’s
decision, Sussman said.  CEOs of the three largest U.S. stock market operators told
the SEC on April 9 that it’s time to drive more trading back
toward exchanges and away from brokers.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s  Duncan Niederauer , along with Bob Greifeld of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
Joe Ratterman of Bats Global Markets Inc., said too much off-
exchange activity hurts the so-called price discovery process,
making prices less reflective of buy and sell interest,
according to a  presentation  published on the SEC website in
connecting with the meeting.  Public Venues  The exchange CEOs told the SEC that trades should occur on
public venues unless brokers provide better prices or execute
large orders. An exception would be allowed for brokers quoting
at the best price on public markets, they said. Brokers
currently can match the best price available on exchanges or
trade between a stock’s national best bid and offer.  The total share of U.S. equities trading through hidden or
non-displayed orders was 18.9 percent in February, with 14.3
percent from dark pools and 4.6 percent from exchanges,
according to Rosenblatt. About 11.5 percent of trading on the
main exchange owned by Bats took place through hidden orders.
Nasdaq’s orders that aren’t displayed publicly accounted for 9
percent of its volume and NYSE Arca’s were 6.6 percent of its
February trading, the data showed.  Nasdaq’s dark orders amounted to 1.44 percent of overall
volume in the industry, surpassing trading on alternative venues
except Crossfinder, according to the Rosenblatt data. Hidden
bids and offers on exchanges can trade with incoming orders that
aren’t meant to be dark and must cede priority to publicly
displayed buy and sell requests at the same price, according to
Schack.  Rosenblatt began publishing a report with statistics and
analysis called “Let There Be Light” in March 2008, according
to Schack. Tabb began supplying data from brokers in March 2007,
Sussman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 