-- Cyprus President Outlines Plan to Rebuild Economy After Bailout
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-04-19T17:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/cyprus-president-outlines-plan-to-rebuild-economy-after-bailout.html
Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades announced a range of tax breaks and subsidies to
boost investment and save jobs after the country’s banking
sector was torn apart by a financial rescue that imposed losses
on depositors.  The government will offer tax breaks of as much as 25
percent for companies hiring new employees for at least one year
and create a fund to manage state assets, Anastasiades said
today in comments broadcast live on state-run CyBC TV. The
package also includes plans to create casinos and the lifting of
some building regulations to draw investment in resorts and golf
courses.  “There is no doubt that trials and tribulations await
us,” Anastasiades said. “For us to succeed in kick-starting
the economy and to emerge from this crisis as soon as possible,
we must strictly adhere to all the commitments we have
undertaken in this loan accord.”  Anastasiades agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) loan from the euro area and the  International Monetary
Fund  in return for measures including a tax on bank deposits of
more than 100,000 euros at the country’s two biggest banks as
well as wage and pension cuts and the sale of assets and gold.
Those concessions were demanded by creditors in a bid to rapidly
shrink what European and IMF officials called an oversized and
unsustainable banking sector.  No Forecast  Finance Minister Haris Georgiades this week declined to
give a forecast for how much the economy will shrink this year
in the wake of the accord, which includes the closing of the
nation’s second-biggest bank. The government has imposed
restrictions on capital movement, the first time these have been
imposed in a euro-area country, to prevent an outflow of
deposits after the tax.  The country’s rescue program includes a forecast for gross
domestic product to decline 8.7 percent this year, compared with
a European Commission projection for a 3.5 percent contraction
before the Cypriot bailout was agreed.  Government spokesman Christos Stylianides said on April 4
that GDP could fall by as much as 13 percent this year. That
would be the biggest slump among euro area countries, according
to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook forecasts released on April
16. The IMF didn’t provide figures for Cyprus.  Anastasiades, elected on Feb. 24, also said his government
would detail measures to shore up the shattered financial
services industry in a new package of measures due by the end of
next month.  He also announced plans to step up the creation of solar
energy parks and subsidies for solar energy installation, a plan
that will save 51 million euros a year and create 650 jobs. The
government will also build a liquefied natural gas plant on the
island to take advantage of expected proceeds from gas
exploration, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  