-- Danske Commodities to Expand as Volatility Boosts Trading Profit
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-04-19T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/danske-commodities-to-expand-as-volatility-boosts-trading-profit.html
Danske Commodities A/S, a closely
held Danish energy trader, plans to hire 51 more people this
year after boosting profit 77 percent in 2012 as wind and solar
power boosted price volatility.  The Aarhus, Denmark-based company added 34 people in the
first quarter, taking the total workforce to 265 after more than
doubling it last year, Torben Nordal Clausen, Danske
Commodities’ chief executive officer, said by telephone. Net
income rose to 217.7 million kroner ($38.2 million) in 2012 as
revenue climbed 53 percent from a year earlier to a record 9.3
billion kroner, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Solar and wind generation in  Germany  has increased 80
percent over the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Danske Commodities boosted bilateral power trading
178 percent last year as the share of renewable power in  Europe 
rose, increasing price swings.  “As long as we have volatility in the market we will
continue growing,” Nordal Clausen said. “The first quarter of
this year was the best in our history because of the volatility
in the marketplace.”  European utilities have seen profit margins squeezed as
slower economic growth erodes energy demand and increasing
amounts of renewable electricity damps prices.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s
second biggest utility, reported a 0.8 percent decline in annual
earnings on March 5 while  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) ,
Germany’s third-largest utility, said on March 1 that 2012
profit fell 4.3 percent on a weaker performance in power
generation and trading.  ‘Huge Demand’  Danske Commodities, which buys and sells power, gas and
emission permits in 31 countries, started trading in Ireland,
Lithuania,  Turkey  and Albania last year, Nordal Clausen said.
The hires will be across the organization, including trading,
business development and software development, he said.  The company focuses on near-term power and gas with about
90 percent of trading settled within 24 to 48 hours and Germany
is its most profitable market, Nordal Clausen said. Revenue from
buying and selling power rose 42 percent to 900 million euros
($1.18 billion), he said.  The gap between the highest and lowest price for
electricity  deliverable  the next day in Germany widened to
155.85 euros a megawatt-hour on the European Energy Exchange AG
in 2012 from 54.67 euros in 2011.  Volatility makes it challenging for generators to decide
when to produce electricity for the best price, Nordal Clausen
said. Danske Commodities processes about 500 million excel lines
of data each day about solar, wind and hydropower production and
consumption to advise electricity generators, he said.  “We provide  power plants  with advice on how to optimize
production and last year we increased the income of our partners
by 50-200 percent,” he said. “There is a huge demand in the
market for this product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  