-- De Guindos Suggests Spain to Miss Deficit Plan Amid Weak Growth
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-19T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/de-guindos-suggests-spain-to-miss-deficit-plan-amid-weak-growth.html
Spanish economy minister Luis de Guindos said he will refrain from imposing extra austerity even
as public borrowing figures are likely to miss targets because
of a weaker-than-expected economy.  Government fiscal forecasts due April 26 will be adjusted
to account for a weaker “economic reality,” de Guindos told
reporters in  Washington  today, suggesting he will miss
previously set limits for the current fiscal year. He said
forecasts will be “very conservative.”  “Budget policy has to be adjusted to economic reality,”
de Guindos said after meetings with Group of 20 finance
ministers. “It is essential that fiscal policy in the medium
term is seen to be sustainable while bearing in mind the effects
on economic activity of excessive fiscal restriction.”  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is seeking more time from
European Union peers to cut the second-largest  budget deficit  in
the euro region, as large as  Greece ’s as a share of gross
domestic product. His government is concerned that Spain’s
 recession  may worsen after it stepped up the toughest austerity
measures in its democratic history last year.  Spain’s current deficit targets are 4.5 percent of GDP  for
2013 and 2.8 percent for 2014. That compares with overspending
of 10.2 percent of GDP last year, or 7 percent excluding aid to
the banking sector.  After an economic contraction of 0.5 percent this year, the
government forecasts 1.2 percent growth in 2014, compared with
the 0.45 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 42
economists.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest bank, estimates
1.5 percent growth next year, while Nomura International
foresees the economy shrinking a further 1.5 percent and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. predicts a 0.2 percent contraction.  Shrinking Output  De Guindos on April 9 estimated output shrank between 0.5
percent and 0.6 percent in the first quarter, narrowing from the
0.8 percent drop in the previous three months. The Bank of Spain
sees the economy stabilizing in the second half even as it
maintains a forecast of a 1.5 percent contraction for the full
year.  De Guindos said today that automatic stabilizers --
increased welfare spending and lower tax receipts when the
economy weakens -- should be allowed to operate.  “It could be that in one year the deficit isn’t reduced by
as much as expected even though the effort to bring it down has
been in line with what has been required,” de Guindos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  