-- Viacom-YouTube, Time Warne, Macy’s: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-19T11:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/directv-time-warner-j-c-penney-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing
website for a second time persuaded a judge to throw out a
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  lawsuit claiming YouTube violated copyrights by
letting users post clips from shows without authorization.  U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton in  Manhattan  yesterday
granted YouTube’s request for a judgment without a trial. He
said YouTube was protected from liability by the safe harbor
provision of the Copyright Act because it removed infringing
videos when notified.  “There is no evidence that YouTube induced its users to
submit infringing videos,” Stanton said in his ruling.  Stanton ruled in 2010 in Google’s favor. In April 2012, the
U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  overturned that ruling and
sent the case back to the district court. Viacom said in a
statement that it plans to appeal yesterday’s decision.  Viacom argued that YouTube used unauthorized copyrighted
material from shows such as “The Colbert Report” and “ South
Park ” to draw visitors and make the website more attractive to
potential buyers. The site benefited financially from
infringement through  revenue  from advertisements placed next to
the videos, Viacom said.  “This ruling ignores the opinions of the higher courts and
completely disregards the rights of creative artists,” Jeremy Zweig, a Viacom spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
continue to believe that a jury should weigh the facts of this
case and the overwhelming evidence that YouTube willfully
infringed on our rights.”  The case is Viacom v. YouTube, 07-2103, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The appeal
case is Viacom International v. YouTube, 10-03270,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Copyright  EU Wins Court Appeal Against Systran $15.7 Million Damages Award  European Union regulators won a challenge at the EU’s
highest court overturning a 12 million-euro ($15.7 million)
damages award for language translation software maker  Systran SA (RAN) 
over a copyright infringement.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest tribunal,
in 2010 had ordered the European Commission to pay Systran a
lump sum for violating the copyright and knowhow in the Unix
version of the Systran machine-translation software.  “The General Court should have declined jurisdiction and
invited the parties to refer to the competent national courts,
designated by the various contracts concerning the Systran
machine translation system, concluded by Systran and the
commission,” the top EU court ruled yesterday.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Federal Circuit Revives K-Tech’s Case with DirecTV, Time Warner  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  must face a revived
patent-infringement case brought by K-Tech Telecommunications
Inc. over systems to modify television numbers, a court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  yesterday said U.S. District Judge Gary Klausner in
 Los Angeles  used the incorrect legal standard to dismiss the
case, and sent it back to the lower court for further
proceedings.  The  case is  K-Tech Telecommunications Inc. v. Time Warner
Cable, 2012-1446, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Macy’s Denied Restraining Order on Some J.C. Penney Sales  Macy’s Inc. (M)  was denied a temporary restraining order
halting  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  from selling some goods designed by
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. that don’t bear the Stewart
brand name.  An appeals court judge in Manhattan yesterday refused to
halt the sales of the goods, which are labeled under the brand
“JCP Everyday,” on the condition that J.C. Penney not
associate the products with the Martha Stewart name in
promotions or marketing.  Richard Andrias, an associate justice with the New York
State Supreme Court’s Appellate Division, granted an expedited
schedule for briefing and arguing Macy’s challenge to a lower-
court judge’s refusal to grant a similar order blocking the
sales.  “Pending an expedited determination of the motion by a
full bench of the court, J.C. Penney may continue to sell the
unbranded goods in the exclusive product categories,” provided
it doesn’t promote, advertise or associate the goods with the
name Martha Stewart, Andrias wrote in the ruling.  Eric Seiler, a lawyer for Martha Stewart Living, declined
to comment immediately, saying he hadn’t seen the decision. Joey Thomas, a spokesman for J.C. Penney, declined to comment on the
ruling in an e-mail.  “While we are disappointed that the appeals court declined
to issue a temporary restraining order, it is appropriate that
the court made it clear that the JCP Everyday product cannot be
associated with the Martha Stewart name in any way,”  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, said in an e-mail. “We look
forward to the full appeals court decision on our request for an
expansion of the preliminary injunction that remains in place.”  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Cybersecurity  Cybersecurity Bill Passes U.S. House After Obama Veto Threat  The U.S. House yesterday passed cybersecurity legislation
backed by companies including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , defying
a veto threat by President  Barack Obama ’s administration over
what it called inadequate privacy protections.  The bill gives companies immunity from lawsuits when they
voluntarily share information, such as threats to  computer
networks  and malicious source code, with each other and the U.S.
government. It passed on a vote of 288 to 127.  Congress is renewing a push to pass cybersecurity
legislation following warnings by U.S. intelligence officials
that electronic attacks could disrupt the nation’s banks,
utilities, telecommunications networks and other essential
services. It isn’t clear whether the Senate will take up the
House bill or offer its own version.  The bill doesn’t require companies “to take reasonable
steps” to remove personal information when sharing
cybersecurity data with the government or other companies, the
White House said April 16 in  a statement  on the veto threat.  “Citizens have a right to know that corporations will be
held accountable -- and not granted immunity -- for failing to
safeguard personal information adequately,” according to the
administration statement.  The bill is H.R. 624. For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  