-- Dodgers’ McCourts Return to Court to Fight Over Divorce
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/dodgers-mccourts-return-to-court-to-fight-over-divorce.html
Former Los Angeles Dodgers owner
Frank McCourt and his ex-wife, Jamie McCourt, returned to court
to fight over their divorce settlement following the $2.15
billion sale of the team.  Jamie McCourt is asking California Superior Court Judge
Scott M. Gordon in Los Angeles to set aside the settlement that
paid her $131 million plus a share of the couple’s residences in
exchange for giving up her claim that she co-owned the Major
League Baseball team.  The couple announced their settlement in October 2011,
about six months before the bankruptcy court auction that led to
the record $2.15 billion sale of the baseball team to a group
including Guggenheim Partners; its top executive, Mark Walter;
and ex-basketball player Magic Johnson.  “Once the sale was announced, I really started questioning
what was going on,” Jamie McCourt testified yesterday under
questioning from her attorney Bert Fields. “I was surprised I
would’ve made such a huge mistake.”  Jamie McCourt last year said she wouldn’t have agreed to
the $131 million if she had known the assets were worth more
than $2 billion. She claimed her ex-husband said under penalty
of perjury that they had a value of less than $300 million.  Assertion Challenged  According to Jamie McCourt’s petition, Frank McCourt
“appears to claim he was mistaken” about the value of their
assets. Even if the understatement of the value of the Dodgers
was a mistake rather than fraud, that provides grounds to set
aside the settlement, according to the filing.  Robert Sacks, Frank McCourt’s lawyer, challenged Jamie
McCourt’s assertion that the divorce settlement agreement
included some contingency if the Dodgers sold for more than she
might have expected at the time of the settlement.  “Where in the agreement does it say that?” Sacks asked
Jamie McCourt.  Sacks also asked whether she could recall that in October
2011, when the lawyer said, she traded away any potential upside
from the team’s sale in exchange for a fixed, tax-free $131
million payment, Major League Baseball was threatening a forced
sale of the Dodgers in bankruptcy court.  On April 15, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in
Wilmington,  Delaware , where the Dodgers filed for Chapter 11
protection, said Jamie McCourt couldn’t use secret Major League
Baseball documents from the confidential mediations between
baseball officials and Frank McCourt.  A  New York  state court judge last month ordered Peter Cohen, Blackstone Group LP’s senior managing director, to answer
questions by Jamie McCourt’s lawyers. Cohen advised the Dodgers
on the sale and told Forbes Magazine that the $2.15 billion
price wasn’t “more than he anticipated on Day One,” according
to Jamie McCourt.  The case is Jamie McCourt v. Frank McCourt, BD514309,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  