-- EfTEN to Boost Latvian Investments as Euro-Entry Prospects Grow
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-04-19T10:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/eften-to-boost-latvian-investments-as-euro-entry-prospects-grow.html
EfTEN Capital AS, an Estonian asset
manager, plans to boost investments in Latvian property as its
Baltic neighbor benefits from the European Union’s fastest
economic growth, euro-entry prospects and low  interest rates .  EfTEN, formed in 2008 and specializing in commercial
property, aims to invest 30 million euros ($39 million) in
Latvia this year after concluding its first deal last month in
Jelgava, near the capital Riga, Chief Executive Officer Viljar Arakas said in an interview in Tallinn today.  “Unlike in  Estonia , you can strongly feel the presence of
Russian private capital there, which has kickstarted the housing
market,” Arakas said. “But there are very few players
representing institutional capital and we are trying to help
fill a void which strangely hasn’t changed much since the
economy started recovering.”  The former Soviet republic, with the highest share of
Russian speakers among the three Baltic states, exited a 7.5
billion-euro ($9.7 billion) International Monetary Fund-led
bailout last year when the economy expanded 5.6 percent.  Latvia 
meets all conditions for the Jan. 1, 2014 currency switch,
according to its central bank and government, which would make
it the 18th euro member after Estonia joined in 2011.  Property Volumes  The volume of Baltic property trade, which hit a trough in
2009, was less than 200 million euros last year, according to
EfTEN, compared with more than 900 million euros at the market’s
2007 peak. This is mainly due to low interest from Nordic
pension funds and other institutional investors that exited
Baltic investments before the crisis and haven’t returned,
Arakas said.  EfTEN today received an equity injection of 14.5 million
euros, mainly from local pension funds, boosting its gross asset
value to 120 million euros, Arakas said. The company, which
competes in the Baltics with Stockholm-based asset manager  East
Capital (ECEX)  and Copenhagen-based Baltic Property Trust, has no
immediate plans to invest in  Lithuania , he added.  “Latvia, which was hit most in the crisis, is clearly the
most interesting target today,” Arakas said. “We will rather
select more complex properties, where you have to rebuild,
change tenants, or those that are in financial difficulties, in
short, than ones that aren’t nice and shiny projects.”  Baltic capitals’ property yields, or the ratio of annual
rent to purchase price, were just above 8 percent last year,
according to EfTEN estimates. The yields, used to gauge returns
on property investment, exceeded those of the neighboring Nordic
capitals by 3 percent, compared with 6 percent three years ago
when the three nations started to recover from the deepest
economic contractions in the 27-member European Union.  “When we look at European Central Bank policies today, and
look at the price of money in the context of Baltic economic
outlook, it has to mean higher property prices in the region,”
Arakas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  