-- Egypt Requests $2 Billion Russian Loan as Mursi Meets Putin
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-19T16:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/egypt-seeks-2-billion-russia-loan-as-mursi-meets-friend-putin.html
Egypt requested a $2 billion loan
from Russia during a meeting between President Mohamed Mursi and
his counterpart,  Vladimir Putin , Egyptian Industry and Trade
Minister Hatem Saleh said.  The countries’ finance ministers will discuss the details,
Putin’s foreign-policy adviser  Yuri Ushakov  told reporters after
the meeting in the Russian Black Sea town of Sochi. Mursi
earlier told Putin that he wants to forge a “real political
union” between the two nations, calling him a “dear friend”
and “brother” as they began their talks. The Russian leader
said ties are being restored “at a full scale.”  Egypt, once a Cold War ally of the  Soviet Union , has so far
failed to secure an agreement with the  International Monetary
Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan to stabilize its economy. An accord
is within reach, Egypt Finance Minister El-Morsi El-Sayed Hegazi
said in  Washington  today. Russia plans to restore strategic ties
with Egypt, according to Alexei Pushkov, the head of the Russian
parliament’s foreign-affairs committee.  “The Americans are aiding Egypt with around $2 billion per
year,” Pushkov said by phone from Moscow today. “They
understand the strategic role of this country in the Arab World.
We should finance our foreign policy too.”  Russia is ready to consider any aid request from Egypt,
Putin’s spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  told reporters yesterday. The
North African country has invited Russia to build a nuclear
power plant, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said in
Sochi today.  Reserves Plunge  The economy of the most-populous Arab country has struggled
to recover from the 2011 uprising, growing at about 2 percent
annually, compared with a 6.2 percent average in the five
previous years.  The country obtained $5 billion in aid from Qatar and Libya
last week to help replenish foreign reserves that have
dropped by more than 60 percent since December 2010, reaching
$13.4 billion last month, equivalent to less than three months
of imports. Hegazi today urged the country’s political parties
to united around an economic program attached to IMF aid.  “We are promised that this will be in a few weeks,”
Hegazi said in a Bloomberg News interview yesterday in
Washington when asked about the possible loan. “The IMF would
like to see to what extent the political parties and the
authorities are ready to have some prior actions” taken, such
as a general  sales tax , he said.  Nasser, Khrushchev  Egypt and the Soviet Union became allies from the 1950s
under Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser and Soviet leader
 Nikita Khrushchev . Egypt received Soviet military assistance,
including during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, and the USSR
financed key facilities such as the Aswan High Dam -- a project
to irrigate arable land and supply electricity.  The ties lapsed after Nasser’s death in 1970, when the Arab
nationalist was succeeded by  Anwar Sadat , who set the regional
powerhouse on a new pro-U.S. track that accelerated under
Mubarak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  