-- Einhorn’s Swaps Boosting Marvell Bet Exposed by Buyback
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/einhorn-s-swaps-boosting-marvell-bet-exposed-by-buyback.html
David Einhorn, the hedge-fund
manager who oversees $8.8 billion, relied on derivatives earlier
this year to raise his bet on  Marvell (MRVL)  Technology Group Ltd.
without falling under regulations designed for corporate
insiders.  Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital Inc. increased its economic
stake in Marvell to 12.4 percent from 9.7 percent by entering
into total return swaps in January on about 12 million company
shares, according to a regulatory filing last week. Einhorn was
required to disclose the swaps because Marvell accelerated its
stock repurchase program in December and January, reducing its
shares outstanding and briefly pushing New York-based
Greenlight’s ownership above 10 percent.  Marvell was trading at less than $8 a share in late
December after sliding 48 percent last year, in part because a
jury awarded plaintiffs in a patent lawsuit against the company
more than $1 billion. The swaps enabled Greenlight to buy on the
cheap and wring extra benefit from the stock’s 32 percent
rebound in 2013 without becoming a 10 percent shareholder, a
status that would have required the hedge-fund firm to divulge
any subsequent trades at Marvell and surrender short-term
profits to the semiconductor company.  Marvell was “hit by a lawsuit at the time that was
influencing the share price,” said Aalok Shah, a D.A. Davidson
& Co. technology analyst in Lake Oswego,  Oregon . “Subsequently
people figured the lawsuit may not be as big a deal as
originally assumed.”  ‘Modernizing Reporting’  Some corporations say the use of derivatives to bypass
disclosure requirements threatens the transparency and integrity
of securities markets, potentially hampering their ability to
raise capital. Derivatives, including those encompassing short
positions, permit aggressive investors to secretly affect a
stock and potentially influence the company behind it,  New York- 
based law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz said in a 2011
petition urging the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
require the contracts be counted toward beneficial ownership.  The agency will seek comments this year on “approaches to
modernizing reporting by large holders,” it said in an annual
 report  published in December. Last month, the Canadian
Securities Administrators proposed that equity derivatives be
included when investors calculate holdings under laws requiring
next-day disclosure of stakes in public companies. It also
proposed that the threshold for such filings be lowered to 5
percent from 10 percent.  “When all these rules were made up” beginning in the
1930s, “there weren’t any derivatives in the world,” said Adam Emmerich, an attorney at Wachtell. “The SEC has talked about
this and recognizes there is change afoot.”  Einhorn’s Returns  Jonathan Gasthalter, a Greenlight spokesman who works at
Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the Marvell trades.
Sukhi Nagesh, a spokesman for Marvell, declined to comment on
Greenlight’s filing other than to say the firm “has been a very
supportive and helpful investor for us.”  Einhorn, 44, has generated average annual returns of 19
percent since founding Greenlight in 1996, more than double the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 7.5 percent. A high-stakes
tournament poker player who primarily invests in companies he
deems undervalued, Einhorn gained attention earlier this year by
suing Apple Inc. to help pressure the company to distribute more
of its $137 billion in cash and investments to shareholders.  Marvell  shares  slumped in 2012 as profit declined and a
jury ordered the company to pay at least $1.17 billion in
damages for infringing patents on integrated circuit technology
held by Carnegie Mellon University. Einhorn called Marvell “our
biggest loser” of the year in a January letter to clients,
while also citing reasons he believed the award would be reduced
or eliminated.  Buying ‘Opportunity’  Greenlight had “decided to buy even more MRVL” because he
continued to “like the opportunity” the company presented,
Einhorn wrote in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. Marvell, a maker of chips for mobile phones and
computers, is based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , and has offices in
Santa Clara,  California .  If Greenlight were to raise its stake above 10 percent, its
hedge funds would become subject to Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, and thus required to follow the same rules
as executives who buy and sell their own company’s stock. In
addition to greater disclosure, the firm would face limits on
its ability to sell short Marvell shares and would have to give
up any “short-swing” profits, or those realized in less than
six months.  ‘Keenly Aware’  Some of the largest U.S. investors seek to keep their
stakes below 10 percent until the six-month period requiring the
return of short-swing profits elapses.  Children’s Investment Fund Management (UK) LLP and 3G
Capital Partners Ltd. agreed to pay $11 million in 2008 to
settle a shareholder lawsuit claiming that the funds were
required to return $138 million in short-swing profits to  CSX
Corp. (CSX)  after they had entered into cash-settled total return
swaps equaling 11 percent of the rail transportation company’s
shares. Children’s Investment Fund and 3G had waged a proxy
contest at CSX, whereas Greenlight’s stake in Marvell is a
passive one.  Investors are “keenly aware of the ramifications of going
across 10 percent,” said Robert Leonard, a hedge-fund attorney
at Bingham McCutchen LLP’s  New York  offices. “You definitely
don’t want to go across unless you know you are going to be a
long-term holder.”  Sacrificing Influence  Instead of buying more stock, Greenlight entered into the
total return swaps on Jan. 2 tied to 11.9 million Marvell
shares, according to a Form 3 filed April 8 with the SEC. The
swaps are private contracts that investors enter into with a
counter-party such as a bank.  The terms of the swaps don’t permit Greenlight funds to
vote or control the disposition of any Marvell common stock, the
investment firm said in the filing. As a result, Greenlight’s
“beneficial” ownership of Marvell shares, the criteria used
for SEC reporting thresholds, stayed below 10 percent while its
economic exposure was higher.  “If somebody wants to increase their exposure to a company
without reporting, they can do it with total return swaps,”
said Matthew Pieniazek, president of Darling Consulting Group
Inc., a Newburyport, Massachusetts-based firm that advises
banks. “What they give up is the influence from that additional
exposure.”  Under Greenlight’s swaps, its funds are entitled to a cash
payment equaling any appreciation on the 11.9 million shares
above $7.93 each, according to the filing. Should Marvell’s
stock trade at less than $7.93 when the swaps mature in
February, Greenlight would have to make payments to the counter-
party equaling the lost value on the shares. The swaps yielded a
$19.2 million paper profit for Greenlight as of yesterday.  Stock Repurchases  Greenlight owned 51.8 million Marvell shares outright at
the end of last year, the fund company reported in a February
filing. That equaled a 9.7 percent stake based on the 535
million shares Marvell said were outstanding as of Nov. 21.  Marvell increased its stock buybacks in the quarter ended
Feb. 2, repurchasing 33.7 million shares at an average cost of
$8.39 each, according to an annual report filed March 29. That
reduced the number of Marvell shares outstanding to 501.7
million as of March 21, meaning Greenlight’s 51.8 million shares
now equaled a 10.3 percent stake, and the firm had an 12.7
percent economic stake including the swaps.  The firm sold 1.7 million Marvell shares from April 3 to
April 5, lowering its beneficial ownership to 9.99 percent,
according to Form 4 ownership filings by the firm last week. The
sales cut its economic interest to 12.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  