-- TeliaSonera First-Quarter Net Misses Estimates as Sales Fall
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-19T07:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/teliasonera-first-quarter-net-misses-estimates-as-sales-fall.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone company, reported first-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as sales declined in its Nordic markets amid
increased competition.  Net income slipped to 4.11 billion kronor ($630 million)
from 4.12 billion a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company
said today. Analysts predicted 4.32 billion kronor, the average
of 15  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 4.4 percent to
24.5 billion kronor, trailing an estimate of 25.1 billion
kronor.  TeliaSonera, which made more than 60 percent of its revenue
in the Nordic region last year, is battling slowing growth in
home markets amid rising competition. The carrier is reducing
costs to become more profitable as it focuses more on data
revenue than on voice traffic, while growth in its Eurasian
unit, with  operations  in  Turkey ,  Russia  and several former
Soviet Union countries, continues to bolster earnings.  “In markets like Denmark,  Finland , the Baltics, where you
see fierce competition on price,” Chief Executive Officer Per- Arne Blomquist said in an interview today. “That’s why we are
trying to make sure we get paid for mobile data and we try to
fight against having unlimited buckets of data. This is more
evident in the Nordic-Baltic markets than Eurasia.”  2013 Forecasts  The first-quarter adjusted margin on earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 34.7 percent.
TeliaSonera said that it expects that margin will improve
“slightly” in 2013 compared to 2012. Sales will be “flat”
excluding currency shifts and acquisitions, the company said.  “The first-quarter earnings were slightly below
expectations,” Panu Laitinmaki, an analyst at  Danske Markets  in
Helsinki, said by phone.  Sales from mobile services slipped 2.2 percent in Sweden,
its largest market. Revenue from Eurasian markets rose 5.4
percent and the Ebitda margin from that region widened to 53
percent from 50.8 percent a year earlier.  TeliaSonera shares slipped 1.6 percent to 42.71 kronor at
9:22 a.m. local time, erasing yesterday’s 1.2 percent climb. The
share is down 3 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  