-- Elvis Impersonator Accused of Ricin Letters Sowing Fear
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-19T04:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/elvis-impersonator-accused-of-ricin-letters-sowing-fear.html
Paul Kevin Curtis played the young
Elvis at an annual Tupelo festival honoring the  Mississippi 
city’s most famous son and strummed his guitar at night outside
his home in a subsidized housing project an hour to the north.  He also ranted online and worked on a score-settling novel
called “Missing Pieces” about stolen body parts, intended to
lay bare Lee County’s corruption.  Yesterday, Curtis appeared for a first hearing in U.S.
District Court in Oxford, charged with sending poison ricin-
laced letters to President  Barack Obama , U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker  of Mississippi and a judge.  Court records and interviews with friends, acquaintances
and neighbors paint a divided picture of a divorced, one-time
janitor who’s at the center of a national terror scare that
followed the April 15 bombing at the Boston Marathon and evoked
memories of the anthrax attacks after Sept. 11, 2001.  Authorities say Curtis, 45, of Corinth sent envelopes to
Obama and to Wicker, a Republican. Both tested positive for
ricin, according to sworn affidavits by federal agents. A
similar letter was sent to a Lee County judge.  Curtis appeared in court wearing a black t-shirt and
running pants, his sideburns closely shorn, sitting quietly
through the five-minute hearing. He didn’t enter a plea, and is
expected to appear again in court today.  Left Wondering  The ricin charges have left those who know him questioning
what happened to Curtis, who friends describe as both “gentle”
and “paranoid.”  “I was absolutely shocked,” said Jamie Wiley, executive
director of the Concordia Chamber of Commerce in Vidalia,
 Louisiana . “He’s just gentle and sweet,” she said. “He spends
a lot of time talking about his family, his kids and his mom.”  Curtis, a Louisiana native, graduated from South Natchez
High School in Natchez, Mississippi, in 1987 and from Louisiana
Business College in 1990, according to his Facebook page.  Bryant White, 44, attended high school with Curtis and is
now a chaplain working north of Atlanta. He remembers him as a
reserved teenager with few friends, of average intelligence and
a musical bent.  “He sang in the choir and was a pretty quiet guy,” White
said.  Curtis’s musical talent steered him to Elvis Presley
performances, both in Mississippi and beyond.  ‘Double Trouble’  Brenda Mills, 66, who lives a few blocks from Curtis’s
brother, Jack, in Tupelo, used to see Curtis singing Elvis songs
at a local karaoke bar and recalls him as outgoing and friendly.
At six-feet-one, he played Elvis in an act called “Double
Trouble” alongside his brother, who mimicked the singer’s
waning  Las Vegas  days.  “I’m really disturbed,” she said. “It must be another
side of him that I didn’t know.”  In May 2003, Curtis was set to sing as Elvis in a band at
Tupelo’s annual festival for the singer. One of his band mates
was David Daniels, a guitar player and assistant district
attorney for Lee County. Curtis bore a grudge: He faulted
Daniels for arriving late to rehearsals and missing chord
changes during a 2002 performance together.  “David messed my show up pretty bad,” he wrote in an e-
mail on file in the Lee County courthouse. “He seemed to show
little to no commitment to the overall production of the show.
Not to mention, he had an attitude with me. The rest of the band
always made it to rehearsal On Time, were professional and
everyone got along, but Mr. Daniels seemed to be on an ‘‘ego’’
trip.”  Assault Charge  That month, he threatened Daniels while brandishing a beer
bottle in a parking lot and was charged with assault. Daniels
received a restraining order barring Curtis from coming within
500 feet of him. In a court filing, Daniels said Curtis’s family
members told him of his history of violence. Daniels didn’t
return a phone call to his office seeking comment.  Curtis said he was unable to fight the charges because he
was facing an experienced attorney. He said he contacted 75
lawyers in Mississippi, all of whom refused, citing a “conflict
of interest.”  Daniels wasn’t the only one he clashed with. For a decade
until 2002, Curtis worked as a janitor, sweeping the halls at
the North Mississippi Medical Center’s sprawling hospital on
Tupelo’s south side from 1998 through 2000. He told Louisiana’s
Wiley that he found body parts in the hospital, an episode he
planned to expose with a book and screenplay.  ‘Missing Pieces’  In 2003, he posted the first three chapters of “Missing
Pieces” online. “I have launched a campaign to expose the
corruption taking place in Lee County & will win,” he wrote in
a note. “The characters in my book & screenplay have been
changed to protect the guilty. They know who they are.”  In an FBI affidavit, agents said Curtis was reported by his
wife to the Booneville Police Department in 2007. She told them
he was “extremely delusional, anti-government, and felt the
government was spying on him with drones,” they said.  Louisiana’s Wiley hired Curtis in both 2011 and 2012 to
perform at Vidalia’s Jim Bowie Festival, and she said they
became friends and talked regularly until September. She
described Curtis as kind and said he tried during his
performances to include older women who seemed left out in the
crowd.  “He reminded me of a Vince Gill,” she said, referring to
the country music star. “He just seemed like a genuinely good-
hearted person.”  Stopped Talking  Curtis hasn’t talked to Wiley since shortly after the
September 2012 Jim Bowie show. Curtis had a crush on her which
she didn’t return, she said, and stopped communicating with her.
She said Curtis never mentioned Obama during their talks, but
voiced distrust of authorities.  “He told me the story about finding body parts,” she
said. “He had gone to the hospital administration, went to the
Senate and could not get anyone to respond and even acknowledge
that he had seen anything.”  “I hate to use the word paranoid, but he was, about
somebody watching him,” Wiley said. “He said he had been
harassed, even arrested. He told me that he wanted to get the
truth out there, get to the bottom of it.”  The letters to Obama and Wicker included the phrases: “No
one wanted to listen to me before. There are still ‘Missing
Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now Even if that means
someone must die.” They were signed “I am KC and I approve
this message.”  Ricin is made from castor beans and can be fatal if inhaled
or ingested, according to the website for the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.  Meeting Curtis  Wicker had met Curtis prior to receiving the letter, he
told reporters in Washington yesterday.  The senator pitched in to hire Curtis as an Elvis
impersonator at a party that he and his wife gave about a decade
ago, Wicker told media outlets, including Politico.  “My impression is that since that time he’s had mental
issues and perhaps is not as stable as he was back then,” the
senator said, according to Politico.  Ryan Annison, a spokesman in Wicker’s office, confirmed in
a phone interview that Wicker made the comments, though he
couldn’t elaborate on any specific facts because of the
investigation.  Inquiries with Wicker’s staff turned up previous letters to
his  Washington  office with the signoff “this is Kevin Curtis
and I approve this message,” according to the affidavit.  No Trouble  Curtis moved to Corinth, about an hour north of Tupelo, in
December, according to Ralph Dance, captain of detectives for
the Corinth Police Department.  “We’ve never booked him in our jail; he’s never given us
any trouble,” Dance said. “We were oblivious to him being
here.” The obscurity ended yesterday, he said, when the FBI
asked the police to locate Curtis and help them to secure his
residence, Dance said.  Curtis’s new three-bedroom home is on Redwood Drive, a cul-
de-sac in a subsidized subdivision of single-story brick homes
with metal roofs, grouped along a circular main road. The
subdivision, owned by the  Tennessee Valley Regional Housing
Authority , is nicknamed the “mini-city” by residents. Rents
are on a sliding scale and based on income, said Lacey Ross, 29,
a mother of two who lives near Curtis.  Yellow tape surrounded Curtis’s cul-de-sac yesterday, with
police blocking road access to all but residents, some of whom
said they waited until after midnight that day to learn whether
they would have to be evacuated. His Ford Escape was parked on
the street, with a music note and a dancing young Elvis adorning
its license plates.  Friendly Encounter  Ross said she believes she’s one of the few in the
neighborhood who ever talked to Curtis. Her one encounter was
friendly. He was out walking a Maltese puppy, and Ross stopped
him to ask for advice on what dog to get for her mildly autistic
daughter.  “We just talked about dogs,” she said. “He was very
nice.”  Another neighbor, Matthew Latch, 20, said he’d notice
Curtis across the driveway at night, sitting outside with his
guitar.  “He’d just sit in a chair in his front yard, ” Latch
said. “It was just kind of quiet, rambling stuff.”  The case is U.S. v. Curtis, 13-mj-00019, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Corinth, Mississippi at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Tupelo, Mississippi 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  