-- Emerging Stocks Jump Most Since January on China Outlook
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-19T21:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-a-week-on-tsmc-sales-china-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks had the
biggest one-day advance since January as Chinese equities surged
on prospects the government will act to ignite economic growth
and commodity stocks drove gains in  Brazil .  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest
contract maker of chips, rose 6.6 percent in Taipei, after
forecasting record quarterly sales. China’s  yuan  had the biggest
weekly jump in six months as the central bank signaled plans to
widen a trading band that’s been limiting appreciation since
October. Gold producers surged in  South Africa , while Petroleo
Brasileiro SA paced gains in Brazil’s Bovespa index.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.4 percent to
1,011.17 in New York, paring a weekly loss to 0.8 percent.
 China’s economy , which unexpectedly slowed in the first three
months of this year, may rebound in the second and third
quarters, said  Zhu Baoliang , head of the State Information
Center’s economic forecast department.  “Chinese growth may not be quite as bad as everybody
thinks,” Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion
of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama, said
in a telephone interview. “And we’ve seen commodities bounce
back a little today.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
rose, led by technology and financial shares. The emerging-
markets index has lost 4.2 percent this year, trailing a 6.3
percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country
stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.6 times 12-
month projected profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8
valuation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1.5 percent to $41.64. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a  measure  of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 11 percent to 20.71.  Brazil’s Bovespa index rose 1.4 percent, trimming this
week’s decline to 1.9 percent, as traders pared expectations for
interest-rate increases by the central bank. Petrobras, as the
state-run  oil company  is known, climbed 3.7 percent.  The Mexican IPC Index gained 0.8 percent. Desarrolladora
Homex SAB surged 40 percent as the Mexican homebuilder seeking
to avoid a debt restructuring agreed to sell its stake in two
prisons to companies controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim .  Standard & Poor’s  revised its outlook on Venezuela to
negative from stable, the ratings company said today. Britain
lost its top credit grade at  Fitch Ratings , which cited a weaker
economic and fiscal outlook.  Russian Shares  Russian stocks rose for the first time in seven days,
paring their weekly decline, as crude gained and a technical
indicator signaled the index is oversold. The Micex Index added
0.2 percent, cutting its fifth weekly drop to 3.4 percent. Oil
producer OAO Bashneft’s preferred shares rose 4.1 percent.
Benchmark indexes in  Hungary , Turkey and Poland gained.  South African miners rallied after a recovery in  gold
prices . The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index climbed 1.5 percent
in Johannesburg, with  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  and  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  adding at least 5.2 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.1 percent, the most
since March 20. Chinese stocks extended gains today after the
Shanghai Securities News reported that regulators are studying
plans that would allow A shares to be added to international
“well-known” indexes to lure overseas funds. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong
Kong  jumped 3.1 percent, snapping a five-day slump.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  surged 9.5 percent in Hong Kong, the most
since September 2011. The Chinese personal-computer maker, is
the most likely bidder for parts of International Business
Machines Corp.’s server division, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 294 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  