-- Mercuria May Expand in Metals Warehousing and Asset Management
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-19T12:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/mercuria-may-expand-in-metals-warehousing-and-asset-management.html
 Mercuria Energy Trading SA said it
may add metals warehouses and consider starting an asset-
management business after expanding into agriculture and metals.  The Geneva-based energy trader will need warehouses for the
base metals trading it started last year, according to Roger Jones, Mercuria’s global head of non-oil trading. Liam Brown and
Ben Green, formerly from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., run the
London operation and James Jian Wu leads the Shanghai unit.
Jones joined Mercuria last year from Barclays Plc., where he was
global head of commodities.  “As part of our growing physical metals presence we will
need storage,” Jones said in an interview at the Financial
Times Global Commodities Summit in Lausanne,  Switzerland , this
week. “Our strategy will be based in our own needs, not third-
party queues.”  The company has no interest in buying warehouses monitored
by the London Metal Exchange to make a profit from lengthy
waiting times to withdraw the metal, he said. Rival traders
 Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)  and Trafigura Beheer BV as well as
banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. also
own warehousing companies.  The LME, which has a network of more than 700 facilities in
locations from  Singapore  to the U.S., raised minimum delivery
rates and introduced an extra daily requirement for deliveries
from warehouses to reduce waiting times this year.  “The value of the asset being for the most part in the
queue has to change relatively soon,” Jones said. “Non-LME
warehousing costs are much cheaper than LME rates. If you change
that pricing, or you change load-out rates, valuations will drop
considerably and we will not buy into such a business.”  Mercuria may also consider expanding into asset management
business in the next two years, Jones said. Mercuria’s rival
Trafigura runs Galena Asset Management Ltd. and Cargill Inc.
owns Black River Asset Management LLC hedge fund unit.  “It is something we periodically look at,” he said. “But
I don’t think the timing is there just yet as commodities are
less attractive to the asset side than they were three or four
years ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  