-- Terrorism Comes to Cambridge
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-04-19T19:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/terrorism-comes-to-cambridge.html
My experience of Blackhawk
helicopters was restricted to  Iraq  -- until this morning, when I
heard them flying low over the quiet, leafy Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , neighborhood where I’ve lived for most of my 42
years.  They landed in the parking lot of the Target store that I
bike to with my kids, a couple of miles to the west of my home.
Meanwhile, the same distance to the east, near Inman Square, the
police are reportedly planning a controlled explosion a block
from the S&S Delicatessen where we eat potato pancakes.  Bizarre and surreal as it seems, terrorism has come to
Cambridge.  On the streets not far from Watertown, where police may
have cornered the suspected bomber Dzhokar A. Tsarnaev, quiet
reigns as most people comply with police requests to stay
indoors. Sirens can be heard intermittently. The occasional
pedestrian straggles down the block carrying a pizza. Yet a
veneer of normalcy persists. Directly across the street from me,
a construction crew got to work this morning before the warnings
began -- and they stayed at it all morning, bringing a gut rehab
one day’s work closer to completion.  Cambridge Shootout  If it weren’t for the news, it would be hard to believe
that last night Cambridge was the site of multiple shootouts, a
carjacking and a car chase -- or that an apparent standoff
continues today. Indeed, the events covered the full breadth of
this small city of 100,000 adjoining  Boston . The marathon
bombing suspects killed a Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer in Kendall Square, at the far eastern end of town.
They carjacked an SUV and then drove clear across town on scenic
Memorial Drive, along the Charles River, eventually exchanging
fire with police when they had passed the city’s western boundary
-- the exchange in which Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed.  About 9 p.m. yesterday, I was sitting at a dinner with
Iraqi politicians, former George W. Bush administration
officials and Iraq scholars at the  Harvard Kennedy School ,
discussing Iraq’s severe political challenges. I heard unusually
loud sirens as police vehicles crossed the Charles. I didn’t
think much about it. My mind was in Baghdad, not Cambridge.  While the car chase and shootings were going on an hour or
two later, I was sitting in a restaurant in Harvard 
Square, a couple of blocks from where they drove by -- and I
heard nothing. I biked home, presumably in the middle of the
events, and again noticed nothing out of the ordinary.  The comparison to Baghdad, where I worked for the
transition authority after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion, is
immediate for me -- and the bottom line is how different this
seems from being in an actual war zone. Being asked to “shelter
in place” makes you nervous for your kids and has you scouring
the freezer, but it doesn’t feel like being locked down in the
 Green Zone  in Baghdad.  Here’s why: When this tragedy is over, we will return to
normal. By the end of the day, God and police willing, the
remaining suspect will be dead or in custody. When that happens,
we will return to the streets wiser, but not any less secure. We
will be able to tell our children with total confidence that
everything is now fine.  There is a crucial lesson here. A strong state cannot avoid
terror. But it responds to terror with thousands of police,
helicopters and the full weight of a security apparatus that has
confidence in its ultimate success.  By contrast, in a weak or failing state, terror signals
that more terror is coming -- it challenges the state’s very
ability to function. The responders look weak, not strong. And
the society looks fragile, not vital.  Two Extremes  Not every place is on the extremes of Cambridge’s stability
or Baghdad’s disintegration. There is plenty of room in between.
Last September I was in the parliament building in Tunis when
protesters penetrated the perimeter of the U.S. Embassy in the
Tunisian capital and clashed with police, leaving several
protesters dead. There, the mood was a mixture of nervousness
and calm -- life would probably return to normal, but things
were also changing and therefore uncertain.  Here in Cambridge, the shock that it can happen here --
that innocent children and brave police officers can be killed in
cold blood, apparently by our neighbors -- is mitigated by the
knowledge that before too long, our state and society will bounce
back. “ Boston Strong ” isn’t just a slogan. It is a description of
what a healthy polity can do for itself in the face of crisis --
and what every state facing terror wishes it had.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
Twitter. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 