-- EU Carbon Posts Biggest Weekly Drop After Rescue Plan Rejected
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-19T16:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/eu-carbon-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-as-rescue-plan-rejected.html
European Union carbon permits for
December had their biggest-ever weekly decline after lawmakers
voted against a plan to ease a supply glut and resuscitate
prices in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade emissions market.  The allowances dropped 34 percent this week and closed at
3.16 euros ($4.13) a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange in London. The contract fell to a record-low 2.46 euros
a ton on April 17.  Carbon plunged after the European Parliament voted against
a measure that would have allowed the European Commission to
temporarily withhold about half a year’s supply of emission
allowances through 2015 and reintroduce, or backload, them back
to the market at the end of the decade. The rejection may render
Europe’s 54 billion-euro greenhouse-gas market “completely
toothless,” according to UBS AG analysts.  “We’re going to be in a very low-price environment, and
just bounce around 2 or 3 euros from here,” Roger Jones,
Mercuria Energy Trading SA’s global head of non-oil trading,
said in an interview in Lausanne, Switzerland on April 16, the
day of the EU vote. Prices may be capped at about 3.50 euros
while the market waits on the next rescue plan, he said.  Carbon prices jumped as much as 12 percent earlier today
amid signs the EU Parliament’s opposition to the carbon plan had
eased after 12 EU lawmakers requested to alter their voting
record. The requests won’t change the assembly’s negative
verdict on the draft measure, said Bas Eickhout, a Dutch member
of the Greens group in the Parliament.  The vote corrections “suggest that building a pro-
backloading majority in a potential future vote may be somewhat
less difficult than previously thought,” Itamar Orlandi, an
analyst in  London  for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in an
e-mailed note.  Uncertain Fate  The bloc’s governments have an option to override the
assembly’s verdict. The 27 EU governments made no progress
yesterday in talks on a rescue for the bloc’s emissions trading
system.  Even in parliament “there are several votes up for grabs
and two months of time for proponents and supporters of the
backloading to try and muster the majority needed.” Paolo Coghe, an analyst in Paris for Societe Generale SA, said today
in an e-mailed research note. “The proposal is not definitively
rejected.”  EU carbon prices have slumped 60 percent from a year ago as
the euro area’s second recession since 2008 cut industrial
demand for permits, exacerbating a surplus. Declines in the cost
of allowances erodes the incentive for utilities and factories
to stop burning cheaper fossil fuels and invest in carbon-
efficient technology.  Opponents of the backloading plan, including the Polish
government and the European People’s Party, argued it would
raise energy costs and artificially boost prices.  Certified Emissions Reduction credits for December were
unchanged at 25 euro cents, taking their weekly drop to 38
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  