-- EU Markets Law, EU Bank Supervisor, SEC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-19T12:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/eu-markets-law-eu-bank-supervisor-sec-compliance.html
European Union nations must resume
talks on a draft law to overhaul the bloc’s financial market
rules, after ambassadors failed to resolve a clash between the
U.K. and Germany on competition in derivatives clearing.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, will
seek to broker compromises on the measures, which would toughen
oversight of high-frequency trading, and impose limits on
traders’ positions in commodity derivatives markets, according
to three European officials who aren’t authorized to be cited by
name, in line with policy.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
overhauling the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive,
or Mifid, to counter “speculative trading activities” and
implement agreements reached by the Group of 20 nations. His
plans would also boost competition by forcing exchanges to hand
over trade data to rival clearinghouses, so that they can
compete in processing derivatives transactions.  The data-access plans are supported by the U.K. government,
which says that greater competition will reduce costs for
investors. Germany has resisted, arguing that the move would
fragment markets and harm financial stability. Ireland’s EU
presidency will continue efforts to reach consensus on the draft
law, said a spokeswoman, who also couldn’t be named, in line
with government policy. She said Ireland also aims to start
negotiations with the European Parliament on the measures.  Compliance Policy  ECB to Take Bank Supervisor Role Next Year After EU Approves Law  The  European Central Bank  is set to take on oversight
powers next year over all euro area banks after the legislation
underpinning the supervisory system was signed off yesterday in
Brussels.  “This agreement on the single banking supervisor is a
major step towards banking union,” Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said in an e-mailed statement. “We need to build
on this momentum to make progress on the next building blocks:
bank resolution and deposit guarantees,” Noonan said.  Ireland holds the rotating presidency of the 27-nation EU.  Separately, the euro zone’s move toward common bank
oversight must be accompanied by a common process for handling
failing banks, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday.  The European Commission remains on track to unveil its
proposal for a single resolution mechanism “before the
summer,” Rehn said. He said further moves toward banking union
are needed to prevent a recurrence of the sovereign debt and
banking crisis that has so far forced five of the euro zone’s 17
nations to seek aid.  Compliance Action  SEC to Move Past Financial Crisis Cases Under Chairman White  Mary Jo White, the first former prosecutor to serve as
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has
pledged to run a “bold and unrelenting” enforcement program at
the agency charged with regulating  Wall Street .  With financial crisis cases mostly done and some of the
biggest insider-trading cases in history closed, White will have
to chart a course into new areas to keep that pledge.  White, who was sworn in last week, has provided a few
signals about what that might be. During her Senate confirmation
hearing, she said she intends to focus on high-frequency and
automated trading. She has also raised questions about a drop in
the number of accounting fraud cases.  One of her first steps, said four people familiar with her
plans, will be to put the mission in the hands of a trusted
lieutenant, Andrew Ceresney, who was a prosecutor under White
when she served as U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of
New York. He doesn’t have any experience working inside the SEC
and will probably share the top role with George Canellos, the
current SEC acting chief of enforcement, the people said.  The SEC hasn’t completely finished its probe of misconduct
tied to the financial crisis. Investigators have signed so-
called tolling agreements with executives and banks to extend
the five-year statute of limitations on those cases. Also, the
SEC has said its investigation into insider trading at  hedge
funds  is continuing.  All the same, the number of such cases still in the
pipeline has dwindled, and in recent months, the enforcement
staff has formed teams to re-evaluate how they are organized and
what kinds of misconduct are most ripe for investigation.  For more, click here.  Glaxo Gets OFT Complaint for Paying to Delay Seroxat Copies  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  was sent an antitrust complaint by U.K.
regulators who say the company may have colluded with generic-
drug makers to keep copies of its Seroxat antidepressant off the
market.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, may have paid Alpharma
Ltd., Generics (U.K.) Ltd. and a unit of Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. to delay the release of cheaper, copycat
versions of the drug, the U.K. Office of Fair Trading  said  on
its website. Seroxat was one of Glaxo’s best-selling drugs from
2002 through 2004, when the agreements were in place, the OFT
said.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Les
Laboratoires Servier,  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN)  and Teva, the world’s
largest generic-drug maker, were sent statements of objections
last year by the European Union’s antitrust watchdog over
possible delays for generic drugs.  The OFT probe covers matters already examined by the EU
without subsequent sanctions, David Daley, a spokesman for the
London-based company, said by e-mail.  Glaxo “supports fair competition and we very strongly
believe that we acted within the law, as the holder of valid
patents for paroxetine, in entering the agreements under
investigation,” Daley said in an e-mail, referring to the
active ingredient in Seroxat. “These arrangements actually
resulted in generic versions of paroxetine entering the market
before GSK’s patents had expired.”  Glaxo and the generic companies were sent so-called
statements of objections, the OFT said. Daley said the company
will need time to review the documents before considering any
further action.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva based in the U.S.,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment outside of
office hours. A spokesperson for Mylan Inc., which owns Generics
U.K., didn’t immediately return a phone call asking for comment.
David Belian, a spokesman for Actavis, which owns Alpharma and
is based in the U.S., didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Santander UK to Contact More Than 270,000 Borrowers, FCA Says  The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority said it reached an
agreement with Santander UK Ltd. to contact about 270,000
mortgage customers about unclear information it gave before
increasing the cap on its mortgage standard variable rate in
2008.  The FCA “supervises the conduct of 26,000 financial firms
and regulates the prudential standards of 23,000 of those,”
according to a  statement  on the agency’s website.  Courts  Banker Groups Sue Treasury, IRS Over Account Reporting Rule  Two banker groups sued the U.S. challenging rules that
require financial institutions to report information on accounts
held by nonresident aliens that may be shared with 72 foreign
governments.  The  Texas Bankers Association  and the  Florida Bankers
Association , in a lawsuit filed yesterday against the Treasury
Department and the  Internal Revenue Service  in federal court in
Washington, said the rules are discouraging investment in the
U.S. by nonresidents who fear their information may be shared
with the governments of countries including  Egypt , Pakistan and
Venezuela.  The regulations, which took effect in January, are part of
the government’s efforts to work with other countries on tax
evasion. Treasury and the IRS say the U.S. should ask its banks
to report information just as it is requiring overseas banks to
provide information on U.S. account holders.  In the regulations, the IRS wrote that it will exchange
information only with countries that protect confidentiality and
use the data solely for tax purposes.  The banking groups, in the lawsuit, said the Treasury and
the IRS failed to properly assess the costs and economic impact
of the rule on non-resident deposits held in the U.S. banking
system, which they claim is estimated to be $400 billion. The
group’s members have reported “substantial deposit outflows and
shifting of accounts” to non-interest bearing ones since the
rule was adopted last year, according to the complaint.  Sabrina Siddiqui, a Treasury Department spokeswoman,
declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.  Dean Patterson ,
an IRS spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
message seeking comment.  The case is Florida Bankers Association v. U.S. Department
of Treasury, 13-cv-00529, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  SEC Sues Schottenfeld Trader Mancuso Over Goffer Insider Tips  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Joseph
Mancuso, a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, accusing him
of making about $350,000 on a series of illegal tips from Zvi
Goffer, a former Galleon Group LLC trader.  Mancuso, 36, of Manhattan, worked with Goffer when both men
were at Schottenfeld, and was described by regulators as
Mancuso’s “good friend and colleague.” Goffer shared tips with
him about nonpublic information concerning the acquisition of
Avaya Inc., 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc., Hilton Hotels Corp.
and Kronos Inc., the SEC said in a complaint filed April 17 in
federal court in Manhattan.  Mancuso obtained tips from Goffer through his “close,
personal and professional relationship” with him, according to
the complaint. The two met in college in the 1990s, the SEC
said.  Goffer obtained the information leaked by two Ropes & Gray
LLC lawyers, Brien Santarlas and Arthur Cutillo, about the
firm’s clients, which he passed on to his friends, the SEC said.
Goffer also paid kickbacks to the two lawyers in exchange for
the inside information. Prosecutors said Goffer and others to
whom he passed the information earned $10 million.  Goffer is serving a 10-year prison term after being
convicted in 2011 of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities
fraud. Santarlas was sentenced to six months in prison while
Cutillo received a 30-month sentence.  The case is SEC v. Mancuso, 13-cv-02555, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Schindler Should Lose Cartel Fine Appeal, EU Court Aide Says  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  should lose a final appeal against a
143.7 million-euro ($187.5 million) cartel fine for colluding
with competitors in the markets for elevators and escalators, an
adviser to the European Union’s highest court said.  The appeal should be dismissed in its entirety, Advocate
General Juliane Kokott of the EU Court of Justice said in a non-
binding opinion yesterday. The Luxembourg-based court follows
such advice in most cases.  The European Commission  fined  five companies 992.3 million
euros in February 2007 for their roles in the elevator cartel.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  two years ago won a first court appeal to slice
159.9 million euros off a 479.7 million-euro antitrust fine for
carving up the markets for elevators and escalators.  Schindler is appealing a 2011 ruling by the EU General
Court, the bloc’s second-highest tribunal, to uphold its penalty
and is calling for a decision that overturns the EU regulator’s
original order.  “At the time of the infringements Schindler Holding had --
as expressly acknowledged by the General Court -- done its
utmost to prevent its subsidiaries from violating EU competition
law through a state-of-the-art compliance program,” Barbara
Schmidhauser, a spokeswoman for the company, said by e-mail. If
the top EU court follows Kokott’s advice, the incentive to use
such compliance programs “would be rather low.”  The elevator companies were accused of setting prices in
northern European countries between at least 1995 and 2004.  The case is: C-501/11 P, Schindler Holding Ltd., Schindler
Management AG, Schindler SA, Schindler Sarl, Schindler Liften BV
and Schindler Deutschland Holding GmbH v. European Commission.  Chicago Investment Firm Lied to Calpers to Raise Funds, SEC Says  An investment adviser will pay more than $120,000 to
resolve U.S. regulatory claims that he lied to the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System and other clients about the
amount of money his firm managed.  Umesh Tandon, 37, falsely told Calpers in May 2008 that his
Chicago-based firm Simran Capital Management LLC met the
retirement fund’s minimum requirement of having at least $200
million of assets under management, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said yesterday in an  administrative order . Simran
managed about $80 million at the time.  The firm’s assets were falsely inflated on more than a
dozen occasions from 2008 to 2011, the SEC said.  Tandon also “used his association with Calpers to lure
other public institutional investors under false pretenses,”
Merri Jo Gillette, director of the SEC’s Chicago office, said in
a statement.  Tandon, who also agreed to be barred from the securities
industry, didn’t admit or deny the allegations in settling the
claims. A phone call to Tandon’s attorney wasn’t immediately
returned.  Interviews/Speeches  Lawsky Reviews Private Equity’s ‘Troubling’ Insurance Role  New York’s financial regulator is scrutinizing what he
called the “troubling role” of private-equity firms as they
expand into the insurance industry through acquisitions,
according to a speech yesterday.  The remarks were made by New York Department of Financial
Services Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  as part of a prepared
speech.  Private-equity firms “may not be long-term players in the
insurance industry and their short-term focus may result in an
incentive to increase investment risk and leverage in order to
boost short-term returns,” Lawsky said.  “This type of business model isn’t necessarily a natural
fit for the insurance business, where a failure can put
policyholders at significant risk,” he said.  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  has agreed to buy
four insurers since 2008, including a $1.8 billion deal in
December for Aviva Plc’s U.S. life and annuity business. A firm
owned by Guggenheim Partners LLC shareholders agreed the same
month to buy a variable-annuity unit from Sun Life Financial
Inc. for $1.35 billion.  Fed’s Tarullo Cites Progress, ‘Ways to Go’ for Banks  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said “too-big-to-
fail” banks have made “a good deal of progress” but have a
“ways to go.” Tarullo talked with Bloomberg’s Sara Eisen on
the sidelines of the  International Monetary Fund  and World Bank
meetings in Washington on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Carney’s BOE Consensus Pledge Welcomed in Lawmaker Endorsement  Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney ’s commitment
to transform the central bank and base decisions on consensus
will be a “highly significant development,” U.K. lawmakers
said.  “If these commitments result in meaningful change to the
current hierarchical decision-making processes and culture of
the bank, this will be a highly significant development,”
Parliament’s Treasury Committee, which scrutinizes the BOE, said
in a report in London today.  Carney, the current chief of the Bank of Canada, will
succeed Mervyn King at the U.K. central bank on July 1, taking
over an institution endowed with new responsibilities for
financial regulation as well as monetary policy. King has been
criticized for wielding too much power at the bank and promoting
“group think.” Carney testified at the committee in February,
after which they formally approved his appointment.  The committee also said it would prefer if the BOE’s new
unit, the Prudential Regulation Authority, had a secondary
objective to promote competition in banking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  