-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Loss in Five Months
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-04-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-loss-in-five-months.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly loss in five months as economic data from the U.S. to
 China  and  Germany  missed estimates, prompting a selloff in the
shares of commodity producers.  Polymetal International Plc slumped 17 percent, leading
precious-metal producers lower, as gold declined for a fourth
week and silver for a sixth. EON SE and RWE AG, Germany’s
largest utilities, tumbled 9 percent and 14 percent,
respectively. Nokia Oyj lost 12 percent after posting sales that
trailed projections.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  jumped 17
percent after shareholder  Alexander Machkevitch  said he’s
holding preliminary talks to make a takeover offer.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 2.5 percent to 285.21 this
week. The gauge has slid 2.9 percent so far in April, heading
for the first monthly loss since May 2012, as data signaled that
the economic rebound in the U.S. has slowed, and the  European
Central Bank  said risks to the euro area’s recovery remain.  “We’ve had poor data in China, Germany and especially the
U.S.,” Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $220 billion, said. “If
investors were looking for signs of a pause in growth, those
concerns have been confirmed. The fall in commodities is a
result of these disappointing growth figures.”  National benchmark indexes dropped in all western European
markets except Greece and Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 1.5
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 slid 2.1 percent and Germany’s DAX lost
3.7 percent.  Economic Data  A report from China on April 15 showed  the world’s second-
largest economy  grew 7.7 percent in the first quarter, missing
the 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. March
industrial production increased less than estimated, another
release showed.  U.S. data showed manufacturing in the region encompassing
 New York , northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut  expanded
less than projected. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
 general economic index  slipped to 3.1 in April from 9.2 in
March. The median projection in a Bloomberg survey had called
for a reading of 7 this month.  Three people were killed and scores injured as two bombs
exploded during the Boston Marathon race on April 15.  “The Boston bombings did not have a substantial impact on
the market but they are adding to a feeling of insecurity,”
Drusebjerg said.  In Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, investor confidence
slumped more than forecast. An  index of investor and analyst
expectations  published April 16 by the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research fell to 36.3 in April from 48.5 last month.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had predicted a reading of 41.  Gold Producers  Polymetal sank 17 percent, the biggest weekly loss since
the Russian company sold shares to the public in October 2011.
Randgold Resources Ltd., a gold miner in Africa, declined 5.9
percent. Fresnillo Plc, the biggest primary silver producer,
tumbled 12 percent, the largest drop since September 2011.  Gold plunged the most in 30 years on April 15, while silver
traded at an almost 2 1/2-year low.  BHP Billiton Ltd. slid 5.8 percent after the world’s
largest mining company said third-quarter iron-ore production
rose less than expected.  Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest, retreated 5.2 percent.
A gauge of  European commodity producers  posted the biggest
weekly loss in 11 months.  EON and RWE AG fell 9 percent and 14 percent, respectively,
after the European Parliament rejected a proposed change to
emission-trading rules that would allow the supply of carbon
permits to be curbed temporarily.  Nokia Revenue  Nokia (NOK1V)  dropped 12 percent after posting a 20 percent drop in
first-quarter sales to 5.85 billion euros ($7.6 billion). That
missed the average analyst estimate of 6.52 billion euros,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  lost 12 percent after the
U.K. recruitment company reported a 6.7 percent decline in
first-quarter gross profit and  predicted  that the second quarter
will be “challenging.”  ENRC rallied 17 percent. Machkevitch said he and fellow
founding shareholders Patokh Chodiev and Alijan Ibragimov may
form a group to make a takeover offer. The three investors hold
almost 44 percent of ENRC, which has iron-ore, ferro-alloy and
power-production operations in Kazakhstan, copper and cobalt
businesses in  Africa , and a Brazilian iron-ore project.  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc advanced 8.8 percent as the U.K.’s
largest retail broker reported record net inflows of 1.8 billion
pounds ($2.8 billion) in the third quarter.  ASML Holding NV climbed 5.8 percent. Europe’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier posted first-quarter sales of
892 million euros, topping the 874 million-euro analyst
estimate. The company also announced a share buyback of as much
as 1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  