-- European Fund Managers Seen Doubling Salaries on Bonus Caps
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-19T06:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/european-fund-managers-seen-doubling-salaries-on-bonus-caps-1-.html
Mutual fund companies risk
developing unstable cost structures as they may have to double
fixed salaries to sidestep proposed European bonus caps,
industry analysts say.  About three-quarters of mutual fund managers’ total
compensation is from bonuses and long-term incentives, meaning
salary increases of 50 percent to 100 percent would be needed to
negate the cap, said Jon Axcell, head of asset management at
London-based  Morgan McKinley . A European Parliament committee
last month proposed to limit fund managers’ bonuses to no more
than base salaries.  “We will see many firms put up fixed pay by 50 percent and
maybe they will put them up by 100 percent because they’re
worried about losing people,” said Carl Sjostrom, director of
executive reward for  Europe  at  Hay Group , a Philadelphia-based
management consulting firm. “The worry is that, systemically,
this will make the firms less stable because they’re less able
to adjust in bad times.”  European asset-management firms are concerned the proposal,
which may affect two-thirds of senior fund managers, may cause a
bidding war for their best-performing employees, increasing
fixed costs and making the industry more vulnerable to market
downturns. European Union lawmakers supporting the cap say their
proposals will rein in risk-taking and better align the
interests of fund managers with investors.  Performance Pay  A U.K.-based  fund manager  running an actively managed
equity fund with 300 million pounds ($460 million) of assets can
expect to earn an annual base salary of 150,000 pounds to
200,000 pounds, according to Nigel Mills, a pay consultant at
London-based  MM&K Ltd.  The U.K. is home to Europe’s largest
asset-management industry.  That fund manager could receive as much as 300 percent of
his salary as a bonus for top-quartile performance over one,
three and five years, Mills said. The bonus ratio falls to 150
percent for second-quartile performance, 75 percent for the
third quartile and zero in the bottom 25 percent, he said.  Fund managers may also receive a long-term incentive of
about 100 percent of their salary, based on the fund’s
performance. Pay can also depend on managers having specialist
skills in certain asset classes such as  emerging markets .  “As most fund managers don’t beat the market, at least not
on a regular basis, those who do are extremely important,”
Morgan McKinley’s Axcell said. “They drive performance and are
vital to attracting new assets, and as such recognized names or
those with strong track records can always command premium
packages.”  Banker Bonuses  Banks including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Nomura
Holdings Inc. increased fixed salaries in 2009 in response to
European rules requiring three-quarters of bankers’ bonuses to
be deferred or held in shares for at least three years.  The European Parliament this week approved rules for banks
that require shareholders to vote on bonuses larger than the
recipient’s basic salary and that ban awards more than twice
fixed pay. The proposal for fund managers would have to be
approved by the  European Parliament  and the  Council of
Ministers , which represents national governments in the EU,
before taking effect. The council has yet to take a position on
the proposals.  The rules, as proposed, “wouldn’t affect profitability in
total terms but it would skew the fixed-versus-variable pay and
render some businesses less flexible in a downturn,” said Sarah Ing, a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.  Ashmore, Schroders  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  would be most affected by the rule among
U.K. publicly traded firms due to its maximum 100,000-pound
salary policy, she said. Meanwhile at  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Europe’s
biggest publicly traded fund manager, “only a handful” of
well-paid individuals would be affected, she said.  Invesco Perpetual, M&G Securities Ltd., Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership, the biggest U.K. fund managers, declined
to comment. Ashmore and Schroders also declined to comment.  Sven Giegold, the lawmaker leading work on the draft rules
in the European Parliament, agreed that the bonus cap may push
up fixed pay.  “One has to say that there might be an effect, but you
would have to justify that in front of your investors,” he said
in an interview, referring to higher salaries. “Total pay will
certainly shrink.”  Giegold, 43, is a member of the  Group of the
Greens/European Free Alliance  in the European Parliament. He
founded the German branch of ATTAC, which was set up in  France 
in 1998 and seeks to have financial markets and global trade
regulated and  tax havens  closed.  UCITS Funds  The rules would affect so-called UCITS funds, or
Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable
Securities. The funds are regulated at the EU level and have the
right to operate throughout the 27-nation bloc on condition they
meet minimum standards of oversight and investor protection.  European lawmakers including Giegold in the economic and
monetary affairs committee voted last month on imposing a 1-to-1
ratio between variable and fixed pay for managers of UCITS
funds, which cover 5 trillion euros ($6.5 trillion) of assets in
the region.  The measures are scheduled for a vote of the full
Parliament between May 21 and 23. Representatives of the
assembly’s political groups will meet before this to discuss the
pay rule, Giegold said.  Giegold said he would be open to expanding the variable to
fixed-pay ratio to 2 to 1 if investors voted to approve awards
larger than fixed pay, mirroring the planned rules on banker
bonuses. “So far, no one has suggested anything to me on how to
align this effectively,” he said.  Aligning Interests  Political interest making asset-management pay better
aligned with long-term client interests is “legitimate,”
according to the London-based Investment Management Association,
which represents U.K. fund managers.  “The objectives of Parliament and industry in wanting to
have remuneration policies that align variable remuneration to
long-term investor outcomes are absolutely shared,” Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Godfrey said in an interview. “But you
can make a very strong case that aligning those interests is not
about introducing caps on bonuses. In fact, bonus caps
inadvertently misalign interests by increasing the proportion of
fixed to variable remuneration.”  “No evidence whatsoever of excessive risk-taking in UCITS
funds has been provided, nor do we think there is any,” said
 Dan Waters , managing director of ICI Global, a worldwide lobby
group for the  fund-management  industry.  Balance Shifts  Giegold said it is impossible to say some parts of the
financial-services industry such as UCITS are inherently good
and some are bad. There have been “excesses in the UCITS sector
that go in the direction of gambling,” he said.  The effect of a 1-to-1 ratio for variable and fixed pay may
not be as pronounced as initially thought due to the prevailing
market conditions, according to Charles Morrison, head of
discretionary fund management at London-based recruitment firm
Altus Partners.  “The balance is in favor of the companies at the moment,”
he said. “It’s a very candidate-heavy market due to all the
layoffs from banks and  hedge funds  over recent years, combined
with reduced hiring.”  That’s had an impact on how fund managers are being paid.
“Before the crisis, it was possible for managers to receive 200
percent of their salary as a bonus for outperforming their
benchmark by as little as 1 percent,” he said. “Now many would
be happy getting 100 percent of their salary even for very good
performance.”  Giegold said the proposals as they stand are “rather
modest” and would help to change the culture of risk-taking in
the financial-services industry as a whole. “The financial
industry would be well advised to understand they are a part of
a wider society.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  