-- Europe Sugar-Quota Ban May Raise African Trade, Ecobank Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-04-19T14:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/europe-sugar-quota-ban-may-raise-african-trade-ecobank-says-2-.html
An end to sugar quotas in the
European Union, expected by the EU Council as early as 2017, may
promote trade of the sweetener within Africa as Ethiopia and
Nigeria plan to raise output, said Ecobank Transnational Ltd.  “There is a deficit of sugar in Africa, yet producers
still export to  Europe  and import from  Brazil ,”  Edward George ,
head of soft-commodities research at Ecobank, said in an April
17 interview in  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi. “This will change if
and when Europe bans quotas.”  Producers in the EU, the world’s largest sugar importer,
can by law only sell a limited amount in the common economic
area, and some local demand must be met by duty-free shipments
from African, Caribbean and Pacific states that have
preferential access to the market. Africa produces less than it
needs, according to the  International Sugar Organization .  The council, which represents governments of EU member
states, wants an end to quotas in 2017, while the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, has proposed limits
should end two years earlier. The European Parliament voted to
extend them to 2020. All three are negotiating the quotas from
April 11 to June 20, Martin van Driel, team leader for sugar at
the commission, said yesterday.  Crowded Out  The curbs restrict sales to 13 million metric tons in the
27-nation bloc, which has faced sugar shortages in the past two
seasons after imports from nations with preferential accords
fell short of estimates. The EU will produce 17.6 million tons
of sugar in the 2012-13 season that starts in October, the
Commission said in a June 28 report on its website, 19 percent
less than a year earlier.  “If the ban is effected, and European producers increase
production, we will be crowded out of that market,” Devesh
Dukhir, chief marketing officer at the Mauritius Sugar
Syndicate, said in an interview in Nairobi. Most of the Indian
Ocean island nation’s output goes to the EU.  Raw-sugar imports from ACP nations cost an average 620
euros ($810) a ton in January, according to the commission. That
was the second-highest price since at least 2006 and 63 percent
above the average of the white-sugar futures traded on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in  London  that month.  Raw sugar for July delivery climbed for the first time in
three days, advancing 0.6 percent to to 17.71 cents a pound at
3:08 p.m. in London.  Doubling Funds  Africa produced 6.85 million tons of sugar in 2008-09, less
than the 8.7 million tons it consumed,  Peter Baron , executive
director of the International Sugar Organization, said in
Nairobi on April 15. Consumption in the sub-Saharan region could
reach 11.8 million tons by 2020, he said.  Illovo Sugar Ltd. (ILV) , the
Mount Edgecombe, South Africa-based company that is the
continent’s biggest producer, also has operations in Tanzania,
Swaziland, Malawi and Zambia.  Ethiopia wants production to exceed 2 million tons by 2020
from 300,000 tons now and has set up a fund to pay for
expansion, said Shimelis Kebede, the deputy director general of
planning and projects at Ethiopia Sugar Corp., the state-run
sugar company.  “We expect to double our fund, which is currently 4.5
billion birr ($243 million), in two to three years,” Kebede
said in an April 17 interview in Nairobi.  The Horn of  Africa  nation, which imports the sweetener,
wants to be one of the world’s 10 biggest exporters by 2025. It
plans to build 10 sugar-producing plants that can also make
other cane by-products such as ethanol and electricity by 2020,
he said. Each plant may cost $170 million, he said.  Sugar Corp. said Sept. 26 it signed agreements with state-
owned China Development Bank Corp. for $500 million in loans to
build two refineries.  Nigeria Expansion  Nigeria, which has sub-Saharan Africa’s  second-biggest
sugar refinery  in Lagos, will expand its fund for development of
the crop to as much as 6 billion naira ($38 million) this year,
Hezekiah Kolawole, the acting director for planning at the
National Sugar Development Council, said in an April 15
interview in Nairobi  “In a couple of years Nigeria will turn from a net
importer to exporter of sugar, just like it did with cement,”
Ecobank’s George said.  Dangote Group , owned by Africa’s wealthiest man, Nigerian
Aliko Dangote, controls Africa’s largest cement manufacturer and
the Lagos sugar refinery.  Nigerian importers of the sweetener have had to pay a levy
on incoming shipments since January, with proceeds going into
the fund, Kolawole said.  The country, which produces 40,000 tons of sugar now, plans
to raise output to meet annual consumption of 1.1 million tons,
Ecobank’s George said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  