-- Ex-Diamondback Fund Manager Todd Newman Seeks Leniency
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-19T21:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/ex-diamondback-fund-manager-todd-newman-seeks-leniency.html
Former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC fund manager  Todd Newman , facing sentencing May 2
for his role in a $72 million insider-trading scheme, asked for
a lesser sentence than the 78-month maximum prison term sought
by U.S. court officials.  Newman was convicted by a federal jury in  Manhattan  in
December of one count of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud 
and four counts of securities fraud for a scheme to trade on
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  using illicit tips provided by their
analysts.  U.S. probation officials recommend that Newman be sentenced
to a prison term of 63 months to 78 months. Newman, in a
sentencing memo filed yesterday, asked U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan to impose an unspecified lesser term. He also
argued that he was responsible for less than the $4 million in
profits from Diamondback’s trading in the stocks.  Newman was convicted with Level Global Investors LP co-
founder Anthony Chiasson, who left SAC Capital Advisors LP to
start his hedge fund. Chiasson is scheduled to be sentenced May
13.  Testimony at trial showed that the two men were part of a
group of eight fund managers and analysts who were friends who
swapped nonpublic information about technology companies which
they passed on to the portfolio managers who they worked for.  Swapped Information  Six members of the group have pleading guilty and agreed to
cooperate with the U.S. and four men testified at Newman and
Chiasson’s trial, including former Diamondback analyst Jesse Tortora, who worked for Newman, and Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis,
a former Level Global analyst who worked for Chiasson.  Both analysts told jurors they swapped inside information
on technology companies which they passed to their fund managers
who they said traded on it. Tortora testified he passed the
information to Newman while Adondakis told jurors he gave tips
to Chiasson.  The Dell information Adondakis and Tortora funneled was
also passed to Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC’s Sigma
Capital Management unit. Horvath was charged with Chiasson and
Newman and pleaded guilty to  insider trading  charges in
September, weeks before the trial was to start. He also agreed
to cooperate with the U.S.  FBI Raid  On March 29 Michael Steinberg, the portfolio manager whom
Horvath reported to, was arrested and charged with insider
trading. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Diamondback, which was raided by the FBI in Nov. 2010 as
part of the U.S. investigation of insider trading on  Wall
Street , announced it would close in December after clients
pulled money.  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based fund received requests from
investors to withdraw about $520 million, or 26 percent of its
assets, co-founders Richard Schimel and Lawrence Sapanski said
in December. They said they plan to return the majority of the
money in January.  Newman’s lawyers, Stephen Fishbein and Jonathan Nathanson,
dispute the nearly $39 million Diamondback seeks as a victim of
the insider-trading scheme. Diamondback said it spent about
$10.2 million in legal fees related to the government’s criminal
investigation and more than $2 million in compensation.  “Although Diamondback has undoubtedly incurred expenses
over the course of these ongoing proceedings, it is not a
‘victim’ under the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act, and
therefore cannot claim entitlement to restitution,” Fishbein
and Nathanson said in a memorandum filed yesterday.  Claimed Losses  “Diamondback was a beneficiary of the scheme,” the
lawyers said. “It was only after the scheme had ended, and
after a public search of its premises by the FBI, that
Diamondback suffered any of its claimed losses.”  Newman was born in  Minneapolis  and moved to Wilton,
 Connecticut , where he grew up “in an average, middle-class,
intact and loving household,” according to the memorandum.
Before beginning a career in finance, Newman majored in
accounting at Skidmore College, in Saratoga Springs,  New York ,
and later earned a master’s in business administration from
Babson College, in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , according to the
filing.  First Opportunity  Diamondback recruited Newman in 2006, offering him his
“first opportunity to manage a portfolio on his own” when he
was 41 and had spent many years as an analyst, according to the
filing.  “Mr. Newman was not handed a lucrative hedge fund position
at a young age; rather he worked tirelessly to rise in his
profession to become a respected and successful portfolio
manager,” Newman’s lawyers said in the memorandum.  Newman has an “amicable” relationship with his ex-wife,
with whom he continues to live while they raise their 12-year-
old daughter, according to the filing. In a letter excerpted in
the memorandum, Newman’s former wife described him as having
“always led a simple, quiet life.”  “Todd does not drink, smoke, abuse prescription drugs,
take illegal drugs, or gamble. Todd rarely, if ever, swears,”
she said. “Todd is respectful of people and does not speak ill
of others.”  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Diamondback at ASC Advisors
LLC, declined to comment on Newman’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  