-- Mexican Peso Bond Yields Plunge as Japanese Stimulus Lures Money
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-19T14:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/mexican-peso-bond-yields-plunge-as-japanese-stimulus-lures-money.html
Mexico ’s peso bond yields tumbled
to a record low on speculation that  Japan ’s economic stimulus
measures will add to foreign investment in  Latin America ’s
second-biggest nation.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 tumbled seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.59 percent at 9:40 a.m.
in Mexico City, set for a record low on a closing basis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said yesterday that his
nation’s policies went unopposed at the Group of 20 meeting in
 Washington , signaling further weakening of the yen as the
central bank pushes ahead with stimulus measures. Mexico has
been benefiting from a surge in inflows from Japanese investors
seeking higher-yielding assets. Foreigners held a record 37
percent of Mexican  government bonds  on April 1, according to the
central bank.  Declining yields are a sign of “foreign flows, among them
from the Japanese,” Alejandro Padilla, a Mexico City-based
strategist at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in an e-mailed
response to question. “There’s strong appetite for Mexican
bonds.”  Yields also reflect speculation that the central bank may
use its next rate decision statement to signal the possibility
of additional cuts in benchmark borrowing costs, Padilla said.
Some investors betting on losses in the securities have probably
been closing out those positions, a practice known as short
covering, he said.  The peso climbed 0.6 percent to 12.2036 per  U.S. dollar ,
pushing its advance to 5.3 percent this year, the most among the
dollar’s 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. It rose 1.6
percent against the Japanese today, and it has soared 20 percent
against the yen in 2013.  Investment in Mexico from Japanese mutual funds, known as
Toshins, soared 187 percent in the seven months through March to
a record 268 billion yen ($2.7 billion), according to Nomura
Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  