-- Mexico Senate Alters Telecom Bill With Antitrust Protections
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-04-19T14:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/mexico-senate-alters-telecom-bill-with-protections-for-carriers.html
Mexico ’s Senate approved a  bill  to
boost competition in telecommunications, adding provisions to
give companies in other industries protections from the stronger
antitrust agency the proposal creates.  The Senate’s version of the bill says companies regulated
by the agency, the Federal Economic Competition Commission, can
request temporary injunctions against fines and forced asset
sales. Those changes won’t apply to telecommunications and media
companies, who will be fined and can be broken up by a separate
agency, the Federal Telecommunications Institute, whose
decisions can’t be suspended.  The proposal defines the legal options for  America Movil
SAB (AMXL)  and  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the nation’s biggest phone and media
companies, as they grapple with stricter rules and scrutiny.
While the bill allows the companies to go to court to overturn
decisions, they won’t be able to suspend regulations while
judges review their cases, a delaying tactic carriers have used
in the past.  The proposal also gives the  Communications and
Transportation Ministry , a cabinet-level agency in the executive
branch, 45 days to issue a nonbinding opinion on decisions by
the newly created, independent regulator, the Federal
Telecommunications Institute.  The bill, drafted by leaders of Mexico’s three major
political parties and backed by President Enrique Pena Nieto,
will also require the approval of a majority of legislatures
from 31 Mexican states and the capital before it can become law.  Majority Stakes  The proposal allows foreigners, for the first time, to take
majority stakes in landline phone and cable networks in Mexico,
a measure meant to create more competition for  America Movil ,
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . It also calls for the
creation of new television channels to compete with Televisa.  The new telecommunications and antitrust agencies created
by the legislation will have greater power to issue fines, force
companies to share assets and even require the breakup of
dominant carriers.  America Movil fell 2.7 percent to 12.15 pesos at 9:06 a.m.
in Mexico City after reporting a 17 percent decline in first-
quarter net income. Televisa dropped 0.9 percent to 61.66 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  