-- Fed’s Stein Says Liquidity Regulation Has Key Role for Stability
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-19T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/fed-s-stein-says-liquidity-regulation-has-key-role-for-stability.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said liquidity regulation is essential to financial
stability, while noting a need for a more moderate approach to
such oversight compared with supervision of capital.  “Liquidity regulation involves more uncertainty about
costs than capital regulation,” Stein said in remarks prepared
for a speech today in  Charlotte , North Carolina. “Even a policy
maker with a very strict attitude toward capital might find it
sensible to be somewhat more moderate and flexible with respect
to liquidity.”  The Fed is enacting new powers setting capital, liquidity
and risk management standards under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
overhauling financial regulation.  Central bank  officials aim to
prevent a repeat of the financial crisis in which liquidity
vanished for many firms, contributing to the collapse of Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Too much demand for liquidity, particularly during a
financial crisis, could lead to a shortage of liquid assets,
Stein said. Though the Fed can act as a lender of last resort,
this may induce financial institutions to be less prudent.  Regulators should aim to “strike a balance” between
reducing reliance on the Fed as a lender and “moderating the
costs created by liquidity shortages on the other hand --
especially those shortages that crop up in times of severe
market strain,” Stein said at the 2013 Credit Markets
Symposium, sponsored by the Richmond Fed.  No Comment  Stein’s speech provided an overview of the rationale and
challenges behind the Fed’s liquidity regulation. He did not
comment on the economy or the outlook for monetary policy in his
prepared remarks.  In an April 17 speech in  Washington , Stein highlighted
liquidity regulation, along with more robust  capital
requirements  and stress-testing as key to the Fed’s efforts to
prevent a systemically important institution from “finding
itself at the point of failure.”  Rather than opting for caps on the size of banks or a
forced separation of banking from investment banking and
trading, Stein said regulators should stick to their policy of
capital surcharges for size and complexity and watch how this
mechanism changes banks over time. If those surcharges aren’t
high enough, regulators could change them, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  after the financial crisis raised
analysis of financial stability to an equal footing with
monetary policy, creating the Office of Financial Stability
Policy and Research to monitor markets and financial
institutions for risk.  Bernanke has worked with  Daniel Tarullo , President  Barack Obama ’s first appointee to the Federal Reserve Board, to
overhaul supervision and regulation. He has also mobilized
economists, lawyers, and payment systems experts to oversee the
biggest financial institutions in a group called the Large
Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee.  Before joining the Fed in May, Stein, 52, was an economics
professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  New York  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible
For this story: Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  