-- Finance Chiefs Endorse Cuts as Reinhart-Rogoff Challenged
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/finance-chiefs-endorse-cuts-as-reinhart-rogoff-challenged.html
European finance chiefs reiterated
their faith in budget cuts after a challenge to academic
research they had used to buttress their case.  The defense for austerity was made as policy makers
gathered in  Washington  for the International Monetary Fund
meetings days after Harvard University economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  acknowledged that they had made a
mistake in a 2010 paper. The economists said the error didn’t
change the basic findings of the research that high public debts
are associated with slowing growth.  “It’s being used as an excuse by those who are always
opposed to make any attempts to control public spending or deal
with public debt,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told reporters today in Washington. “The contribution
that Rogoff and Reinhart have made to our understanding of the
impact of financial crises goes far beyond” one error in a
spreadsheet.  While European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said “we are not deciding our economic
policy in  Europe  on the basis of one single study,” he told
Bloomberg Television yesterday that the region “will have to
continue fiscal consolidation because the debt levels have
increased significantly.”  The paper, “Growth in a Time of Debt,” concluded that
countries with public debt in excess of 90 percent of gross
domestic product suffered measurably slower economic growth. The
Harvard professors said they had inadvertently left some data
out of their calculations in the study.  ‘Sobering’ Error  “It is sobering that such an error slipped into one of our
papers,” they said in an April 17 e-mail. “We do not, however,
believe this regrettable slip affects in any significant way the
central message of the paper.”  The e-mail came in response to a study released on April 15
by a trio of economists from the  University of Massachusetts  at
Amherst charging that the Reinhart-Rogoff work contained
“serious errors that inaccurately represent the relationship
between public debt and growth.”  In defending their work, Reinhart and Rogoff pointed out
that the University of Massachusetts study also finds “lower
growth associated with periods when debt is over 90 percent.”  The new study -- by Ph.D. candidate Thomas Herndon and
professors Michael Ash and Robert Pollin -- said the Harvard
economists excluded some data and unconventionally weighted the
statistics they included to reach their conclusions.  Empirical Research  Rehn said as recently as April 9 that “serious empirical
research” shows that public debt above 90 percent of GDP “acts
as a permanent drag on growth.” Osborne has also met with
Rogoff in the past.  Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  wrote in the  New York  Times
today that the affair showed austerity was “sold on false
pretenses.” He still predicted “the usual suspects will find
another dubious piece of economic analysis to canonize, and the
depression will go on and on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  