-- Ex-Dictator’s Party Bids to Regain Power in Paraguay Vote
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-04-19T20:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/former-dictator-s-party-bids-to-regain-power-in-paraguay-vote.html
The outcome of  Paraguay ’s election
this weekend is too close to call after Horacio Cartes, a
tobacco magnate and political newcomer, saw his comfortable lead
in the polls ebb away in the past few weeks.  Efrain Alegre, a former public works minister, had 37
percent support in an April 3-11 poll by Gabinete de Estudios de
Opinion, while Cartes had 35 percent. The survey of 1,400 people
had a margin of error of 2.6 percentage points. A month earlier,
surveys gave Cartes a lead of as much as 13.5 percentage points.  Cartes, 56, wants to return the Colorado Party of former
dictator Alfredo Stroessner to power after it lost elections in
2008 and left office for the first time in six decades. Cartes
backers say they hope he can use his entrepreneurial skills to
sustain and develop an agricultural boom forecast to spur the
fastest growth in  South America  this year. Opponents say he
won’t tackle inequalities that fueled a constitutional crisis 10
months ago and led to the ouster of President Fernando Lugo.  “Paraguay has a deeply entrenched, conservative elite,”
said Andrew Nickson, who directed a European Union project on
state reform in the landlocked nation and forecast a victory for
Cartes. “You have a rapidly growing economy and the trickle-
down effect of that is minimal.”  Support for Alegre grew after he won the backing of the
Unace party of the late Lino Oviedo, a former army chief who was
polling in third place before his Feb. 2 death in a helicopter
crash, Jose Morinigo, director of Gabinete de Estudios de
Opinion, said by phone from Asuncion.  Winner’s Challenge  Paraguay is the poorest country in South America after
 Bolivia , with a gross domestic product per capita of $6,788 this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Paraguay sold debt overseas in January for the first time
to finance investment in infrastructure. The $500 million bond
sale came after Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s
credit rating one level to Ba3 on Jan. 8, citing its “improved
medium-term growth prospects.”  The economy of the world’s fourth-largest soybean exporter
will expand 11 percent this year due to a bumper harvest,
according to the IMF. Agriculture accounts for a quarter of the
nation’s $24 billion economy.  The yield on Paraguay’s 4.625 percent dollar bond due
January 2023 has declined 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage
point, to 4.41 percent since Feb. 1. The guarani slid 0.7
percent to 4160 per  U.S. dollar  in trading today, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Easing Poverty  The challenge for the winner of the April 21 vote is to
help lift the third of the nation’s 6.6 million citizens living
on less than $4 a day out of  poverty . Although Paraguay is the
world’s largest generator of hydro-electricity, the capital of
Asuncion suffers from frequent blackouts because of under-
investment in transmission lines.  The winner will have to rebuild ties with the regional
trade bloc, Mercosur, after Paraguay’s membership was suspended
last June when lawmakers ousted Lugo, a former Catholic priest.  Lugo’s impeachment was so quick that South American leaders
likened it to a parliamentary coup. Mercosur includes  Brazil ,
 Argentina , Uruguay and  Venezuela .  Alegre, a 50-year-old senator, was Paraguay’s most
successful public works minister, overseeing a surge in road-
building under Lugo, according to Fernando Masi, director of
Asuncion-based economic research company Cadep.  Over two decades Cartes has built a business empire that
spans the cigarette, banking, cattle-rearing, and fruit juice
industries and is president of Club Libertad, one of the
country’s top soccer teams.  ‘Land Inequality’  Cartes, who helped secure passage last year of the
country’s first income tax legislation, said if elected he’ll
boost tax collection and spur private investment in
infrastructure. Alegre has pledged to crack down on corruption
and drug-trafficking and provide credit lines to small farmers
to ease rural poverty.  Lugo failed to build support for his policies of
redistributing land and was blamed by the country’s elites for
an increase in territorial disputes.  The event that triggered impeachment came on June 15, 2012,
when a shootout between landless peasants and police left 17
dead, including six officers.  Federico Franco, Lugo’s vice president, is leading the
country until the new president takes office Aug. 15.  “The problem of land inequality is a time bomb,” said
Nickson, who’s been a regular visitor to the country since the
1960s and co-edited the political and historical anthology “The
Paraguay Reader” published last year. “It’s one of Lugo’s
biggest failings that he didn’t get to grips with the growing
problem of landlessness, nor is it being addressed by the two
major parties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  