-- French Breast-Implant Maker Defends Unapproved Gel During Trial
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-04-19T13:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/french-breast-implant-maker-defends-unapproved-gel-during-trial.html
Jean-Claude Mas, the founder of
Poly Implant Prothese SA, a French breast implant maker whose
devices leaked, continued to claim his products are
“impeccable” in testimony during a fraud trial in  France .  More than 5,000 women have registered as victims in the
case, according to  Laurent Gaudon , a lawyer for 1,600 of them.
PIP’s founder, on trial alongside four of his former colleagues,
could face as many as five years in prison and a fine if
convicted, Gaudon said. More can join.  “They admit to cheating but they all maintain that for
them, the PIP gel isn’t dangerous,” Gaudon said in a telephone
interview today from Marseilles, during a pause in the hearing.  Medical authorities in France and  Germany , as well as other
countries, recommended women have the implants removed after
reports that some had leaked industrial-grade silicone inside
patients. About 400,000 PIP implants were sold worldwide, from
Australia and Brazil to Germany and the U.K. They weren’t
approved for use in the U.S.  The trial opened this week in a convention center in
Marseilles because the southern French city’s courthouse wasn’t
big enough to make room for “hundreds” of women and some 300
lawyers, Gaudon said. An investigation for possible manslaughter
is still on-going, he added.  PIP is accused of using unauthorized, cheaper substances in
its implants. Former employees told police they knowingly used
the unapproved filler, and hid barrels of the substitute and
erased evidence from computers to deceive officials during
annual inspections by TUEV  Rheinland Holding AG (RLV) , the German
company hired to certify quality control.  ‘Extraordinarily Organized’  TUEV “was the victim of an extraordinarily organized,
collective and systematic fraud,” Olivier Gutkes, TUEV’s Paris-
based lawyer, said in e-mailed comments today. “The entire
company, from the technicians to the management, participated
intentionally in the elaboration of the fraud and in its
concealment from the authorities.”  TUEV is also participating the trial as a victim alongside
the women.  It’s estimated that about 30,000 women in France carried
the leaky implants, according to the health-care regulator,
 National Medicine Security Agency , also known as ANSM. At the
end of 2012, 4,061 women in France had the implants removed
after detecting unwanted side effects like a ruptured implant or
inflammation, ANSM says. Another 10,900 women had the implants
taken out as a precaution, according to documents on ANSM’s
website, and the agency had been notified of 64 cases of  breast
cancer  among women carrying PIP implants.  ‘Still Impeccable’  One Frenchwoman with PIP implants died in 2011 of breast
cancer, the regulator said in its report on the case.  Mas “won’t admit any wrongdoing,” Gaudon said. For him,
“his gel is still impeccable; he couldn’t care less” about
evidence to the contrary, Gaudon added.  PIP, based in Toulon, was liquidated in March 2010 after
French regulators banned the company’s implants. Health
authorities around the world were notified about the discovery,
prompting medical device regulatory reform in  Europe .  Three calls for comment to the office of Mas’s lawyer, Yves
Haddad, went unanswered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  