-- FSB’s Carney Says Benchmarks a Priority in Wake of Libor Scandal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-19T17:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/fsb-s-carney-says-benchmarks-a-priority-in-wake-of-libor-scandal.html
Global regulators called for
nations to overhaul rules for interbank lending rates and other
so-called market benchmarks as a matter of urgency as
authorities seek to repair the damage wrought to market
confidence by rate-fixing scandals.  The Financial Stability Board said it would report in July
on progress made in identifying alternatives to tarnished
benchmarks, and on steps to improve oversight of rate setting.  “The current willingness of banks to participate in rate-
setting panels cannot be taken for granted, in view of the
perceived increase in regulatory, litigation and reputational
risks arising from recent cases,” FSB Chairman  Mark Carney 
said in a letter to finance ministers from the Group of 20
counties. “Uncertainty over the continued viability of a number
of widely used reference rates represents a potentially serious
systemic vulnerability.”  The setting of benchmark rates has faced a wave of
criticism after U.S. and U.K. regulators uncovered widespread
attempts by banks to manipulate the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined about $2.5 billion and at least a
dozen firms remain under investigation.  Other interbank lending rates, as well as benchmarks used
in the $379 trillion swaps market, have also come in for
scrutiny. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
probing suspected rigging of the ISDAFix rate used as reference
for derivatives trades.  ‘Urgent Need’  There is an “urgent need to identify and validate suitable
alternatives to existing financial benchmarks, anchored in
observable market transactions,” Carney, the incoming Bank of
England Governor, said in the letter dated April 15. The board
is discussing possible alternatives with the financial industry,
he said.  The FSB brings together finance ministry officials, central
bankers, and regulators from the G-20.  The call for benchmarks to be based on real data echoes
proposals this week from a panel of global supervisors led by
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority
Chief Executive Officer Martin Wheatley. It warned in a report
on April 16 that benchmark setting is a process with
“opportunities for abusive conduct,” through submission of
“false and misleading data.”  The  task force , set up under the auspices of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions, is
examining a far broader range of benchmarks than interbank
lending rates, including rates underpinning derivatives and
commodities markets. Iosco is a member of the FSB.  Bank Exodus  The probes into interbank lending lending rates have
sparked an exodus of banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  from some the panels that set the benchmarks.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, has said that he will propose legislation this year that
would toughen regulatory oversight of benchmarks, and force
banks to participate in rate-setting panels.  Carney also said today that the FSB would press ahead with
drawing up rules for  repurchase agreements  and other types of
so-called shadow banking activities.  The group is seeking to set minimum standards for how
investors should calculate possible losses on such so-called
repo trades, he said.  Carney said that banks are ahead of schedule in
meeting tougher international capital rules, known as Basel III,
that are scheduled to take full effect in 2019.  The remaining gaps in banks reserves “can easily be closed
through retained earnings during the transition period that runs
to 2019,” Carney said.  Banks in the EU “have more to do than those elsewhere to
close the gap,” Carney said in the FSB letter. “This is one
reason for the relative tightness of credit conditions in the
single market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  