-- GE Slides as Power & Water Unit Saps Industrial Profit
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-04-19T20:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/ge-quarterly-profit-matches-estimates-as-aviation-sales-rise-1-.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  fell the most
since 2011 after a first-quarter slide in its Power & Water
business pulled total industrial earnings down 11 percent.  Profit at GE’s manufacturing businesses fell to $2.94
billion as sales slid 5.7 percent to $22.7 billion, the company
said in a statement. The decline was led by a 39 percent drop in
earnings at the power and water unit, which makes products
including gas-powered and wind turbines.  “We planned for a continued challenging environment in
 Europe , but conditions weakened further,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said in the statement, with manufacturing
and service revenue in the region declining 17 percent.  The slide makes it tougher for the Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company to achieve the industrial growth targeted in its
full-year plan and emphasized in incentive-pay packages. The
profit margin at GE’s industrial businesses  contracted 71 basis
points  in the quarter, roughly the amount that Immelt had
predicted they would  grow  in the full year.  “Industrial profits were much weaker than we expected,”
said Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research Partners Inc., who has a
hold rating on GE. There’s “substantial doubt” that the
company can reach Immelt’s target now, he wrote.  GE’s 4.1 percent drop to $21.75 in  New York  was the largest
decline since November 2011.  The shares  previously gained 8
percent this year, compared with an 8.1 percent advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Weaker Europe  The power and water division saw its margin shrink by 3.2
percentage points, the most of any unit. It will be hard for the
business to equal its 2012 profit of $5.24 billion, Immelt said
on a conference call with analysts.  “Europe was weaker than we expected, and in particular the
power and water and oil and gas businesses were very soft,”
 Nick Heymann , an analyst at William Blair & Co. who has a
 market-perform rating  on the stock, said in a telephone
interview.  The company’s industrial revenue growth, excluding the
effect of acquisitions, will probably be closer to the lower end
of its 2 percent to 6 percent projection, Immelt said on the
call. He reiterated the 70 basis point margin-growth target.  Aviation sales  climbed 3.7 percent and transportation
increased 12 percent. That boosted GE’s equipment and services
backlog to a record $216 billion.  GE Capital ’s earnings climbed 8.7 percent, driven by real
estate advances.  NBC Sale  Companywide, adjusted profit from continuing operations
rose 13 percent to $3.63 billion, or 35 cents a share, the
company said. That matched the 35-cent average  estimate  of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The figure excludes gains from GE’s $18.1 billion sale of
its stake in  NBC Universal  in February, which boosted profit by
4 cents per share, the company said.  Immelt has already begun to redeploy the proceeds, spending
$3.3 billion to acquire  Lufkin Industries Inc. (LUFK)  and accelerating
share buybacks.  Revenue in the quarter was little changed at $35 billion,
GE said, topping the $34.6 billion  average estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  Counting pension costs and discontinued businesses, GE’s
net income rose 16 percent to $3.53 billion, or 35 cents a
share, from $3.03 billion, or 30 cents, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  