-- Gecina Says First-Quarter Income Rose on Occupancy, Debt Costs
-- B y   J e f f r e y   S t . O n g e
-- 2013-04-19T07:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/gecina-says-first-quarter-income-rose-on-occupancy-debt-costs.html
Gecina SA (GFC) , Paris’s largest publicly
traded office landlord, said first-quarter earnings rose 1.6
percent on improved margins and occupancy.  Pretax earnings excluding changes in asset values and other
items, known as net recurrent income, climbed to 81.2 million
euros ($106 million) from 79.9 million euros a year earlier, the
company said in a statement today. Occupancy increased to 94.1
percent from 93.4 percent and the rental margin gained 1.7
percent to 91.8 percent at the end of the quarter.  Gecina has been restructuring its holdings for the past two
years to help cut debt. Net financial expenses fell 15.6 percent
on a reduction in debt volume and lower overall debt costs,
according to the statement.  “Gecina continued to optimize its portfolio, looking to
improve the portfolio’s yield, while adapting it in line with
the target asset allocation,” it said. The company aims for a
portfolio that’s 70 percent offices and 30 percent other types
of real estate.  Paris-based Gecina said 111 million euros of residential
assets have been sold or are subject to preliminary sale
agreements. It’s also diversifying its tenant base and balancing
health-care assets between short-stay and mid -to long-stay
assets.  Gross rental income fell 5.2 percent to 143.8 million
euros, following asset sales, the company said.  Net recurrent income per share increased 1.9 percent
following a buyback program in the first half of last year. Net
current income per share will be stable in 2013, the company
said.  Gecina in February reported full-year earnings that beat
its own forecast as the company’s rental margin widened.  Yesterday, the company said Philippe Depoux will replace
Bernard Michel as chief executive officer, while Michel will
remain chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  