-- Georgian Saakashvili Targets Billionaire Premier in New Campaign
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-04-19T17:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/georgian-saakashvili-targets-billionaire-premier-in-new-campaign.html
The party of Georgian President
Mikheil Saakashvili unveiled a campaign to challenge billionaire
Prime Minister Bidzina Ivanishvili, who he accuses of steering
the Black Sea nation toward  Russia .  Saakashvili’s  United National Movement (UNBK)  used the first
opposition rally since it lost its grip on power at an October
election to present a new organization to help promote its long-
term goals of entry into the European Union and North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.  “The New National Movement will be about protecting the
country’s interests,” Giorgi Vashadze, a lawmaker from the
party, told a crowd of thousands today in the capital, Tbilisi.
“It’s not about hating Russia, it’s about respectful
partnership, which eventually leads us to our territorial
unity.”  Saakashvili’s party is battling to regain its popularity
amid tensions with Ivanishvili, who’s pledged to improve the
rule of law, raise living standards and revive relations with
Russia. Ties between the nations have been icy since a five-day
war in 2008 over a breakaway Georgian republic. Presidential
elections are due in October, when Saakashvili’s final term
ends.  While Ivanishvili has said  Georgia  will maintain efforts to
join the EU, the government is seeking to regain Russian  market
access  for agricultural products including cheese, fruit,
vegetables and meat after bans on wine and mineral water imports
were lifted.  As many as 49 percent of Georgians are dissatisfied with
their country’s relationship with Russia, while 38 percent are
happy, according to a survey funded by the Swedish International
Development Agency. The March poll of 3,103 people had a margin
of error of 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  