-- German Stocks Fall for Sixth Day; SAP, Commerzbank Drop
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-04-19T15:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/german-stocks-rise-after-five-day-decline-lanxess-gains.html
German stocks fell for a sixth day,
their longest losing streak since November 2011, amid
disappointing earnings statements from some of the nation’s
largest companies.  SAP AG (SAP)  declined 3 percent after reporting sales that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  fell after saying it expects
to report a loss in the first quarter.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.2 percent to 7,459.96 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , for a weekly loss of 3.7 percent. The
gauge dropped this week amid a slump in commodity prices and as
disappointing economic reports from the U.S. and  China  bolstered
concern that a global recovery is faltering.  “We’ve seen some solid selling in the DAX for more than a
week now and earnings are today’s culprit,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers Espanola de Valores in
Barcelona. “The index will find support soon, but in the
current risk-off environment investors are choosing to wait.”  SAP Declines  SAP declined 3 percent to 57.85 euros, its lowest price
since Jan. 22. The largest maker of business-management software
reported first-quarter software sales that trailed estimates
after failing to close contracts in the Asia-Pacific region.  Commerzbank dropped 2.2 percent to 1.14 euros. “The first
quarter of 2013 will be affected by one-off effects due to the
planned job cuts,” Germany’s second-largest lender said in a
written statement handed out at its annual shareholders’ meeting
in Frankfurt today. The bank said in March that it would incur
500 million euros of costs related to job reductions in the
first three months.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  rose 2.2 percent to 52.63 euros. Shares in the
chemical maker that joined the DAX in September have still lost
24 percent since Feb. 20. Analysts including Jaideep Pandya at
Berenberg Bank said in February that Lanxess is a takeover
target.  Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest maker of auto
parts, added 0.5 percent to 82.60 euros, paring earlier gains of
as much as 2.6 percent. The 14-day relative strength index for
the shares ended yesterday and on April 17 below 30, the first
time that has happened since the third quarter of 2011. The RSI,
which measures the degree to which gains and losses outpace each
other, is considered by analysts who use charts to make
forecasts to show an oversold level when it goes below 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  