-- Giants Visit Cowboys, Jets Host Buccaneers in NFL Season Openers
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/giants-face-cowboys-jets-host-buccaneers-in-nfl-season-openers.html
The  New York  Jets open their 2013
National Football League season at home against the  Tampa Bay
Buccaneers  on Sept. 8, while the New York Giants travel to the
 Dallas Cowboys  the same day.  The Super Bowl champion Baltimore Ravens break with
tradition to open their season on the road against the Denver
Broncos on Sept. 5, a Thursday. The Ravens couldn’t start their
season at home because of a schedule conflict with Major League
Baseball’s Baltimore Orioles, who play in an adjacent stadium.  The NFL last night announced its 17-week, 256-game regular-
season schedule, which ends Dec. 29 with 16 intradivision games.  The Jets’ game at MetLife Stadium marks the team’s fourth
straight season opener at home, the longest such stretch in
franchise history, the club said.  “The first thing that I look at is where you’re playing
that first game,” said Jets coach  Rex Ryan , whose team went
6-10 last season. “I always want to start the season at home,
get that buzz with the home crowd and get them going.”  The Jets will play two prime-time televised games, on Sept.
12 at the New England Patriots and on Oct. 7 at the National
Football Conference West champion Atlanta Falcons.  Manning Brothers  Giants quarterback Eli Manning will face his brother,
Broncos quarterback  Peyton Manning , for the third time during
New York’s home opener Sept. 15 at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  The Giants, who were 9-7 in 2012, will play five prime-time
contests.  “When I looked at the schedule the first word that came to
mind is ‘challenge,’” said  Tom Coughlin , who begins his 10th
season as the Giants’ head coach. “A unique challenge is the
opener with Dallas two years in a row -- and this time we’re on
the road.”  The Ravens, who defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31 in
the Super Bowl, have four nationally televised games including
the NFL opener at Denver. Thanksgiving night features the Ravens
hosting the NFC North rival Pittsburgh Steelers to cap a
tripleheader that begins with the Green Bay Packers at the
Detroit Lions and the  Oakland Raiders  visiting the Cowboys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  