-- Google Sees Renewable Energy Tariffs as New Utility Product
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-19T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/google-sees-renewable-energy-tariffs-as-new-utility-product.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has invested
more than $1 billion in renewable energy projects and buys wind-
generated electricity, said utilities should offer large
customers more options for using clean power.  “What’s needed is a new tariff structure that allows
companies to request and purchase renewable energy directly from
their utilities,” the Mountain View, California-based company
said in a  statement  today.  Google, the operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, is  funding  projects ranging from rooftop solar power at
homes to desert solar-thermal systems and two of the world’s
largest wind farms. It also  buys  wind power from two facilities
in  Oklahoma  and one in  Iowa  and has installed solar panels on
its corporate headquarters.  Each of those investments has limitations and “can be
cumbersome,” particularly the power purchase agreements,
because Google resells the electricity on the wholesale market
after retiring the associated green-energy credits, according to
the Google statement.  “While the renewable facility output is not being used
directly to power a Google data center, the PPA arrangement
assures that additional renewable generation sufficient to power
the data center came on line in the area,” Google said. “The
downsides are that these PPAs require us to actively manage
purchases and sales of power on the wholesale energy markets,
which can be a complex process,” it said.  Duke’s Program  More than 60 percent of Global Fortune 500 companies have
renewable energy or greenhouse gas reduction targets, though
utilities aren’t doing enough to satisfy demand, Google said.
“Even though companies want renewable power and are willing to
pay for it, the product is not being offered,” it said.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest U.S. utility owner, is
developing a program in North Carolina that would sell clean
energy directly to large customers that opt into the service
without raising prices for other ratepayers. The proposal will
be filed with state regulators within 90 days, and Google plans
to participate, the company said in an e-mailed statement
announcing a $600 million expansion of its data center in
Lenoir, North Carolina.  “We’re really trying to expand ways to drive more
investment in renewable power, and this is a mechanism for doing
that,” Michael Terrell, Google’s senior policy counsel for
energy and sustainability, said yesterday by telephone. “We’re
really hoping that this concept is something that catches on and
is enacted in many states,” he said.  Utilities owned by Dominion Resources Inc. and  NV Energy
Inc. (NVE)  have introduced similar proposals, according to Google.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  