-- Gorman Gains on Blankfein in Bet on Brokerage: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-04-19T09:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/gorman-gains-on-blankfein-in-bet-on-brokerage-credit-markets.html
Morgan Stanley’s reputation as Wall
Street’s weakest link is diminishing in debt markets as Chief
Executive Officer James Gorman’s bet on a brokerage unit that
has amassed $1.78 trillion in client assets starts to pay off.  The cost of  credit-default swaps  protecting investors
against losses on Morgan Stanley’s debt is about the lowest
relative to the bank’s peers in almost two years, with the gap
between it and its closest rival,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
narrowing to 14 basis points from as wide as 111 last year,
prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors
demand to own Morgan Stanley bonds instead of Treasuries more
than halved in the past year to 160 basis points.  Gorman is winning bondholders’ confidence by cutting the
firm’s reliance on trading businesses that posted a 52 percent
decline in revenue last year and shifting the firm’s focus to
its steadier brokerage unit. Pretax  profit  in that division
increased almost 50 percent in the first quarter while fixed-
income sales and trading revenue dropped the most among the
bank’s peers.  “The brokerage business has been the bright spot,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at New York-based
Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “They’ve been putting a lot of resources into that
business, and it’s yielding fruit.”  Smith Barney  Morgan Stanley agreed in September to buy  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
remaining stake in the brokerage joint venture, a deal approved
last month by the Federal Reserve. The bank said in January it
will pay $4.7 billion to buy the rest of the Smith Barney
business, which was created in 2009.  Revenue at the brokerage made up 51 percent of all sales
last year, compared with 28 percent in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s encouraged bond investors with the
wealth-management division’s consistent “stream of fees,” said
Pri de Silva, a banking analyst at New York-based debt-research
firm CreditSights Inc.  “It’s a much steadier form of income, compared to the more
volatile sales and trading business,” de Silva said in a
telephone interview.  Narrowing Gap  Credit swaps on Morgan Stanley have fallen the most among
the largest U.S. banks, dropping 304 basis points from a 2012
peak on June 4 to 150.5 basis points yesterday,  Bloomberg (MS)  prices
show. That’s about 33 basis points more than the average of
credit swaps tied to the six-biggest U.S. banks, from JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to Goldman Sachs, run by Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein, the data show. The gap has narrowed from as
wide as 175 basis points in May 2012.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the market moves.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Softbank Corp., the Japanese
telecommunications company vying with Dish Network Corp. to
acquire Sprint Nextel Corp., sold $3.3 billion of bonds
denominated in dollars and euros after increasing the offering
size by more than 50 percent. The market for corporate borrowing
through short-term IOUs contracted for the second time in three
weeks. The pace of collateralized loan obligations being raised
in the U.S. this year will probably level off after surging in
the first quarter, according to Fitch Ratings.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap  spread , a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.35 basis point to 13.86 basis points.
The gauge, which has dropped from a seven-month high on March
29, narrows when investors favor assets such as company bonds
and widens when they seek the perceived safety of government
securities.  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. rose for second day. The  Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade index , a credit-default swaps benchmark that
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 84.9
basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe  index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings declined 1.5 to 112.8 as of 10:11 a.m.
in  London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia
index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  fell 1.9 to
114.6, according to data provider CMA.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Softbank Offering  Bonds of New York-based Goldman Sachs were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, accounting for 3.5 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Softbank’s offering included seven-year debt split between
$2.49 billion of 4.5 percent notes yielding 339 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and a 625 million-euro
($816 million) portion of 4.625 percent securities yielding 395
basis points more than German government bonds, Bloomberg data
show.  Part of the proceeds from the sale, which was marketed last
week at $2 billion, is intended to be used for the Sprint
acquisition, said a person familiar with the transaction, who
asked not to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly. The sale isn’t contingent on the deal’s settlement.  Commercial Paper  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
fell $6.2 billion to $1.016 trillion outstanding in the week
ended April 17, the Fed said yesterday on its website. The
market has declined from a 17-month high of $1.133 trillion in
the period ended Jan. 16.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as payroll
and rent.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
fell for the second time in three days, declining 0.02 cent to
98.44 cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, reached
98.48 on April 15, the highest since July 2007.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  More than $26 billion of CLOs were sold in the first three
months of 2013, more than four times the $6 billion in the same
period last year, Fitch said yesterday. Fundraising may have
accelerated because of new rules from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. that took effect on April 1, according to the
report.  CLO Appetite  “Nonetheless, appetite for CLO issuance remains robust,”
Fitch said. The bank loan funds are expected to raise a total
$55 billion to $75 billion this year, according to the report.  In  emerging markets , relative yields were little changed at
297 basis points, or 2.97 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The measure had averaged 279.3
basis points this year.  Morgan Stanley, which was seen as less creditworthy than
some Italian lenders two years ago, now has one of the highest
liquidity-reserve levels among the biggest banks. The lender
estimated its coverage ratio of more than 125 percent in
February, topping Citigroup’s 118 percent and  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s 113
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stocks Diverge  The extra 160 basis points of yield investors demand to own
Morgan Stanley debt instead of Treasuries is 7 basis points
wider than the average spread for U.S. banks, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Banking index data. The gap
was 139 basis points a year ago.  “We’ve seen a considerable amount of compression in bank
spreads as they de-lever their balance sheets,” Ashish Shah,
the head of global credit investment at New York-based
AllianceBernstein Holding LP, which oversees $256 billion in
fixed-income assets, said in a telephone interview.  Equity investors aren’t as encouraged, sending Morgan
Stanley shares to the lowest level in three months yesterday
after reporting fixed-income trading fell 42 percent, the most
among the largest U.S. banks last quarter. The shares, which are
up 6.2 percent this year, fell 5.4 percent to $20.31 in  New York 
trading.  Morgan Stanley’s price to tangible book value, a measure of
a company’s net worth, is 0.80 per share, trailing Goldman’s
1.03 times.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs were converted to bank
holding companies in September 2008 amid the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, giving the Fed regulatory
oversight over the firms and allowing them to increase funding
through deposits.  Morgan Stanley borrowed $107.3 billion, the most of any
bank, from the Fed in September 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg News in 2011.  “A lot of investors have seen Goldman as the golden child
and treated it as such,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a
telephone interview. Now that Morgan Stanley is going to own all
of Smith Barney, “it’s signaling that you should be able to see
a better growth story from them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  