-- Greece’s Hellenic Petroleum to Meet Investors for Debut Bond
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-19T15:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/greece-s-hellenic-petroleum-to-meet-investors-for-debut-bond.html
Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Greece’s
largest refiner, is said to be planning its first bond sale.  The unrated company is arranging investor meetings in
Zurich, Geneva, London and  Athens  starting April 23, according
to a person familiar with the deal who asked not to be
identified because the details are private. The Athens-based
refiner would be the first Greek company to issue bonds since
 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  sold 700 million
euros ($916 million) of five-year bonds in January.  Greece’s government reached an agreement this week with its
so-called troika of creditors over conditions related to the
country’s next bailout payment. It includes the privatization of
assets such as Athens International Airport, which may be bought
by Shenzhen Airport Co. and Friedmann Pacific Asset Management,
according to a statement yesterday.  “There’s momentum around  Greece  at the moment with
privatizations and the troika’s review concluded without
requiring new fiscal measures, which was pretty positive,” said
Lefteris Farmakis, a strategist at Nomura International Plc in
London. “That could possibly make it easier for a Greek company
to sell bonds at this time.”  Hellenic Petroleum, which operates three refineries in
Greece, raised 830 million euros of loans in January to replace
borrowings from 2007. The company received a 605 million-euro
facility from a group of banks and a 225 million-euro loan
arranged by Alpha Bank AE.  Vasilis Tsaitas, a spokesman for Hellenic Petroleum in
Athens, confirmed the company will meet investors for a possible
Eurobond transaction.  Alpha Bank, Credit Suisse Group AG, Eurobank, HSBC Holdings
Plc and NBG Securities have been mandated to arrange the
meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  