-- Intensity of Brazil Rate Increases Hinges on Data, Pereira Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-04-19T21:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/intensity-of-brazil-rate-increases-hinges-on-data-pereira-says.html
     April 19 (Bloomberg) --The intensity of  Brazil ’s interest
rate increases will depend on future data, central bank director
Luiz Awazu Pereira da Silva said today, causing traders to boost
bets on tighter monetary policy.  Brazil’s inflation dynamics remain unfavorable, Pereira
said today at an event in Washington DC. The central bank’s
split vote to raise the benchmark rate this week reflects an
internal debate on what was the best timing for a raise, rather
than whether to increase borrowing costs, he said.  Brazil’s central bank on Wednesday raised the Selic rate to
7.50 percent after holding it at a record low 7.25 percent since
October. Two of the eight board members, including Pereira,
voted to keep rates unchanged. The bank said “the high level of
inflation and dispersion of price increases” prompted the first
rate increase since July 2011. Policy makers are under pressure
to slow inflation that surpassed the government’s target range.  “Intensity is something that we’ll consider in the
future,” Pereira said today. “It wasn’t a discussion about if,
but a discussion about when” to raise rates.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.87 percent at 4:50 p.m. local time, after
previously declining as many as six points. The real
strengthened 0.6 percent to 2.0076 per dollar.  Split Vote  On April 19, the swap rates plunged the most in 19 months
as the split vote and a rate increase smaller than some traders
expected spurred speculation monetary tightening cycle would be
limited.  Pereira said he voted to keep interest rates unchanged
because he expects the global economy to face a prolonged period
of slow growth. The world is still on “thin ice,” he said  “Pereira’s comments show disagreement on the timing of the
increase, but not the necessity,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief
strategist at Credit Agricole Brasil SA Dtvm, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “His remarks hit futures
because the market was flirting with the idea that the
tightening cycle was going to be less than 100 basis points. The
chance of that happening were reduced.”  Annual inflation in March reached 6.59 percent. The central
bank targets price increases of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  