-- Iraq to Vote in Local Poll Seen as Party Test of Strength
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2013-04-19T10:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/iraq-to-vote-in-local-poll-seen-as-party-test-of-strength.html
Iraqis cast ballots in provincial
elections tomorrow that will test the strength of the main
parties and gauge political trends before a parliamentary vote
next year.  More than 8,000 candidates are competing for about 400
provincial council seats. Polling stations will open from 7 a.m.
to 5 p.m. and counting will start as soon as polls close.
Initial results are due April 24 and final results by May 7,
according to the  Independent High Electoral Commission .  Members of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki’s Shiite State of
Law Coalition and former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi ’s secular
and Sunni-backed Iraqiya are taking part. The Supreme Iraqi
Islamic Council and Moqtada al-Sadr’s Sadrist Trend, both Shiite
and both allied to  Iran , are also vying for seats in the vote,
the first since the U.S. withdrawal in December 2011.  “The political map for the next government will be built
on the results of these elections,” Ibraheem al-Sumaidi, a
Baghdad-based political analyst, said in an interview. “Iraqi
political powers are now in a battle for survival. They aren’t
sparing any efforts to win.” Maliki hasn’t ruled out seeking a
third term in 2014.  Violence has increased in  Iraq  this year with insurgents
carrying out attacks to foment sectarian divisions -- at least
27 people died and 73 were wounded when a suicide bomber
exploded inside a  Baghdad  cafe yesterday, according to police.
Meanwhile, protests in five mostly Sunni regions against the
Shia-led government have also heightened tensions.  Campaign Posters  Electioneering efforts are visible in Baghdad’s Karrada
area, a central district with a religiously mixed population of
Shiite, Sunnis, and some Christians. Buildings and lamp posts
along its 4-kilometer (2.5-mile) main road are plastered with
campaign posters, some small, others billboard-sized. Most
visible were those belonging to Maliki’s coalition and the
Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council.  Roads to and from polling stations will be closed tomorrow,
amid a heavy police presence.  The wide array of candidates and lists has left some voters
in Karrada confused but not put off. They say they’re looking
for councillors to make improvements to the capital, 10 years
after the U.S.-led invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein .  “We want to change for the better,” said Mustafa al-
Ibadi, 25, a graduate who sells jeans. “We need more public
gardens and parks, good grids for sewage, water and electricity
and paved roads, entertainment parks, and more security.”  Religious Parties  Voting is taking place in 12 of 18 provinces. It has been
delayed in Anbar and Nineveh, two Sunni-majority provinces where
authorities say security can’t be assured, or the disputed area
of Kirkuk. Provinces that form the semi-autonomous Kurdistan
region in the north hold elections separately.  In addition to Baghdad, hotly contested seats are in the
oil-rich province of Basra in the south and those near
Kurdistan. At least 14 candidates have been killed in acts of
violence across the country.  Religious parties won the most seats in the previous
provincial elections in 2009, when voter turnout was about 51
percent -- lower than any previous poll since the invasion.  Thaier al-Mahdawi says neither apathy nor the fear of
violence is a reason to stay at home this time.  “There must be someone good among these candidates who
wants to make change,” the 54-year-old printing press worker
said in Karrada. “He who doesn’t vote, doesn’t think about the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  