-- MIT Officer Killed Was Brother of Hendrick Motorsports Machinist
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-19T18:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/mit-officer-killed-was-brother-of-hendrick-motorsports-machinist.html
The  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  campus officer killed last night by a suspect in the
 Boston Marathon bombings  was the brother of an employee at
Hendrick Motorsports, the Nascar auto racing team whose drivers
include Jimmie Johnson and Jeff Gordon.  “The thoughts and prayers of everyone at Hendrick
Motorsports are with Andrew Collier and his family,” the racing
team said in a  statement  on its website. “Andrew, a machinist
in the Hendrick Motorsports engine department, tragically lost
his brother, Officer Sean Collier, last night in Cambridge,
Mass. We ask that the family’s privacy be considered during this
difficult time.”  Sean Collier, 26, had been an officer at MIT since January
2012. He was shot last night while responding to reports of a
disturbance on campus, according to a statement from Middlesex
Acting District Attorney Michael Pelgro. He was found with
multiple gunshot wounds and transported to  Massachusetts General
Hospital , where he was pronounced dead.  Hours after federal investigators released photographs
yesterday of two suspects in the April 15 bombings at the  Boston 
Marathon, police received reports of a carjacking in Cambridge.
The carjacking victim was kidnapped before being released about
a half-hour later, leading to a police search for the vehicle
and a shootout with the two suspects.  One suspect, Dzhokar Tsarnaev, a 19-year-old immigrant,
escaped during the confrontation in the Boston suburb of
Watertown, according to a federal law enforcement official.  Tsarnaev ran over the other suspect, his older brother
Tamerlan, during the the Watertown shootout, according to the
official.  Stay Inside  Public transportation was halted this morning and
Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  asked all residents of
Boston and several surrounding suburbs to stay inside with their
doors locked and allow in only police.  Andrew Collier, 25, joined  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Hendrick Motorsports in September 2008.  The racing team’s drivers are Johnson, who has five Sprint
Cup Series championships and 62 Nascar victories, including
February’s Daytona 500; Gordon, who has four championships and
87 wins; Dale Earnhardt Jr., who has 19 wins; and Kasey Kahne, a
15-time winner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  