-- MIT Officer Dies in Shooting Linked to Bombing Suspects
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-04-19T23:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/mit-officer-dies-in-shooting-linked-to-bombing-suspects.html
As black bunting adorned the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  police station for slain
officer Sean Collier, neighbors gathered in the Boston suburb of
Somerville, bringing water, food and well wishes for his
roommates and officers who stood guard in front of his house.  “He dedicated his life to becoming a police officer,”
said Somerville Alderman Bob Trane, speaking with reporters
outside the multifamily home as a group of Tufts University
students draped an American flag off their balcony. “I was just
so impressed with his dedication towards his goal. It’s tragic.
You don’t often come across someone so wise beyond his years.”  Collier, 26, was found in his car at 10:30 p.m. yesterday,
about 10 minutes after police received reports of shots fired on
the MIT campus, according to law enforcement officials, who are
linking his death to the two suspects in the  Boston  Marathon
bombing attack, Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19, and his brother, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, 26.  The older brother was killed in a subsequent shootout in
nearby Watertown; the younger brother is the subject of a
manhunt that locked down Boston for most of the day.  “We are heartbroken by the loss of our wonderful and
caring son and brother,” Collier’s family said in a statement.
“Our only solace is that Sean died bravely doing what he
committed his life to -- serving and protecting others.”  Officer Wounded  Boston transit officer Richard Donohue, 33, was in critical
but stable condition after being shot in the Watertown
confrontation, said Michael O’Connell, a spokesman for Mt.
Auburn Hospital, where the officer underwent surgery.  “Facing extraordinary danger, officer Donohue never
hesitated in fully engaging the terrorists in order to protect
the citizens of the commonwealth,” Paul MacMillan, chief of the
Massaschuetts Bay Transportation Authority Police, said in a
statement. “I am extremely proud of him, and cannot say enough
about his heroic actions.”  The family has received a “tremendous outpouring” of
support, according the statement. MacMillan said the family
wanted to extend condolences to the Collier family. Donohue and
Collier graduated from the same Municipal Police Officers’
Training Academy class, said MBTA spokesman Joseph Pesaturo.  Donohue and his wife, Kimberly, have a son.  Collier, who grew up in suburban Wilmington,  Massachusetts ,
did well on a civil service exam and probably would have landed
a job with the Somerville Police Department this year, city
officials said. Before joining the MIT police force, he was a
civilian information-technology worker for the city.  “He was dedicated to his work,” Somerville Mayor Joseph
Curtatone told WBUR radio. “He had a passion for his job. We
were excited at the prospect for him to come back.”  Collier suffered multiple gun-shot wounds and was taken to
 Massachusetts General Hospital , where he was pronounced dead.  He was “a dedicated officer who was extremely well-liked
by his colleagues and the MIT community,” MIT Police Chief John
DiFava said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  