-- Japanese Firm Luring Investors With Nobel-Winning Technology
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-04-19T00:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/japanese-firm-luring-investors-with-nobel-winning-technology-1-.html
Retina Institute Japan K.K. , which
is employing Nobel Prize-winning stem-cell technology to treat
eye diseases, plans to sell a stake in itself to a group of
Japanese companies next month ahead of a possible initial public
offering in five years.  The company, based in Fukuoka City, Japan, will raise 1
billion yen ($10.2 million) from the sale to fund development of
a treatment for age-related macular degeneration -- a leading
cause of blindness in the elderly -- using technology developed
by  Riken , Japan’s state-controlled research institute, Chief
Executive Officer Hardy Kagimoto said in an interview.  After raising about 32 billion yen so far from investors,
Retina is developing technology from a discovery that won Shinya Yamanaka, a professor at  Kyoto University , the  Nobel Prize  for
medicine in October. Yamanaka discovered a way to turn ordinary
skin cells into what are called induced pluripotent stem, or
iPS, cells.  “The development of retina treatment with iPS cells can
lead to development of the cell-utilized therapies for a wide
range of diseases,” said Akitsu Hotta, an assistant professor
at Kyoto University who studies  stem cells . Retina’s
commercialization of the technology “will be a big milestone.”  Retina last month estimated the potential market for its
treatments at $21 billion.  Clinical Trials  The sale of a 3 percent stake values Retina at 33 billion
yen.  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506) , which paid 1.5 billion yen
for 5 percent of Retina, jumped as much as 8 percent in Tokyo
trading the day after that deal was announced in March.  Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories Ltd. (2395) , which said April
9 that it plans invest 300 million yen in Retina, jumped as much
as 12 percent today.  Tella Inc. (2191) , which is buying 100 million yen
of shares in the company, was up 7.4 percent. Both stocks have
more than quadrupled over the past six months.  “Investors are rushing to buy shares of companies that are
involved in stem-cell therapy and treatment technologies,” said
Tsutomu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Kabu.com Securities Co.  Kagimoto, 36, declined to name the companies participating
in the current round of fundraising and said he has no plans to
sell shares to local or foreign private equity firms.  Retina is targeting an IPO in five years in  Japan  and the
U.S. to finance commercialization of the treatment, said
Kagimoto, who’s also a medical doctor. The company will conduct
a clinical trial in Japan for treatment for age-related macular
degeneration, and similar testing in the U.S., he said.  Yamanaka’s breakthrough, first announced at a meeting in
Toronto in 2006, stunned the scientific world by showing that
even as cells of the body age, they retain in latent form the
unlimited potential they had as embryonic cells.  Researchers from Riken in January reported they have
succeeded for the first time in creating  cancer -specific immune
system cells from iPS cells, the institute said in a Jan. 4
statement. This could potentially serve as cancer therapy in the
future, Riken said.  “Advanced medical technologies around iPS cells would be
one of Japan’s vital competitive edges in the next decade or
two,” Kagimoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  