-- Kerry to Offer More Syrian Rebel Aid as Lawmakers Seek Arms
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-20T14:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/kerry-to-offer-more-syrian-rebel-aid-as-lawmakers-push-for-arms.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  is
expected to announce more non-lethal aid to Syrian rebels today
at a meeting of groups fighting to oust President Bashar al- Assad, as U.S. lawmakers press the Obama administration to
provide military help for the insurrection.  The latest assistance could include humanitarian supplies,
military vehicles, night-vision goggles and communications
equipment, according to an administration official who asked not
to be identified before the plan is announced. Specifics will be
determined at today’s meeting, said a second official who wasn’t
authorized to speak to the media. The aid being discussed falls
short of the weaponry or military engagement sought by some
Democratic and Republican members of Congress.  Kerry met with Syrian opposition leader Moaz al-Khatib in
Istanbul today before going on to a full meeting of foreign
ministers involved in the Friends of  Syria  group, including his
counterparts from the U.K.,  France ,  Italy , Jordan, Qatar and
 Saudi Arabia  among others.  U.S. administration officials acknowledged in April 17
congressional testimony that efforts to unify the opposition’s
political factions haven’t succeeded and that their
understanding of rebel military forces has deteriorated as
extremist groups fighting Assad, such as the al-Qaeda-linked al-
Nusra Front, have gotten stronger.  Regime Alternative  “We’re trying to get everybody on the same page,” Kerry
told the House Foreign Relations Committee. Opposition groups
have been hamstrung by infighting, policy differences and
personal rivalries, reducing their ability to provide a viable
alternative to the regime.  “We are working very, very closely with the Syrian
opposition, with the Syrian military coalition, and with our
core partners,” Kerry said.  The same day, General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that,
in distinguishing moderate rebel military groups from radicals,
it’s “actually more confusing on the opposition side today than
it was six months ago.”  Dempsey had urged arming the opposition, along with former
Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus and former
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Arms Flow  “Now that we’ve seen the emergence of al-Nusra and Ahrar
al-Sham, notably,” Dempsey said April 17, referring to Islamist
groups, “and now that we’ve seen photographs of some of the
weapons that have been flowing into Syria in the hands of those
groups, now I am more concerned than I was before.”  Lawmakers urging the administration to take greater action
include New Jersey Senator  Robert Menendez , the Democrat who
leads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; Michigan
Democratic Senator Carl Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee; and Representative Ed Royce, the California
Republican who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  They point to the Assad regime’s use of Scud missiles, air
strikes, and possibly chemical weapons. More than 1.3 million
Syrians have flooded  Turkey , Jordan, and Lebanon, 4.25 million
more are internally displaced, and more than 75,000 have been
killed, according to the UN.  Safe Zones  Royce has prepared bipartisan legislation calling for the
U.S. to arm Syrian rebels, while Levin and others have urged
President  Barack Obama  to support the creation of safe zones
along the Turkish border with Syria and the deployment of
Patriot missile batteries “to neutralize” Syrian planes, Levin
said April 17.  “We must do more to tip the balance in favor of the Syrian
opposition,” Royce said April 17.  The Defense Department is assessing options for military
intervention, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told Levin’s
committee on April 17. The administration remains opposed to
taking that step, because it could hinder humanitarian
assistance, strain international alliances, pull the U.S. into a
long military commitment, and “have the unintended consequences
of bringing the  United States  into a broader regional conflict
or proxy war,” Hagel said.  The U.S. military is engaged in “robust” military
planning for a “range of contingencies” including the use of
chemical weapons, Hagel said. Obama has declared the use of
Syria’s chemical stockpiles, the largest in the region, a “red
line” that would prompt a U.S. response.  Jordan Aid  One $70 million U.S. effort provides  Jordan  with training
and equipment to detect and stop chemical-weapons transfers
along its border with Syria and develop capacity to identify and
secure chemical weapons assets, Hagel said. Similar work is
taking place in Turkey and  Iraq , he said.  Dempsey said military contingency planning includes the
possibility of creating safe zones in Turkey and Jordan.  Kerry told lawmakers the administration hopes to follow the
so-called Geneva plan, a political blueprint backed by  Russia 
that provides a structure for Assad’s departure and a political
transition.  Kerry’s aid announcement in Istanbul is expected to outline
more than $100 million in military equipment including
sophisticated communications gear, armored vehicles and night
vision systems, the administration official said. He will also
announce $20 million in humanitarian aid on top of nearly $385
million the U.S. has already provided, the official said.  NATO Talks  After Istanbul, Kerry will visit Brussels for a meeting of
North Atlantic Treaty Organization foreign ministers, where he
will see Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , who will be
there for a NATO-Russia meeting. Russia, which has protected
Syria from vetoes at the  United Nations  and continues to provide
the regime with weapons, declared yesterday that the Syrian
conflict has become a “regional catastrophe.”  Russia’s Foreign Ministry also warned that U.S. plans to
deploy a military unit in Jordan may scuttle peace efforts in
neighboring Syria.  Yet Russia is now a potential source of support and
information on the Boston Marathon bombing, which authorities
say was the work of two brothers. One of the men was born in
Russia and the other in Kyrgyzstan, according to two U.S. law
enforcement officials who asked for anonymity. Kerry, a former
Massachusetts senator, may raise the topic with Lavrov in
Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  