-- Kittiratt Cites Rift With Bank of Thailand Chief as Baht Rises
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-04-19T06:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/kittiratt-cites-rift-with-bank-of-thailand-chief-as-baht-rises.html
Thailand ’s finance minister
complained of a lack of communication with the central bank
chief stemming from their opposing economic views, a reflection
of tensions over whether lower  interest rates  are needed.  “We have different economic opinions -- we need to
understand each other,” Kittiratt Na-Ranong told reporters in
Bangkok today, after saying late yesterday that he had to send a
letter to the Bank of Thailand’s chairman in February because he
couldn’t talk with Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul.  The finance minister said at an event yesterday that he had
“thought” about removing Prasarn, while he added today that
“I have many thoughts and finally they are just thoughts.”
Prasarn has held off on cutting rates in four meetings even as a
7 percent jump in the nation’s currency threatened to curb Thai
export competitiveness.  Thailand is attracting funds because investors are
confident about the economy’s strength and it doesn’t face the
uncertainty tied to impending elections in  Malaysia  or a large
current-account deficit like  Indonesia , Prasarn said last month.
Kittiratt said today that the country should be “careful” of
speculative inflows into the local  bond market .  “Such a gap between the government and the central bank
happens in some other countries,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief
trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Whether he can really fire the
governor is a separate issue because of the independence of the
central bank. That’s probably why the market has stayed calm.”  Baht Rally  The baht has surged 6.6 percent against the dollar this
year, reaching the strongest level since the currency’s
devaluation in July 1997 sparked the Asian financial crisis. The
currency was little changed at 28.69 per dollar as of 1:43 p.m.
in Bangkok from late yesterday in  New York , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Global funds bought $1.7 billion more Thai government debt
than they sold this month, taking this year’s net purchases to
$12 billion,  Thai Bond Market Association data  show. They sold a
net $486 million of Thai equities this month and $362 million
this year, according to exchange data.  In a debate late yesterday with Korn Chatikavanij, deputy
leader of the opposition Democrat party, Kittiratt was asked
whether he’d considered removing Prasarn.  “Yes, but it’s just a thought,” Kittiratt said. “This is
the first time I said I have thought about it.” When asked
under what circumstances he may push to have the governor
replaced, Kittiratt said “pass,” and declined to answer
further questions on the topic.  Growth Forecast  Prasarn was unavailable for comment on Kittiratt’s remarks
when called at his office in Bangkok today. He was appointed to
a five-year term as governor in 2010.  Under  Thai law , a central bank governor can only be removed
by the Cabinet on the recommendation of the finance minister or
the Bank of Thailand’s board as a result of misconduct or gross
incompetence.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee voted five-to-
one to keep the one-day bond repurchase rate unchanged at 2.75
percent on April 3. A week later, the bank raised its forecast
for economic growth this year to 5.1 percent from 4.9 percent.  Both Kittiratt and Prasarn have ruled out imposing  capital
controls  to stem baht gains.  “When we have a difference of opinion, I need to try to
convince him to think like me,” Kittiratt said today. “Harmony
in managing the economy is important. We don’t have a problem in
our relationship. We just have different views.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  