-- Natural Gas May Fall on Milder Weather Outlook, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-04-19T19:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/natural-gas-may-fall-as-mild-weather-cuts-fuel-use-survey-shows.html
Natural gas may decline next week
to break a record streak of gains as moderating weather reduces
demand for the heating and power-plant fuel, a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Seven of 11 analysts, or 64 percent, forecast that futures
will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through April 26.
Three, or 27 percent, said gas will stay the same and one
predicted prices will rise. Last week, 58 percent of
participants said gas would drop.  Temperatures will be above normal along the West Coast next
week and seasonal in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states, said
MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The central
states may see cooler-than-normal weather.  Gas prices  have
gained 9.4 percent so far this month as an early spring cold
snap spurred demand for heating, reducing seasonal injections
into storage facilities.  “Without a strong fundamental driver, such as weather-
related demand, investors will likely be tempted to take profit
from the month-to-date rally,” said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  New York . “However,
we don’t anticipate a large drop in prices but rather a slow
deterioration until such time that the inventory injections
begin to pick up.”  Natural gas futures for May delivery this week jumped 18.6
cents, or 4.4 percent, to $4.408 per million Btu in New York,
the highest settlement price since July 20, 2011. Gas rose for
the ninth straight week, the longest streak of gains on records
going back to April 1990, according to Nymex data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stockpile Deficit  Gas stockpiles  rose by 31 billion cubic feet to 1.704
trillion cubic feet in the week ended April 12, below the five-
year average gain of 39 billion, the EIA reported yesterday.
 Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg forecast an increase of
38 billion. It was the first supply gain of the year.  Supplies were 32 percent below year-earlier levels, the
widest  deficit  based on EIA data going back to 2005. Stockpiles
dropped to 4.2 percent below the five-year average, the biggest
such gap since February 2011.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  1      7      3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  