-- Senate Hearing Puts Immigration Focus on Border Security
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-19T14:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/nepolitano-testimony-puts-immigration-focus-on-border.html
For the premiere hearing on a
proposed revision of immigration laws in the  U.S. Senate , the
bill’s advocates made a strategic decision about the first topic
of discussion.  Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  had been
scheduled to testify today about border security to the Senate
Judiciary Committee. Her appearance was postponed during the
continuing manhunt for a suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing,
and panel Chairman  Patrick Leahy  said her testimony will be
rescheduled.  Border security benchmarks that the proposal sets as a pre-
condition for providing 11 million undocumented immigrants an
opportunity to become citizens are under scrutiny by both those
concerned they’re too weak and those who want to ensure they’re
not too stringent.  Satisfying such concerns will be essential to preserving a
delicate bipartisan coalition that’s formed around the latest
attempt to overhaul immigration laws. The  Republican Party  is
split over whether allowing citizenship for the undocumented
rewards lawbreakers and undercuts U.S.  workers , while Democratic
lawmakers and immigrant advocacy groups are skeptical about the
border security aspects.  “One of the things I am going to look closely at in this
bill is just what they are doing on border security,” Senator
 Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said yesterday heading into a
closed-door briefing on the measure. “I see some things in
there about building more fences and walls. I don’t know what
that’s all about. That could be very disturbing for me.”  The product of months of negotiations between four
Republican and four Democratic senators, the plan unveiled this
week attempts to strike a balance: provide the path to
citizenship that Democrats insist must be part of any broad
rewrite and tie it to enough border security enhancements to
satisfy Republicans.  Beyond those issues, the bill’s authors have other
negotiated sections that are critical to maintain. They include
a deal struck between the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor
group, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the biggest business
association, on a low-skilled guest worker program, as well as
an accord between farm workers and  agricultural  businesses on
revisions to the visa program for fruit and vegetable
harvesters.  The response thus far is positive, with support expressed
from immigrant advocacy groups, labor unions, business lobbying
organizations and a swath of senators from both parties.
President  Barack Obama , who has made revising immigration policy
one of his main second-term goals, earlier this week called the
Senate measure “largely consistent” with his views.  ‘Delicate Balance’  Yet the proposal’s authors say keeping various
constituencies on board as the legislation moves through the
Senate Judiciary Committee and to the chamber’s floor will be
difficult.  “That’s tricky,” Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat who helped write the proposal, said yesterday. “It’s a
delicate balance.”  The Obama administration has been skeptical about making
the  citizenship  path contingent on border security enhancements.
Napolitano said yesterday at an unrelated hearing on  Capitol
Hill  that it appeared the Senate plan took a “very reasonable
approach to border security.”  The committee is scheduled to hold another hearing on the
immigration plan April 22 and could begin amending the measure
the week of May 6. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, has pledged to bring the bill to the Senate floor “no
later than June,”  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer , another
Democratic member of the group, said yesterday.  Amendment Process  Democratic leaders have said they will allow a vigorous
amendment process, both in the committee and on the floor, so
lawmakers will have opportunities to alter the bill.  The eight senators who wrote the proposal have said they
will fight any change that could scuttle it.  “If you have a better idea, bring it on, but if you want
to kill it, we’re going to have a talk about that,” Senator
 Lindsey Graham , a  South Carolina  Republican and another member
of the group crafting the bill, said yesterday.  Democratic senators, including Schumer, met privately April
17 with representatives of pro-immigration advocacy groups and
aligned organizations to hear their feedback and urge their
support.  Attendees raised questions about whether border security
triggers were so stringent that they would prevent people from
becoming citizens and about the effectiveness of racial-
profiling prohibitions in the bill, said  Frank Sharry , executive
director of America’s Voice, a Washington-based immigrant
advocacy group.  ‘Moving Goal Posts’  “The concerns are that at some point it gets manipulated
and politicized in a way that we have moving goal posts,”
Sharry said. “We’ve seen it before and so that’s where our
skepticism comes from.”  The Senate plan allows undocumented immigrants who pay at
least $2,000 in fines and meet other criteria to apply for
citizenship after more than a decade in the U.S., though only if
specific border security benchmarks are reached.  The plan for securing the border must, within five years,
result in an apprehension rate of at least 90 percent in “high-
risk” sectors where more than 30,000 people are caught a year.
If that rate isn’t met, the proposal would establish a
commission of border-state officials and border-security experts
to recommend ways to achieve the 90 percent goal.  The proposal also would authorize $1.5 billion to build
additional fencing and make other infrastructure improvements
along the U.S.-Mexico border.  ‘Huge Problem’  Sharry said it would be a “huge problem” if Republicans
add new prerequisites for individuals becoming citizens.  Building additional border fencing sets the wrong image for
the U.S., costs too much, and is “not going to do any good,”
Harkin said. “What an image for America: You’re going to build
walls around us?”  On the Republican side, Alabama Senator  Jeff Sessions  and
Texas Senator  John Cornyn  are among the lawmakers saying they
aren’t convinced the bill’s border security aspects will do
enough to stop illegal crossings.  Sessions said yesterday in an interview that he is seeking
assurances that more fencing will be built.  “There’s no confidence that it will happen,” Sessions
said, adding that he “and others would offer some amendments.”  Republican Senator  Tim Scott  of South Carolina said
yesterday he still has “a lot of unanswered questions” about
the bill’s border security aspects, which he termed “incredibly
important” to him in deciding whether to back the measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  