-- Newtown Heartbroken Twice Vows to Press for Gun Controls
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/newtown-heartbroken-twice-vows-to-press-for-gun-controls.html
Jean Smith, eyes brimming with
tears, leaps into the conversation at the Sandy Hook Diner about
the Senate scuttling a bill to stiffen background checks for
gun-buyers.  “When I heard of the vote, I thought, my God, this is
putting the parents of those children back into this horrible
moment and saying to them that we don’t care,” Smith said over
a breakfast of eggs sunny-side up. “I want to know every person
who voted against it and get them out of office.”  She isn’t alone in this sentiment at a diner a half-mile
from Sandy Hook Elementary School, where Adam Lanza killed 20
first-graders and six educators with a semi-automatic rifle on
Dec. 14. In Newtown, Connecticut, the day is remembered simply
as 12/14 -- in the way that 9/11 has become the shorthand for
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  The day after the  U.S. Senate  fell six votes short of
enacting a stripped-down version of gun controls that President
 Barack Obama  proposed in response to the Newtown shootings, this
town that wanted to find meaning in legislation that might spare
another community from the tragedy that befell its children
instead was sorting out feelings of betrayal.  “There’s anger and frustration,” said Duane Jones, 57,
who comes once a month to the diner with a friend he met at the
Methodist church next door. “You hope they don’t get re-
elected. It’s that initial revenge thought you have.”  Lobbying Muscle  This town had lent its own muscle to the lobbying effort in
 Washington . A dozen relatives of the Newtown victims flew to
Washington aboard Air Force One with Obama and made the rounds
of Senate offices in the weeks leading to the vote. Francine
Wheeler, whose 6-year-old son, Ben, was killed at Sandy Hook
Elementary, delivered Obama’s weekly radio address April 13.  And some of those family members joined the president in
the  Rose Garden  after the Senate’s vote April 17 as Obama
declared it “all, in all, a shameful day for Washington.”  Pat Llodra, 70, a Republican serving her second term as
first selectman, Newtown’s highest elected office, called the
Senate’s vote an “act of political cowardice.”  “I prayed for it to pass nonstop,” Llodra said of the gun
bill, in an interview in her municipal building office. “I want
so much for the families to feel they’ve accomplished this very
difficult task in the face of very deep pain.”  Llodra, pledging to press the fight for stricter  gun 
regulations, also says she will do all she can to help ensure
that those who opposed the bill are defeated at re-election.  “Never, until the day I die, will I turn away from this
issue,” Llodra said. “I will do everything I can to send the
message to the people in those states that these senators lacked
the courage to help us to a better future.”  Senators Regroup  In Washington the day after the vote, lawmakers who
supported the bill voiced dismay and determination as well.  “I just can’t even hardly talk about it,” said Senator
 Joe Manchin , the West Virginia Democrat who co-sponsored the
measure for expanded background checks for gun buyers, asked at
a Wall Street Journal breakfast what he would say to Newtown.  “Let me just tell you how these people have moved all of
us,” said Manchin, who met with family members in Washington.  Democrats, who largely supported the measure, vowed to
continue pressing for legislation. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada , who voted no to reserve the right to have the
measure reconsidered as one who was on the prevailing side, told
the Senate: “We are going to come back to this bill.”  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a  Connecticut  Democrat and
former state attorney general, said in an interview: “The
Senate said no to America, but Americans won’t take no for an
answer.”  Newtown’s Resolve  In Newtown, months after the murders, they’re still seeking
answers and a sense of normalcy. Day-to-day life goes on, yet
with no sense of solace. With the gun bill’s collapse, some say,
the fight only continues.  “It’s tragic, but if it had to happen anywhere, Newtown
was the place for it to happen, because these families won’t let
it end,” said Linda Manna, who moved her antique shop to the
Sandy Hook village, a jurisdiction within Newtown, in July after
12 years in the town. “They will keep going until they get the
satisfaction that they deserve.”  There are some in Newtown, like 24-year-old Tony Magliocco,
who see the bill’s failure as an example of the system working
the way it’s supposed to function.  “It takes more than a tragedy to change constitutional
rights,” said Magliocco, Sandy Hook resident and graduate  of
Newtown’s high school. “Laws aren’t supposed to be passed in an
emotional reaction. We can show support in every other way.”  That isn’t to say his heart wasn’t broken on 12/14. He has
turned to God and church seeking answers. “It’s where you can
find a sense of comfort and a cosmic justice system,” he said.  Going Forward  After the December shootings, Selectman Llodra commissioned
a 28-member group of elected officials to guide the town
forward. Among the first decisions: When to take down the
memorial set up in Sandy Hook -- a mass of candles, teddy bears
and flowers on a street corner.  The next decision will be its biggest: What to do with the
elementary school that served as the heart of the Sandy Hook
community. The school has been closed since the massacre, its
students sent across town. It was the lifeblood for shops that
comprise the center of Sandy Hook on Church Hill Road.  With parents and faculty gone, and others avoiding the area
because of the emotions it raises, a restaurant and coffee shop
have closed their doors.  Ron Provenzano moved in. In February, he rented the
shuttered Sandy Hook barber shop his grandfather first opened in
1928, offering $5 haircuts in a bid to attract customers.  “What is faith? It’s about going beyond what your eyes can
see,” said Provenzano. “This wouldn’t be the spot you’d chose
if you don’t have faith. Little by little, you have to start
sewing it back together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Newtown, Connecticut at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  