-- Nickel Surplus Seen Bigger by Macquarie Than Forecast Last Month
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-19T10:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/nickel-surplus-seen-bigger-by-macquarie-than-forecast-last-month.html
Nickel supplies will exceed demand
by 52 percent more than forecast last month as consumption
outside of  China  is weak and new projects are adding production,
according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   The surplus will be 82,000 metric tons this year, compared
with the previous estimate of 54,000 tons, Jim Lennon, an
analyst at the bank in London, said in a report e-mailed today.
It was 97,000 tons last year, he said. Cuts to production are
needed to rebalance the market, he said.  “From a fundamental perspective, there is no reason for
optimism about the nickel price in 2013 unless there are large-
scale production cuts,” Lennon said. “Apart from Chinese
nickel pig iron, producers in Australia and  Canada  are also
suffering from a high exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, and
further cuts here seem likely.”  Nickel for delivery in three months fell 10 percent this
year on the  London  Metal Exchange and yesterday fell to the
lowest price since July 2009. LME-monitored stockpiles of the
metal mostly used to make stainless steel increased to 172,296
tons, the highest on record, exchange data showed today.  While output of stainless steel is strong in China, the
biggest consumer of the metal, production elsewhere is weak,
signaling slowing demand for nickel, Lennon said. The use of
stainless steel scrap by consumers in  Europe  is increasing and
is negative for primary nickel, he said.  ‘Lackluster Demand’  “Demand is lackluster and very much a hand-to-mouth
situation at the moment, at least from a stainless
perspective,” Andrew Mitchell, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie
Ltd. in Guildford,  England , said by e-mail.  China’s production of nickel-pig iron, an alternative to
refined metal, will rise 16 percent to 400,000 tons in 2013,
Macquarie estimates. Output from non-Chinese projects is higher
this year than previously expected, Lennon said.  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s second-largest nickel producer, said
this week output for the metal rose 3.2 percent in the first
quarter to 65,000 tons, beating a 62,800-ton average forecast by
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nickel open interest, or the number of outstanding futures,
rose to a record 192,170  contracts  on April 15, increasing 17
percent from March 21. Prices declined 7.1 percent during the
period. A combination of rising open interest and falling prices
implies investors held “large” bearish bets, according to
Macquarie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  