-- Honeywell Sees Weaker Euro as U.S. Recovery Strengthens
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-19T17:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/honeywell-sees-weaker-euro-as-u-s-recovery-strengthens.html
The euro will weaken against the
dollar in the long term once the U.S. recovery strengthens
enough for the Federal Reserve to stop pumping money into the
economy,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  predicted.  “It’s more likely to trend down than it’s going to
strengthen” since reducing Fed stimulus would raise interest
rates and boost demand for the dollar, Chief Financial Officer
Dave Anderson said in a telephone interview today. “That’s
consistent with what we consider to be macro influences.”  Honeywell has kept its 2013 euro forecast at $1.25, even
though the currency has traded at about $1.30 for the past two
weeks, up from this year’s low of $1.2746 in late March. The
Morris Township, New Jersey-based manufacturer draws about a
quarter of sales from  Europe , and a weaker exchange rate lowers
their value on income statements.  A stimulus reduction by the Fed is unlikely in the near
future because government budget cuts and higher taxes are
dragging down U.S. growth by about 1 percentage point, Anderson
said.  “Those are pulling the economy one way and then the Fed
stimulus is really helping to offset that and push it more
positively the other way,” he said. “At some point that’s
going to come into alignment and we’re going to see some easing
of stimulus by the Fed.”  Several U.S. policy makers, including Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York  President William C. Dudley, have said the Fed
should maintain record monetary stimulus after an April 5 report
showed employers added 88,000 workers in March, the smallest
gain in nine months.  The Federal Open Market Committee said in March that it
will continue buying $85 billion in bonds each month until the
labor market “improves substantially.”  The panel also repeated its pledge to keep the main
interest rate near zero so long as the unemployment rate remains
above 6.5 percent and the forecast for inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent over one to two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  