-- Hong Kong Home Prices Fall Most in 3 Years on Curbs, Rates
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-04-19T08:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/hong-kong-home-prices-fall-most-in-3-years-on-curbs-rates.html
Hong Kong  home prices  fell the most
in almost three years after the government imposed its harshest
measures yet to curb prices and as the city’s lenders raised
 mortgage rates  for the first time since 2011.  Prices fell 1.41 percent in the week ended April 14, the
fourth-straight weekly decline, according to an index compiled
by Centaline Property Agency Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest closely
held realtor. It was the biggest drop since May 2010, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Before February’s measures, a housing shortage, low
mortgage costs and buying by mainland Chinese helped prices more
than double since the start of 2009 even as policy makers
attempted to rein in gains amid an outcry over affordability.
The government on Feb. 22 doubled the stamp duty on all property
transactions higher than HK$2 million ($257,000), while the  Hong
Kong  Monetary Authority told banks to maintain the risk
weighting for new home loans at a minimum of 15 percent to help
protect them against a drop in home values.  “The second-hand market has halted almost completely,”
Wong Leung-sing, an associate research director at Centaline,
said in today’s statement. “The negative impact of the doubled
stamp duty and tighter mortgage rules is now spreading.”  Prices could fall as much as 20 percent over the next two
years, according to Deutsche Bank AG, after lenders raised home-
loan rates in response to the tighter risk rules.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc were among
banks that last month raised mortgage rates by 25 basis points,
the first increase since November 2011.  Hong Kong has the highest  home prices  among major global
cities, including London,  New York , and  Tokyo , according to a
report by  Savills Plc (SVS)  in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  