-- Hong Kong to Manage Yuan Inflation Risk While Holding Dollar Peg
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-19T20:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/hong-kong-to-manage-yuan-inflation-risk-while-holding-dollar-peg.html
Hong Kong Monetary Authority  can
manage inflation risks caused by an appreciating  yuan  and is
committed to its currency’s dollar peg in place since 1983,
Chief Executive Norman Chan said.  The yuan’s appreciation against the dollar will make food
and other goods slightly more expensive, which is
“manageable,” Chan said at a conference in  Washington  during
meetings of the International Monetary Fund. “Having a fixed
exchange-rate system, we are committed to make the nominal
exchange rate unchanged through the issuance of bank note system
and foreign-exchange intervention.”  The Chinese yuan had the biggest weekly gain in six months
versus the U.S. dollar and yuan forwards rose to a record, after
People’s Bank of  China  Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said April 17 the
currency’s trading band will widen “in the near future,”
spurring speculation the yuan will rise further. Hong Kong
banks’ borrowing costs are tied to the U.S. because of its
currency peg, while the city’s economic growth is linked to
China.  A stronger yuan also means Hong Kong’s services and goods
will become cheaper to mainland consumers, helping the city
attract tourists from mainland China and sell services there,
said Chan, the city’s de facto central bank chief.  “We don’t have our own independent monetary policy, so the
interest rates in Hong Kong are determined by the inflow and
outflow of money into Hong Kong dollars, and all the other
variables have to adjust around this anchor,”  Chan said.  “We are meeting those challenges reasonably well,” he
added.  Inflation Pickup  Consumer prices  in Hong Kong rose 4.4 percent in February
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since April 2012.  The HKMA will weigh if more measures are needed to curb
property price gains in the city, according to Chan. The
monetary authority told banks to maintain the risk weighting for
new home loans at a minimum of 15 percent, and the city’s
government doubled the stamp duty in February on all property
transactions higher than HK$2 million ($257,000).  “We actually will respond and react to the development of
the market,” he said. “Our measures are counter-cyclical and
it depends on how the market cycle is evolving.”  Hong Kong  home prices  fell 1.4 percent in the week ended
April 14, the fourth-straight weekly decline, according to an
index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s
biggest closely held realtor. It was the biggest drop since May
2010, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  