-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise From Five-Month Low, Led by Banks
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-04-19T03:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/hong-kong-stocks-rise-from-five-month-low-led-by-banks.html
Hong Kong   stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index snapping its longest losing streak in almost a
year, as Morgan Stanley upgraded the outlook for Hong Kong
stocks and amid speculation that the Chinese government may
widen the  yuan ’s trading band within the next three days.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , the country’s biggest producer of the
metal, rose 1.7 percent as mining companies gained after
commodity prices rebounded. Mainland banks rose as the Hang Seng
Financial index recovered from its lowest level since December,
led by a 2.6 percent gain for Industrial & Commercial Bank of
 China  Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value. Lenovo
Group Ltd., the world’s No. 2 personal computer maker, advanced
3.9 percent after a report that it’s in talks to buy a server
business from International Business Machines Corp.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.8 percent to 21,678.17 as of
10:49 a.m. in Hong Kong, reversing a loss of 0.1 percent. About
four stocks rose for each that fell on the 50-member gauge, with
trading 3.2 percent above the 30-day average for the time of day.
The index is headed for a weekly decline of 1.9 percent. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in
the city rose 1.5 percent to 10,415.74.  “The turnover remains extremely low; I think this is only
a technical factor,” said  Alex Wong , a Hong Kong-based director
at Ample Capital Ltd. “For Chinese banks, I think this is only
a recovery after the earlier sell-off because they had been
under severe pressure. If you compare the rebound today to the
sell off earlier, it’s very minor.”  Worst Performing  Through yesterday the Hang Seng Index fell 5.1 percent this
year, making it the worst-performing among developed markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares on the measure
traded at 10.4 times estimated earnings, compared with a five-
year average of 12.3 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s
multiple of 13.9 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley raised its outlook for Hong Kong stocks to
overweight, according to a report written by analyst  Jonathan Garner , citing strong earnings revisions and undemanding
valuations.  Mining companies gained as global commodity prices
rebounded. Jiangxi Copper rose 1.7 percent to HK$15.16. Zijin
Mining Group Co., the biggest mining company in China by value,
rose 1.4 percent to HK$2.26. Gold producer Zhaojin Mining
Industry Co. added 1.9 percent to HK$8.27.  China Yuan Band  China may expand the range within which it lets the yuan
trade during the Group of 20 nations meetings in  Washington  this
week, UBS analysts Manik Narain and  Geoffrey Yu  wrote in a note
after central bank Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  signaled policy
makers will loosen control over the currency. The trading band
will be widened “in the near future,” Yi said during the
International Monetary Fund meeting April 17.  “The market is expecting the  renminbi  will have better
performance and that will attract more liquidity to the Hong
Kong stock market,” Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based chief investment
officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., which oversees about
$250 million.  Mainland  banks  led gains in Hong Kong. Industrial &
Commercial Bank gained 2.6 percent to HK$5.19. Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd., the nation’s No. 3 lender, rose 2.4 percent to
HK$3.48. China Construction Bank Corp., the No. 2 lender on the
mainland, added 2 percent to HK$6.14.  Lenovo gained 3.9 percent to HK$6.70 amid speculation it
will buy a server unit from IBM. The division, which sells
servers running x86 processors, may fetch $2.5 billion to $4.5
billion, depending on what assets and liabilities are included,
said a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
named because the negotiations are private.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent.
The gauge yesterday fell 0.7 percent as  earnings  from
UnitedHealth Group Inc. to  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  disappointed investors, a
measure of manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded at
a slower pace and the Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading
economic indicators unexpectedly declined for the first time in
seven months.  Hang Seng Index futures rose 0.6 percent to 21,646. The  HSI
Volatility Index (VHSI)  fell 4.8 percent to 16.84, its biggest drop in
a month, indicating traders expect a swing of 4.8 percent for
the equity benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  