-- Orion Advances as SEB Sees Partnering Potential: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-04-19T09:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/orion-advances-as-seb-sees-partnering-potential-helsinki-mover.html
Orion Oyj (ORNAV) , a Finnish drugmaker,
climbed to its highest in almost four weeks after SEB AB said
potential partnership deals could double cash flow this year.  Orion rose as much as 3.7 percent for its third day of
gains and traded up 3.6 percent at 20.85 euros at 12:18 p.m. in
Helsinki. It was the biggest advance today among stocks on the
 benchmark OMX  Helsinki 25 index. The volume of Orion shares was
about 50 percent of the three-month daily average.  “If a significant partnering agreement were to be signed
this year for any of Orion’s mid-stage development products,
cash flow could double compared with last year,” Lars Hevreng,
an analyst at SEB in  Stockholm , said in a note today. “The
scope for upgrades to consensus forecasts are still
significant.” He raised his recommendation to buy from hold and
lifted the 12-month stock-price estimate to 24 euros from 22.50
euros.  Orion continues to be  Europe ’s least-loved drug stock among
analysts amid concerns that expiring Parkinson’s disease drug
patents will hurt profits through generic competition.  It has the lowest recommendation consensus in the Stoxx 600
Health Care Index, with 10 out of 13 analysts advising clients
to sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its consensus
price target has remained below the actual share price for the
past 10 months.  “The effects of Orion’s willingness to renew its broad
product portfolio seem to continue to be poorly recognized in
consensus expectations,” Hevreng said. “The shares are trading
without a premium to the market despite earnings stability.”  --Robert Valpuesta, Tom Lavell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  