-- Osborne Homebuyer Plan May Fuel House Prices, U.K. Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-04-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/osborne-homebuyer-plan-may-fuel-house-prices-u-k-lawmakers-say.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s program to give taxpayer support to U.K. homebuyers is
“unconvincing” and risks inflating  house prices  and exposing
the Treasury to losses, a panel of lawmakers said.  Parliament’s cross-party Treasury Committee also questioned
the decision to put the program, under which the government will
make interest-free loans to homebuyers and guarantee mortgages,
in the hands of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee.  “The mortgage guarantee scheme makes the government an
active player in the mortgage market and the committee is
concerned that the Treasury now has a financial interest in
maintaining house prices to limit losses to the taxpayer,” said
the report, published in London today. “The committee finds the
chancellor’s assertion that increased demand for home ownership
and rising prices, resulting from the mortgage guarantee scheme,
will trigger a corresponding supply response, unconvincing, at
least for the short term.”  The lack of clarity over whether people will be able to use
government support to help buy second homes suggests the policy
was not properly thought through before Osborne announced it in
his budget on March 20, the committee said. It also warned that
the decision to ask the FPC to decide if the program should
continue after 2017 could distract the committee from its core
role of pursuing financial stability.  “The government’s Help to Buy scheme is very much a work
in progress and it may have a number of unintended
consequences,” committee chairman, Conservative lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie , said in an e-mailed statement. “Without further detail
it is not possible to estimate its effects. The questions the
committee has asked the government need answering.”  Taxpayer Support  Under the initiative, Osborne pledged 3.5 billion pounds
($5.3 billion) to help buyers of new homes with loans of as much
as 20 percent of the property’s value. He also announced a 130
billion-pound mortgage guarantee plan to encourage banks to lend
to people with limited cash for a deposit. Critics say the
program will lead to riskier lending, fuel demand for second
homes and drive up house prices.  The Treasury Committee also highlighted confusion between
the Treasury and the Department for Energy and Climate Change
over which department is in charge of U.K. energy policy.  The uncertainty “must not be allowed to undermine business
and investor confidence” in the face of the threat to U.K.
businesses caused by high energy costs, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  