-- Osborne Rejects IMF Plea to Ease Deficit Reduction Amid Slump
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/osborne-rejects-imf-plea-to-ease-deficit-reduction-amid-slump.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  rejected a plea from the  International Monetary Fund  to
ease the pace of  deficit reduction , saying he has already put in
place policies to support the British economy.  Osborne hit back at recommendations from the IMF’s chief
economist,  Olivier Blanchard , who earlier this week called for a
“reassessment of fiscal policy.” When asked by reporters in
Washington today whether he would heed the IMF’s advice, Osborne
said that “it depends on whether you agree with the advice.”  “Obviously in a piece of advice I receive, I will hear
what it says and see if I agree with it,” he said. “What the
IMF asked us to do last year was to show flexibility as well as
credibility and I think in the Autumn Statement and in the
Budget I demonstrated that.”  Blanchard and a team of IMF officials are due to arrive in
 London  next week to conduct the fund’s annual audit of the U.K.
economy. The IMF this week said the British economy will expand
more slowly over the next two years than previously forecast.  Osborne has used commentary from IMF officials in the past
to bolster his case for austerity and fend off attacks from the
opposition  Labour Party , which has urged him to ease his plans.  Last year, the IMF said Osborne should consider scaling
back the pace of cuts should the economy continue to
deteriorate. The IMF expects British growth of 0.7 percent this
year and 1.5 percent next year, shaving off 0.3 percentage
points for each year from a January forecast.  Osborne today said Labour doesn’t have a serious
alternative and that his plans are accommodating the
deteriorating economic outlook.  “We are demonstrating credibility and flexibility,”
Osborne said. “I have not chased the debt target. I have
undertaken further measures to support the economy so, in the
budget, I launched the Help to Buy Scheme and we are in
discussions with the  Bank of England  about the Monetary Policy
remit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  