-- Howard Is Wealthiest U.K. Fund Manager, Times Says
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-19T12:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/howard-is-wealthiest-u-k-fund-manager-times-says-correct-.html
(Corrects to million from billion in second paragraph.)  Alan Howard , co-founder of  Brevan
Howard Asset Management LLP , saw his personal fortune climb to
1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) during the past year, keeping
him at the top of the annual Sunday Times list of the wealthiest
U.K. hedge fund managers.  His net worth rose an estimated 100 million pounds in the
past year, according to the Sunday Times, which will publish its
full “ Rich List ” of the 1,000 wealthiest people and families
in Britain and Ireland on April 22. Sixty-one hedge fund
managers worth at least 75 million pounds were on the list.  “With a few exceptions, they’ve all done pretty well,”
said Philip Beresford, who compiled the list for the newspaper.
“It shows that, once they reach the elite, they tend to stay
there. Hedge funds are here to stay, and they’re here to stay on
the Rich List as they continue to make money.”  Brevan Howard ’s $27.8 billion Master fund, a macro hedge
fund that wagers on currencies,  interest rates  and commodities,
earned its clients $800 million last year, LCH Investments NV
estimated in a report last month. The average macro fund fell
0.8 percent in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Harding, Hintze  Winton Capital Management LLC ’s David Harding, 51, fell to
fifth position from third in 2012, with his estimated wealth
declining to 700 million pounds from 800 million pounds,
according to the survey. His $10 billion computer-driven Winton
Futures Fund Ltd. fell by 3.5 percent last year.  Michael Hintze , 59, of  CQS U.K. LLP , ranked fourth, up from
fifth in 2012, with his personal estimated wealth at 900 million
pounds, up from 580 million pounds.  Michael Platt  of  BlueCrest
Capital Management LLP  saw his wealth climb by 300 million
pounds to 900 million pounds, ranking him third.  Platt, 45, and Howard, 49, remain on the Sunday Times list
even though they both moved to  Switzerland  in 2010 as the U.K.
prepared to increase tax rates on high incomes. Their moves led
to predictions that other U.K. hedge-fund managers would follow.  “That hasn’t really happened,” Beresford said. “London
does still have that pull. There just haven’t been the huge
defections that some were expecting.”  New entrants  New entrants to the list this year include Ewan Kirk, 52,
chief investment officer of  Cantab Capital Partners LLP . Kirk’s
personal net worth is estimated at 280 million pounds. Cantab,
which uses computers and mathematical algorithms to decide on
trades, oversees $4.7 billion after gaining 15 percent last
year, according to a letter Kirk sent to investors in January.  Michael Cohen  also appears on the list for the first time
this year, with an estimated 300 million pounds. Cohen, 41,
stepped down as head of European investing for  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC  at the end of March.  The hedge fund managers, or their spokesmen, either
declined to comment or could not be reached.  Still, British hedge-fund managers’ assets trail the U.S.
industry, where annual pay packages worth hundreds of millions
of dollars are not unheard of, according to Beresford.  “The list shows just how poor the British hedge-fund
managers are, when compared to those on Wall Street,” he said.
“They really have just a fraction of the wealth of  Wall Street .
They are the paupers of the hedge-fund world.”  The Sunday Times list of the wealthiest people in Britain
and Ireland is based on information available in the public
record, including real estate, shares in publicly traded
companies and art holdings. The estimates exclude bank accounts.  Below is the Sunday Times list of the 20 wealthiest hedge
fund managers along with their estimated wealth in pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  