-- Lloyds May Raise $1.2 Billion From Scottish Widows, Numis Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2013-04-19T11:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/lloyds-may-raise-1-2-billion-from-scottish-widows-numis-says.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender, may reap about 800 million
pounds ($1.2 billion) from selling fund-management unit Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership, Numis Corp. said.  Large managers of index-linked funds such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  are the most likely firms to bid
for the division, which has 142 billion pounds of assets,
London-based Numis analyst David McCann said in an interview.
Lloyds, almost 40 percent owned by the British taxpayer, hired
Deutsche Bank AG to advise on a potential sale, four people with
knowledge of the talks said yesterday.  “It looks like there’s net outflows in the business and
it’s low-margin stuff, so a buyer would need to have scale and
the ability to cut costs,” McCann said today.  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio is
trying to shrink the bank’s balance sheet, sell non-core assets
and raise capital with a view to repaying the government for its
bailout in 2008 amid a sluggish U.K. economy. Lloyds purchased
Scottish Widows, the owner of a life-insurance business as well
as the SWIP fund-management arm, for 7.3 billion pounds 2000.  Press officers for BlackRock, Legal & General, Lloyds and
SWIP declined to comment.  Tied Assets  “A big hurdle in this deal is that a lot of the assets,
about 85 percent, are tied to the Scottish Widows life assurance
business,” McCann said.  Analysts put a lower value on assets managed on behalf of
life-insurance companies because the owners of those assets
could decide to switch to another fund manager.  Valuing SWIP is difficult due to the lack of publicly
available information, said McCann, who said the division may be
worth anywhere from 500 million pounds to 1 billion pounds.
Numis’s 800 million-pound estimate was reached by putting a
valuation of 2 percent on SWIP’s external funds, comparable to
the market value of  Schroders Plc (SDR) ,  Europe ’s biggest publicly
traded fund manager, and adding 0.3 percent for the 118.5
billion pounds of internal funds tied to Scottish Widows’
insurance arm.  Among other analyst estimates released today, Citigroup
Inc.’s Andrew Coombs and Ronit Ghose said SWIP may be worth 1
billion pounds.  Panmure Gordon & Co. (PMR) , a London-based brokerage,
estimated SWIP is worth 750 million pounds by applying a 0.5
percent value to its total assets under management.  SWIP had a pretax profit of 108 million pounds in 2012, up
from 99 million pounds in 2011. It was the only fund company of
the four largest in  Scotland  to post a decline in assets during
the fourth quarter, the most recent reported period. The drop of
0.1 percent compared with a 2.6 percent increase for Edinburgh-
based rival Standard Life Investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 