-- Toyota to Make Lexus in Kentucky Amid Localization Push
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-04-19T20:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/toyota-to-make-lexus-in-kentucky-amid-localization-push.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  plans to build
Lexus ES 350 sedans at an existing  Kentucky  plant, the first
U.S. production for its luxury brand, as Chief Executive Officer
 Akio Toyoda  pushes to localize output in its biggest markets.  Toyoda and Jim Lentz, Toyota’s North American chief, said
today in New York that production of the ES, the top-selling
Lexus car in the U.S., starts at its Georgetown, Kentucky,
complex in 2015. The company said it’s investing $360 million to
add a Lexus line, expanding Georgetown’s capacity by 50,000
vehicles to more than 550,000 a year.  “It is fitting that the first country to build the ES
outside of Japan is the United States because this is home for
Lexus. It is where the brand was founded,” Toyoda said. The
U.S. “is still the biggest market for our luxury brand.”  Lexus, a major source of profit for Toyota City, Japan-
based Toyota, was dethroned by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz as the U.S. luxury sales leader
in 2011 after 11 years as No. 1. Toyota is looking to revamp
Lexus, making its models more like performance cars and less
like family cars, as it competes with the German companies.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, said today it will
add 750 workers for the project. Kentucky said this week it
would offer Toyota tax credits worth as much as $146.5 million
to expand the manufacturing operation that’s already Toyota’s
largest in North America. Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear,
speaking at Georgetown, said Toyota plans to invest a total of
$531 million at the site, including the Lexus line.  Yen Gyrations  Most ES sales are “in the U.S. -- it’s not really a big
seller in  Japan ,” said Koji Endo, an analyst with Advanced
Research Japan in Tokyo, who estimates Lexus currently
contributes about 20 percent of Toyota’s global profit. “Moving
it there makes sense.”  Japan’s 2011 earthquake and tsunami also affected the
company’s decision to build the Lexus model in the U.S., CEO
Toyoda said in New York. The natural disasters reduced output of
vehicles and components for Toyota and other Japanese
automakers.  The move is also part of Toyota’s plan to “give regions
greater autonomy to make the products their customers want and
achieve sustainable growth globally,” Toyoda said.  Toyota’s Strategy  The ES shares underpinnings with Camry and Avalon sedans
now built in Georgetown. It will be just the second  Lexus  to be
assembled in North America, joining the Canadian-built RX sport-
utility vehicle.  While Toyoda has said the company wouldn’t add any new auto
plants for three years, the Georgetown project is an expansion
of an existing facility, Lentz said in an interview.  “This involves a new use for existing space, under the
same roof,” Lentz said. “There’s no new brick and mortar.”  Japan’s currency has weakened against the dollar and other
major currencies since late 2012, after staying near a record
high in recent years that eroded profit for exported models. So
far this year the yen’s value has fallen 13 percent against the
dollar, the most of any major currency.  “Toyota is effecting its long-term strategy of building
where it sells,” said Matt Stover, an analyst with Guggenheim
Securities in  Boston , who rates the company a buy. “Toyota does
not want its long-term profitability tied to the gyrations of
the yen.”  Higher Margins  Toyota has revamped the Lexus GS, ES, LS and IS sedans in
the past 18 months, to help fuel global sales as demand rises
for luxury models in  China , Southeast Asia, Latin America and
 Russia . Increased sales for the brand, with its higher prices
and profit margins than mass-market Toyota models, also help the
company expand earnings as sales of cheaper cars increase, Endo
said.  “Globally, the real volume increases are coming from
 India , China,  Brazil , but with cars that sell for under
$10,000,” he said. “They have to have these higher margin
products, and that’s the role of Lexus.”  Lexus probably won’t reclaim its No. 1 U.S. luxury ranking,
which it held in the U.S. from 2000 through 2010, anytime soon.
Toyota has said it expects to sell at least 260,000 Lexus cars
and trucks this year, up 6.5 percent from a year ago and the
most since 2008 when it sold about that many. Deliveries for the
brand grew 16 percent in the first quarter to 56,740.  Luxury Race  Still, that pace isn’t enough to move the brand from third
place in U.S. luxury sales. BMW and Mercedes say this year
they’ll exceed their 2012 totals of 281,460 and 274,134,
respectively. Those figures exclude Daimler’s cargo vans and
Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand, all outside the luxury
category.  The Georgetown plant, opened in 1988, is the main
production site of Camry sedans, the best-selling U.S. car for
the past 11 years.  Toyota has invested $6 billion at the site,
according to its  website , and employs about 6,600 people there.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts gained 1.5 percent to
$112.26 at the close in New York. The receipts rose 20 percent
this year, more than the 9 percent increase for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in  Tokyo  at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  