-- Payrolls Decreased in 26 U.S. States, Led by Ohio, Illinois
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-19T14:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/payrolls-decreased-in-26-u-s-states-led-by-ohio-illinois.html
Payrolls decreased in 26 U.S.
states in March, showing the recent labor-market slowdown is
being felt across the country. Jobless rates also dropped in 26
states last month.  Ohio led the drop in employment, losing 20,400 jobs last
month, followed by  Illinois ’s 17,800 decrease, according to
figures released today in Washington by the Labor Department.  The U.S. economic expansion has cooled at the start of the
second quarter, which may give companies reason to taper hiring.
In March, payrolls nationally expanded by 88,000 workers, the
fewest in nine months, after increasing by 268,000 workers in
February, the Labor Department said April 5. The unemployment
rate  fell  to 7.6 percent, a four-year low, from 7.7 percent.  “Hiring is probably going to be weak for some time,” said
Scott Anderson, chief economist at Bank of the West in San
Francisco. “Employers remain cautious. We don’t see a lot of
optimism around hiring.”  Most stocks rose today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rebounding from a six-week low, as companies from Google
Inc. to Microsoft Corp. reported earnings that topped analysts’
forecasts. The S&P 500 climbed 0.4 percent to 1,547.84 at 10:50
a.m. in New York.  The jobless rates in seven states, including  Florida , New
Jersey and  Virginia , dropped by 0.3 percentage point in March,
the biggest declines.  Unemployment rose to 9.7 percent in  Nevada , making it the
state with the highest rate in the country. Illinois’s rate was
unchanged at 9.5 percent, making it the second-highest.  Least Unemployment  North Dakota remained the state with the lowest jobless
rate in the nation, holding at 3.3 percent rate.  Employment rose by 32,700 in Florida last month, the
biggest gain of any state and the most for the Sunshine State
since October 2010. California followed with a 25,500 increase.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from surveys of
smaller size, in turn making the national figures more reliable,
according to the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  With data showing the job market in the U.S. weakened in
March, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said central bank officials have scope for maintaining
their record monetary stimulus.  Dudley’s View  “While I don’t want to read too much into a single month’s
data, this underscores the need to wait and see how the economy
develops before declaring victory prematurely,” Dudley said on
April 16. The slowdown, “along with the large amount of fiscal
restraint hitting the economy now, makes me more cautious. We
have seen only a moderate improvement in labor market conditions
over the past six months or so.”  His concern was heightened by the threat of sequestration,
the federal government spending cuts that began taking effect on
March 1. The cuts will trim 5 percent from domestic agencies and
8 percent for the Defense Department this fiscal year.  “Sequestration is likely to have some impact,” said
Anderson. “Layoffs could pick up in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  