-- Penguin Offers Changes to Settle EU E-Books Antitrust Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-19T09:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/penguin-offers-changes-to-settle-e-books-eu-antitrust-probe.html
Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin offered to
overhaul pricing models for digital books to settle a European
Union antitrust probe into whether they blocked competition.  Penguin won’t “restrict, limit or impede” e-book
retailers’ discounts or their ability to “set, alter or reduce
retail prices for e-books” for two years, according to details
of the proposed changes as published in the EU’s Official
Journal today.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology
company, and four publishers previously offered similar remedies
to allay European concerns.  The EU said Penguin, together with the four publishers and
Apple, “may have breached EU antitrust rules that prohibit
cartels and restrictive practices by jointly switching the sale
of e-books from a wholesale model to agency contracts containing
the same key terms,” the Brussels-based European Commission
said in a  statement . The companies “may have engaged in a 
concerted practice with the object of raising retail prices of 
e-books” or blocking lower prices in  Europe , it said.  The EU’s antitrust regulator is giving competitors and
customers until May 19 to comment on the proposed remedies,
which could then become legally binding in a settlement that
would end the investigation without imposing fines or
determining that the companies violated competition rules. The
commission said it will conduct another such market test “if
substantial changes to the commitments are subsequently made.”  Book Publisher  Penguin said that “subject to the market test currently
under way, it has reached an agreement with the European
Commission to settle its investigation,” according to an e-
mailed statement today.  “Penguin’s position that it has done nothing wrong remains
unchanged and the company continues to believe that the agency
pricing model operates in the best interests of consumers and
authors,” the company said in the statement. “While we
disagree with some elements of the commission’s analysis, we are
settling as a procedural matter to clear the decks in
anticipation of our proposed merger with  Random House .”  Bertelsmann SE’s Random House publishing unit agreed in
October to merge with Pearson’s Penguin to create by far the
largest  book publisher  in the U.K. and the U.S. The deal
received EU backing earlier this month. The joint venture, named
Penguin Random House and to be based in  New York , will be 53
percent-owned by Bertelsmann, with Pearson holding the
remainder, the companies said in October.  Agency Agreements  Facing EU pressure, Apple last year promised to terminate
so-called agency agreements with the four companies,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Simon & Schuster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, Verlagsgruppe
Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Livre, and Pearson. Under Apple’s pricing strategy, the
iPad maker takes a fixed percentage of e-book prices set by the
publishers.  If a company breaks such commitments, the commission can
impose a fine of as much as 10 percent of its annual  global
sales , without having to find an infringement of the antitrust
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  