-- Peltz Stakes in Pepsi, Mondelez Raises Merger Speculation
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-04-19T15:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/pepsico-says-it-held-meetings-with-trian-as-peltz-reveals-stake.html
Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP disclosed stakes in  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Mondelez
International Inc. (MDLZ) , increasing speculation that he’ll push for a
merger of the food makers.  Trian said in a filing today that it owned about 3.93
million PepsiCo shares valued at about $269.1 million as of Dec.
31. The investor also purchased 19.4 million Mondelez shares
valued at about $494.2 million at the end of last year. PepsiCo
said after the filing was released that it had talked with Trian
about ideas to drive growth and shareholder value.  “We don’t know what he is pushing for necessarily, but the
belief is something around Pepsi and Mondelez getting
together,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, said in an interview. “The theory is that Mondelez
has good distribution in  emerging markets . One of the
opportunities for Pepsi snacks is to get into emerging
markets.”  Another activist investor, Ralph Whitworth of Relational
Investors LLC, supports Peltz’s effort to combine the companies
and has now bought a stake in Mondelez, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Relational, which owned 7.6 million
PepsiCo shares as of Dec. 31, has since sold down that stake at
a gain, the person said.  PepsiCo rose 1.7 percent to $82.67 at 11:28 a.m. in New
York. Mondelez, the snacks and coffee business spun off from
Kraft Foods Inc. last year, gained 3.8 percent to $31.23.  The Daily Telegraph of  London  reported last month that
Peltz could push for a merger of the companies, citing people it
didn’t identify. At that time, PepsiCo said it didn’t need
large-scale acquisitions to increase growth and shareholder
value.  ‘Respected Investor’  “In recent weeks, we have held meetings with Trian to
discuss and consider their ideas and initiatives as part of our
ongoing evaluation of all opportunities to drive long-term
growth and shareholder value,” Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo
said today in a  statement on its website.  “Trian is a respected
investor, and we look forward to continuing constructive
discussions with them.”  For his part, Whitworth expects other large PepsiCo
investors will support a combination with Mondelez, especially
if PepsiCo struggles to meet earnings forecasts, according to
the person. Plus, many of the investors in PepsiCo and Mondelez
also were large holders in  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ) , Cadbury Ltd. and Kraft
with Peltz, the person said.  Several Months  These companies were either sold, taken private or split
up. Peltz’s plan would take several months to come together and
occur in 2014 if at all, the person added.  Michael Mitchell, a spokesman for Deerfield, Illinois-based
Mondelez, declined to comment on the Trian filing and said the
company is focused on its products and markets to produce value
for shareholders.  Anne Tarbell , a spokeswoman for New York-based Trian,
declined to comment on the filing in an e-mail. Melisa Tezanos,
a spokeswoman for PepsiCo, didn’t respond to a request for
additional comment. A spokeswoman for Relational didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Trian Fund Management licensed several new special purpose
funds in the Cayman Islands in December and January, according
to records maintained by the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority.
The fund manager said in a March 28 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that one of these funds,
Trian SPV (SUB) VII LP, has assets of about $1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  