-- Petronas’s $3 Billion Buyout Bid for MISC Fails After Revolt
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-04-19T12:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/petronas-s-3-billion-buyout-bid-for-misc-fails-after-revolt.html
MISC Bhd. (MISC) , the world’s second-
largest liquefied natural gas shipping company, said Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. withdrew its 9.16 billion ringgit ($3 billion)
buyout offer after failing to win minority shareholder support.  Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s state oil and gas company is known,
increased its bid by 3.8 percent to 5.50 ringgit on April 5. The
Employees Provident Fund, MISC’s  second-biggest  shareholder with
a 9.5 percent holding, accepted the new offer after earlier
backing minority shareholders who complained the initial offer
of 5.30 ringgit per share was too low.  MISC said today in a Kuala Lumpur stock exchange filing
that 23.4 percent of shareholders had accepted the latest bid.
Together with the shares Petronas already holds, that gives it
an 86.07 percent stake, failing to meet the 90 percent threshold
Petronas had set.  Independent adviser AmInvestment Bank Bhd. described the
revised bid as “not fair but reasonable” taking into account
the “risks and challenges” faced by MISC and had urged
minority shareholders to accept. The offer translates into a
discount of between 3.3 percent and 9.8 percent to the company’s
sum-of-parts valuation, it said in an April 8 report.  MISC shares closed 2.6 percent lower today at 5.30 ringgit.
The statement was released after close of trading.  MISC shut its container-ship business last year to focus on
LNG tankers after the cargo-box unit made losses of $789 million
over three years due to global overcapacity and falling rates.
Petronas, which already owned a 63 percent stake, has said a
buyout would provide it with greater flexibility in deciding
strategic direction.  MISC operates the world’s biggest fleet of LNG ships after
Qatar Gas Transport Co., according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  