-- Philippine Peso Headed for Best Week Since January on Inflows
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-19T03:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/philippine-peso-headed-for-best-week-since-january-on-inflows.html
The Philippine peso headed for its
biggest weekly advance in three months on speculation dollar
supplies will counter the central bank’s moves to spur outflows.  LT Group Inc., the holding company of Philippine tycoon
Lucio Tan, raised $920 million from an additional share sale
this week, with more than half the investors coming from the U.S.
and  Europe .  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the nation’s largest company by
sales, issued $800 million of 10-year dollar-denominated debt
yesterday. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas doubled the amount of
dollars residents can freely buy and broadened the range of
approved overseas investment to slow peso gains.  “The market observes that flows from the LT Group share
sale have been coming in,” said Alan Cayetano, head of foreign-
currency trading at  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) , the nation’s
largest bank by market capital. “The BSP announcement was more
or less expected, so we didn’t see much impact there.”  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 41.118 per dollar as of 10:53
a.m. in  Manila  and is poised for a 0.4 percent gain this week,
the biggest since the five days ended Jan. 11, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency slipped to 41.413 on April 16,
the weakest since Oct. 22. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, was little changed at 4.75 percent.  The yield on the 3.875 percent bonds due November 2019 fell
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.75 percent, the
lowest level since the notes were sold in November, according to
Tradition Financial Services.  Managing Inflows  The central bank, which next reviews monetary policy on
April 25, isn’t ruling out a further cut in the interest rate on
special-deposit accounts and is “always thinking of additional
measures” to manage liquidity, Monetary Board Member Felipe
Medalla said yesterday.  Bangko Sentral reduced the rate on those accounts by about
half a percentage point each in January and in March. Inflation
slowed to 3.2 percent in March from a five-month high in
February, official data show.  The  Philippines , which won investment-grade status for the
first time from Fitch Ratings last month, is seeking to slow a
surge in capital inflows that made the peso the second-best
performing currency in the region over the last 12 months and
drove local shares to a record high in April. Overseas
investment in the nation’s stocks and bonds jumped 79 percent
from a year earlier to $7.3 billion in the first quarter, after
rising to a decade-high in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  