-- Pilot Corp. Suspected of Fraud in Diesel Rebates, FBI Agent Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/pilot-corp-suspected-of-diesel-rebate-fraud-fbi-agent-says.html
Pilot Corp. (7846) , the truck stop service
business whose headquarters was searched by the FBI on April 15,
is suspected of withholding diesel fuel price rebates and
discounts from customers to boost profits, according to a court
document.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Robert H.
Root, in a 120-page affidavit unsealed yesterday by U.S.
Magistrate Judge H. Bruce Guyton in Knoxville,  Tennessee , told
the court probable cause existed to search the headquarters in
that city and other premises for evidence of a “conspiracy and
scheme to defraud executed by various Pilot employees to
deceptively withhold diesel fuel rebates and discounts from
pilot customers.”  The withholding was done “for the dual purposes of
increasing the profitability of Pilot and increasing diesel
sales commissions of the Pilot employees participating in the
fraud,” according to Root’s affidavit, dated April 11. The
rebates were withheld without the customers’ knowledge or
approval, the agent said.  Pilot Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jimmy Haslam, owner of
the  National Football League ’s Cleveland Browns franchise, said
in a statement that the company has been and will continue to
cooperate in the federal investigation.  “I have read the affidavits and I now understand more
clearly the questions the federal investigators are exploring,”
Haslam said. “I maintain that the foundation of this company is
built on its integrity and that any willful wrongdoing by any
employee of this company at any time is intolerable.”  Warrant Requests  Affidavits were filed by Root in support of four different
search warrant requests. Marshall Stone, supervising special
agent of the FBI’s Knoxville office, said a search by his agency
and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service was under way in an April
15 telephone interview.  Root said his information was provided by two confidential
sources, including one who is a current Pilot employee, as well
as a former employee and from recorded conversations.  “The rebate fraud has occurred with the knowledge of
Pilot’s current President Mark Hazelwood and Pilot’s Chief
Executive Officer James A. ‘‘Jimmy” Haslam, III, due to the
fact that the Rebate Fraud-related activities have been
discussed during sales meetings in Knoxville, Tennessee, in
which Hazelwood and Haslam have been present,’’ according to the
confidential source still in Pilot’s employ, Root said.  Rachel Albright of the Ingram Group in Nashville, a
spokeswoman for Pilot, said via e-mail that she couldn’t
immediately comment on the allegations concerning Haslam and
Hazelwood.  Allegedly victimized customers include those who have
bought  diesel fuel  for commercial use at Pilot stations and
travel plazas, and those who purchased the fuel on credit and
later paid invoiced amounts.  The cases are U.S. v. Pilot Flying J Inc., 13-mj-2028, 13-
mj-2029, 13-mj-2030 and 13-mj-2033, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Tennessee (Knoxville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  