-- New York Wholesale Power Climbs to 4-Week High on Shut Plants
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-04-19T18:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/pjm-western-hub-power-drops-to-two-week-low-amid-milder-weather.html
New York  City wholesale electricity
prices rose to a one-month high as warmer weather boosted power
use amid the shutdown of two generators in the region.  Spot on-peak prices for the city’s five boroughs rose for
the third time in four days as higher-than-normal temperatures
lifted demand above forecasts. The Bayonne Energy Center in New
Jersey and Astoria East plants in Queens were shut because of
work on an electric transmission line and a natural gas
pipeline, according to Genscape Inc.  New York City Zone J electricity increased $1.28, or 2
percent, to $65.89 a megawatt-hour at 1:12 p.m. from yesterday’s
on-peak average, the most since March 22, according to data from
the New York Independent System Operator Inc., or New York ISO.
On-peak prices extend from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.  “Zone J has seen extended periods of elevated pricing this
week due to ongoing generation outages in New York City,” said
Brendyn Brooks-Stocking, a Boston-based Northeast power analyst
at Genscape, which tracks real-time data at power plants and
transmission lines. “With the relatively new and efficient
Bayonne and Astoria East Energy plants offline, the ISO has been
forced to procure more expensive generation instead.”  The Bayonne plant is offline because of maintenance on the
Transco gas pipeline, while Astoria generation has been
curtailed by transmission work in the city, he said. Both
conditions are expected to continue until the last week of
April, according to Brooks-Stocking.  Plant Capacities  The capacity at  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s  Astoria  facility is 510
megawatts, according to the company’s website. The 512-megawatt
 Bayonne center , co-owned by  Hess Corp. (HES)  and ArcLight Capital
Partners LLC, began operation last year and produces enough
power for 500,000 homes in the New York City area, Hess said on
its website. Both are fueled by natural gas.  The Astoria plant is available to provide power to the grid
“except for some minor local transmission work involving
ConEd’s equipment,” David Gaier, a spokesman for NRG based in
Princeton, New Jersey, said in an e-mail. Consolidated Edison
Inc. operates the utility that provides electricity to 3.3
million customers in New York City and Westchester County.  A spokesman for Hess didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  The high temperature in New York City was 70 degrees
Fahrenheit at 12:49 p.m., 7 higher than the usual reading,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .
Yesterday’s high was 59 degrees, 3 below normal.  Peak Use  Electricity use  across the city will reach 6,531 megawatts,
2.2 percent above  yesterday’s peak  of 6,392 megawatts at 5:35
p.m., data from the state grid operator show.  Above-normal temperatures in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic
states today will be replaced by a cold front tonight, according
to WSI Corp. in Andover,  Massachusetts .  PJM’s benchmark  Western hub , which includes prices from
Erie, Pennsylvania, to  Washington , slid $5.59, or 12 percent, to
$39.82 a megawatt-hour at 12:15 p.m. from yesterday’s on-peak
average, the least since April 5, data from the grid operator
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Power from  Connecticut  to  Maine  declined $5.14, or 11
percent, to $43.09 a megawatt-hour, according to ISO New England
Inc., which manages the region’s grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  