-- PNE Wind Shares Rise After Buying Stake in German Developer WKN
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-19T15:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/pne-wind-shares-rise-after-buying-stake-in-german-developer-wkn.html
PNE Wind AG (PNE3) , the German wind-power
company planning to issue 100 million euros ($131 million) in
corporate bonds, rose the most in eight months in  Frankfurt 
after buying 54 percent of developer WKN AG.  Shares in Cuxhaven-based PNE rose as much as 13.3 percent
to 2.7 euros in Frankfurt trading, the most since Aug. 14. They
traded at 2.6 euros at 5:04 p.m. local time.  WKN’s wind-farm business complements PNE’s, and the
acquisition will create synergies through joint sales and
purchasing, PNE said in a statement. WKN is worth about 93
million euros, PNE said, valuing the transaction at 50 million
euros. PNE didn’t disclose a purchase price.  “I think that this purchase will have a positive impact on
PNE wind because WKN complements PNE very well,” Christopher Rodler, a Hamburg-based analyst at MM Warburg Investment
Research, said by phone. “This should maybe stabilize PNE’s
returns over the next few years,” said Rodler, who has a buy
rating on the shares.  PNE will fund the purchase with shares and proceeds from
the corporate  bond issue  announced in March to fund purchases of
wind farms on land and at sea in  Germany  and abroad, according
to the statement.  WKN, with 177 employees at the end of last year, has
developed more than 1,100 megawatts of wind including sales of
project rights and is advancing more than 1,700 megawatts,
according to the statement.  Siemens AG (SIE)  holds a 29.3 percent
stake in WKN through its Siemens Project Ventures GmbH unit, a
company presentation showed.  PNE Wind has built about 820 megawatts and is developing
3,100 megawatts of onshore wind at home and abroad as well as
additional offshore wind parks, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  