-- Polish Minister Loses Post After Gazprom Pipeline Row
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-04-19T12:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/polish-minister-loses-post-after-gazprom-pipeline-row.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
dismissed Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski for failing to
inform him about a deal with  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  over the Russian
natural gas producer’s pipeline expansion plans.  Gazprom and Poland’s Europol Gaz SA on April 4 signed a
memorandum to study a proposed 15 billion cubic-meter pipeline
called Yamal- Europe  2 from  Russia  via Poland to  Slovakia ,
bypassing Ukraine. Tusk and Budzanowski weren’t aware of the
deal, even though the plan was known to state-controlled gas
distributor  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , the
prime minister said at a news conference in Warsaw today.  Tusk nominated Deputy Administration Minister Wlodzimierz
Karpinski as new treasury minister and called for “quick
personnel decisions” in PGNiG.  “Despite my respect for Budzanowski’s qualifications, he
failed to adequately supervise strategic companies in charge of
 energy security ,” Tusk said.  Poland  wants to cut dependence on gas imports from Russia
via more links with other European Union members, liquefied
natural gas imports and domestic output. Meanwhile, the country
won’t participate in any attempt to isolate Ukraine via a bypass
pipeline, Tusk said on April 5.  Shares Drop  PGNiG shares  fell  as much as 2 percent to 5.34 zloty after
Tusk’s comments and traded down 1.1 percent to 5.39 zloty at
2:24 p.m. in Warsaw, valuing the company at 31.8 billion zloty
($10.2 billion)  Joanna Zakrzewska, a spokeswoman for PGNiG, declined to
comment on Tusk’s news conference or whether Chief Executive
Officer Grazyna Piotrowska-Oliwa plans to quit.  Karpinski , a 51-year-old chemical engineer, will be in
charge of most state-controlled companies. The government seeks
to raise 5 billion zloty from dividends in companies in which it
holds stakes this year and a further 5 billion zloty from sales
of stakes to help prop up public finances.  Energy security, shale-gas exploration and the effective
supervision of state companies will be his priorities,
Karpinski, a former management board member at fertilizer maker
 Zaklady Azotowe Pulawy SA (ZAP) , told reporters today.  Gazprom seeks to reduce its dependence on transit via
Ukraine after clashes led to reductions in shipments to Europe
twice from 2006 to 2009. The Russian company and PGNiG hold 48
percent in Europol Gaz each, with the remaining 4 percent held
by Gas-Trading SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  