-- Post-Chavez Power Struggle Lifts Ally’s Bonds: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-04-19T19:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/post-chavez-power-struggle-lifts-ally-s-bonds-argentina-credit.html
The political turmoil in Venezuela
that erupted in electing Hugo Chavez’s successor is causing
emerging-market debt investors to flood into  Argentina , chopping
its relative cost of borrowing by the most in four years.  Yields on Argentine dollar-denominated notes fell as much
as 2.56 percentage points  relative  to those for Venezuelan
government debt this month, the biggest decline since May 2009.
The extra 3.01 percentage points in interest that buyers
demanded to own Argentine debt on April 16 was the least since
January as speculation that President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will default eases and Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro , handpicked by Chavez before his death in March,
struggles to quell opposition calls for a manual recount.  Argentine bonds, which still yield the most in  emerging
markets  at 13.84 percent, are gaining favor among fixed-income
investors in developing nations after Maduro’s refusal to
recount votes following a 1.8 percentage-point victory against
Henrique Capriles on April 14 ignited protests that left eight
dead. Speculation is also increasing Argentina will find a way
to pay bondholders even if it loses to holdout creditors from
its 2001 default seeking compensation in a U.S. court.  “The flow of money is going to Argentina from Venezuela,”
Vinicius Pasquarelli, an emerging-market debt trader at Standard
Credit Group LLC, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Investors and money holders in Venezuela are running away from
Venezuela and they go to Argentina because it offers a better
return and less political risk for now.”  Default Risk  Chavez was an ally of Fernandez and her late husband and
predecessor  Nestor Kirchner . Under Chavez, Venezuela bought
Argentine bonds to help the country meet its financing needs.  The risk of an Argentine default as measured in the swaps
market reached a three-year-high on Nov. 26 on speculation the
nation would suspend payments rather than comply with a U.S.
court order to pay holdouts including billionaire hedge-fund
manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. $1.33 billion.  Since then, Fernandez’s government has offered holders of
defaulted bonds the same terms as restructurings in 2005 and
2010 and vowed to continue servicing its performing debt
regardless of future rulings.  Yields on the country’s benchmark 2033 bonds have dropped
148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage points, to 15.01 percent
since Argentina filed its payment plan March 29 as speculation
increased the government will remove restructured bonds from
U.S. jurisdiction to continue making payments even if the court
doesn’t accept the country’s terms, according to Bulltick
 Capital Markets .  Payment Pledge  Creditors including Elliott Management’s NML Capital Ltd.
and Aurelius Capital Management, which rejected the nation’s
debt swaps that imposed losses of 70 percent, have an April 22
deadline to respond to Argentina’s proposal.  Vice President  Amado Boudou ’s pledge on March 31 to pay
restructured bondholders “no matter what” is also helping the
bonds pare the biggest losses in emerging markets this year.
Argentine debt has  returned  9 percent in April, compared with a
drop of 19 percent before the proposal was filed, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  The 12.01 percentage points of  extra yield  investors demand
to own Argentine bonds over U.S. Treasuries, while the widest
among major emerging markets, is less than the four-year high of
13.4 percentage points on Nov. 28.  The gap with Treasuries narrowed three basis points at 3:14
p.m. in New York. Venezuela’s yield differential with Treasuries
fell 42 basis points to 8.16 percentage points, up from a four-
year-low of 7.05 percentage points on Jan. 3.  ‘Firm Hand’  The cost to protect $10 million of Argentine debt against
non-payment during five years with credit-default swaps rose 43
basis points to 2,072 basis points yesterday, data compiled by
CMA Ltd. show. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements. It costs 811
basis points to protect Venezuelan debt against non-payment.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 5.1635 per dollar.  While Argentine bonds rebound, Venezuelan notes reversed
some gains that led up to the end of Chavez’s 14-year rule.
Yields on its benchmark bonds due in 2027 surged the most in
almost five years on April 16 after Maduro said he would use a
“firm hand” to prevent violence and stood ready to radicalize
the socialist revolution.  Adding to Venezuela’s woes is the 7.5 percent decline in
 oil prices  this year. A founding member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Venezuela depends on oil for 95
percent of export revenue.  ‘Blowing Up’  “Even if Argentina loses the appeal, I don’t expect things
to crescendo before the next coupon payment,” Ray Zucaro, who
helps manage $300 million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset
Management in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a phone
interview. “Venezuela is blowing up, we don’t know who’s
president and oil is getting crushed.”  Argentina’s bonds may be ripe for a selloff because the
holdouts will likely reject the proposal, while Venezuelan bonds
may rebound as the confrontation between Maduro and the
opposition fades, according to Siobhan Morden, the head of Latin
America fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc.  “For  Venezuela , we expect a bounce, predicated on recovery
in external risk appetite but not a complete recovery back to
previous price highs,” Morden wrote in a report. “Current
levels on Argentina are at risk for profit taking ahead of legal
deadline.”  Full Audit  Bank of America Corp. maintained its overweight
recommendation on Venezuelan bonds, according to an April 15
report.  The gap widened to 376 basis points yesterday from 301
basis points on April 16 after Maduro, who will be sworn in
today, agreed to a full audit of the votes cast as the
opposition continues to contest the election.  Argentine yields rose above Venezuela’s and have remained
higher since Oct. 26, when the U.S. appeals court upheld U.S.
District Court Judge Thomas Griesa’s February 2012 ruling that
Fernandez must pay holders of defaulted debt, under a clause in
the bonds that demands equal treatment among bondholders.  Argentine bonds will continue to rally, shrinking the yield
gap further, as concern that Fernandez will halt bond payments
subsides and Venezuela remains unstable politically and
economically after the disputed election, said Pasquarelli.  “It’s going to be like this for a while,” he said. “In
terms of credit risk we should see this spread tightening even
more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  