-- Power Plants Get Water-Discharge Limits in 4 EPA Options
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-19T20:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/power-plants-get-water-discharge-limits-in-4-epa-options.html
Power producers must curb the
tainted water they discharge into waterways under a proposal the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued today, the latest in
a series of rules aimed at utilities that burn coal.  The EPA proposed four options for regulating the toxic-
waste disposal from  power plants , which are the top source of
pollutants in streams, rivers and other waters. The final rules
would have the most impact on coal-fired plants, which are the
primary source of the pollutants, and would be phased in
beginning in 2017.  “Reducing the pollution of our waters through effective
but flexible controls such as we are proposing today is a win-
win for our public health and our economic vitality,” Bob Perciasepe, the EPA acting administrator, said in a statement.  The  Sierra Club , which sued the EPA to issue these rules,
urged the agency to adopt the strongest of the four proposals
and said the announcement is an important step forward.  “When finalized in their strongest form, the Environmental
Protection Agency’s commonsense and affordable standards will
save lives, prevent children from getting sick, and ensure our
water is safe to drink and our fish safe to eat,”  Michael Brune , the group’s executive director, said in a statement.  Reduce Pollutants  EPA estimates that the regulations would reduce pollutant
discharges by 470 million to 2.62 billion pounds annually and
reduce the utilities’ water use by 50 billion to 103 billion
gallons per year.  The new regulations on water discharges will add to EPA
measures on coal-fired generators issued since President  Barack
Obama  took office in 2009. The administration’s most-expensive
rule would cut mercury and other toxic air emissions from such
plants. The measure proposed today would prevent similar
minerals, arsenic and mercury, in water releases from the
plants.  Depending on how the final rules are drafted, which is
scheduled to come next year, they could require millions of
dollars in spending to upgrade individual plants, company
lobbyists said in a document provided at a meeting with White
House officials last month and  posted  on the website of the
Office of Management and Budget.  Coal is under mounting pressure from cheap natural gas,
tougher federal pollution standards and state-level energy
efficiency requirements. The Sierra Club’s coal campaign in
early March said more than 142 plants has been closed.  American
Electric Power (AEP)  Co. in February said it would shut three plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  