-- Prodi’s Presidential Bid Vulnerable in Secret Ballot
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-04-19T17:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/prodi-s-presidential-bid-vulnerable-in-italian-secret-ballot.html
Romano Prodi failed to win the
Italian presidency in a parliamentary vote today as his wounded
party was unable to maintain discipline and resistance from
rival forces intensified.  Prodi, the two-time ex-prime minister and former European
Commission president, as defections left him more than 100 votes
short of a majority in the parliamentary vote in  Rome . It was
the fourth inconclusive ballot since voting started yesterday
and dealt Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the  Democratic Party ,
another defeat in his bid to unlock the impasse.  Prodi’s candidacy “is down the drain,” said Giuseppe
Civati, a Democratic Party lawmaker. “With a few renegade
votes, we could have tried again, but with this many, it’s over.
We will propose a third independent candidate that we can all
agree on.”  Italian politics has been reduced to near paralysis since
the Feb. 24-25 general election split parliament into three
blocs. The Democratic Party, which failed to build consensus
with smaller rivals over a government last month, is under
pressure to produce a victory in the presidential vote to keep
its contingent, the biggest in parliament, together.  “The Italian political scenario looks more and more
complicated,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at
Newedge, said in an e-mail before the vote.  So far investors have taken, Italy’s political turmoil in
stride. The yield on the country’s 10-year bond fell 4 basis
points to 4.22 percent, the lowest close in almost four months.  Voting Resumes  The selection process is set to continue tomorrow, with two
ballots a day until a candidate achieves a majority. The 1007
electors are comprised of all national lawmakers and some
regional representatives.  The next head of state, who will succeed President Giorgio Napolitano, 87, will become the key figure in the effort to
resolve the political impasse. The president, who serves for
seven years, appoints the prime minister and, when stalemates
prove intractable, can call snap elections.  Bersani turned to Prodi today in a failed attempt to entice
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the third-biggest
parliamentary group, into lending its support. Bersani’s first
nominee, ex-Senate Speaker Franco Marini, was chosen in accord
with former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi , head of the second-
largest force.  With both nominees, Bersani was unable to keep his own
coalition in line.  The PD “has shown itself to be absolutely untrustworthy
and paralyzed the country,” Berlusconi said in a statement
before the final vote.  Mussolini Ejected  Protesters gathered outside the Chamber for a second day
and the media attention prompted lawmakers into dramatic
gestures. Berlusconi pulled his forces from the Chamber in
protest over the Prodi nomination. Senator Alessandra Mussolini,
granddaughter of the Italian fascist dictator, was removed from
the assembly by uniformed ushers after she appeared in a top
bearing the slogan, “The Devil Wears Prodi.”  Prodi defeated Berlusconi, 76, in two elections in the last
20 years.  Grillo, an ex-comic and anti-corruption crusader, spurned
Prodi’s candidacy and reiterated Five Star’s support for former
lawmaker Stefano Rodota. Bersani’s coalition partner, Nichi
Vendola, said his supporters would probably back Rodota going
forward, news agency Ansa reported.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who leads a contingent with 70
votes, refused to join the PD and endorsed Interior Minister
Anna Maria Cancellieri. While Prodi has the characteristics to
be a “good head of state,” his candidacy is too divisive,
Monti said before the final vote.  The PD is “more focused on a desperate attempt to
safeguard the party’s unity rather than the country’s unity,”
Monti said to reporters in Rome.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  