-- THQ Files Plan to Pay Creditors From Proceeds of Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-04-19T23:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/thq-files-plan-to-pay-creditors-from-proceeds-of-sales.html
THQ Inc. (THQIQ) , the broken-up bankrupt
video-game maker, filed a liquidating bankruptcy plan to repay
creditors from the proceeds generated from selling the majority
of its assets.  Unsecured creditors are projected to recover from about
20 percent to about 52 percent, depending on the amount of
allowed claims, according to the disclosure statement, an
outline of the liquidating plan filed yesterday.  THQ, the maker of the “Saints Row” and “Company of
Heroes” video games before its bankruptcy, failed in its effort
to survive the bankruptcy intact with its initially proposed
sale to Clearlake Capital Group LP. Instead, most of its assets
were sold to competitors at a January auction bringing in about
$72 million after unsecured creditors argued the sale process
was too fast and that piecemeal offers could bring in more
value.  The Agoura Hills, California-based video-game maker said it
was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection  after sustaining losses
for the past five fiscal years. The company listed assets of
$204.8 million and debt of $248.1 million when it sought court
protection on Dec. 19.  Unsecured creditors, who will get their proportional share
of the sale proceeds, are estimated to have from $143 million to
$184 million in claims, according to the disclosure statement.
If the amount of allowed unsecured claims falls within that
range, the projected recoveries for unsecured creditors would be
31.5 percent to 51.9 percent.  Terminated Operations  If the claims of European subsidiaries, about $107 million,
are allowed, the recoveries are projected to be 19.9 percent to
29.6 percent. The subsidiaries, which have completely or just
about terminated operations, have enough cash to satisfy their
own debts so any distribution to them would ultimately be
returned to THQ, and their claims therefore shouldn’t be
allowed, the company said in court papers.  THQ is in the process of selling its remaining assets that
didn’t sell at the January auction, including its “Darksiders”
franchise. The company received 17 offers by the April 15 final
bid deadline and total proceeds will be $6 million to $7
million, according to court documents.  The case is In re THQ Inc., 12-bk-13398,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  