-- Rand Remains Inflationary Risk for South Africa, Marcus Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-04-19T13:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/rand-remains-inflationary-risk-for-south-africa-marcus-says.html
South Africa ’s central bank sees
the rand and fuel prices as the main risks to the inflation
outlook and anticipates a temporary breach of its 3 percent to 6
percent target range, Governor Gill Marcus said.  The rand “does create challenges for monetary policy,”
Marcus said in an address to German business executives in
Johannesburg today. “It remains an upside risk to the inflation
outlook” and will contribute to a target breach.  Inflation pressures are easing in South Africa as the price
of oil has retreated and as the rand is poised for the first
monthly gain in four against th dollar, lowering the expense of
imports and giving policy makers room to hold borrowing costs at
the lowest level in more than 30 years.  While the  Reserve Bank  has become more tolerant of
inflation close to the top of its target, rising prices have
constrained policy makers from stimulating the economy, Marcus
said last month. Economic growth has been limited by mining
output that hasn’t recovered fully from strikes last year and by
curtailed demand for goods from  Europe  because of a recession
there.  South Africa’s growth outlook is “intricately” linked to
Europe’s, and the downside risk to economic growth in advanced
economies remains, Marcus said.  The central bank held the  repurchase  rate at 5 percent last
month as inflation quickened to 5.9 percent in February. The
rate of price increases was  unchanged  in March, Statistics South
Africa said on April 17.  Oil, which South Africa imports, has dropped 9.4 percent
this month while the rand has appreciated 0.6 percent against
the dollar in the period, paring its decline for the year to 7.7
percent, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  