-- TransForce Drops to Three-Month Low on Outlook: Montreal Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-04-19T20:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/transforce-drops-most-since-2009-on-outlook-montreal-mover.html
TransForce Inc. (TFI)  fell to its lowest
level in more than three months after the logistics and trucking
company reported quarterly sales trailing analysts’ estimates
and said it doesn’t expect business to improve for the rest of
the year.  The stock  dropped  2.5 percent to C$19.50 at the close in
Toronto, its lowest price since Dec. 28. TransForce has declined
1.8 percent this year.  TransForce, which agreed in January to buy Velocity Express
to expand its package-delivery business, said persistent
softness in the North American economy affected first-quarter
results, as well as more normal seasonal demand compared to a
year earlier, according to a statement from the Montreal-based
company yesterday.  “As we do not see significant improvement in business
conditions before the end of the year, TransForce will continue
to focus on unlocking synergies from significant acquisitions
made since 2011 and on maximizing return on assets in all
segments,” Chief Executive Officer Alain Bedard said in the
statement.  First-quarter revenue fell 4.9 percent to C$749.7 million
($731 million), short of the C$785.8 million average estimate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Excluding costs and gains, first-quarter net income was
C$24.4 million, or 26 Canadian cents a share, compared to $24.7
million, or 25 cents a year earlier. That matched the average
analyst  estimate .  ‘Abnormally High’  Results in the period included “abnormally high” gains of
about 7 cents a share on asset sales, Ben Vendittelli, an
analyst at Laurentian Bank Securities, said in a note to clients
today.  “Though these gains are a recurring part of TransForce’s
operations they are typically significantly lower and do not
usually have such a material impact on earnings,” Vendittelli
said.  Vendittelli, who had a buy rating on TransForce, said today
he is placing the stock under review. TransForce “will continue
to take a breather in the short-term while economic factors
continue to cause headwinds for results,” he said.  Revenue in TransForce’s Canadian rig-moving business, which
totaled about C$50 million last year, may drop to about C$20
million in 2013, Bedard said today on a conference call.  “The disaster in our company is the rig-moving business,”
Bedard said. “The rig-moving business in  Canada , it’s a mess.
The market is a mess, the pricing is a mess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  