-- Treasuries Drop First Time in 3 Days; Gross Buying TIPS
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-19T21:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/treasuries-beat-bunds-and-jgbs-on-growth-risks.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for the
first time in three days as the Group of 20’s endorsement of
 Japan ’s stimulus measures bolstered speculation investors will
continue to seek high-returning assets.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
he’s buying U.S. inflation-index bonds after the securities
tumbled the most yesterday in more than a year following lower-
than-average demand at the Treasury’s five-year auction. German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said there was uniform
recognition in the G-20 that  Europe  has made progress in
stabilizing the euro. Yields on benchmark  10-year U.S. notes 
traded close to a four-month low they reached this week.  “Japan is buying on the long end, and we’ve seen
diminished inflation expectations, which has brought people back
into the market,” said Sean Murphy, a trader in New York at
Societe Generale SA, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Federal Reserve. “We may be oversold, but for now we are
stuck in the range.”  The U.S. 10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.71 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in February 2023 fell 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face value,
to 102 21/32. The yield has fallen two basis points this week
and reached 1.67 on April 17, the least since Dec. 12.  The benchmark yield traded below its 200-day  moving average 
of 1.75 percent for a sixth straight day. Moving averages are
indicators of momentum.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.9 percent, and
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.5 percent.  ‘Buying TIPS’  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Gross said he’s buying
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities after the debt fell the
most since November 2011 yesterday as a record $18 billion five-
year TIPS auction attracted the lowest demand in more than four
years.  The 10-year  break-even rate , a measure of inflation
expectations derived from the difference between yields on
conventional Treasuries and index-linked securities, declined to
2.25 percent yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 4, after
the auction. It closed at 2.32 percent today.  The drop in break-even rates is only temporary, according
to Gross, manager of the $289 billion Total Return Bond Fund.
Led by the Fed’s more than $2.5 trillion in stimulus since 2008,
central banks around the world have injected about $5.3 trillion
into the economies to sustain growth. All that extra cash is
bound to eventually spark inflation.  “Buying TIPS,” Gross wrote in a Twitter message today.
“Pimco expects higher” break-even rates, and “reserve
countries need protection.”  ‘Expensive Levels’  Treasuries due in a decade or more have been trading close
to the most expensive levels since February relative to global
peers with comparable maturities, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch bond indexes.  Yields on Treasuries yesterday closed 33 basis points
higher than those in an index of other sovereign debt. As
recently as March 25, Treasuries traded 57 basis points higher
than other sovereigns, the most since August 2011, the data
showed. It traded at 32 basis points higher on April 15, the
most expensive relative to peers since Feb. 26.  “We are at expensive levels,” said Christopher Sullivan,
who oversees $2.2 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “Equities are up,
suggesting there may be better sentiment on risk. That may
present additional pressure for Treasuries.”  Term Premium  The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, also
shows Treasuries are almost at the most expensive level this
year. The gauge was at negative 0.8 percent today, close to the
negative 0.83 percent reached on April 15, the most expensive
since Dec. 13. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  G-20 officials handed Japan leeway to reflate its stagnant
economy. Meeting for the first time since the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
unleashed new measures aimed at delivering 2 percent inflation
within two years, they said today in  Washington  that those
actions are “intended to stop deflation and support domestic
demand.” They echoed their promise of February that nations
will refrain from “competitive devaluation” and avoid
“persistent exchange-rate misalignments.”  Schaeuble, speaking of the euro zone, said “the reforms
that we’ve embarked upon and implemented are taking hold,”
Yesterday’s vote in  Germany ’s parliament on the Cyprus bailout
and maturity extensions for loans to Ireland and  Portugal  was
“pretty relaxed and pretty safe” compared with earlier bailout
votes in Germany’s parliament, he said.  The Fed bought $1.484 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to February 2043 today as part of its plan to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs through asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  