-- ResCap Noteholders Seek Court Permission to File Lawsuits
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-19T13:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/rescap-noteholders-seek-court-permission-to-file-lawsuits.html
Residential Capital LLC noteholders
asked a bankruptcy judge for permission to file lawsuits to help
investors collect as much of the $1 billion they are owed as
possible.  Wilmington Trust NA, trustee for the noteholders, said
today it wants to pursue suits that would be similar to claims
the bankrupt mortgage company’s official committee of unsecured
creditors is preparing.  Earlier this month, the committee asked U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan for permission to sue ResCap
owner  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , saying the company may be responsible
for as much as $25 billion of ResCap’s debt. Because ResCap is
in bankruptcy, Glenn must approve any lawsuits filed on the
company’s behalf.  The committee’s plan “does not adequately protect the
rights of the noteholders,” Wilmington Trust said today in
court papers, arguing that it should also be allowed to sue.  The creditors’ committee and a court-appointed bankruptcy
examiner have been investigating Ally’s pre-bankruptcy
relationship with ResCap. They focused on a settlement proposed
by Ally under which ResCap would give up the right to sue its
parent in exchange for a $750 million payment.  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy May 14 with
plans to sell assets and use the proceeds to repay as much of
its debt as possible. Ally, a Detroit-based bank that
specializes in  car loans , is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S.
Treasury  after receiving a bailout.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  