-- Russians, Chechens Worry About Boston Fallout
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-04-19T18:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/russians-chechens-worry-about-boston-fallout.html
As the U.S. tries to process the
news that the two suspects in the  Boston  Marathon bombing had
ties to the Russian republic of Chechnya, Russians and Chechens
know what it means for them: trouble.  Little is known in  Russia  about the brothers, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev and Dzhokar Tsarnaev. Apparently, the family moved to
the U.S. more than a decade ago to seek refuge from Chechnya,
which had a long and brutal secessionist conflict with Russia.
Relations between ethnic Russians and Chechens remain fraught,
and Chechen nationalists and religious fanatics have carried out
numerous terrorist attacks on Russian soil.  The initial Russian reactions were incredulous: What do
Chechens want with Boston? “Russian Chechens from  Kazakhstan 
commit an act of terror in Boston for some unknown reason,”
journalist Tikhon Dzyadko  wrote  on Twitter. “Hello
globalization.”  Whatever the brothers’ motivations, Russians worried that
the young men’s origin would have a bad effect on American
attitudes toward Russians in general, and specifically toward
refugees from Chechnya.  “This will definitely affect relations” between Russians
and Americans, security expert and former parliament deputy
Gennady Gudkov  told  the Metro newspaper. “Americans will have a
worse attitude toward Chechens, Dagestanis and all people from
the Caucasus. This is inevitable.”  As Twitter user @nice_anastasia  put it : “Now the consul
will be even stricter when issuing visas.”  Ramzan Kadyrov, the strongman Russian President  Vladimir Putin  installed to restore calm in Chechnya, reacted to the news
with irritation. “We are accustomed to everything that goes
wrong in the world being associated with Chechens,” he  said ,
according to government-owned RIA Novosti news agency. “But
accusations are not proof yet that these people were involved.
In any case, they were brought up in America. This is their
education.”  Russians are finding it hard to understand why two Chechen
brothers, who have lived in the U.S. for years, would have
attacked a country that had done them no wrong.  A sparse  account  attributed to Dzhokar on VKontakte, a
Russian-language social network, suggested more animosity toward
Russia than toward the U.S. One post contained a bitter joke
referring to the treatment of people from the Caucasus region in
Russia: “A Dagestani, a Chechen and an Ingush are riding in a
car. Question: Who is driving? Answer: A cop.”  Elder brother Tamerlan, too, made comments showing
antipathy for Russia. In captions on a photo gallery of him
training for a boxing match, he was  quoted  as saying that “until
his native Chechnya becomes independent, Tamerlan would rather
compete for the  United States  than for Russia.”  Russian nationalists saw the news from Boston as a
vindication of their belief that Chechnya is a terrorist region
and Moscow was right to suppress it. American “supporters of
Chechen independence have been blown up by those independence
fighters,” programmer Alexei Shurygin  wrote  on Vkontakte.  This being Russia, there was no shortage of conspiracy
theories. Some suggested a link between the attack and the
recent U.S. decision to include Kadyrov in a list of
undesirables who would be denied entry to the country. “Right
after what happened I said aloud: Maybe America should not have
put the leader of Chechnya on any public lists,” TV producer
Vera Krichevskaya  wrote  on Facebook.  A man calling himself Anzor and claiming to be the
brothers’ father  offered  his own version in an interview to the
Interfax news agency. “In my opinion, my children were set up by
the special services because they were Muslim believers. Why was
Tamerlan killed? They were supposed to take him alive. The
younger son is on the run now,” he said. “We expected him for
holidays. Now I don’t know what will happen.”  Alexei Filatov, head of the veterans’ association for
Russia’s elite Alfa anti-terrorist unit,  told  the daily
Kommersant that the true organizers of the attack must have been
Americans unhappy with President  Barack Obama ’s “intention to
cease active anti-terrorist activities.”  “These are people hired to perform the terrorist attack,”
he said. “Judging by the way it was executed, the people who
ordered it would hate for their identity to become public. If it
were some radical organization, Islamic or otherwise, it would
have claimed responsibility.”  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 