-- Rutgers Suspends Men’s Lacrosse Coach Amid Probe of Verbal Abuse
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-20T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/rutgers-suspends-men-s-lacrosse-coach-amid-probe-of-verbal-abuse.html
Rutgers University  men’s lacrosse
coach Brian Brecht was suspended due to allegations of verbal
abuse, two weeks after the school fired its men’s basketball
coach for inappropriate conduct including the use of gay slurs.  Brecht’s suspension is pending an investigation by the
Rutgers University Police Department, the school said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. The release was not specific about the
nature of the abuse.  Rutgers basketball coach Mike Rice was fired April 3 after
a video surfaced of him verbally abusing players. Athletic
director Tim Pernetti resigned two days later.  “There is no place at Rutgers for words or actions that
are inconsistent with the values of the university,” Rutgers
President Robert L. Barchi said in the statement. “Our student
athletes, as all members of the Rutgers community, should know
that our university is committed to promoting an atmosphere of
respect and dignity.”  Kevin Buchan, a spokesman for Brecht, said in a statement
that the coach has an “exemplary professional record.”  “He has nothing to hide and will be 100 percent
cooperative with the university investigation,” Buchan’s
statement said. “He looks forward to clearing his name and
getting back to coaching.”  Committee Formed  News of the suspension came the same day that the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based school announced the 26 members of a
committee responsible for selecting a new athletic director. The
group includes faculty, administrators, students and alumni.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , asked at a news
conference in Trenton about the suspension, said it would not be
appropriate for him to comment.  “I’m not going to get into the micromanagement of this
stuff,” Christie said. “I don’t know enough about it” to
comment.  Barchi said the school would continue “looking closely”
at all of Rutgers’ intercollegiate athletics programs.  “If we find problems, we will address them,” he said.  Rice was let go after Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN network
released a video of him kicking and throwing basketballs at
players while hurling epithets, including gay slurs. He had
previously been suspended three games without pay and fined
$50,000 in December for what the school said at the time was
“inappropriate behavior and language.”  Rice’s dismissal was followed by calls for Pernetti and
Barchi to step down. Pernetti resigned three days later, saying
in a letter that his initial reaction to the video was to fire
Rice rather than suspend him. He said university policy would
not justify dismissal.  Brecht’s Background  Brecht, now in his second season as Rutgers’ coach, has 17
years of collegiate lacrosse coaching experience, according to
his biography on the school’s athletics website. Brecht was head
coach at Siena College prior to his arrival at Rutgers.  Brecht’s base salary for this season is $130,000 according
to his contract, obtained by  Bloomberg News  via open records
requests. The five-year deal also includes bonuses based on the
team’s on-field success and academic performance.  Rutgers is 2-11 this season, and has lost its last 10
games. The Scarlet Knights host  Duke University  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  