-- Safeway’s Blackhawk Rises After Raising $230 Million in IPO
-- B y   J u l i e   A l n w i c k
-- 2013-04-19T20:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/safeway-s-blackhawk-advances-after-raising-230-million-in-ipo.html
Blackhawk Network Holdings Inc.,
the gift-card provider owned by grocer  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , climbed in
trading after raising $230 million in an initial public
offering, pricing the shares above the marketed range.  The shares advanced 13 percent to $26.01 at the close in
New York. The Pleasanton, California-based company priced 10
million shares at $23 each, according to a statement yesterday.
The company’s existing shareholders had earlier offered the
stock for $20 to $22.  At the IPO price, Blackhawk’s market value would be about
$1.2 billion. Safeway, the second-largest U.S. grocery-store
chain, said last year that it planned to sell a minority stake
in the gift-card provider. Blackhawk’s products include prepaid
cards to restaurants, retail and grocery stores in the U.S. and
18 other countries.  Blackhawk’s revenue rose 28 percent to $959.1 million last
year as the company added customers, according to  regulatory
filings . About 15 percent of the 2012  sales  came from
Blackhawk’s international business, which includes operations in
countries such as the U.K. and  Australia .  The company sold a 19 percent stake in the IPO, the
offering terms show. Safeway may prevent Blackhawk from selling
additional stock so that the parent can maintain the 80 percent
ownership required to complete a tax-free spinoff, the filing
shows. Safeway has told Blackhawk that it currently has no plans
for such a spinoff, according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp., Citigroup
Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG led the sale. Blackhawk is listed on
the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol HAWK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Alnwick in  New York  at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  