-- SAP McDermott Sees Choppy Public Spending in U.S., China
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-19T15:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/sap-software-sales-miss-estimates-on-lower-demand-in-asia.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, projected a difficult market for
its government business amid cuts in U.S. federal spending and
China’s transition to a new leadership.  “It’s going to be choppy out there in the public sector,”
co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said in a telephone
interview today. “Chinese purchasing patterns have definitely
slowed down.”  The  U.S. Congress  and President  Barack Obama  are at
loggerheads over how to replace the across-the-board federal
spending cuts, called sequestration, which kicked in earlier
this year and aimed at lower deficits. Meanwhile China’s first-
quarter economic growth slowed and trailed estimates in a
challenge to new Premier  Li Keqiang .  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded SAP today to hold from buy
after the Walldorf, Germany-based company posted first-quarter
software sales and operating profit trailing analysts’  estimates 
following a failure to close contracts in the Asia-Pacific
region. Public-sector revenue is important for SAP, spokesman
Daniel Reinhardt said, declining to specify how much of the
company’s sales it accounts for.  Sales of new software licenses, an indicator of future
revenue, rose 3 percent to 657 million euros ($860 million).
That was slower than the 9 percent growth in the previous
quarter and missed the 726 million-euro median of  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit adjusted for some items
rose 8 percent to 901 million euros, also missing estimates.  SAP  fell  the most since Jan. 15, dropping as much as 4.3
percent to 57.05 euros and traded at 57.45 euros as of 4:55 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . The stock has gained 16 percent in the past 12
months, valuing the company at 70.6 billion euros.  ‘Notch Better’  Standard & Poor’s cut its 12-month target price to 65
euros, analyst James Crawshaw wrote in an e-mailed statement
from the credit-rating company.  SAP joins other software makers in reporting slowing
traditional license sales.  Oracle (ORCL)  Corp. on March 20 reported
revenue and profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates as
demand for Web-based programs hurt sales of its hardware and on-
premise software. SAP took market share from Oracle in cloud and
database software during the quarter, McDermott said.  “Still a notch better than Oracle’s straight miss and
negative newsflow from other IT bellwethers,”  Thomas Becker , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a note. “Not a
great quarter either, but Q1 is always the smallest quarter and
does not establish a trend.”  Leadership Transitions  Sales in the Asia-Pacific and Japan region were hurt by
SAP’s leadership transitions China, India and Southeast  Asia  but
will be “back on track” in the second quarter, McDermott said.
The co-CEO said he has “a lot of confidence” in Stephen Watts,
who has overseen operations there since 2010.  A year ago, SAP’s North America chief Robert Courteau
stepped down after 15 months in the job as the company reported
falling sales in the region.  Software and cloud subscription revenue in the Asia-Pacific
region fell 10 percent in the quarter. The region, which
includes  China , is growing in importance for SAP, accounting for
16 percent of sales last year. The U.S. is SAP’s single biggest
national market, producing 28 percent of its 2012 revenue.  Asia still poses the “biggest growth opportunity” among
all of SAP’s regions, co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe said in a
Bloomberg TV interview.  Cloud Business  The global market for enterprise software will grow 6.4
percent this year and 6.7 percent in 2014 to reach $316 billion,
researcher Gartner Inc. said last month. SAP has a target to
increase revenue beyond 20 billion euros by 2015, compared with
16.2 billion euros last year.  McDermott confirmed SAP’s 2013  forecast  and said the
company plans to provide an updated long-term forecast early
next year.  The company’s cloud business is starting to make up for
slowing on-premise growth. Including Web-based software, SAP
grew 25 percent in the latest quarter, excluding currency
swings, compared with a 2 percent decline at Oracle, Snabe said.  SAP also won contracts against  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and
 Workday Inc. (WDAY)  in the Americas, Snabe said. The co-CEO said he’s
not concerned about customers simply replacing SAP’s more
profitable on-premise products with cloud versions.  Quicker Suite  This year, SAP began selling a faster version of its
mainstay applications suite, hoping to gain a better foothold in
the database market with its rapid Hana technology. The release
will start to boost Hana sales, which tripled to 86 million
euros in the quarter, toward the end of the year, Snabe said.  Snabe and McDermott are trying to assure investors SAP will
continue to grow faster than the market after missing its profit
forecast last year as it hired thousands of programmers and
salespeople. The executives have resisted calls to acquire
hardware manufacturers, choosing instead to  go after  makers of
on-demand software and programs for mobile devices.  SAP will use its presence in  New York ’s Hudson Yards
development to show its commitment to the U.S. and showcase its
software, which will be used throughout the compound, McDermott
said. The company has no intentions to relocate to New York from
 Germany  and will also maintain its presence in  Newtown Square ,
 Pennsylvania , he said.  “This is not about moving the headquarters,” McDermott
said. “It’s about getting in touch with the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  