-- Schaeuble Says ‘Limited’ Treaty Change Enough for Banking Union
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-19T15:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/schaeuble-says-limited-treaty-change-enough-for-banking-union.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble and Jens Weidmann, the country’s central bank chief,
said treaty changes are needed to put a future European banking
union on a sound legal footing.  Germany ’s Constitutional Court is strict about monitoring
the legality of transfers of power away from the government and
parliament, said Schaeuble. That could be a resolved by
“limited treaty change” that wouldn’t require referendums
across  Europe  as possible, he said.  “The federal government is ready for such treaty changes,
the faster the better,” Schaeuble said at a press briefing in
Washington today also attended by Weidmann. Any drive to “fudge
this a bit because it’s so difficult,” would only result in
“things that are of no use, that do not work,” he said.  The European Central Bank and Michel Barnier, the European
Union’s financial services chief, have called for a European
Resolution Authority to intervene at crisis-hit banks, saying
the step is essential to untangle the fates of lenders and
sovereigns. Barnier said he will present draft legislation in
June.  French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said yesterday
that the EU should go as far as it can on banking-union plans
without treaty change. If treaty change is needed, it should be
as limited as possible, he said in  Washington .  ‘Want it Fast’  “We want a full banking union and we want it fast,”
Moscovici said, adding that treaty changes shouldn’t be used as
“pretext” to delay banking union.  Schaeuble told his EU counterparts at a meeting in Dublin
last week that setting up a central authority to deal with
failing banks requires treaty changes. The German minister has
also argued that revising the bloc’s rules would benefit the
ECB’s bank supervision arm by ensuring independence from
monetary policy.  A treaty change for the supervisory mechanism “makes sense
in order to have a very clear separation of the two spheres of
banking supervision and monetary policy and hence to continue to
ensure the focus of monetary policy on the primary goal of the
stability of the value of money,” Weidmann said.  Ministers in Dublin endorsed plans to hand supervision
powers to the ECB, a step billed by Barnier as a cornerstone of
the banking union, after committing to “work constructively”
on any proposals for treaty change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  