-- Schaeuble Says Bernanke, BOJ Can Only Buy Time for Economies
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-19T13:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/schaeuble-says-bernanke-boj-can-only-buy-time-for-economies.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said that central banks around the world can only
create breathing space for governments to carry out policies
that put their economies back on a sustainable track.  “Mr. Bernanke too can only buy time, he can’t solve the
problems in substance of the economy,” Schaeuble told reporters
today in Washington, where he is attending a meeting of Group of
20 finance chiefs. The U.S. “is aware that they need a credible
medium-term strategy.”  Japan’s conduct of monetary policy shows that it was
“right and urgently necessary” to take a closer look at
liquidity as a potential source of economic instability,
Schaeuble said, referring to a G-20 decision taken at a meeting
in Moscow in February. Schaeuble said “we wish them a lot of
luck that it works” and that there are signs economic growth
figures are improving. Still, the tool must be used carefully
and “can’t substitute for the necessary medium-term measures.”  Schaeuble and  Chancellor Angela Merkel , the tandem in
charge of  Europe ’s biggest economy, have repeatedly insisted on
the need for countries to conduct structural reforms to overhaul
their economies rather than rely on monetary policy. While both
acquiesced in the face of European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s pledge of unlimited bond buying during the euro-area
crisis, Schaeuble used a magazine interview today to call on the
ECB to drain liquidity from the system.  Liquidity ‘Flood’  “Emerging economies’ concerns about an excessive flood of
liquidity is impossible to ignore,” Schaeuble said in
Washington. “That’s something that has to be taken seriously in
industrialized countries and it makes no sense to just demand
that no capital controls be imposed.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann at the same briefing
reiterated the text of the Moscow G-20 communique, which said
the group “will refrain from competitive devaluation” and
“will not target our exchange rates for competitive purposes.”
 Japan ’s monetary policy can’t tackle its “structural
problems,” he said.  Schaeuble said there was uniform recognition at a G-20
dinner last night that Europe has made great progress in
stabilizing the euro and that financial markets are having a
“less nervous, less uncertain view” of the currency union than
one or two years ago.  “The reforms that we’ve embarked upon and implemented are
taking hold,” Schaeuble said. Compared with earlier concerns
about bailout votes in  Germany ’s parliament, yesterday’s vote on
Cyprus and maturity extensions for loans to Ireland and  Portugal 
was “pretty relaxed and pretty safe.”  Debt Push  Schaeuble planned to press his G-20 counterparts to sign up
to similar “growth-friendly,” deficit-reduction policies to
those he pursues in Germany, according to a government official
who spoke to reporters before he left for the U.S. Germany will
insist that G-20 members honor their deficit-reduction
commitments made in Toronto in 2010 and seek to make progress on
extending that pledge beyond 2016, the official said.  While this week’s meeting in  Washington  won’t yield an
agreement on a follow-up accord on deficit reduction to the
Toronto commitments, progress must be made by the time of the G-
20 summit in St. Petersburg in September, Schaeuble said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington via 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Washington via 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  