-- Schlumberger Profit Falls on Lower North American Prices
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-04-19T10:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/schlumberger-profit-falls-on-lower-north-american-prices.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, said first-quarter profit
fell on lower hydraulic fracturing prices in  North America .  Net income declined to $1.26 billion, or 94 cents a share,
from $1.3 billion, or 97 cents, a year earlier, Houston- and
Paris-based Schlumberger said in a statement on  Business Wire 
today. Excluding one-time items, the company exceeded the 98-
cent average of 32  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The outlook for North America remains uncertain, with
lower-than-expected rig activity and continuing pricing
weakness,” Chief Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard said in the
statement.  Prices charged for U.S. fracking services are expected to
fall another 6 percent this year after dropping 15 percent in
2012, according to PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a Houston-
based industry adviser. Fracking equipment in the first quarter,
measured by the amount of horsepower available, was estimated to
exceeded demand by an estimated 32 percent. About 15.4 million
horsepower was competing to meet demand for 11.7 million, the
consultant said.  “This past year has been more challenging for the oilfield
service subsector than the market originally anticipated,”
Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in St. Louis who
rates the shares a buy and owns none, said in a phone interview
before the results were announced. “I really expected to see
better earnings improvement. That’s been delayed now until at
least later this year into 2014.”  Schlumberger generates about two-thirds of  sales  outside of
North America, the highest ratio among the largest service
providers, including  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Venezuelan Collections  The company said last month collections in Venezuela had
improved and all revenue from first-quarter work would be
recognized. The March 31 statement came two weeks after
Schlumberger said it would temporarily cut activity in the
country due to unpaid bills.  Schlumberger reported a $92 million pretax charge for
currency value loss in  Venezuela .  The earnings statement was released before the start of
regular trading on U.S. markets. Schlumberger, which has 32 buy,
one sell and six hold recommendations from analysts, rose 3
cents to $71 yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  