-- Searchers Find 14 Bodies at Texas Fertilizer Disaster
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-04-20T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/searchers-find-2-bodies-at-texas-fertilizer-blast-site.html
Search crews recovered the bodies
of 14 people killed in a  Texas  fertilizer-plant explosion that
injured 200 and devastated the small town of West in the worst
U.S. industrial disaster in at least three years.  The dead include five volunteer firemen and four emergency
medical personnel, West Mayor Tommy Muska said today in a media
briefing. Sixty people remain unaccounted for, U.S. Senator  John Cornyn  said at a separate briefing.  Only one house near the site of the April 17 blast at Adair
Grain Inc.’s warehouse was yet to be searched as of this
evening, officials said at a news conference. The identities of
the deceased weren’t released.  The Adair facility had a stockpile of ammonium nitrate, a
nitrogen fertilizer so volatile that it has been used by
terrorists to build truck bombs. Cornyn said he’s “confident”
the blast will lead to a review of the government’s chemical
plant safety rules.  “We have to start all over, I don’t know what we’re going
to do,” said Joann Williams, 70, who was evacuated from her
house.  The explosion, which rocked the town of 2,800 residents
with the force of a small earthquake, destroyed about 50 homes,
three of the town’s fire trucks and an emergency medical
services vehicle, Reyes said. Authorities didn’t say where they
had found the bodies.  Adair Comment  Adair Grain owner Donald Adair, a West resident, said one
of his employees, a volunteer firefighter, perished. The company
is working with investigators, he said in an e-mailed statement.  “We pledge to do everything we can to understand what
happened to ensure nothing like this ever happens again in any
community,” he said.  The death toll is the highest for a U.S industrial
catastrophe since April 2010, when 29 coal miners perished in
Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch mine in  West Virginia .  Firefighters in West were already battling a blaze at the
plant, and had begun evacuating nearby residents, when it
exploded about 7:53 p.m. local time. A nursing home, hospital
and two schools are situated within a mile of the facility,
which sits outside the northeast edge of town.  Federal Investigators  Ammonium nitrate was responsible for some of the deadliest
industrial accidents in the last century, including a 1947
explosion in  Texas City , Texas, that killed more than 570, said
John Verkade, a chemistry professor at  Iowa State University  in
Ames.  There were no indications that the fire or explosion was
triggered intentionally, Police Sergeant William Patrick Swanton
said yesterday. Teams of urban search-and-rescue experts known
as Texas Task Forces 1 and 2 arrived on the scene yesterday. A
contingent of forensic chemists and explosive specialists from
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
also was deployed.  The U.S. Chemical Safety Board, which looks into industrial
chemical accidents, said on its  website  yesterday that a “large
investigation team” had been sent to West.  A 2011 inspection of the plant by the U.S. Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration revealed violations of
material-handling rules, according to an agency document. The
inspector said the company planned to ship anhydrous ammonia in
unauthorized cargo tanks, and had failed to develop a security
plan for the transportation.  EPA Fine  The agency initially proposed a fine of $10,100. It was
reduced to $5,250 last year, which the company paid. The agency
said in its final order in the matter that the company had
addressed the violations and “no further corrective actions are
required.”  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency inspected the West
plant’s risk management plan in March 2006 and found
deficiencies. The EPA fined the facility $2,300 in August of
that year and directed Adair Grain to correct the shortcomings,
Alisha Johnson, an agency spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  