-- Shell Interested in Buying Petrobras Blocks in Gulf of Mexico
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-04-19T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/shell-interested-in-buying-petrobras-blocks-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, is interested in acquiring assets in the
Gulf of  Mexico , including  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  blocks.  “It is one of the most strategic deep-water areas for
Shell and the company will continue to negotiate with partners
in the region, including Petrobras, if there are
opportunities,” Andre Araujo, head of Shell’s Brazilian unit,
said at a press conference in Rio de Janeiro yesterday aside
Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser.  Petrobras, as the state-controlled Brazilian oil company is
known, has a $237 billion,five-year business plan starting in
2013, which includes $9.9 billion in sales and restructuring as
it focuses on the development of domestic off-shore oil
reserves. In March, it said it sold a stake in a block in  Benin 
to Shell, as well as a Gulf of Mexico prospect to Plains
Exploration and Production.  Petrobras lowered its divestment and cost-cutting targets
this year by almost $1 billion from a year earlier. The
adjustment was needed because the company didn’t have experience
as a seller when it set the original target, Chief Executive
Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said March 19. Foster said in
October that the company was close to selling some Gulf assets
for as much as $8 billion.  Petrobras and Shell are partners in Brazil’s offshore
Parque das Conchas field, and Shell is also a supplier of
liquefied natural gas to Petrobras. The Gulf of Mexico accounts
for about 55 percent of Shell’s oil and gas production in the
U.S. through licenses for 423 blocks, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  