-- Sinopec Sells $3.5 Billion of Bonds in Push for Overseas Assets
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-04-19T02:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/sinopec-sells-3-5-billion-of-bonds-in-push-for-overseas-assets.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) 
raised $3.5 billion in the second-largest sale of dollar-
denominated bonds in Asia outside of  Japan , as the region’s
biggest refiner expands overseas.  Sinopec, as the company is known, sold $750 million of
three-year bonds for a 1.25 percent coupon and $1 billion of
1.875 percent five-year debentures, according to a company
filing. It also sold $1.25 billion of 10-year securities at
3.125 percent and $500 million of 30-year debt at 4.25 percent,
the statement showed. The proceeds will help finance the
purchase of overseas assets and fund the refiner’s international
business, according to the release.  Chinese companies are looking abroad for oil and gas assets
to feed the energy needs of the world’s second-biggest economy.
Sinopec expects more asset deals with its state-owned parent
 China  Petrochemical Corp. after creating a $3 billion joint
venture to replace dwindling reserves with oilfields in
Kazakhstan, Colombia and  Russia , Vice Chairman Wang Tianpu said
in Hong Kong last month.  “Chinese oil and gas companies are familiar to
investors,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Some companies benefit from stable
cashflows, while others have state-owned enterprise status.”  National Petroleum  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, is promoting a
“going out” policy to encourage its companies to invest and
secure energy supplies abroad, as they build businesses that can
compete with global rivals.  Sinopec’s sale is the biggest dollar offering in Asia
outside of Japan since Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. sold a record  $5
billion (13)  of bonds in a three-part sale in November 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Oil & Gas Group Ltd. also sold $350 million of five-
year securities to yield 5.25 percent yesterday, according to a
company statement. It plans to use the proceeds from any
offering to fund capital expenditures, repay existing debts and
for other general corporate purposes.  China National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest oil
company, raised $2 billion last week, paying record-low coupons
for debt in three maturities, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  