-- Six Australian Swimmers Get Deferred Bans, Fines for Misbehavior
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-19T04:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/six-australian-swimmers-get-deferred-bans-fines-for-misbehavior.html
Six members of  Australia ’s 400-
meter freestyle relay men’s swimming squad were given suspended
bans and fines for misbehavior including the misuse of
 prescription drugs  in the leadup to last year’s  Olympic Games .  Following an investigation by its Integrity Panel, Swimming
Australia said the athletes, who weren’t named in a statement
today announcing the penalties, will be required to make
undisclosed payments to the governing body and received deferred
suspensions after they “failed to demonstrate the level of
conduct required of members of the team.”  “We believe these athletes showed poor judgment in their
actions and behavior, and such behavior is unacceptable for
members of the Australian swim team,” Swimming Australia
President Barclay Nettlefold said in the statement.  The 400-meter relay squad said at a Feb. 22 news conference
that they’d behaved inappropriately at a pre-Olympics training
camp in Manchester. James Magnussen, Tommaso D’Orsogna, Cameron
McEvoy, Eamon Sullivan and Matt Targett admitted to taking the
prescription sedative Stilnox, that was banned by the Australian
Olympic Committee, as part of a bonding exercise. James Roberts
said he did not take the drug, though had joined in with pranks
that disturbed other teammates.  Their admissions came three days after the release of two
reviews that criticized the culture and leadership of the
Australian swimming team, which had its worst performance in the
Olympic pool in two decades last year. Australians won one gold
medal, six silver and three bronze in  London .  The men’s relay team finished fourth in their event.  AOC Probe  The integrity panel also investigated allegations of
drunkenness and bullying during the camp and the Olympic
swimming competition, though found no evidence to sanction any
athlete, coach or team official, Swimming Australia said.  Nettlefold said his organization will continue to assist
the AOC, which is conducting a separate probe into the relay
squad’s behavior. The AOC said today that its investigation
isn’t yet complete, though the judge leading it would consider
Swimming Australia’s findings in his final report.  “We have taken many steps towards developing a more
positive culture within the team and the organization already
this year, and we’re confident we are heading in the right
direction,” Nettlefold added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  