-- Slovenia Needs to Buoy Confidence to Avoid Bailout: UBS
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-19T10:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/slovenia-needs-to-buoy-confidence-to-avoid-bailout-ubs.html
Slovenia needs to bolster the
confidence of market investors in the Alpine country to raise
enough cash to repay debts, plug budget holes and cover the cost
of bank restructuring, a UBS economist said.  The month-old government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek
is facing “three key challenges,” including “patchy access to
financial markets” and high borrowing costs at a time when
Slovenia needs cash to boost the capital of state-owned banks
and narrow the deficit,  UBS AG (UBSN)  economist Gyorgy Kovacs said in a
note to investors today from  London . The “poor economic outlook
and elevated budget deficits” will drive public debt toward 70
percent of GDP, he said.  “It is absolutely essential to restore and maintain market
confidence if Slovenia wants to avoid a bailout,” Kovacs wrote.
“The key trigger for an ESM bailout would be the drying-up of
 market access  at reasonable rates. This could be due to domestic
reasons — e.g. the government’s inability to progress with its
desired fiscal and banking measures — or general  risk
aversion .”  Bratusek promised a plan to narrow the budget shortfall and
fix the banks within a month, a timeframe agreed to with
European leaders in Brussels. The government will also prepare
the sale of two state-held companies and possibly also a bank.  Slovenia’s economy is expected to grow 1.5 percent in 2014
after a 2 percent economic contraction this year and a 2.3
percent decline in the previous year, according to the
International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook.  The slow recovery after a two-year recession “should
generate further weakness in the banks’ asset quality as firms
are likely to face difficulties,” Kovacs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  