-- SMA Solar Says Insecurity Over China Dumping Fees Hurting Orders
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-19T15:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/sma-solar-says-insecurity-over-china-dumping-fees-hurting-orders.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Pascal Urbon said speculation over
possible anti-dumping fees for Chinese solar products in  Europe 
is weighing on orders at the world’s biggest maker of inverters.  The insecurity over tariffs has unsettled investors in
Europe, caused banks to tighten lending and led to the delay or
cancellation of projects, Urbon said today in an interview.
European solar installations may drop more than 45 percent to
below 9 gigawatts in 2013, also on falling subsidies, he said.  “We believe that the non-European markets in the best case
can compensate for the strong drop in European installations
looking just at the volume, the gigawatts,” Urbon said.
“Because of increased pricing pressure in the inverter segment,
however, we expect the global market measured in euros to shrink
by about 20 percent.”  The European Union is studying anti-dumping and anti-
subsidy tariffs on Chinese panels after U.S. duties came into
force last year.  China  itself is planning tariffs on imports of
polysilicon. SMA, a Niestetal-based supplier of inverters that
convert power from photovoltaic panels for use in the grid, last
month predicted a “tough year” for the solar industry and said
it may lose money in 2013.  Germany , the world’s leading solar market last year with
7.6 gigawatts of installations, may shrink by as much as 50
percent in 2013, Urbon said.  Urbon said markets focusing on large-scale solar plants
such as the U.S.,  Japan , China, South Africa and Australia can
make up for lost volumes in Europe. In Germany, SMA plans to
introduce an inverter with an integrated battery in the third
quarter amid growing demand for solutions that facilitate self-
consumption of solar power, Urbon said.  Urbon said he also sees “big sales potential in the mid-
term” for inverters that can be combined with diesel generators
powering off-grid industry plants such as mines in India and
 Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  