-- Socialist Correa Seeking to Boost Capital Markets in Ecuador
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-04-19T19:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/socialist-correa-seeking-to-boost-capital-markets-in-ecuador-2-.html
Ecuador President  Rafael Correa ,
re-elected in February on pledges to “radicalize” his
socialist push, is proposing to modernize the country’s markets
after the fashion of capitalist countries he has criticized.  Correa, a 50-year-old former economics professor with a
Ph.D. from the  University of Illinois , sent legislation to
congress on April 5 that would integrate the country’s two
securities exchanges and require them to convert into for-profit
entities, according to a copy of the bill obtained by  Bloomberg
News  and confirmed by a congressional press officer.  The bill also creates a regulatory framework under which
financial firms could set up investment banks and mutual funds,
and makes it easier for medium-size and small companies to raise
financing on exchanges.  “While the  securities market  has been seen as a classic
tool of capitalism and of large economic groups, as also happens
in our country, this market could be an ideal mechanism to
democratize companies’ property,” Correa said in a letter to
Congressional President Fernando Cordero accompanying the bill.
“The exchange market is a very important segment of the economy
of a nation.”  Ecuador’s Economic Policy Minister Jeannette Sanchez wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the bill, the minister’s
press office said today.  Citizens’ Revolution  As the head of a nation where about a third of the 15.4
million population lives in poverty, Correa has promised to
“radicalize” his “citizens’ revolution” with free education
and health care. The self-described socialist revolutionary
dubbed foreign bondholders “true monsters” when the country
defaulted on $3.2 billion of debt in 2008.  The Economic Policy Ministry had promised a bill to
integrate the exchanges more than two years ago. The bill has
been delayed since then amid ministerial changes in the
president’s cabinet. Ecuador’s two exchanges,  Bolsa de Valores
de Quito  and  Bolsa de Valores de Guayaquil , operate mostly
independently.  Under the proposed bill, the country would set up a new
market regulator accountable to the president and create a
“special” exchange where small- and medium-sized companies
could list securities with fewer rules.  Ecuador, whose economy is about the size of  New Mexico ’s,
had total trading volume of $215 million in March, down 35
percent from a year earlier, according to the most recent  data 
from the Quito exchange. That compares with 148.3 billion reais
($73.9 billion) on the Sao Paulo exchange in  Brazil ,  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  Bourgeoisie State  Correa, who questioned the fairness of the British and
Swedish justice systems last year when he granted asylum to
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, is now touring  Europe  in a bid
to boost foreign investment in Ecuador.  After meeting German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on April 17,
Correa pledged to sign an investment treaty with the European
Union. The Ecuadorean Congress is debating a March proposal by
Correa to tear up a similar agreement with the U.S.  In 2012, he forced  oil companies  to rewrite contracts under
the threat of expropriation to give the government a greater
share of profits. He also led efforts to limit bank profits,
saying he planned to “transform the bourgeoisie state into a
popular state.”  The government may have trouble convincing investors it’s
serious about the market reforms, according to Walter Spurrier,
director of economic research company Grupo Spurrier.  “I’m skeptical that they’ll get the desired results,”
Spurrier said today in a telephone interview from Guayaquil.
“This government isn’t a government with one single political
tendency. It would like more investment, but at the same time it
wants more socialism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  