-- Softbank Not Planning Higher Sprint Bid, Executive Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-04-19T16:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/softbank-not-planning-higher-sprint-bid-executive-says.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , which offered $20.1
billion for control of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , isn’t currently
planning to raise its offer after  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  made a
competing bid, an executive at the Japanese company said.  Japan’s third-largest wireless operator will focus on its
existing plans for Sprint, the executive said, asking not to be
identified as the discussions are private. Tokyo-based Softbank
hasn’t ruled out future action, the executive said.  Dish this week offered $25.5 billion for  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint, the third-largest U.S. mobile phone
company. Softbank founder Masayoshi Son is facing an increasing
risk of losing the deal as some Sprint shareholders, including
Omega Advisors Inc. and billionaire  John Paulson , have said they
prefer Dish’s offer.  Sprint agreed in October to a deal that would give Tokyo-
based Softbank a 70 percent stake. The Japanese company’s
proposal has “superior short- and long-term benefits” compared
with Dish’s “highly conditional preliminary proposal,”
Softbank said April 16. Softbank expects to complete the
acquisition on July 1 under the terms agreed upon, it said.  The stock has lost 6.8 percent in Tokyo trading since
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish made its unsolicited offer April
15. That has narrowed Softbank’s gain this year to 39 percent.
Takeaki Nukii, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Softbank, declined to
comment.  Paulson Stake  Paulson, who has said he’s waiting to see how Softbank
reacts to Dish’s bid, purchased more shares of Sprint in the
first quarter after building a 4.2 percent stake last year,
according to a letter from his hedge fund, Paulson & Co., to
investors. The shares acquired since October had an average
price of $5.79, he said in the letter obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Dish is offering Sprint’s owners $4.76 in cash and 0.05953
a share of Dish for each  Sprint share , a stake that would
represent about 32 percent of the combined company.  Dish said the offer is a 13 percent premium to the implied
value of Softbank’s deal, which is also a combination of cash
and stock.  Softbank would need to boost the cash portion of his offer
for Sprint by as much as $2 billion to match Dish, Christopher Larsen, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., said in a report. He
has the equivalent of a buy rating for Sprint.  Sprint has to pay Softbank $600 million if it recommends a
rival offer, according to  terms  of the deal. The Japanese
company in October closed the purchase of $3.1 billion of
convertible bonds than can be exchanged for more than 590
million Sprint shares.  Credit Risk  Raising the bid would make billionaire Son’s ambition to
expand Softbank in the U.S. cost more, while the company’s
 credit ratings  are already under review for a possible cut to
junk.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service have put
the Japanese company’s credit ratings under review for possible
downgrade on concern the Sprint acquisition may undermine its
financial strength. A downgrade of one step would bring the
rating to a speculative, or junk, ranking at Moody’s.  Son, Japan’s second-richest man, said in October he
targeted Sprint because it can challenge  Verizon Wireless  and
AT&T Inc.’s dominance of the U.S. mobile-phone industry.  The 55-year-old’s stated goal is to create the largest
mobile-services provider in the world by revenue, surpassing
Verizon,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  