-- Solarworld CEO ‘Confident’ of Debt Deal Amid Talks on Bosch Unit
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-19T09:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/solarworld-ceo-confident-of-debt-deal-amid-talks-on-bosch-unit.html
Solarworld AG (SWV)  Chief Executive
Officer Frank Asbeck is confident Germany’s biggest panel maker
will reach a deal on its debt with creditors, while the company
is in early talks to buy part of  Robert Bosch  GmbH’s solar unit.  “Hopeful is not the word I want to use; I am confident
that an agreement can be reached” with creditors, Asbeck said
today. “The talks are very constructive and they see that
Solarworld deserves and is capable of sustaining its future.”  The Bonn-based company,  Europe ’s “last man standing” in
panel research and production, is in initial talks on buying
some of Bosch’s solar unit, he said in an interview. Robert
Bosch, the biggest auto-parts producer said in March that it was
abandoning a near $2.6 billion foray into the solar industry.  Solarworld is among companies battling competition mainly
from Chinese producers that saw solar panel prices drop by half
in 2011 and another 24 percent last year. That tipped more than
a dozen German businesses including  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and Q-
Cells SE, once the largest solar-cell maker, into bankruptcy.  Solarworld reported net debt of 805.2 million euros at the
end of September. It has 150 million euros of bonds maturing in
2016 and 400 million euros of bonds due in 2017, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company yesterday fell 27 percent to a nine-year low in
Frankfurt trading after saying it sees a 2012 net loss of 520
million euros ($681 million) to 550 million euros under local
accounting rules, mainly from writedowns on stakes in and loans
to units and affiliates.  China ’s Suntech Power Holdings Co., at
one time the largest panel producer, fell into insolvency days
after it defaulted on a $541 million debt repayment in March.  Technology and know-how at Bosch’s solar unit, which will
stop producing ingots, wafers, cells and panels early next year,
should be “secured” in case a purchase fails, Asbeck said.  That may be done by transferring research to the Fraunhofer
institute, he said.  Germany ’s solar industry has a viable future
once “unfair” dumping has been curbed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  