-- Soybeans Decline on Concern Demand to Slow; Corn, Wheat Advance
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-04-19T19:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/soybeans-head-for-longest-rally-in-two-months-as-u-s-sales-rise.html
Soybean futures fell for the first
time in four days on speculation that dwindling U.S. supplies
will curb processing activities and increase imports from South
America. Corn and wheat rose.  Soybean processing by 12 companies in the National Oilseed
Processors Association fell 2.5 percent in March from a year
earlier, data showed this week. Combined soybean production in
Brazil,  Argentina ,  Paraguay ,  Uruguay  and  Bolivia  will rise 28
percent this year to a record 148.8 million metric tons from a
year earlier, data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture show.  “Processors are going to take more downtime for
maintenance than continue to pay higher prices for soybeans,”
 Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des
Moines,  Iowa , said in a telephone interview. “Soybean and
soybean-meal imports from South America will increase later this
year to alleviate the tight U.S. supplies.”  Soybean futures for July delivery fell 0.5 percent to close
at $13.825 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
paring this week’s gain to 0.2 percent.  Corn rose as U.S. farmers withheld dwindling supplies left
from last year’s drought-reduced harvests as a hedge against
rain-delayed plantings across the Midwest, Brian Grete, the
senior market analyst for the Professional Farmers of America
newsletter in Cedar Falls, Iowa, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. corn inventories fell 10 percent as of March 1 from a
year earlier, while soybean stockpiles tumbled 27 percent,
according to government statistics on March 28. Corn planting on
April 14 was 2 percent completed, the lowest since 1993, USDA
data show.  Corn futures for July delivery gained 0.5 percent to $6.33
a bushel in  Chicago . Still, the most-active contract fell 1.3
percent for the week on speculation that warmer, drier weather
beginning in late April may firm soils for increased Midwest
planting progress.  Wheat futures for delivery in July climbed 0.7 percent to
$7.115 a bushel on the CBOT. The price fell 1.1 percent this
week, the first drop in three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  