-- State Street Axes Russia Overweight, LGT Dubs Country Casino
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-04-19T14:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/state-street-axes-russia-overweight-lgt-dubs-country-casino-1-.html
State Street Global Advisors , the
world’s second-largest asset manager, dropped its Russia
“overweight” rating as Swiss manager LGT Capital Partners said
the country was only good for an occasional “casino” bet.  State Street, which oversees $2.1 trillion in assets,
eliminated its “overweight” position, citing slowing economic
growth and “the black cloud of corporate governance,” Chief
Investment Officer Richard Lacaille said in an interview today
in Moscow. He declined to say what Boston-based State Street’s
new weighting is and when it changed.  Just over a year ago after appearing at the same Moscow
investor forum, Lacaille said his firm was “overweight” Russia
and in the process of “re-risking capital” in the country.  Russia’s economy grew at the weakest pace in the fourth
quarter since a recession in 2009 due to a slump in  consumer
spending . The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  entered a level some
analysts call a correction on April 11 after dropping more than
10 percent from this year’s peak. Russia-focused funds had $393
million of net outflows in the prior seven days, the biggest
decline since the global economic crisis started in 2008.  Pius Fritschi, managing partner of Switzerland’s LGT
Capital Partners, which has about $25 billion under management,
said his Russian holdings were “at a historically low” level.  “The risk-reward can be worth it, but you have to limit
your risk,” Fritschi said in an interview. “Russia represents
the gambling money you might have at a casino so you limit
yourself to one bet.”  Minority Investors  LGT is a minority investor in OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the
Russian oil producer being acquired by state-controlled OAO
Rosneft. Fritschi said he is teaming up with other minority
investors to seek redress after Rosneft’s plan to borrow money
from the company rather than paying dividends sent the shares to
a record low last month. Moscow-based Rosneft said its move was
standard practice.  LGT, which specializes in  hedge funds  and private equity,
has 1 percent to 2 percent of its holdings in Russia compared
with 7 percent to 8 percent for China, 3 percent to 4 percent
for  Brazil  and 2 percent to 3 percent for  India , Fritschi said.  Shares in TNK-BP jumped yesterday after Russia’s First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  told investors at the
Sberbank forum that Rosneft will tackle the issues faced by
minority investors.  ‘Long Memories’  Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index advanced for the first day in
seven, adding 0.1 percent to 1,336.78 by 5:44 p.m. in Moscow.
The Micex trades at 5 times estimated earnings, the cheapest
valuation among 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg and a
50 percent discount compared with the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. (MXEF)   “People have long memories,” Lacaille said of TNK-BP.
“We as investors see these as pieces of evidence that give you
a picture of the culture and political environment.”  State Street had a Russia joint venture with Pallada Asset
Management from 1998 until its dissolution in 2005. Lacaille,
who was previously involved in discussions on pension changes
with Russian policy makers, said last year  Russia  wouldn’t be on
“the top of the list” for State Street to build a local
capital business for domestic investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  