-- State Street Profit Rises 8% on Rising Equity Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-19T11:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/state-street-profit-rises-8-on-rising-equity-markets.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, said first-quarter profit climbed 8
percent after global equity markets rose, lifting the value of
assets it oversees.  Net income on an operating basis increased to $443 million,
or 96 cents a share, from $410 million, or 84 cents, a year
earlier, the Boston-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding certain items, 23 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg
expected earnings of 93 cents a share on average.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph L. Hooley, under pressure
from some large investors, has worked to reduce costs and return
excess capital to shareholders over the past two years. State
Street cut 630 jobs in January, the third round of firings in
two years, raised its quarterly dividend by 2 cents to 26 cents
a share in February and stepped up its planned share repurchase
program in March.  “They have been really consistent in the last year or two
in changing their philosophy toward returning capital to
shareholders, which the market likes,” Brian Bedell, a New
York-based analyst at ISI Group Inc., said in an interview
before results were announced.  State Street advanced 20 percent this year through
yesterday, best among the three largest U.S. independent custody
banks. The Standard & Poor’s 20-company  index  of asset managers
and custody banks gained 12 percent.  Stock Repurchases  State Street’s assets under custody and the money it
manages for investors rose, helped by the 11 percent gain by the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks in the year ended
March 31.  State Street plans to repurchase $2.1 billion of its own
shares in the year ending March 31, 2014, up 17 percent from the
previous year. The company announced the move in March after it
passed the U.S. Federal Reserve’s stress tests for financial
strength and received approval for its 2013 capital plan.  Investor Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP admonished
State Street’s board over poor performance in an October 2011
letter and urged directors to make a clearer commitment to cost-
cutting, prioritize the return of capital to shareholders over
acquisitions and consider selling off the bank’s asset-
management unit.  Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custody
bank, said April 17 it had a net loss of $266 million in the
first quarter after the U.S. Tax Court disallowed certain
foreign tax credits. Income excluding the tax cost was $588
million, or 50 cents a share, compared with $619 million, or 52
cents, a year earlier.  Northern Trust  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , based in  Chicago , said April 16 its
first-quarter net income rose 1.7 percent to $164 million, or 67
cents a share.  State Street’s results were announced before the start of
regular U.S. trading. The company’s operating profit excludes
money earned from the sale or maturing of bonds whose value was
written down in May 2009, which the company records as
“discount accretion” within net interest income.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  