-- Swiss Stocks Climb; UBS, Credit Suisse Shares Advance
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-04-19T15:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-as-ubs-credit-suisse-gain.html
Stocks in Switzerland  climbed, with
the benchmark Swiss Market Index paring its weekly decline, as
bank and luxury shares advanced and a Chinese government
economist forecast growth will improve this year.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
lenders, each added at least 1 percent.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the
biggest maker of Swiss watches, and Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA, the owner of the Cartier brand, advanced. Transocean Ltd.,
the world’s largest supplier of off-shore oil rigs, posted the
worst performance on the  SMI. (SMI)   Inficon (IFCN)  Holding AG retreated after
reporting a decline in first-quarter sales.  The SMI added 0.5 percent to 7,618.76 at the close of
trading in Zurich. The gauge posted a 1.8 percent drop this week
amid worse-than-expected economic data from  China  and the U.S.
The equity benchmark has still rallied 12 percent this year as
U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget. The broader Swiss
Performance Index rose 0.6 percent today.  “After the correction this week, a positive counter
movement on the Swiss market is to be expected,” said Eric Bernhardt, chief investment officer at Umblin AG in Zurich.
“Many investors have missed the rally and are still underweight
stocks, which could speak for an upward movement. We’re positive
on equities in the medium term as they remain fundamentally more
attractive compared to bonds.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 21 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese Economy  Zhu Baoliang, head of the State Information Center’s
economic forecast department, said the world’s second-biggest
economy may improve in the second and third quarters of the
year. China should stabilize money supply growth and loosen
fiscal policy to boost growth, Zhu said at forum in Beijing. The
center is a research institute under the National Development
and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planner.  UBS and Credit Suisse rose 3.2 percent to 14.70 Swiss
francs, and 1 percent to 25.53 francs, respectively.  Matt Spick , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, raised UBS to
buy from hold, saying the first quarter may provide early
validation of the bank’s new strategy. He expects the lender’s
slimmed-down investment banking operations will beat
expectations in the first quarter.  A gauge of banking stocks posted the best performance of
the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Swatch increased 0.8 percent to 518.50 francs and Richemont
gained 1.5 percent to 69.15 francs.  Luxury shares  climbed as
L’Oreal SA reported stronger first-quarter revenue in  Asia ,
easing concern over emerging-market demand.  Schindler Targets  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  advanced 2.8 percent to 134.10 francs.
The maker of elevators and escalators confirmed targets of 6
percent sales growth in local currencies and net income of 740
million francs ($796 million) to 790 million francs this year
even as it reported first-quarter sales that missed analyst
projections.  Transocean declined 1.3 percent to 44.94 francs, posting
the worst performance on the SMI. Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  in a letter to shareholders said the company’s board
should be replaced, and that it misstated its three-year and
five-year stock performance.  Inficon fell 2.7 percent to 275 francs. First-quarter sales
declined 10 percent to $72.6 million from a year earlier. The
maker of products for semiconductor manufacturers forecast full-
year sales of $280 million to $320 million, compared with $297
million in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  