-- U.K.’s Top Credit Grade Cut by Fitch on Economy, Fiscal Outlook
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-19T16:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-k-s-top-credit-grade-cut-by-fitch-on-economy-fiscal-outlook.html
Britain lost its top credit grade
at  Fitch Ratings , which cited a weaker economic and fiscal
outlook as it became the second company to cut the country’s
rating within two months.  Fitch lowered the U.K. to AA+ from AAA with a stable
outlook, it said in a statement in London today. It cut its
growth projection and forecast that debt would peak at 101
percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year 2015-2016.  “Despite the U.K.’s strong fiscal financing flexibility
underpinned by its own currency with reserve-currency status and
the long average maturity of public debt, the fiscal space to
absorb further adverse economic and financial shocks is no
longer consistent with an AAA rating,” Fitch said.  The decision may prove a further blow to Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  after the  International Monetary Fund 
said this week he should rethink the scale of budget cuts. Fitch
had put Britain on negative watch on March 22, two days after
Osborne cut his growth forecasts in his annual budget and said
it will take longer than previously expected to lower debt.  Standard & Poor’s  said on April 5 that it would keep the
U.K. on the top AAA rating. Moody’s Investors Service took
Britain’s rating down to Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22, citing the
economic outlook and challenges to the fiscal program. Investors
often ignore such moves, evidenced by a drop in  gilt yields 
since that downgrade.  “Despite the loss of its AAA status, the U.K.’s extremely
strong credit profile is reflected in its AA+ rating and the
stable outlook,” Fitch said.  Recession Concern  The pound extended a decline against the dollar after the
Fitch statement. It was trading at $1.5235 as of 5:34 p.m.
London time. The 10-year gilt yield was at 1.66 percent.  Data on April 25 will show whether Britain fell into its
first ever triple-dip recession. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey is for  gross domestic product  to have
risen 0.1 percent in the first quarter.  “The short-term picture is that the deficit reduction
process has stalled, and the medium-term picture is definitely
worse,” said  Ross Walker , an economist in Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. Fitch’s move “is not helpful to
Osborne. There’s a bit more pressure on the chancellor, but are
we going to meaningfully change policy? No.”  The independent Office for Budget Responsibility cut its
2013 growth projection to 0.6 percent from 1.2 percent last
month. The OBR also expects net debt to begin falling in
2017-18, a year later than previously planned. It’s the second
time the debt target has slipped.  Investors often disregard changes in ratings. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg published in December.  Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard and Poor’s. That’s
more than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  