-- U.K. Economy Seen Avoiding Triple-Dip Recession With 0.1% Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-k-economy-seen-avoiding-triple-dip-recession-in-first-quarter.html
The U.K. economy probably narrowly
avoided falling into an unprecedented triple-dip recession in
the first quarter, economists said.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent in the period,
failing to recover the 0.3 percent decline in the fourth quarter
of 2012, according to the median of 37 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey . From a year earlier, GDP increased 0.4 percent, the
survey showed.  While the U.K. may escape a recession, the recovery may
struggle to gather momentum as weak demand in the euro area,
Britain’s biggest export market, a fiscal squeeze at home and
 rising unemployment  weigh on the economy.  Fitch Ratings  cut its
rating on the U.K. to AA+ from AAA yesterday, citing a weaker
economic and fiscal outlook.  “Whether the economy shrinks by a fraction or grows by a
fraction is of little importance in the big picture,” said
 Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London  and a former  Bank of England  official. “The main point
is that the recovery will still look depressingly dismal.”  In its statement, Fitch lowered its 2013 and 2014 economic
growth forecasts to 0.8 percent and 1.8 percent from 1.5 percent
and 2 percent.  “The U.K. economy is not expected to reach its 2007 level
of real GDP until 2014, underscoring the weakness of the
economic recovery,” Fitch said. “The fiscal space to absorb
further adverse economic and financial shocks is no longer
consistent with an AAA rating.”  Rating Reactions  The pound extended a decline against the dollar after the
Fitch statement and was trading at $1.5241 late yesterday.  Still, ratings changes are proving to be less important to
investors, with sovereign yields moving in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.  The  10-year gilt yield  has fallen 45 basis points since
Moody’s Investors Service took Britain’s rating down to Aa1 from
Aaa on Feb. 22.  The Fitch move “isn’t a surprise,” said  Neil Jones , head
of hedge fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London.
“The market has been expecting downgrades for months. Obviously
you don’t want to see it happen but I don’t expect to see to
investors exiting the U.K.”  BOE Stimulus  BOE policy makers have split on the need for more
quantitative easing to help the economy, with a push for more
stimulus led by Governor  Mervyn King  defeated by a majority
citing the threat of rising inflation expectations.  The central bank kept its target for QE at 375 billion
pounds ($574 billion) on April 4. The majority of the Monetary
Policy Committee said that medium-term inflation expectations
had “drifted upwards” and further easing may exacerbate this.  MPC member  Martin Weale , who voted with the majority, said
in an interview on April 18 that there’s a risk of a “minor”
first-quarter contraction and that easing inflationary pressures
give “more room for maneuver” to expand stimulus.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its U.K. 2013 economic
outlook this week -- forecasting 0.7 percent growth -- and said
the BOE should consider increasing stimulus. It also said
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may need to ease the
pace of budget cuts.  Forecast Range  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey for the first quarter
ranged from growth of 0.3 percent to a contraction of 0.3
percent.  The April 25 report will be a preliminary estimate and
based on about 45 percent of the data that will ultimately be
available. It will have estimates for output in categories
including  production , services and construction. The second
estimate on May 23 will include  consumer spending  and exports.  Redwood forecasts stagnation in the first quarter. While
the data may not prompt the MPC to change their stance “unless
it is a really bad figure,” confirmation of a recession may
hurt sentiment and the government’s reputation, she said.  “‘Triple-dip’ headlines will not do much good for consumer
and business confidence,” Redwood said. “And there are
significant political implications of whether the U.K. is back
in recession or not, especially after the IMF’s criticism of the
U.K.’s austerity program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  