-- U.K. Net Lending to Companies Falls, Bank of England Data Show
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-04-19T10:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-k-net-lending-to-companies-falls-bank-of-england-data-show.html
U.K. lending to companies fell in
February, underlining the struggle policy makers are facing to
boost credit, figures from the Bank of England show.  Net lending dropped by 2.8 billion pounds ($4.3 billion)
after a 300 million-pound decline in January, the central bank
said in its  Trends in Lending  report published today. In the
three months through February, the stock of lending to both
small and medium-sized enterprises and large businesses also
contracted, it said.  The BOE and the U.K. Treasury set up the Funding for
Lending Scheme last year to boost credit and encourage an
 economic recovery . With the program having only a limited impact
on business lending, the Monetary Policy Committee said this
month that it “saw merit” in extending it. A survey on April 3
showed that the availability of credit for so-called SMEs was
“little changed” in the first quarter.  “The stimulus from the FLS and the asset-purchase program
were likely to support a gradual recovery, although there had
been some signs on the month that the pace of improvement in
credit conditions had eased and net lending had so far remained
subdued,” the MPC said in the minutes of its April 3-4 meeting,
published April 17.  Today’s report showed that business lending fell at a
three-month annualized rate of 4.4 percent in February. That’s
an acceleration from the 4 percent decline in January and the
3.6 percent drop in December.  The data on mortgages was more positive, with net lending
rising by 900 million pounds in February. The three-month
annualized growth rate was 0.7 percent, up from 0.5 percent in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  