-- U.K. Begins Court Challenge to EU Transaction Tax
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-k-begins-court-challenge-to-eu-transaction-tax.html
The U.K. began a legal challenge to
a European Union plan for a tax on financial transactions that
could be collected worldwide, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said.  The move at the  European Court  of Justice seeks to give
Britain protection against possible future economic damage from
the tax being introduced by 11 EU nations. Osborne said the move
doesn’t represent a direct challenge to the legality of the tax.  “Yesterday the U.K. launched a legal challenge to the
European Commission’s proposals on the financial transaction
tax, which a number of EU member states wish to take forward
through enhanced cooperation,” Osborne told reporters in
Washington today.  The proposed tax could be collected worldwide as soon as
the start of next year by the 11 EU nations that have so far
signed up. To escape the proposed tax entirely, companies in
other nations would have to cease financial-services business
with the 11 nations involved entirely, according to the EU.  “We are concerned about the extraterritorial aspects of
the commission’s proposals for the FTT and I think that concern
is shared by some other countries,” Osborne said. “Some of you
will have noted U.S. concerns as well about some of the
extraterritorial aspects of the proposals on the table.”  With the proposal, the EU is trying to curb what it sees as
a “patchwork” of local levies across the region. Like a prior,
failed proposal for all 27 EU countries, the plan would set a
rate of 0.1 percent for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent
on derivatives trades.  Approval Needed  The EU estimates the arrangement could raise 30 billion
euros ($39 billion) to 35 billion euros per year. To become law,
the proposal has to be approved by the nations that agree to
participate. They now comprise  Belgium , Germany,  Estonia ,
Greece, Spain, France, Italy,  Austria ,  Portugal , Slovenia and
Slovakia. All 27 EU nations can sit in on the talks and have the
option to join.  The Netherlands, which has cited the impact on pension
funds as “one of the criteria” in deciding whether to join the
tax, is “disappointed with this proposal and will work hard to
change it,” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said in
February.  The U.S. doesn’t support the tax, and Treasury officials
have raised concerns with their European counterparts that it
would harm U.S. investors who bought affected securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in  Washington  at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  