-- U.K. Joins Russia in Raising Alarm on U.S. Swap Rules’ Reach
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-04-19T14:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-k-joins-russia-in-raising-alarm-on-u-s-swap-rules-reach-1-.html
Nine overseas finance officials
urged U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to limit the cross-
border reach of Dodd-Frank Act swaps rules that they say are
fragmenting the $639 trillion global market.  Seven finance ministers joined  Michel Barnier , the European
Union financial services chief, and  George Osborne , U.K.
chancellor of the exchequer, to tell U.S. officials to allow for
broader recognition of overseas swaps rules. Their letter to Lew
follows complaints by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and overseas officials about the planned reach of U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules.  “We are concerned that, without clear direction from
global policymakers and regulators, derivatives markets will
recede into localised and less efficient structures, impairing
the ability of business across the globe to manage risk,” the
nine officials wrote in the letter sent to Lew yesterday.  The CFTC, led by Chairman  Gary Gensler , has pushed for
cross-border swaps rules that cover transactions involving
overseas offices of U.S. banks and hedge funds incorporated
offshore. The conflict over the international reach of the
CFTC’s swaps rules has led U.S. lawmakers to introduce
legislation that would restrict the agency.  Global Connections  “If a run starts in one part of a modern financial
institution, whether it’s here or offshore, the risk comes back
to our shores,” Gensler said in a March 20  speech  for an
International Monetary Fund conference in Washington.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, didn’t respond to a request
for comment yesterday about the letter.  The U.S. “has been working hard with regulators from key
foreign jurisdictions to find practical compromises,” the
Treasury Department said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
U.S. and Japan are “furthest along in the reforms while other
countries’ efforts have been delayed.” The Treasury also said
the U.S. is the first country to introduce “cross-border
proposals to strengthen the transparency and oversight” of
over-the-counter derivatives markets.  The overseas officials said U.S. and other regulators need
to allow for greater use of substituted compliance, in which one
jurisdiction allows another’s to satisfy goals to curb risk in
the market. Individual companies shouldn’t need to apply for
substituted compliance, and jurisdictions shouldn’t seek a
precise rule-by-rule test of comparability, they said.  ‘Not Sustainable’  “An approach in which jurisdictions require that their own
domestic regulatory rules be applied to their firms’ derivatives
transactions taking place in broadly equivalent regulatory
regimes abroad is not sustainable,” the officials wrote.  The letter was also signed by finance ministers  Guido Mantega  of Brazil,  Pierre Moscovici  of  France , Wolfgang Schaeuble of Germany, Anton Siluanov of Russia, Pravin Gordhan
of  South Africa , Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf of Switzerland and Taro Aso, Japan’s deputy prime minister.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , has
filed suit against the CFTC challenging one of the agency’s
proposed swaps rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  