-- U.S. Truckers Lose Mexican Cross-Border Delivery Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-19T17:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-s-truckers-lose-appeal-on-mexican-cross-border-deliveries-1-.html
U.S. trucker groups lost an appeals
court challenge to a federal pilot program allowing Mexican
truck drivers to cross the border and deliver goods in the U.S.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today rejected an
argument by the  Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association 
that Mexican commercial drivers’ licenses are invalid in the
U.S.  “We think the more sensible conclusion is that Congress
decided that Mexico-domiciled truckers with Mexican commercial
drivers’ licenses could drive on U.S. roads,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Brett Kavanaugh wrote on behalf of a three-judge panel.  The court also dismissed claims by the  International
Brotherhood of Teamsters  that medical standards for Mexican
truck drivers aren’t up to snuff and that the pilot program is
unlawful because not all Mexican vehicles are required to
display a decal certifying that they comply with U.S. safety
standards.  The  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration  had
determined that the Mexican medical standards “would provide a
level of safety at least equivalent to the American standards
taken as a whole,” Kavanaugh wrote.  The requirement to display the safety sticker applies to
items imported into the U.S., not the trucks carrying them,
according to the opinion.  ‘Regulatory Noose’  “This whole program is a slap in the face to U.S. drivers
that go to great lengths to comply with an ever-tightening
regulatory noose,” Todd Spencer, executive vice president of
the owner-operators association, said in an e-mailed statement.
“If safety were truly a priority, standards would be held high
on both sides of the border.”  Norita Taylor, a spokeswoman for the Grain Valley,
Missouri-based group, said a decision about whether to appeal
hadn’t been made.  Galen Munroe, a spokesman for the Teamsters, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  The  pilot program  grew out of negotiations between
President  Barack Obama  and then-President Felipe Calderon of
 Mexico  that ended with an agreement signed in July 2011.  The cases are International Brotherhood of Teamsters v.
U.S. Department of Transportation, 11-01444, and Owner-Operator
Independent Drivers Association Inc. v. Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, 11-01251, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  