-- U.S. to Announce $10 Billion Arms Sale in Middle East
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-04-19T19:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-s-to-announce-10-billion-arms-sale-in-middle-east.html
The Obama administration plans to
announce an arms package to  Israel , Saudi Arabia and the United
Arab Emirates worth as much as $10 billion -- the centerpiece of
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s visit to the countries next
week, according to U.S. officials.  The arms sold to Israel also will include an unspecified
number of V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor transport aircraft, air defense
radar and KC-135 refueling tankers; the U.A.E. will probably buy
26 F-16 jet fighters, and the Persian Gulf nation as well as
Saudi Arabia will each buy precision missiles, said the official
who provided details on condition of not being named before the
deal is announced.  The missiles being discussed include an unspecified number
of the U.S. Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile, a new weapon
being bought by the U.S. Navy, the official said. The missile,
made by  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , is capable of attacking ground
radar used by countries fielding sophisticated integrated air
defenses, such as  Syria  and Iran.  If the transaction goes through, it will be the first
foreign sale of the V-22 tilt-rotor made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell Helicopter unit. The U.A.E. already ordered
80 F-16s made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  in the late 1990s, and
Saudi Arabia operates a fleet of Boeing-made F-15 jets.  Boosting Capabilities  The move to beef up the capabilities of allies in the
Middle East began with President  Barack Obama  asking then-
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta to examine ways to boost Israel’s
military edge in light of potential threats in the region, three
U.S. defense officials told reporters today at a briefing. The
U.S. suspects  Iran  of developing nuclear weapons and is
concerned the Syrian regime led by Bashar al-Assad may use
chemical weapons.  Following Obama’s direction, Panetta held a series of
meetings with then-Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak on
weapons the country would need, the three officials said,
speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss negotiations
between countries. Bilateral discussions with Saudi Arabia and
the U.A.E. were held over the last nine months, according to the
officials.  Plans for the arms package to Middle East allies comes as
Hagel prepares his first trip to the region since taking his
Cabinet post in February. The weapons sales will be a
centerpiece of the visit, the U.S. official said.  Arms Sales  During his visit to the region, Hagel will discuss and draw
up a final list of items for each country, one of the U.S.
defense officials said. That will be followed by formal
“letters of request” from the buyers and negotiations on
pricing and availability of weapons.  After that process, which could take many months, State
Department and Pentagon officials would notify Congress for
formal approval. Those notifications often take the form of a
20-day informal period, followed by a formal 30-day period when
the Pentagon discloses in a public notice the potential
equipment, quantities and prices.  The defense official said the Pentagon was consulting with
Congress extensively on the process. If, as expected, Congress
approves the arms package, there is usually a lag of months or
years before orders and deliveries occur.  Saudi Arabia in 2010 agreed to buy 84 advanced F-15S
aircraft from Boeing. The first jet from that order rolled off a
St. Louis assembly line last month, one defense official said.  Final orders may also be smaller. The U.A.E. in 2011
ordered $3.49 billion of Lockheed-made theater missile defense
systems after seeking about $6.95 billion of equipment in 2008.  Iran, Syria  At a broader level, Hagel’s visit to Israel, Jordan,  Egypt ,
Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. will probably focus on regional
threats from Iran and Syria, said Aaron David Miller, a Middle
East specialist at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in  Washington .  In Israel, Hagel “has to make clear on the psychological
and emotional side that he gets it that they’re in a very
dangerous and uncertain neighborhood,” Miller said in a
telephone interview before details of the arms sales were known.  To that end, the announcement of an additional arms deal
with Israel will probably be a highlight of Hagel’s meetings
with his counterpart Moshe Ya’alon, as well as Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Israeli Defense  The deal also underscores Obama’s comments last month in
Israel that the Jewish state must have the capacity to defend
itself against potential threats from Iran and from Syria.  The Obama administration also has funded Israel’s Iron Dome
system, designed to shoot down short-range rockets. In its 2014
budget request the Pentagon sought $220 million to buy
additional batteries of the missile defense system for Israel.
If approved by Congress, that spending will be on top of the
$486 million the U.S. has added for the system in recent years.  Saudi Arabia has been a long-time buyer of U.S. armaments
and operates a significant American-made arsenal.  In 2010, the U.S. announced a deal with Saudi Arabia valued
at $30 billion that included 84 Boeing-made F-15 jets and 72
UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters built by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   Last year, the U.S. proposed selling to Saudi Arabia a
fleet of 20 C-130J military transport planes, five KC-130J
refueling aircraft and related equipment from Lockheed Martin
valued at about $6.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  