-- Dimon Joins Moynihan in Disappointing Investors
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-19T14:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-s-bank-profits-disappoint-most-in-3-years.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  led the six largest U.S. banks in boosting combined
first-quarter profit 45 percent. Investors dumped the stocks.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , tracking shares of 24 U.S. lenders, has
slid 4.9 percent since April 11, the day before JPMorgan and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  kicked off the industry’s quarterly reports.
That’s the index’s worst performance during the six largest
banks’ earnings season since 2010’s second quarter.  Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  shares declined even as four of them had
net income that beat analysts’ estimates. With combined revenue
down 2.5 percent excluding accounting charges, firms relied on a
mix of tax benefits, headcount reductions and decreased expenses
from bad debts and litigation to help fuel profits.  “They’re making their numbers for all the wrong reasons,”
said Michael Mullaney, the chief investment officer at Fiduciary
Trust, which manages about $9.5 billion including shares of
Wells Fargo and JPMorgan. “It’s definitely troublesome.”  Sputtering revenue is starting to erode a U.S. bank-stock
rally that peaked March 15. After climbing 63 percent in the 17
1/2 months leading up to that date, the KBW Bank Index has slid
6.1 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  of 81
companies has fallen 3.4 percent since mid-March, compared with
a 1.2 percent decline in the broader S&P.  Among the six banks, only  Citigroup Inc. (C)  rose during
earnings season, climbing 0.5 percent. The third-largest U.S.
lender by assets, led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat ,
52, posted a 30 percent jump in profit, as fixed-income trading
and investment banking exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Record Profits  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, the nation’s largest mortgage lender, both reported
record quarterly net income. They also posted the only decreases
in revenue as earnings from home loans slumped. Those units
thrived last year as record-low  interest rates  encouraged
customers to refinance.  “We really thought that mortgages were going to be the
salvation in 2013,” Mullaney said. “That’s somewhat suspect
right now based on the numbers that are being reported.”  As banks struggle to increase revenue, they’ll probably
trade a narrowing of their net interest margin, a gauge of
lending profitability, for loan growth and mortgage production,
Goldman Sachs analysts led by  Richard Ramsden  said today in a
note. JPMorgan said last week mortgage volume climbed 37 percent
and lending margins narrowed to 2.37 percent from 2.61 percent a
year earlier.  ‘Finite’ Improvement  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, which aren’t in the KBW
Bank Index, declined after trading results disappointed. New
York-based Morgan Stanley’s trading revenue fell the most, with
bond-trading revenue plunging 42 percent and equity-trading
revenue down 19 percent. Goldman Sachs, run by Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, said revenue from trading declined 12 percent.  Excluding accounting charges tied to the firms’ own debt,
known as debt-valuation adjustments, combined profit rose about
15 percent.  What firms need “is an environment in which global trading
and investment-banking revenues grow reasonably in line” with
global nominal gross domestic product, Chris Kotowski, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in an April 16 note. “Until
this happens, the earnings leverage is achieved on the expense
side, and this is finite.”  Expense Reductions  Brian T. Moynihan , the 53-year-old CEO of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, has made lowering risk a
priority. He cited that as one reason the firm’s trading revenue
fell 13 percent in the quarter, including a 20 percent drop in
fixed-income, currencies and commodities that was worse than at
most rivals. It was the only firm to report net income that fell
short of analysts’ estimates. Trading-revenue figures exclude
accounting charges.  U.S. regional banks also have been cutting costs and
setting aside less for sour loans to bolster profit. Net income
at Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s largest regional
lender, climbed 6.7 percent as the company decreased its
provision for loan losses. Revenue fell 1.1 percent and missed
analysts’ estimates.  To compensate for flagging revenue, the six biggest banks
cut expenses by 6.1 percent to a combined $71.6 billion.
JPMorgan led firms announcing job reductions in the first
quarter, planning as many as 17,000 cuts through 2014. CEO  Jamie Dimon , 57, shrunk its investment bank’s pay pool by 7 percent
from a year earlier. Morgan Stanley, led by CEO  James Gorman ,
54, cut its institutional securities unit’s compensation pool by
14 percent.  ‘Under Siege’  “We are leery of large investment-banking businesses and
trading operations because it seems to be under siege,”
Mullaney said. “You see people being laid off left and right
because the business is not there right now.”  Citigroup’s profit jump also was aided by a $700 million
tax benefit and a decline in reserves for loan losses, which
fell 16 percent. Altogether, JPMorgan, Bank of America,
Citigroup and Wells Fargo set aside 25 percent less for loan
losses in the first quarter than the same period last year.  “The ones that are succeeding right now are the ones that
have the ability to move the needle on costs,” Shannon Stemm,
an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said of banks’
profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 