-- U.S. Wheat Faces Damage Threat as Plains See Another Freeze
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-19T10:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/u-s-wheat-faces-damage-threat-as-plains-see-another-freeze.html
U.S. winter wheat crops developing
in the Great Plains are at risk from another round of freezing
temperatures today after the region was hit by cold weather
earlier this month.  In Kansas, the biggest wheat-growing state,  temperatures 
were as low as 25 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 4 degrees Celsius)
in Liberal and Dodge City as of 3:52 a.m. local time, according
to the  National Weather Service . In Hereford,  Texas , in the
panhandle southwest of Amarillo, it was 23 degrees Fahrenheit.
Areas of  Texas ,  Oklahoma  and  New Mexico  are under a hard freeze
warning until at least 9 a.m., in which temperatures will be low
enough to kill or harm crops, the weather service said.  “Sub-freezing temperatures tonight and into tomorrow
morning will damage or kill sensitive and tender vegetation,”
the National Weather Service said.  Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas accounted for 28 percent of
total U.S. wheat production last year, and are the country’s top
growers of the hard, red winter variety used primarily to make
bread, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Some areas were
damaged by freezes earlier this month, including as much as 80
percent of wheat in southwest Oklahoma, according to Oklahoma
State University agronomist Jeff Edwards.  Wheat futures on the  Kansas  City Board of Trade were down
0.6 percent to $7.4475 a bushel as of 4:26 a.m. On the Chicago
Board of Trade, futures lost 0.6 percent to $7.025 a bushel.  Sixty-eight percent of Oklahoma’s winter wheat  crop  had
entered the heading phase as of April 14, a stage of plant
development when the grain emerges from the stem, according to
USDA data. Crops during this  phase  can be vulnerable to freeze.
Forty-nine percent of Texas wheat crops were heading, while
further north only 17 percent of crops in Kansas and none in
 Colorado  had entered this phase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 