-- Huadian Fuxin Says Chairman Huang, 3 Directors Have Resigned
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-04-19T08:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/huadian-fuxin-says-chairman-huang-3-directors-have-resigned.html
Huadian Fuxin Energy Corp., the
renewable power generator up 28 percent since its initial share
sale in June, said Chairman Huang Xianpei and three directors
resigned.  Huang Shaoxiong, an  executive director , and non-executive
directors Mao Xishu and Wang Xuxiang, also quit yesterday due to
the group’s redeployment of human resources, the Fuzhou, China-
based company said in a statement released today and dated
yesterday. It didn’t name a new chairman.  The departing executives have confirmed that “they have no
disagreement with the board and they are not aware of any matter
relating to their resignations that need to be brought to the
attention of the shareholders,” the company said.  Huadian Fuxin  rose  4.3 percent to HK$2.17 at the close in
Hong Kong. It’s advanced 48 percent this year, compared to the
2.8 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “The new chairman will be an internal transfer,” Jessie
Bok, a spokeswoman for Huadian Fuxin at Wonderful Sky Financial
Group, an external public relations firm, said in an e-mail. The
appointment will be made as soon as possible, she said.  A receptionist at state-owned  China  Huadian Corp., the
company’s parent and largest shareholder, said no one was
available to comment and declined to give her name when
contacted by phone in Beijing.  Huang was assistant to the general manager at the parent
when Huadian Fuxin first sold shares in June, according to the
prospectus. The three other directors also held positions at
China Huadian at that time.  Huadian Fuxin plans to have installed capacity of 15,000
megawatts by 2015 and become the largest clean energy company in
China, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  