-- Lufthansa Strike Escalates as Union Outlines One-Day Halt
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-19T14:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/lufthansa-strike-escalates-as-union-outlines-one-day-halt.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, faces further disruption to services
next week after unions called for a day-long strike to add
pressure to demands for more pay.  Lufthansa’s main  Frankfurt  and Munich airports will be hit
by strikes on Monday, as will sites in Berlin and Dusseldorf and
the Cologne hub for its Germanwings low-cost operations, the
Ver.di union said in a  statement  today. Most locations will see
participating workers walk out for the full day, a step up from
the March 21 action that had been limited to half a day.  The protests come as Lufthansa tries to lower costs and
increase revenue to lift operating profit to a record 2.3
billion euros ($3 billion) by 2015. That includes cutting about
3,500 jobs.  “The employers have refused to make a clear statement on
 job security , effectively playing with the employees’ fears
related to their future,” Christine Behle, who leads the
negotiations for Ver.di, said in the statement. Behle will join
Lufthansa’s supervisory board after the company’s shareholder
meeting on May 7.  Lufthansa  shares  were down 0.75 percent at 13.88 euros by
4:18 p.m. in Frankfurt, extending its losing streak to three
days. The stock is down 2.5 percent this year.  Completely Excessive  Ver.di says 33,000 Lufthansa employees are covered by the
negotiations, including cabin crews, ground workers,
maintenance, freight and catering staff. The company had 116,957
employees worldwide as of Dec. 31, according to its annual
report. The walkout on March 21 forced Lufthansa to cancel more
than 760 flights, most of its continental services that day.  “A 24-hour strike is completely excessive given there is
progress in the negotiations,” Lufthansa board member Stefan Lauer said in a statement. The airline made a wage offer this
week and more dates for talks have already been set, he said.  While services within Europe will suffer from
cancellations, Lufthansa said it will try to operate
intercontinental flights wherever possible. Flights operated by
Germanwings won’t be affected and will operate as normal,
Lufthansa said.  “We will develop an alternative flight schedule now and
post updates on our homepage,” Lufthansa spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said by phone. The airline will post a list of canceled
flights on its  website  by the evening of April 20.  Trains Available  Strikes by cabin crews on three days in August and
September last year cost the company 33 million euros, Lufthansa
has said, with both parties eventually accepting a deal
suggested by a mediator for a 4.6 percent pay rise. Workers are
now demanding an increase of 5.2 percent, with a fourth round of
talks scheduled for April 29 and 30.  Germany ’s rail operator Deutsche Bahn AG said it will run
all available trains that day, and Lufthansa customers traveling
within Germany can exchange tickets for canceled flights or
missed connections with vouchers for rail travel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  