-- Ukrainian Opposition Fails to Oust Azarov Cabinet in Vote
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-04-19T13:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/ukrainian-opposition-fails-to-oust-azarov-cabinet-in-vote.html
Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov ’sgovernment survived its first no-confidence vote after
the opposition failed to garner enough support to break a
legislative impasse.  The motion in the Kiev-based parliament was backed by 190
lawmakers, short of the 226 needed to pass. Opposition leader
Arseniy Yatsenyuk pledged to call another vote against the
Cabinet. The opposition controls 173 seats in the 450-member
legislature.  Work in parliament has been frozen because the parties of
jailed opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  and world boxing
champion Vitali Klitschko and the Svoboda party have been unable
to push through a date for Kiev mayoral elections and annul a
pension law that increases the  retirement age  for women as well
as the no-confidence vote.  “The pro-presidential party is working to have a stable
majority by splintering the opposition and encouraging
independent lawmakers to support them,” said Vladimir Zastava,
an analyst at Kiev-based Gorshenin Institute, said in a phone
interview. “It is motivating independent lawmakers by offering
different bonuses and resources.”  President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s Regions of Ukraine Party came
into the current parliament with 185 seats following the last
elections. It expanded its control to 207 seats as of today as
some independent lawmakers elected in single-mandate districts
joined it.  Four members of Tymoshenko’s party quit the group, becoming
independent lawmakers, while one was stripped of his powers in a
move that the European Union and the U.S. called politically
motivated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  