-- Humana Fires Law Firm Tied to Possible Medicare Leak
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-04-19T22:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/humana-fires-law-firm-tied-to-alleged-medicare-leak.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest
private provider of Medicare coverage, is no longer employing a
 law firm  whose actions are being reviewed by a U.S. senator in
connection with his probe into whether government information
was leaked this month that sent insurers’ stock soaring.  Humana cut its connections with Greenberg Traurig LLP after
learning of the review, according to Tom Noland, a spokesman for
the Louisville, Kentucky-based company. The insurance carrier
also has begun an internal investigation, Noland said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, is
reviewing whether an investor company, Height Analytics LLC,
received inside information from a Greenberg Traurig employee
before telling clients the afternoon of April 1 that officials
would change plans and reduce a proposed rate cut for Medicare
Advantage plans sold by private insurers. Height today
terminated its relationship with the Greenberg firm, a person
familiar with the decision said.  Grassley has also requested information from New York-based
 Greenberg Traurig  about an e-mail one of its lobbyists, Mark Hayes, sent to a Height analyst on April 1 saying Medicare would
change its decision.  Jill Perry, a spokeswoman for Greenberg Traurig, declined
to comment today on the firm’s relationships with Height and
Humana. On April 17, Perry said the law firm didn’t receive or
share any “material non-public” information. Hayes also didn’t
immediately return telephone messages or e-mails today seeking
comment.  Humana Shares  Shares of Humana and other insurers jumped in the last 20
minutes of the trading day after Height sent an e-mail to
clients predicting the rate cut would be reduced. Medicare
officially announced the decision about 45 minutes later.  Humana rose 1.2 percent to $73.05 at the close of  New York 
trading today. The  shares (S15MANH)  have declined 19 percent in the past
12 months.  Noland said Humana had no advance notice of Medicare’s
decision. The internal probe is meant to determine if Greenberg
Traurig “in any way hurt Humana’s interests,” he said. It was
unclear how long the investigation may take or if its results
would be shared with Grassley, he said.  WellCare Evaluating  WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) , another Medicare insurer, also
employs the law firm. The Tampa, Florida-based carrier is
“following Senator Grassley’s review of Greenberg Traurig
closely, and we are evaluating potential next steps regarding
our future relationship with the firm,” Jack Maurer, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which
oversees the insurance program, has also said it’s reviewing the
situation.  Height did nothing wrong, its managing partner, Andrew Parmentier, said in a statement on April 17 to the firm’s
clients. Its report was based on “careful and close analysis”
and not inside information, he said.  Height sent Greenberg a letter today ending their business
relationship, a person familiar with Height’s decision said. The
person isn’t authorized to discuss the relationship between the
firms and asked not to be identified. Parmentier declined to
comment on the move in an e-mail.  Height hired Greenberg in November to advise the firm’s
analysts on “policy and regulatory implications of developments
at the federal level affecting categories of providers and
plans,” according to a letter outlining the relationship
obtained by Bloomberg. Hayes handled the deal for Greenberg and
said he would bill Height $595 per hour for his services.  Hayes didn’t bill Height for his advice on the Medicare
Advantage decision and wasn’t paid for it, the person said.  Humana’s actions were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is
the largest private provider of Medicare coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  