-- Uribe Says Colombia to Weigh Santos Stimulus When Setting Rates
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-19T18:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/uribe-says-colombia-to-weigh-santos-stimulus-when-setting-rates.html
Colombia ’s central bank will weigh
the impact of the government’s $2.7 billion stimulus plan
announced this week as it decides on whether the economy needs
more stimulus, central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said.  The government’s package of measures adds “an extra
impulse from the fiscal side to the monetary policy impulse,”
Uribe said today in an interview in Washington, D.C.  Asked whether the government’s “Plan to Boost Productivity
and Employment,” might lead to an early withdrawal of monetary
stimulus, Uribe said, “We’ll see, because some things at the
moment are intentions. We are going to be very alert to see if,
effectively, they materialize and what the impact will be.”
Uribe said that the plan won’t change the government’s fiscal
targets.  Uribe’s central bank has cut its  policy rate  two percentage
points over the last nine meetings, as growth cooled and the
inflation rate fell to its lowest level in six decades.
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  this week unveiled a
program that included an expansion of a housing program for low
income families and lower energy costs, which he said would
boost gross domestic product growth by about 1 percentage point.  Last month’s 1.9 percent annual rise in  consumer price 
lagged economists’ forecasts for a fifth month. Gross domestic
product expanded 4 percent in 2012, slower than Chile and Peru,
and down from 6.6 percent in 2011. Uribe reiterated that he
expects GDP growth of about 4 percent this year.  ‘Very Alert’  The central bank will hold the overnight rate at 3.25
percent at its April 26 policy meeting, according to eight of 14
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Six analysts forecast a quarter-
point cut.  “We know very well that we have to be very alert to
identify the moment when it’s necessary to start to withdraw
this monetary stimulus,” Uribe said.  Yields on the government’s peso bonds maturing in 2014 rose
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.54 percent.
The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 1,837.08 per  U.S. dollar .  Cheaper oil and coal, a slowdown in Colombian GDP growth,
lower  interest rates  and increased intervention from the central
bank have all tended to weaken the peso, even as stimulus from
the  Bank of Japan  increases inflows to  emerging markets , Uribe
said.  Fundamentals don’t support a Colombian peso at the levels
it was at the start of the year, of close to 1,750 per dollar,
Uribe said.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters in
Washington, D.C. today that the currency’s equilibrium rate is
between 1,900 and 1,950 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  