-- Turkey Yields Set for 3rd Weekly Loss on Unprecedented Rate Cut
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-19T13:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/turkey-yields-set-for-3rd-weekly-loss-on-unprecedented-rate-cut.html
Turkey ’s bond yields fell, set for
a third week of losses, after the central bank took an
unprecedented step of cutting all of its key  interest rates .  Yields on the two-year benchmark notes fell 2 basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.54 percent at 3:53 p.m. in
Istanbul, bringing its retreat this week to 19 basis points. The
lira weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar to 1.7982,
depreciating 0.6 percent in the past five days, the first weekly
drop in four.  The central bank lowered its three main interest rates to
limit the lira’s gains and support the economy. It slashed the
one-week repo rate for the first time this year on April 16,
cutting it by more-than-expected 50 basis points to a record 5
percent. That sent yields on January 2015 notes to a record-low
of 5.49 percent on the same day.  “We have seen a quite sharp fall after the Monetary Policy
Committee meeting,” Burak Cetinceker, a  money manager  at
Strateji Menkul Degerler in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.
“I don’t think yields will exceed 6 percent as long as rating
upgrade story continues.”  Standard & Poor’s  raised Turkey’s debt rating last month to
BB+, equivalent to its ranking from Moody’s Investors Service
and one step below investment grade, citing a move toward
Kurdish settlement, a re-balancing of the economy and resilience
to potential shifts in capital inflows. Moody’s said on April 11
progress in efforts to end a three-decade war with Kurdish
militants would enhance Turkey’s creditworthiness.  Moody’s has a positive outlook for Turkey, while S&P views
it as stable.  Fitch Ratings  lifted the nation to investment
grade in November, the country’s first such ranking in 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  