-- Turkey Money Managers Say Capital Boost to Spur Shutdowns
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-04-19T12:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/turkey-money-managers-say-capital-boost-to-spur-shutdowns.html
Turkish portfolio managers will
struggle to comply with a regulatory proposal boosting minimum
capital requirements more than 20-fold to 10 million liras ($5.6
million), according to a group representing the industry.  “If this draft passes as is, many companies would have no
choice but to shut down,” Attila Koksal, chairman of the
Association of Capital Market Intermediary Institutions of
 Turkey , said by phone yesterday. The group’s members include 142
brokerages and banks, according to its website. “We hope that
in the end we’ll have a more rational figure,” he said.  The Capital Markets Board, or CMB, proposed Feb. 27 raising
minimum capital requirements from 427,000 liras amid plans by
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s to turn Istanbul into a
global financial center and make Turkey’s economy one of the
world’s 10 biggest by 2023. Turkish money managers would be
required to hold 14 times more capital than those in the
European Union, which set a minimum threshold of 300,000 euros
($392,000) in 2011 for alternative investment fund managers.  The new rules would leave most of Turkey’s 35 portfolio
managers short of funds as their average capital was 3.65
million liras at the end 2012, according to CMB data. Garanti
Portfoy Yonetimi AS, a unit of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , and
Is Portfoy Yonetimi AS, a  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR)  subsidiary, are
the only two companies that currently meet the proposed minimum.  The CMB will probably complete its draft within weeks,
Koksal said.  ‘Think Big’  The regulator’s draft  capital requirements  aim to “raise
the standards of institutions so that they become big and think
big,” CMB Chairman Vahdettin Ertas said, according to an April
15 report in Dunya newspaper. “Business cannot be done with
such levels of capital anymore in Turkey,” he was quoted as
saying. A CMB official, who didn’t want to be identified
according to the board’s policy, declined to comment on the
proposal when contacted by e-mail.  Turkey’s BIST National 100 Index has advanced 5.8 percent
this year after soaring 53 percent in 2012, the best performance
among 93 indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Investors in Turkey are
increasingly placing their money with fund managers after the
average  interest rate  on one-year  bank deposits  plunged in the
past decade to 6.5 percent from 57 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The number of portfolio management companies operating in
the country has climbed from 21 in 2003, while the funds they
manage soared to $32 billion from $13 billion, according to CMB
data.  Scaring Investors  Turkey is building a financial district in Istanbul and
merged the 28-year-old  Istanbul Stock Exchange  with gold and
derivatives exchanges into Borsa Istanbul this month. Borsa
Istanbul also announced a plan to attract more foreign companies
to list in the country.  Setting the requirement too high “would only scare off
investors,” according to Berrin Onder, a board member at Logos
Portfoy Yonetimi AS. The Istanbul-based portfolio manager,
established in 2010, has 828,000 liras of capital.  “If this rule comes into effect, it would be only in the
interest of banks and big financial companies,” Onder said in
an interview April 15. “What we need in this industry is to
boost the number of players, not cut it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  