-- Venezuela Outlook Cut by S&P to Negative on Election Dispute
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-04-19T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/venezuela-s-outlook-cut-by-s-p-to-negative-on-election-dispute.html
Venezuela’s credit outlook was cut
to negative by  Standard & Poor’s  five days after late President
 Hugo Chavez ’s handpicked successor won elections that are being
disputed by opposition parties.  S&P, which maintained the country’s credit rating at B+,
four levels below investment grade, cited increased political
risk after results of the April 14 vote showed Nicolas Maduro
defeating opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski.  Violence erupted in the country this week after Maduro, who
was sworn in today, refused Capriles’s request for a full ballot
recount and accused him of inciting a coup. The electoral
commission said yesterday it would complete an electronic audit
of the 15 million votes cast after street protests led to eight
deaths.  “The outlook revision reflects growing political
uncertainty that could weaken the implementation of economic
policies and possibly undermine governability following the
presidential elections,” S&P analyst Sebastian Briozzo wrote
today in the statement. “The negative outlook signals the
possibility that a politically weakened president and
administration may pursue less pragmatic, more interventionist
policies that increase imbalances in the economy and result in
greater instability.”  Benchmark Bonds  Yields on Venezuela’s benchmark bonds due in 2027 fell 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 9.63 percent as of 5
p.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
securities have rebounded over the last three days after yields
spiked 128 basis points in the two days following the election.
They are still up 46 basis points since the ballot.  Yields on sovereign debt moved in the opposite direction of
what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 increases, decreases
and changes in credit outlook last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg published in December. Investors ignored
56 percent of rating and outlook changes by Moody’s Investors
Service and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  Tensions in  Venezuela  have eased after Capriles canceled a
rally in Caracas planned for April 17 following reports of
protester deaths and a speech by Maduro in which he vowed to use
a “firm hand” against the opposition. Maduro, who won 50.8
percent of the vote to Capriles’s 49 percent, had said he holds
Capriles personally responsible for the deaths.  While the opposition questions his legitimacy, Maduro also
faces a raft of economic challenges left behind by Chavez, whose
spending led to a 2012 fiscal deficit for the central government
and state oil company of 14.5 percent of gross domestic product,
according to Bank of America Corp. Even after the government
devalued the currency by 32 percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar
in February, BofA said it expects a deficit of 9.7 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  