-- Weidmann Says ECB Would Only Cut Rates If Data Worsen
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-19T13:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/weidmann-says-ecb-would-only-cut-interest-rates-if-data-worsen.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said the bank would only cut
interest rates if economic data worsen.  “We didn’t change interest rates at our last meeting as
they are currently appropriate and in accordance with our
assessment of economic developments, price stability and our
monetary analysis,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank,
said today at a press conference in  Washington . “Of course, we
will reassess the adequacy of the rates if the data change.”  The euro rose after Weidmann spoke, climbing almost half a
cent to $1.3130.  The ECB left its  benchmark rate  unchanged at a record low
of 0.75 percent on April 4. At the same time, with doubts
growing about the central bank’s forecast for an economic
recovery later this year, President Mario Draghi signalled
policy makers are looking at a range of measures, including
lower rates.  “We shouldn’t expect too much” from a potential rate cut,
Weidmann said today. “Monetary policy will not be able to solve
structural problems in the euro area.”  Asked what the ECB could do to encourage lending to small
and medium-sized companies in southern  Europe , Weidmann said
that “higher interest rates for these companies might simply
show a higher credit risk,” and that it’s not the central
bank’s job “to influence the market on this issue.”  “What we can do is provide liquidity,” Weidmann said.
“We have already done this with two long-term loans and this
has helped” in addressing funding problems in Europe, he said.  Asked about the  Bank of Japan ’s plan to increase its bond
purchases, a move that has caused the yen to weaken, Weidmann
said that “monetary policy must never manipulate exchange
rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  