-- Why Privatizing the TVA Would Be a Dam Shame
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-19T17:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/why-privatizing-the-tva-would-be-a-dam-shame.html
Imagine the uproar if the
Washington Monument or the Jefferson Memorial were up for sale.  These national treasures are safe, of course, but another
public monument -- the Tennessee Valley Authority -- is not.
President  Barack Obama ’s 2014 budget plan proposes a strategic
review of TVA, the biggest publicly owned U.S. power company,
which could lead to its sale.  This isn’t the first time the TVA’s status has found its
way to the forefront of political debate. When Franklin D. Roosevelt created the TVA in 1933, at the depths of the Great
Depression, he fulfilled the dreams of progressive Republicans
such as Nebraska Senator George Norris, an advocate for federal
leadership in bringing electrical power to rural Americans at a
fair price. The TVA accomplished just that; the cost curve of
the power produced by its network of hydroelectric dams moved
downward for more than 30 years. More importantly, the TVA
helped lift the standard of living of millions of poor residents
of Tennessee,  Kentucky ,  Georgia  and  Mississippi .  As FDR put it: “Power is really a secondary matter. What we
are doing there is taking a watershed with about three and a
half million people in it, almost all of them rural, and we are
trying to make a different type of citizen out of them from what
they would be under their present conditions.”  Illegitimate Intrusion  The TVA also served as a kind of yardstick that allowed
consumers to assess the pricing, efficiency and fairness of
private power companies. Those companies, however, saw the TVA
as an illegitimate intrusion into the marketplace by the federal
government.  Wendell Willkie, the legal counsel of Commonwealth &
Southern Corp., the largest utility holding company, parlayed
his defense of free enterprise into the Republican presidential
nomination in 1940. He said the New Deal’s “huge indiscriminate
government expenditures,” coupled with high taxes and excessive
regulation, had “scared private investment into hiding.” The New
Deal, he said, was “brutal, cruel, unfair and un-American.”  In the 1930s and ’40s, that view of the relationship
between capitalism and government failed to win support at the
ballot box. FDR and the  New Deal ’s vision of the TVA -- and,
more broadly, of the legitimate role of the government in the
economy -- was dominant. Engineers, public officials and
businessmen from around the world came to tour the TVA. Its
popularity didn’t mean, however, that the controversy was over.  When President Dwight Eisenhower took office in 1953, he
declared that the TVA was an example of “creeping socialism.” In
a Cabinet meeting, he said, “I’d like to see us sell the whole
thing, but I suppose we can’t go that far.” He described the use
of federal taxes to subsidize an agency in just one region as
evidence of “socialistic theory” in action. Residents of the
 Tennessee  Valley took issue with those remarks.  L.J. Wilhoite, the chairman of the Chattanooga Electric
Power Board and a TVA supporter, said, “I can remember when Mr.
Eisenhower was in command of the Allied armies in  Europe  and was
appealing for planes, among other items of military equipment.
Except for the TVA power dams pouring power into the American
aluminum company furnaces in the Tennessee Valley, those planes
would not have been available to him.”  Others pointed out that the TVA and the federal
government’s presence in the region’s economy had substantially
increased private business activity and rates of homeownership.
The TVA’s  funding  from Congress declined during Eisenhower’s
presidency, though the agency survived. Historians have
interpreted Eisenhower’s grudging tolerance of the TVA, along
with his support for Social Security and huge public-works
spending in the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, as a
ratification of the most important features of the New Deal.  Higher Rates  That may be why many Republicans aren’t sure the recent
proposal to sell the TVA is a good idea. Senator Lamar Alexander
of Tennessee said, “There is no assurance that selling TVA to a
profit-making entity would reduce electric bills in the
Tennessee Valley, and it could lead to higher electricity
rates.”  His fellow Republican, Alabama Senator Richard Shelby,
said he would “carefully study any proposals to restructure TVA”
to ensure the electricity it produces remains affordable.  Clearly, there is a gap between the free-market rhetoric so
often espoused by today’s Republican Party and its views of the
government’s legitimate role in the economy.  And Obama? During the 2012 presidential campaign, he
proclaimed: “There are some things we do better together. That’s
how we funded the GI Bill. That’s how we created the middle
class. That’s how we built the Golden Gate Bridge or the Hoover
Dam. That’s how we invented the Internet. That’s how we sent a
man to the moon.”  That’s also how we built the TVA.  The distance between the campaign rhetoric and the
president’s proposed budget might be viewed as an example of the
difference between campaigning and governing. It recalls the
words of the economist Joseph Schumpeter, who said the budget
“is the skeleton of the state, stripped of misleading
ideologies.”  In this light, Obama’s  proposed sale  of the TVA could be
seen as a fundamental insight into his beliefs about the
relationship between government and the economy. It might also
be a reminder of one of the oldest lessons of politics: What
people say matters less than what they do.  ( Jason Scott Smith , an associate professor of history at
the University of New Mexico, is the author of “A Concise
History of the New Deal,” forthcoming from Cambridge University
Press. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jason Scott Smith at  jssmith@unm.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  