-- Wipro Net Income Profit Rises on Outsourcing Demand
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2013-04-19T07:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/wipro-net-income-profit-rises-on-outsourcing-demand.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  posted a 17 percent gain
in fourth-quarter profit as clients of the technology-services
company controlled by billionaire  Azim Premji  maintained
spending on outsourcing.  Net income rose to 17.3 billion rupees ($321 million) in
the three months ended March 31, from 14.8 billion rupees a year
earlier, Bangalore-based Wipro said in a statement today. That
surpassed the 17.2 billion-rupee  median  of 42 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wipro and larger rival  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  are
benefiting as U.S. companies have more money to spend on
information-technology services and as business grows in the
Asia-Pacific region. Wipro also has benefited from growth in
areas including business application services and technology
infrastructure, said Shashi Bhusan, a Mumbai-based analyst at
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  “IT spending has been difficult to predict, so Wipro’s
effort to maintain a client-base across various sectors has been
a smart way to maintain gradual growth,” Bhusan said. “If
Wipro remains diversified, it will remain a top software player
across the world.”  The company this month completed the separation of its non-
IT businesses into unlisted Wipro Enterprises. Wipro’s
information-technology revenues reached $1.59 billion (86
billion rupees) in the fourth quarter, barely meeting the
company’s $1.59 billion-$1.63 billion estimate.  Shares May Drop  Wipro forecast $1.575 billion to $1.610 billion of revenue
from IT services for the quarter ending June, the company said
today. Some of the deals the company expected to close in the
fourth quarter are being pushed into the first and second
quarters, Chief Financial Officer Suresh C. Senapaty said.  “We are starting the year with a little weaker guidance,
but our expectation would be, of course, that we do better in
the current fiscal year than what we did last year,” he said.  Still, the company’s estimate is below expectations based
on the industry’s 12-14 percent growth forecast for fiscal 2014,
said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst with Nirmal Bang
Equities Ltd., adding that the target could lead Wipro shares to
drop in  New York  trading later today and on April 22 in Mumbai.  “The lower end of the guidance is too low and not
inspiring of much confidence,” Shah said.  Shares of Wipro  fell  1.5 percent to 369.05 rupees in Mumbai
trading yesterday. Markets are closed today for a local holiday.
The stock has declined 12 percent in the past year and is the
second-worst performer among the 10 companies tracked by the S&P
BSE IT Index.  In New York yesterday, Wipro’s American depositary receipts
rose 1.4 percent to $8.48, paring their decline in the past year
to 5.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Suresh Seshadri in Bangalore at 
 sseshadri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  