-- Won Heads for Second Weekly Advance as North Korea Tensions Ease
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-19T01:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/won-heads-for-second-weekly-advance-as-north-korea-tensions-ease.html
The won headed for a second weekly
gain as tensions with  North Korea  eased after the U.S. agreed to
coordinate with South Korea,  China  and  Japan  to draw the country
into nuclear talks.  Government bonds  rose.  The won rebounded from an eight-month low of 1,144.82 per
dollar reached last week amid geopolitical tensions arising from
North Korea’s threat to attack the South and the U.S.
Hostilities, which escalated since February when the North
conducted an underground nuclear test, waned as Secretary of
State  John Kerry  at the end of his Asian tour left the door open
for a meeting between the U.S. and dictator Kim Jong Un.  “Concerns about North Korea have eased somewhat this week,
reducing pressure on the won to weaken,” said Hong Seok Chan,
analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in  Seoul .
“Still, the North Korea issue hasn’t been completely resolved.
That together with worries over a global economic slowdown is
likely to keep the won from rising, while exporters will look to
sell dollars.”  The won gained 0.9 percent this week and 0.4 percent today
to 1,119.70 per dollar as of 9:30 a.m. in Seoul, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is headed for its
biggest weekly appreciation in two months. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, slumped 94 basis points, or 0.94
percentage point, in five days to 8.56 percent. It fell 16 basis
points from yesterday.  Equities Selloff  Offers of aid and negotiations haven’t worked in the past
to halt the North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, and only
China can influence the totalitarian state’s actions, Kerry told
the Senate’s Foreign Relations Committee yesterday. Rising
tensions on the Korean peninsula have prompted foreign funds to
net-sell $4 billion of South Korean stocks this year through
yesterday, according to exchange data.  Separately, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said the
weakening yen is hurting South Korea’s economy more than North
Korean threats. The won has gained more than 22 percent against
the yen in the past six months, undermining the competitiveness
of companies from Hyundai Motor Co. to Samsung Electronics Co.  “Compared to the North Korea risk, a sliding yen is having
a considerable impact on the real economy of  South Korea ,” Hyun
said in an interview in  Washington  before a meeting of Group of
20 finance ministers and central bankers. “Depreciation of the
yen has caused the spillover-effect phenomenon, so this is worth
discussing.”  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 slipped 11 basis points this week to 2.66 percent
and was unchanged from yesterday, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  