-- Yahoo Trims Product Lineup as Mayer Sharpens Focus on Mobile
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-04-19T21:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/yahoo-trims-product-lineup-as-mayer-sharpens-focus-on-mobile.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is shuttering a few of
its online services, including a coupon site and a local events
calendar, as Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  sharpens the
Web portal’s focus on applications for mobile devices.  Yahoo! Deals and Upcoming will shut down April 30, the
Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a blog post today.
Yahoo! Kids will close the same day, along with its SMS update
service and older versions of its e-mail and messenger apps.  The company wants to trim its 60 to 75 products to about a
dozen to offer popular mobile apps, Mayer said at an investor
conference in February. Taking resources out of older, less
attractive products will let Yahoo invest more in a few marquee
properties, such as mobile apps for e-mail and weather, Jay Rossiter, executive vice president of platforms, said today.  “We realize that change is hard, but by making tough
decisions like these we can focus our energy on building
beautiful products,” Rossiter said in the  blog post .  Earlier this week, Yahoo unveiled an e-mail app for tablet
computers that lets users manage their inbox by swiping messages
into groups organized by sender, as well as a new program for
checking  weather forecasts  on smartphones.  The company grew to more than 300 million monthly mobile
users in the first quarter, from 200 million at the end of 2012.
The growth came from investments in mobile apps such as Flickr
photo sharing as well as the migration of Web users to wireless
devices, Sara Gorman, a Yahoo spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail
earlier this week.  In March, Yahoo said it would end products including an app
for BlackBerry devices, Yahoo! App Search and Yahoo! Message
Boards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  