-- Aso Says Japan Policy Unopposed at G-20 Meeting as Yen Falls
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-04-19T06:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/yen-falls-as-aso-says-japan-s-policies-unopposed-at-g-20-meeting.html
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said that  Japan ’s policies went unopposed at a Group of 20
nations’ meeting in  Washington , driving the yen lower in the
absence of any roadblock for the nation’s monetary stimulus.  Japan explained that its easing is for  price stability , Aso
told reporters. Central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda earlier
said that nations understand Japan’s stance, indicating that he
expects no censure. The currency traded at 98.59 per dollar as
of 3:04 p.m. in Tokyo, down 0.4 percent.  The G-20 will affirm a commitment to avoid competitive
devaluation without singling out any nation, according to a
draft statement seen by a Bloomberg BNA reporter. The yen has
dropped about 20 percent against the dollar in the past six
months, the biggest loser among 16 major currencies, on plans
for unprecedented easing.  “Chances are high that the result of the G-20 meeting will
deliver tailwinds for Japan and yen depreciation,” said
Takahiro Sekido, a strategist in  Tokyo  at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., who formerly worked at the BOJ.  Aso said “no one” opposed Japan’s policies at the
meeting, about two weeks after the BOJ unveiled a plan to ramp
up bond buying and double the monetary base by the end of 2014.  Korean Concerns  In an interview in Washington, South Korean Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok said the yen’s slide is a bigger risk for
his nation’s economy than threats from North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. While Japan’s policies will aid a global recovery, the
“spillover” effects merit discussion, Hyun said.  In a statement, Hyun said he told  Christine Lagarde , the
head of the  International Monetary Fund , of  South Korea ’s
concern that Japan’s policies are hurting the export
competitiveness of other nations.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to pull his
nation out of 15 years of deflation has triggered a jump in
stocks and the slide in the nation’s currency. While nations
including  China  have expressed concern at spillovers from
developed-nation easing, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  this week signaled
support for Japan’s stimulus.  “We aren’t intending to weaken the currency at all,”
Kuroda told reporters in Washington, where he’s attending his
first G-20 gathering as central bank chief. The BOJ’s easing
“is for a domestic policy goal to achieve the 2 percent
inflation target at the earliest possible time,” he said.  Asked whether the meeting of finance chiefs and central
bank governors  will consider the risk of Japan fueling
competitive devaluations, Kuroda said: “That probably won’t be
discussed much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  