-- Yudhoyono Appoints Rajasa Indonesia’s Acting Finance Minister
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-19T12:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-19/yudhoyono-appoints-rajasa-indonesia-s-acting-finance-minister.html
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  appointed Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta
Rajasa as acting finance minister, replacing  Agus Martowardojo 
who will become central bank governor.  Yudhoyono signed the letter appointing Rajasa today, the
state secretariat’s office said on its website. Julian Aldrin
Pasha, a presidential spokesman, gave no timeframe for Rajasa’s
term, saying that it will end before the president completes his
five-year term in 2014. Pasha said he doesn’t know when
Yudhoyono will appoint a new finance minister.  Rajasa, who will also retain his current role, is taking
over Martowardojo’s duties as a government plan to curb fuel
subsidies threatens to boost  inflation , which accelerated to a
22-month high in March.  Bank Indonesia  this month lowered its
2013 economic growth forecast to between 6.2 percent and 6.6
percent from a previous estimate of 6.3 percent to 6.8 percent,
citing the slower-than-expected recovery in the global economy.  “The dual position can lead to the perception that the
government is not serious about the  finance ministry ,” said
Lana Soelistianingsih, an economist at PT Samuel Sekuritas in
Jakarta. The limited term “adds to the uncertainty.”  Rajasa, whose daughter is married to Yudhoyono’s son, has
been chief economic minister since October 2009 and was
previously State Secretary. Martowardojo will replace Bank
 Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution, whose term ends May 23.  The appointment of Rajasa is meant to synchronize fiscal
policies with development of infrastructure, industry and
investment, Firmanzah, a senior official for economic affairs at
the presidential office, said by phone today.  Yudhoyono’s administration has sought to cut fuel subsidies
and allocate more funding to infrastructure to spur growth. The
government limited the use of partially government-funded diesel
in January, after protests derailed plans to raise fuel prices
in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  