-- `Hell-Raising' LePage of Maine Vows to Cut Government Like Chris Christie
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2011-01-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-05/-hell-raising-lepage-of-maine-vows-to-cut-government-like-chris-christie.html
Governor-elect Paul LePage of  Maine ,
who once said he would tell President  Barack Obama  to “go to
hell” and do without Washington’s help, is getting the chance
to carry out his pledge to slash government.  Scheduled to be sworn in today as Maine’s 74th chief
executive, LePage is confronting a projected $800 million budget
shortfall over the next two years with a display of confidence
his supporters have come to expect.  “I’m going to be the  Chris Christie  of Maine,” he said in
an interview, referring to the budget-cutting New Jersey
governor.  “My goals are to reverse the trend of increasing
taxes, reduce the size and scope of government and bring common
sense to Augusta.” With his administration about to take over
in the state capital, he also said he might not need a second
term if all goes as planned.  The Tea Party-backed Republican’s bravado was a trademark
of his successful campaign. LePage, 62, said Democratic opponent
Libby Mitchell, 70 at the time, was too old to serve. He
insisted regulations once forced him to take a census of buffalo
while working for a power company, a claim for which Maine’s
 Department of Environmental Protection  has no record. And at a
candidates’ forum, he said welfare recipients who can’t wean
themselves off public assistance would be given a bus ticket to
neighboring  Massachusetts .  Describing his youth as one of abuse and homelessness,
LePage also campaigned as the candidate of change and won 38
percent of the vote, enough to prevail in a five-way race. A
three-term mayor of Waterville, Maine, and general manager of
 Marden’s , a chain of discount stores, he gives up both jobs for
his new post.  Rejecting  Washington   At a Republican forum in September, LePage told a group of
fishermen he would react strongly to any attempts by Obama to
interfere in Maine’s affairs. “As your governor, you’re going
to be seeing a lot of me on the front page saying, ‘Governor
LePage tells Obama to go to hell,’” he said.  He replaces term-limited Democrat JohnBaldacci. Maine
Republicans retook the state Senate and House too, giving them
control of the executive and legislative branches for the first
time since 1966.  “Wave elections like this produce hell-raising leaders who
speak their minds and try to shake things up,” said Darrell West, vice president of governance studies at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington.  Election Victories  LePage beat six Republicans in a June 8 primary including
Les Otten, founder of the American Skiing Co. and a former
Boston Red Sox co-owner. In the general election, he defeated
four candidates including Mitchell.  Eliot Cutler , an energy
adviser in President  Jimmy Carter ’s administration, finished
second by barely more than 1 percentage point.  Creating jobs and reducing regulatory red tape were LePage
themes for boosting the economy in Maine, where the unemployment
rate is 7.3 percent compared with 9.8 percent nationally.
Standard & Poor’s rates the state’s general obligation bonds at
AA, the third highest rating.  LePage cut taxes in each of his first five years as mayor
of Waterville and held them steady in the sixth, according to
Mary-Anne LaMarre, a former Democratic city councilor there.  “He was phenomenal,” she said.  LePage has said he grew up poor and Catholic as one of 18
children in a French-Canadian enclave in  Lewiston . He said his
abusive father beat him so badly at age 11 that he landed in the
hospital, and then his father bribed him with 50 cents to tell
doctors he fell down the stairs.  Symbol of Past  LePage took the coin and never went back home, he said.
Today, both parents are deceased and he carries a half dollar in
his pocket as a reminder of overcoming his troubled childhood,
he said.  After leaving home, he said he lived on the streets of
Lewiston, sleeping in alleyways until he was taken in by two
families. He graduated from Lewiston High School and then on to
college, eventually earning a master’s in business
administration.  LePage was a provocative campaigner. He irked
environmentalists with his calls for construction of a nuclear
power plant and oil-drilling off Maine’s rocky coast.  The rhetoric was “very alarming to people,” said Jym St.
Pierre, 58, Maine director of  RESTORE: The North Woods , a
conservation group.  Welfare Recipients  Lewiston Mayor Larry Gilbert, a Democrat and former police
chief, said a LePage administration scares him, citing his
statement on handing longtime welfare recipients bus tickets.  “I don’t believe in treating people like that,” Gilbert
said.  Gerald Weinand, editor of the Democratic-leaning website
 Dirigo Blue , said in an e-mail that LePage “frequently
embellished or simply made up stories to add poignancy to his
arguments.”  In an August radio interview on the Maine Public
Broadcasting Network, LePage said he was working for a peat-
powered utility plant and was ordered by the state to count the
buffalo. Donna Gormley of the  Department of Environmental
Protection  said the agency’s records show no such order.  LePage stands by his statement that he was told to make the
survey, spokesman Dan Demeritt said.  “Paul is very authentic and free-spoken,” Demeritt said.
“There may be times where we get a date or a fact wrong, but
the sentiment is always very genuine.”  Kerri Davis, 26, of Fairfield, Maine, finds the governor-
elect’s style refreshing.  “If he can tell the president to go to hell, he can
probably get a lot done,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  