-- U.S. Downplays Concerns Anti-U.S. Cleric's Return to Iraq May Spur Attacks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n ,   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2011-01-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-05/anti-u-s-cleric-moqtada-al-sadr-returns-to-iraq-after-four-years-in-iran.html
The U.S. yesterday downplayed
concerns that the return to Iraq of prominent anti-U.S. cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr might spark a replay of sectarian violence or
fresh attacks against U.S. interests in  Iraq .  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  called al-Sadr
“the leader of an Iraqi political party that won a number of
seats in the March 2010 election,” and said “his return is a
matter between him and the government of Iraq.”  “It’s not for us to be for or against any particular
leader or party in Iraq” under a democratically elected system,
Crowley said.  In 2007, the U.S. condemned al-Sadr’s Mahdi militia as the
“most dangerous” proponent of sectarian violence in Iraq,
fomenting more killings among Iraqis than al-Qaeda. Al-Sadr,
whose Mahdi Army engaged in battles with Iraqi and U.S. forces
starting in 2004, returned to his country yesterday from  Iran 
for the first time in about four years, members of his movement
said.  Speaking in  Washington , Crowley said the U.S. now hopes
that al-Sadr’s party “will play a constructive role” in the
coalition government. If sectarian violence were to recur,
Crowley said, the U.S. has worked “hard to build up the
capability of Iraqi security forces to handle whatever challenge
to the government occurs.”  Healed Rifts  Some analysts interpreted al-Sadr’s return as a sign of
healed rifts among Shiite factions in Iraq.  His bloc supported Nuri al-Maliki, from Iraq’s Shiite
majority, to stay on as prime minister after months of wrangling
that followed elections last March 7.  The Sadrists were granted control of eight ministries when
al-Maliki formed a coalition government last month. The first
deputy speaker, Qusay Suhail, is from al-Sadr’s political bloc.
Al-Sadr’s movement won 42 seats in the 325-member parliament in
the March vote.  Al-Sadr’s return is “a statement that the fissures between
the various Shiite factions have for the moment been healed,”
 Juan Cole , a professor of history at the  University of Michigan ,  Ann Arbor , said in a telephone interview. “It’s a sign that
people have made up. Moqtada was in exile because his guys were
being aggressively arrested by al-Maliki.”  ‘Vote of Confidence’  Al-Sadr “is now one of the pillars of the establishment,”
Cole added. “Moqtada coming to Najaf is a vote of confidence in
the Iraqi government.”  Al-Sadr arrived yesterday in the city of Najaf, cleric
Nazar Mohammed said in a telephone interview from Baghdad, and
plans to stay in the country permanently, according to Mushreq
Nagi, a Sadrist lawmaker, also speaking from the capital. Al-
Sadr had been living in the Iranian city of Qom, where he was
studying to become an ayatollah.  In April 2007, Al-Sadr’s movement pulled out of al-Maliki’s
previous government, in which it had six ministers, because of
political conflicts with the prime minister, including
objections to the Iraqi leader’s alliance with the U.S. and the
presence of American forces.  “Sadr’s return comes as part of efforts to consolidate
national unity,” Abdul Hadi al-Hassani, a member of parliament
from al-Maliki’s coalition, said in a telephone interview from  Baghdad . “There were conflicts previously and we welcome
Moqtada al-Sadr’s return, which is important to reactivate a
true national partnership to speed up the rebuilding of Iraq.”  The Mahdi Army clashed with Shiite factions in southern
Iraq, prompting the U.S. to say in a November 2007 report that
al-Sadr’s militia had replaced al-Qaeda’s Iraqi organization
“as the most dangerous accelerant of potentially self-
sustaining sectarian violence in Iraq.”  U.S. Surge  Among al-Sadr’s reasons for leaving Iraq was the 2007 so-
called surge of U.S. forces, in which he risked arrest, Cole
said.  “The cost of running a militia ran very high in terms of
blood and money,” Cole said. “As the surge progressed and as
al-Maliki consolidated his control over the army, his
organization turned to politics.”  In 2008, al-Maliki sent in the Iraqi army, backed by U.S.
troops, to clear al-Sadr’s fighters from Shiite regions in
Baghdad and the south. The confrontations left dozens of people
dead and broke relations between al-Sadr and al-Maliki.  Al-Sadr’s militia had fought a major battle with U.S.
forces that encircled Najaf in August 2004 before a cease-fire
was brokered by Iraq’s senior Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani.  Control of Supporters  Mustafa Alani, director of national security at the Gulf
Research Center in Dubai, said al-Sadr returned to Iraq to
retain his stature among supporters.  “I think he felt the longer he stayed outside the country
the more power he will lose and gradually have less control over
his group,” Alani said in a telephone interview.  Iranian interim Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  visited
neighboring Iraq yesterday and met with his Iraqi counterpart,
Hoshyar Zebari. In a joint press conference in Baghdad, Salehi
said Iran supports Iraq’s unity.  Al-Maliki’s government was approved by parliament on Dec.
21 following a wide-ranging deal with all major political groups
in the country. The country had remained in a standoff after the
legislative elections failed to produce a clear winner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net 
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 