-- 
BP Not Alone in Lax Practices, Obama Spill Panel Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-04-14T13:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-05/bp-spill-caused-by-practices-that-are-systemic-in-industry-panel-finds.html
(Corrects value of crude pumped in 13th paragraph of story
published Jan. 5.)  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill was
caused by poor management practices that are “systemic” in the
industry and may recur absent “significant reform,” according
to a presidential panel probing the spill.  Bad decisions by BP and its main contractors,  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and  Transocean Ltd (RIG) , coupled with lax government oversight,
caused the worst U.S. offshore oil spill, the  National
Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill  said today.  The April 20 blowout of BP’s Macondo well, which killed 11
workers, destroyed Transocean’s $365 million Deepwater Horizon
rig and spewed crude for 87 days, was avoidable and not the
result of “aberrational decisions,” the panel said in a
report.  “Do we have a single company, BP, that blundered with
fatal consequences, or a more pervasive problem of a complacent
industry?” commission co-chairman  William Reilly , a former
administrator of the  Environmental Protection Agency , said in a
statement. “Given the documented failings of both Transocean
and Halliburton, both of which serve the offshore industry in
virtually every ocean, I reluctantly conclude we have a system-
wide problem.”  BP said the report supports its conclusions that the
catastrophe was a result of “multiple causes, involving
multiple companies,”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for the London-
based  oil company , said in an e-mail today.  Procedures in the final hours before the blowout “were
crafted and directed by BP engineers and approved in advance by
federal regulators,” Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman
said in an e-mail.  ‘Selectively Omitted’  The commission “selectively omitted information we
provided to them in response to their numerous inquiries,”
 Teresa Wong , a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“Halliburton acted at the direction of BP.”  The panel, appointed by President  Barack Obama , will
present its full report on the spill Jan. 11. The single chapter
released today on the causes of the blowout 5,000 feet (1,524
meters) below the surface faults industry and government
regulators for failing to identify and manage risks that
ultimately overwhelmed safeguards.  “This disaster likely would not have happened had the
companies involved been guided by an unrelenting commitment to
safety first,” commission co-chairman  Bob Graham , a former
Democratic U.S. senator and Florida governor, said in a
statement. “And it likely would not have happened if the
responsible governmental regulators had the capacity and will to
demand world-class safety standards.”  Government’s Failures  Failures by government contributed to the blowout, the
commission said. Efforts to expand oversight, tighten safety
requirements and boost funding for government inspectors were
“either overtly resisted or not supported” by members of
Congress and several administrations, according to the report.  “The Obama administration has launched the most
comprehensive reforms in U.S. history to ensure the safe
development of offshore oil and gas regulation,” Interior
Department spokeswoman Kendra Barkoff said today in an e-mail.  Regulators “will continue to make the changes necessary to
restore the American people’s confidence in the safety and
environmental soundness of oil and gas drilling and production
on the Outer Continental Shelf, while balancing our nation’s
important energy needs,” Barkoff said.  No New Permits  Fishing grounds covering thousands of square miles were
closed and deep-water exploratory drilling was halted after the
well blew out about 40 miles off the Louisiana Coast. Almost
three months after the drilling ban was lifted, regulators have
yet to issue any new exploration permits for a region that
produces more oil than the U.K., Qatar or  Indonesia , and pumped
$35.3 billion in crude in 2009.  The report lists a series of missteps by London-based BP,
Halliburton, Transocean and regulators, “each of which
increased the risk of a well blowout.” Allowing oil and gas to
enter the well, identified as the immediate cause of the
failure, compromised safeguards “until the blowout was
inevitable and, at the very end, uncontrollable,” the
commission said.  Today’s report suggests changes that would add costs for
offshore drillers. One recommendation would require the
installation of a device to anchor steel pipe in the well to
equipment on the sea floor before an exploration rig leaves the
job. Industry practice up until now has been to delay that work
until less costly rigs used to bring a well into production are
brought in.  Regulatory Changes  Commission members have also suggested a need for more
extensive regulatory changes. Less than a month after the
blowout, Obama vowed to revamp a system in which regulators
enforcing safety and environmental rules also awarded leases and
collected fees. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  began
reorganizing the agency on May 19.  Reilly questioned that effort at a Sept. 27 commission
hearing, asking Salazar if he had considered shifting some
authority outside of the department.  “I know it’s unfair to ask a Cabinet officer to talk about
how seriously he might have considered moving an enterprise
outside his own agency, but has that come up?” Reilly said.  Testing Cement  Halliburton and BP lacked a management process to ensure
adequate testing of cement used to prevent oil and gas from
seeping into the well, the report found. Both companies were
aware that tests of the cement before the blowout showed the
recipe wasn’t stable, according to an Oct. 28 report from the
commission.  Because the cement flowed miles below the rig floor, the
drilling crew had no way to directly check whether it set
properly leaving the crew to rely on “subtle, indirect
indicators,” according to the report. Results of a test to
evaluate the integrity of the cement job, which repeatedly
showed oil and gas flowing into the well, was improperly
interpreted, according to the report.  The decision to accept the results without a review by
engineers onshore “suggests a lack of onboard expertise and of
clearly defined responsibilities,” according to a Nov. 17
report from the National Academy of Engineering and National
Research Council, a technical panel probing the spill.  No Consulting  “The BP well-site leaders did not consult anyone on shore
about the anomalous data observed during the negative-pressure
test,” according to today’s report. “Had they done so, the
Macondo blowout may not have happened.”  The report also found that changes to the design of the
well and to drilling procedures in the days and weeks before the
blowout were made “without any formal risk analysis or internal
expert review.”  Even with more resources, regulators would have lacked
properly trained inspectors able to enforce regulations
effectively, the panel said. In an example cited by the
commission, BP asked regulators on April 16 to set a cement
plug, needed to temporarily abandon the well, 3,300 feet below
the sea floor, contrary to regulations stating it should be no
more than 1,000 feet below.  An official with the Minerals Management Service, the
agency formerly charged with overseeing offshore drilling,
approved the request in less than 90 minutes after a
conversation with a BP official, the commission said.  ‘Cursory Review’  “MMS’s cursory review of the temporary abandonment
procedure mirrors BP’s apparent lack of controls governing
certain key engineering decisions,” the panel said. “Like BP,
MMS focused its engineering review on the initial well design,
and paid far less attention to key decisions regarding
procedures during the drilling of the well.”  Minerals Management Service Director Elizabeth Birnbaum
resigned after the blowout. The agency was replaced by the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement,
which is implementing rules meant to prevent a Macondo-like
disaster.  Lawmakers failed last year in efforts to pass a measure
revamping oversight of offshore drilling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net  or
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington
at   kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 