-- 
Lawmaker Gosar Tests Tea Party Tenets Against Local Needs

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-02-22T16:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-05/republican-intentions-in-congress-may-exceed-ability-to-cut-obama-programs.html
U.S. Representative Paul Gosar came
to Washington promising to slash federal spending. It took less
than a month for local officials in his  Arizona  district to
learn that he was talking about them.  When Flagstaff city administrators came to his Washington
office Jan. 20 seeking funding for a $65 million  flood-control
project , they left with the first-term Republican’s promise that
he would send a letter of support, not the millions in funding
delivered by his predecessors. There wasn’t much more he could
do: Pressure from freshman lawmakers such as Gosar prompted
House leaders to impose a one-year voluntary ban on members
funding pet projects through earmarks.  “I’m not an earmark guy,” Gosar said. “The City Council
is going to be frustrated; the county is going to be
frustrated.”  Gosar, 52, is among 87 new Republicans swept into office in
November’s election vowing to remake politics in  Washington .
Like dozens of his new colleagues who rode support from fiscally
conservative Tea Party activists into power, he had never been
elected to office. Once named Arizona’s dentist of the year, he
sold his practice to pursue his political career.  The success of Gosar and his Tea Party-backed colleagues
will depend on whether they can master Washington practices
enough to accomplish their goals, without losing the outsider
credentials that got them elected.  Reality Clash  “Their challenge is not getting caught up with the culture
of the Capitol, but remembering who brought them to the dance in
the first place,” said Joe Gaylord, a strategist who served as
executive director of the Republican congressional campaign
committee in 1994, when the party gained a House majority. “The
question is what happens when they clash with the reality of the
House.”  Gosar ran for office promising to slash  government spending 
and dismantle federal regulations including President Barack Obama’s health-care law. Those campaign promises quickly became
a concrete concern for the Flagstaff local officials, who list
the Rio de Flag flood-control project as a top priority. In the
past, funding for the project had primarily come from earmarks
submitted by Arizona lawmakers, including Ann Kirkpatrick, the
Democratic incumbent Gosar defeated in November, and former
Republican Representative Rick Renzi.  The Flagstaff city manager, Kevin Burke, said he wasn’t
sure how it would be funded this year.  Living in Office  Gosar said he is simply delivering on campaign promises,
both in policy and his personal life. For the trim, tanned
Arizonian, the U.S. Capitol isn’t just a place to work -- it’s
his bedroom, bathroom, living room and kitchen.  “I’m a dentist, I’m not a rich guy,” he said. “I’ve got
to be fiscally responsible and that’s the same thing I am asking
for from our government.”  He sleeps on an inflatable mattress in his office, next to
his desk. To start the day, he heads downstairs to shower at the
congressional gym. When he has time, Gosar whips up a batch of
buckwheat pancakes on a hotplate in set up in his dusty office
storage unit.  He refused coverage under the health-care plan available to
lawmakers, as he pledged to do if elected, and bought a private
plan for himself, his wife and three college and high-school age
children. On Jan. 19, he voted to repeal Obama’s health-care
overhaul. Last week, he  voted  with his party to pass legislation
that would cut at least $61 billion in federal spending this
year. “This is just a start,” he said in a statement.  “We
must make do with less.”  Debt-Ceiling Battle  Bigger congressional battles will soon test his commitment
to Tea Party principles. The U.S. is expected to breach its
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling as early as April 5. Both Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  have said failure by Congress to raise the limit would
have catastrophic consequences on jobs and the economy, perhaps
even causing the U.S. to default on its obligations.  Gosar says he welcomes the debate over the debt ceiling,
even at the risk of a government shutdown: “We’ve been told
about the doom and gloom about not raising it, and I think
there’s a lot of question as to that doom and gloom.”  He’s eager to begin scraping off the bureaucratic plaque he
says he sees all around him. Gesturing to a flat-screen
television across from his desk, Gosar said it took seven
different crews of congressional employees to hang it.  “In the real world it’s one person, it’s usually the
consumer; it’s me,” he said.  Palin Backing  That eagerness to slash spending gained him endorsements
from Tea Party groups and Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee, and that backing helped him win an eight-
candidate Republican primary in August. Thomas Van Flein, a
former Palin family lawyer, now works as his legislative
director. His chief of staff is Rob Robinson, a retired dentist
from Wasilla,  Alaska , introduced Gosar to Palin.  Gosar then defeated Democrat Kirkpatrick in November, 50
percent to 44 percent, in a district that covers much of eastern
and northern Arizona -- including Flagstaff, Sedona and part of
the Navajo reservation -- and is larger than  Pennsylvania .  The district’s economy relies heavily on tourism. There are
no public companies based in the area, according to Bloomberg
data, though  Newark , Delaware-based W. L. Gore & Associates
Inc., the makers of Gore-Tex outdoor clothing, and St. Louis-
based Nestle Purina PetCare Co. have manufacturing facilities
near Flagstaff.  Political Trends  Kirkpatrick, 60, had won an open seat in 2008, a year that
favored Democrats. In 2010, Gosar benefited from trends favoring
his party.  “The only thing voters knew about him was he was a
Republican,” said  David Berman , a political scientist at  Arizona State University  in Phoenix. “He just benefited from a
lot of things that were happening nationally.”  Gosar doesn’t see his lack of legislative experience as a
liability, saying the decades he spent as a dentist managing
patients, dental hygienists and an office staff prepared him
well.  “You juggle all day long, and that’s exactly what we do
here,” he said. “So I feel like, ‘Hey, this is my dental
team.’”  Lobbying Group  Gosar drew on a tight-knit network of dental lobbyists to
propel his political career. He first began working in politics
as a member of the  American Dental Association ’s council on
government affairs, and announced his campaign for office at the
lobbying group’s  Washington Leadership Conference  in May 2009.
He was the  top  House recipient of campaign contributions from
the industry, collecting almost $271,000 last year, according to
the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research
group.  For all his wariness of Washington, Gosar says life as a
congressman offers some unique perks. The day before Obama’s
Jan. 25 State of the Union address, Gosar joked about finding a
clean suit to wear.  “We dress a little differently in Arizona,” he said,
gesturing to the brown cowboy boots he often wears in the halls
of Congress.  The next evening, Gosar smiled excitedly as he talked to
reporters in the hallway after the speech.  “You think, a year ago did you actually think you were
going to be here?” he said.  More excitement was to come later that evening. With his
wife, Maude, in town for the speech, Gosar was spending the
night in a hotel.  “I don’t make her sleep in the office,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 