-- ‘Mounting Evidence’ of Bug-Resistant Corn Seen by EPA
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-09-05T20:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/-mounting-evidence-of-bug-resistant-corn-seen-by-epa.html
There’s “mounting evidence” that
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  corn that’s genetically modified to control insects
is losing its effectiveness in the Midwest, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency said.  The EPA commented in response to questions about a
scientific  study  last month that found western corn rootworms on
two  Illinois  farms had developed resistance to insecticide
produced by Monsanto’s corn. Rootworms affect corn’s ability to
draw water and nutrients from the soil and were responsible for
about  $1 billion  a year in damages and pesticide bills until
seeds with built-in insecticide were developed a decade ago.  The agency’s latest statement on rootworm resistance comes
a year after the problem was first documented and just as U.S.
corn yields are forecast to be the lowest in 17 years amid
drought in the Corn Belt. Corn is St. Louis-based Monsanto’s
biggest business line, accounting for $4.81 billion of  sales , or
41 percent of total revenue, in its 2011 fiscal year.  “There is mounting evidence raising concerns that insect
resistance is developing in parts of the corn belt,” the EPA
said Aug. 31 in an e-mail.  The studies of rootworms in Illinois and Iowa don’t confirm
resistance in the field, Kelly J. Clauss, a spokeswoman for St.
Louis-based Monsanto, said in an e-mail. More data is needed to
prove resistance and the company is working with the EPA to
investigate and respond to fields where rootworms cause
“greater-than-expected damage,” Clauss said.  YieldGard Corn  The hottest, driest summer since 1936 in the Midwest has
damaged crops and helped send corn prices to a record. Corn
production may total 10.779 billion bushels, 13 percent smaller
than last year, even after farmers planted the most acres since
1937, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture   said  Aug. 10.  Corn acreage is estimated by the USDA to rise 5 percent to
96.4 million acres this year. Monsanto’s rootworm-killing corn
was planted on more than 37 million acres last year, according
to the company.  Corn futures for delivery in December dropped 1.1 percent
to $7.96 a bushel as of 8:55 a.m. local time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. They have gained 57 percent in the past three
months and traded at a record $8.49 on Aug. 10.  The EPA’s focus is Monsanto’s YieldGard corn, which is
engineered to produce the Cry3Bb1 protein from Bacillus
thuringiensis, or Bt, a natural insecticide.  EPA Review  The EPA expects to get data on the performance of YieldGard
from Monsanto within two months and complete its analysis by
year-end, the agency said in its statement, which was e-mailed
by Stacy Kika, an EPA spokeswoman. The evaluation will include a
review of scientific studies, it said.  “EPA is concerned about the reported resistance to Cry3bB1
in corn rootworm populations in some parts of the country, as
are others in the agricultural community,” the agency said.  The agency may implement “strategies” to reduce the
threat of resistance to Cry3Bb1, it said. Kika said she couldn’t
comment on what those strategies may include.  The EPA may ban sales of the seed in affected counties as
part of a remedial action plan if resistance is confirmed, the
agency said in its 2010 registration of YieldGard.  ‘Superweeds’ Problem  Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, introduced its
rootworm-killing corn technology in 2003. The corn-seed and
traits unit’s gross profit rose 16 percent to $2.86 billion in
the year ended Aug. 31, 2011.  Shares of Monsanto rose 1.1 percent to $87.55 at the close
in  New York . They have climbed 25 percent this year.  Syngenta
AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest producer of agrochemicals, has increased
19 percent in the period.  Monsanto’s worst resistance problem is with crops
engineered to tolerate its Roundup herbicide. “Superweeds”
that Roundup no longer kills have invaded as many as 20 million
acres (8.1 million hectares) of corn and soybeans, according to
a Dow study. As many as 28 million acres of cotton, soybean and
corn may host Roundup-resistant weeds by 2015, according to
Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta.  The EPA requires farmers of Bt corn to plant a so-called
refuge, an area of non-modified corn that grows near the
modified crop. The agency reasons that bugs not exposed to the
toxin will then mate with any resistant rootworms, creating a
new generation of insects that is once again susceptible to the
insecticide.  November Memo  Corn fields in four states --  Iowa , Illinois,  Minnesota  and
 Nebraska  -- were overrun by rootworm last year, prompting the
EPA to say in a November memo that Monsanto’s bug-killing corn
may be losing its effectiveness.  The agency also said at the time that Monsanto’s program
for monitoring suspected cases of resistance was “inadequate.”
Monsanto said in December in response to the EPA’s comments that
it believed there was no scientific confirmation of resistance
and that it was increasing efforts to teach farmers about how to
respond to unexpected crop damage.  The Illinois and Iowa studies into insect resistance were
conducted by Aaron Gassmann, an entomologist at  Iowa State
University . The Illinois study looked at the progeny of
rootworms collected last year at farms in Whiteside and Henry
counties, where the bugs had devoured the roots of corn plants,
said  Michael Gray , an agricultural entomologist at the
 University of Illinois  in Urbana, who collected the bugs in
their adult beetle phase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  