-- ‘Possession’ Claims Top Film Slot on Sales of $21.1 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-04T21:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/-possession-claims-top-film-slot-on-sales-of-21-3-million.html
The horror tale “The Possession”
led U.S. and Canadian ticket sales over the extended U.S. Labor
Day weekend, taking in an estimated $21.1 million in its debut
for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   “Lawless,” the Prohibition-era crime story from Weinstein
Co. was second, opening with $12.9 million, researcher
Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed statement.  In “The Possession,” a young girl’s behavior changes for
the worse after she opens an antique box bought at a yard sale.
Her alarmed parents turn to the Hasidic Jewish community for
help after learning the child inadvertently freed a malevolent
spirit known in Jewish folklore as a dybbuk. The movie stars
Jeffrey Dean Morgan,  Kyra Sedgwick  and Natasha Calis.  “It should play fairly well for the next couple of
weeks,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
The Labor Day Weekend is typically one of the year’s slowest for
U.S. theaters as consumers close out the summer with a trip or
barbecue. “To the extent that movies get released, they are
generally not big box-office generators. Hollywood is clearly
focusing on their holiday releases coming up and those will
either make or break the year.”  Summer Season  Studios ended the summer season with $4.25 billion in
domestic ticket sales, down 2.9 percent from the record $4.37
billion set in 2011, as films including  Universal Pictures 
“Battleship” and Warner Bros.’ “Rock of Ages” held back
results, according to Hollywood.com.  “Overall, the summer box office was disappointing,”
Sweeney said.  “Lawless,” starring  Tom Hardy ,  Shia LaBeouf  and Jessica Chastain, is based on the true story of the Bondurant brothers,
three Virginia moonshiners who smuggled whiskey and battled
lawmen during the Great Depression. Based on the novel “The
Wettest County in the World.”  Sylvester Stallone ’s “The Expendables 2,” also from  Lions
Gate , had sales of $11.5 million, finishing the holiday weekend
in third place. The picture, a follow-up to the 2010 hit, had
taken in $68.8 million through yesterday. It opened on Aug. 17.  All-Star Action  Stallone and his team of mercenaries in the film seek
revenge for the murder of one of their comrades. The picture
features an all-star list of action heroes including  Arnold Schwarzenegger ,  Bruce Willis  and Chuck Norris.  “The Bourne Legacy,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal
Pictures, was fourth with $9.3 million. The film, the fourth in
the Bourne saga, begins a new storyline without the namesake
character of the first three films or actor  Matt Damon . Oscar
nominee  Jeremy Renner  stars as super-soldier Aaron Cross.  “ParaNorman,” a 3-D animated children’s film from Laika
Entertainment and Universal’s Focus Features, was fifth with
revenue of $9 million. The PG-rated comedy-thriller follows a
misunderstood boy who can speak to the dead. Kodi Smit-McPhee
provides the voice of Norman. Anna Kendrick and Christopher
Mintz-Plasse co-star.  ‘Obama’s America’  Among returning films, “2016: Obama’s America” was eighth
with sales of $7.5 million. The movie, a critical look at
President  Barack Obama  from commentator Dinesh D’Souza, is the
year’s top-performing political movie.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 2.3 percent to
$109.5 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 3.6 percent to $7.61
billion, with attendance up 2.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Aug. 31 to Sept. 2 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeran Wittenstein in  San Francisco  at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  