-- 3M-Avery Dennison Said to Face U.S. Lawsuit to Block Deal
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-04T20:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/3m-avery-dennison-said-to-face-u-s-lawsuit-if-deal-goes-forward.html
3M Co. (MMM) ’s $550 million takeover of
 Avery Dennison  Corp.’s office-products unit will face a lawsuit
by the U.S.  Justice Department  if the companies don’t abandon
the transaction, said a person with knowledge of the process.  The agency could move to block the deal as soon as the end
of this week, said two people, who asked not to be named as the
matter is confidential. The deal would combine the two largest
label makers in the world, according to Deane Dray, an analyst
at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  3M, which announced the acquisition more than eight months
ago, had planned to complete the purchase in the second half of
this year.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman,
declined to comment on whether the agency is planning to file a
lawsuit seeking to block the deal. Donna Fleming Runyon, a
spokeswoman for 3M, and David Frail, a spokesman for Avery
Dennison, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  “Obviously they had overlap, I would’ve thought that they
would’ve thought that through on both sides more fully,” said
 Ghansham Panjabi , a Roseland, New Jersey-based analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. Avery probably will bring the business “back
into continuing operations and evaluate it some other time,”
rather than seek another buyer right away, he said.  Avery Dennison fell 5.2 percent to $29.60 at the close of
New York trading after earlier sinking as much as 7.4 percent.
3M declined 1 percent to $91.68.  The transaction would be 3M’s biggest since the company
paid $662.4 million to buy fingerprint-identification systems
maker Cogent Inc. in 2010. Buying the division would allow 3M to
add products such as Marks-A-Lot pens to a lineup of office
goods that includes Post-it Notes and  Scotch tape .  3M became the biggest global player in the label market
after Avery Dennison when it completed the 2010 purchase of a
majority stake in Japanese label maker A-One’s consumer and
office label business, according to Citigroup’s Dray. A-One is
the top office and consumer label brand in Asia, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  