-- Aberdeen’s Kaloo Tops Emerging Markets: Riskless Return
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-04T23:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/aberdeen-s-kaloo-tops-emerging-markets-riskless-return.html
Devan Kaloo led Aberdeen  Emerging
Markets  Fund to top risk-adjusted returns by picking the best
stocks in the most volatile industries, beating peers from
 Fidelity Investments  to Franklin Resources Inc.’s  Mark Mobius .  The $7.5 billion fund rose 1.7 percent the past five years
after adjusting for price swings, the top gain among 27 rivals
with more than $1 billion, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS
RETURN RANKING. Kaloo’s preference for companies with lower debt
and higher profitability than the benchmark index helped the
fund post smaller price swings than 77 percent of peers in a
period when emerging-market  volatility  reached a record high.  Kaloo, 40, won with businesses that accelerated profit
growth despite a global slowdown and a 4.5 percent decline in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in the past year, including
reinvested dividends. While competitors got hurt by bets on bank
and energy stocks, which tend to drop most in falling markets,
the Aberdeen manager’s picks in those industries rallied. They
include Mexican lender  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB (GFNORTEO)  and  Tenaris
SA (TEN) , a maker of seamless pipes that has benefited from oil
exploration in Mexico and Brazil, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’re always looking for returns per unit of risk, and
theirs are impressive,” said Sam Katzman, the chief investment
officer for New York-based Constellation Wealth Advisors, which
has about $50 million invested in the Aberdeen Emerging Markets
fund. Stock selection spurred the outperformance, said Katzman,
whose firm manages about $4.5 billion in total.  Virtus, Oppenheimer  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The Aberdeen fund had a total  return  of 49 percent in the
five years through Aug. 31, the biggest gain among those in the
Bloomberg ranking, with below-average volatility.  The $5.1 billion Virtus Emerging Markets Opportunities
Fund, run by Rajiv Jain, returned 33 percent since August 2007
for the second-best performance after Kaloo’s fund, while Justin Leverenz’s $26 billion  Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund (ODMAX)  came
in third with a 23 percent advance. The funds also had the No. 2
and No. 3 rankings after adjusting for price swings.  Beating Mobius  The $2.8 billion  Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund (FEMKX) , run by
Robert von Rekowsky, ranked last for total return over five
years after declining 21 percent and had the 10th-highest
volatility. The Templeton Developing Markets Trust, overseen byMobius, declined 8.3 percent to rank 20th in the group of 27
funds, with the eighth-lowest volatility.  “Volatility and market factors have been difficult but we
remain focused on bottom-up stock selection and evaluating
companies based on fundamental analysis,” Sophie Launay, a
spokeswoman for Boston-based Fidelity, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Matthew Walsh , a spokesman for San Mateo, California-based
Franklin, the manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual
funds, declined to comment.  The Aberdeen fund’s results stand out after the MSCI
Emerging Markets gauge declined 1.2 percent including  dividends 
during the past five years. The index tumbled 66 percent from
its October 2007 peak through its bear-market nadir in October
2008, then more than doubled the following two years.  The gauge’s 100-day historical  volatility  has averaged 24
percent during the past five years, compared with a historical
mean of 17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
rose to a record above 60 percent during the height of the
global financial crisis in January 2009.  ‘Excess Return’  “Aberdeen is an example of a fund that has historically
taken on less risk than the benchmark while proving to generate
excess return,” said  Todd Rosenbluth , a mutual-fund analyst at
S&P Capital IQ, a New York-based research firm.  Kaloo’s returns have fueled a more than 60-fold surge in
 assets  at the U.S.-domiciled fund in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Emerging-market stock
funds tracked by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
EPFR Global increased assets by 27 percent in the same period.  Growth in the Aberdeen fund’s assets may curb returns by
forcing the fund managers to buy more stocks than they want to,
according to S&P’s Rosenbluth. It’s more difficult for larger
funds to purchase and sell thinly-traded stocks without
affecting the market price.  “When a fund is investing in more illiquid markets like
emerging markets, you don’t want to lose your ability to be
nimble,” Rosenbluth said.  Flows of investor cash have been so big that Aberdeen
stopped marketing the fund to potential clients, according to
James Thorneley, a spokesman for the firm. Kaloo wasn’t
available to comment, Thorneley said.  Fund Holdings  Kaloo, the head of global emerging markets equities at
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , leads a team of 12 investment
managers and analysts in London while also working with the
firm’s staff in Asia and  Latin America  to pick stocks for the
fund, according to Aberdeen’s website. The University of St
Andrews graduate joined Aberdeen in February 2000 after working
for  Martin Currie , an Edinburgh-based  money manager .  Aberdeen’s stock-fund managers place a greater emphasis on
business models, the quality of company executives and corporate
governance than on economic trends or index weightings. Kaloo’s
fund held 64 stocks at the end of July, or 92 percent fewer than
the MSCI Emerging Markets index.  Stock Selection  The Aberdeen fund’s holdings in the banking industry, which
account for about 25 percent of the portfolio, returned 5.2
percent during the past year while its energy shares, with a 16
percent weighting, gained 3.1 percent. The stock picks
contributed more to the fund’s outperformance compared with the
MSCI index than for any of its peers, a Bloomberg analysis of
publicly disclosed holdings through July shows.  Stock selections in the two industries have an outsized
impact on relative performance because they have the biggest
weightings in the MSCI index, making up more than 30 percent of
the $7 trillion gauge’s market value. They also have the highest
value-at-risk, or VaR, among 24 industry groups, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Bank stocks in the MSCI index have lost 6.3 percent as a
group during the past year after economic growth in China and
India slowed to the weakest pace since 2009 and consumer
defaults in Brazil hit a 30-month high. Oil’s slide from this
year’s peak in February and growing supplies of natural gas have
helped drag down energy stocks by 12 percent.  About 68 percent of the biggest emerging-market funds had
declines in their bank holdings during the past year and 86
percent posted losses from investments in energy companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Boosting Banorte  Banorte, the Monterrey, Mexico-based bank, has surged 45
percent during the past year. The bank  reported  earnings growth
of at least 20 percent for five straight quarters as the bank
boosted business, credit card and payroll lending. The lender’s
second-quarter earnings gain of 29 percent compares with a 10
percent combined  increase  for banks in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Aberdeen fund boosted holdings of Banorte during the
past year to 2.9 percent of the fund, and the firm is the
biggest publicly-disclosed holder of the Mexico-listed shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kaloo’s fund has also benefited from holdings in Istanbul-
based  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and Manila-based  Bank of the Philippine
Islands (BPI) , which both returned more than 10 percent in the past 12
months, the data show.  Tenaris Stake  Tenaris, the world’s largest maker of seamless pipes, has
jumped 31 percent in the past year. While the Luxembourg-based
company isn’t a member of the MSCI Emerging Markets index, it
has benefited from increased oil exploration and production in
emerging markets.  Second-quarter earnings rose 61 percent on growing demand
for pipes from energy producers, Tenaris said in an Aug. 1
statement. The company has a current ratio, or short-term assets
divided by liabilities, of 2.3, compared with an industry ratio
of 1.4, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A higher ratio signals
Tenaris has a greater ability to repay liabilities coming due in
the next year.  Aberdeen was the biggest holder of Tenaris’s U.S.-listed
 shares  as of June, with an 11 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The emerging-markets fund held about 0.7
percent of the securities, the data show.  Ultrapar Surges  Ultrapar Participacoes SA (UGPA3) , a Brazilian holding company that
owns the Ipiranga gas station chain, has also been a winning
pick in the  energy industry  for the Aberdeen fund. The stock,
which accounts for about 2.9 percent of the portfolio, surged 59
percent during the past year for the top gain among companies in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Energy Index.  “It only took a couple of names in the portfolio to really
prime the pump,” said  Jeff Tjornehoj , the head of Lipper
Americas research in Denver. “This fund is managed with a lot
of conviction.”  The fund’s turnover ratio, a gauge of how much its
positions change in a year, is lower than all 23 peers tracked
by Bloomberg that provide the data. Constellation Wealth’s
Katzman started investing in the fund during the second half of
2009 in part because the investment team makes about 1,500
company visits a year, he said.  The profit margin for the portfolio’s companies is about 12
percent, two percentage points higher than the benchmark index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Less Debt  The companies’ debt amounted to 71 percent of common
equity, versus 104 percent for the MSCI gauge, the data show.
The fund’s value-at-risk, as measured by its potential loss
during one trading day, is about 1.7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 1.8 percent for the
MSCI emerging-market index.  “As bottom-up stock pickers, our global allocation
strategy is a function of where we can find good quality
companies which are attractively valued,” the fund managers
wrote in their second-quarter report. “This style may lead to
significant deviations from the index.”  The Aberdeen fund’s outperformance has also made its
holdings increasingly expensive versus the benchmark index. The
portfolio is valued at about 13 times earnings, or 15 percent
higher than the MSCI gauge, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A year ago, the ratios were about equal. The Aberdeen
fund also has a higher price-to-book ratio and a lower dividend
yield than the index, according to Bloomberg’s analysis of
disclosed holdings as of July.  ‘Reasonable Prices’  The fund’s managers say they’re still finding stocks at
attractive prices, and analysts tracked by Bloomberg are
predicting gains for some the fund’s top holdings. Banorte may
rally 13 percent in the next 12 months, according to the average
of 15 analyst projections. Tenaris will probably gain 14
percent, based on the mean of 12 forecasts.  “Valuations in the asset class have come off in the wake
of previous sell-offs,” the Aberdeen investment team wrote in
its second-quarter report. “This should provide opportunities
to pick up favored stocks at reasonable prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  