-- Apple, FBI Deny Hacker Claim of Breach of Apple User Data
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-09-05T17:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/hackers-claim-release-of-1-million-apple-ids-fbi-denies-breach.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the U.S.  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation denied claims by hackers who said they
stole information on 12 million Apple Inc. user accounts from an
FBI computer.  Many of the hackers’ claims, posted this week in a long
online  missive  from the group calling itself Anonymous. The FBI
said in a statement yesterday that there was “no evidence
indicating that an FBI laptop was compromised or that the FBI
either sought or obtained this data.”  Apple said it didn’t provide any user information to the
FBI or other organizations.  “The FBI has not requested this information from Apple,
nor have we provided it to the FBI or any organization,” said
 Natalie Kerris , an Apple spokeswoman.  The hackers may have posted some legitimate users’ device
names and the unique identifier codes assigned to their iPhones,
iPads and iPod Touches, according to Sean Sullivan, a security
adviser at F-Secure Corp. who examined a data file that the
hackers released. It isn’t known whether the hackers really have
the other information they claim to have redacted from the data
file, including user names, mobile phone numbers and addresses.  “What they have released is not a very serious breach at
all,” Sullivan said in an interview. As for claims that the
information came from the FBI, he said, “they’ve offered no
additional corroborating evidence, they’ve offered nothing else
-- they’ve immediately demanded no interviews. I think they’ve
made it up.”  Anonymous Attacks  The incident is the latest skirmish between hackers
operating under the banner of Anonymous -- who have often
cultivated the media to promote their attacks, and have
sometimes fallen short in their claims -- and law-enforcement
agencies and large corporations that the hackers argue are
violating digital freedoms.  The hackers say they accessed the Apple data in March by
breaking into a laptop of FBI agent Christopher Stangl, who has
been active online in recruiting agents with cyber-security
savvy. They claim to have used a vulnerability in Java, the
popular Internet technology managed by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  whose flaws
were exploited in attacks that infected more than 600,000 Mac
computers in April and more than 100,000 Windows machines last
week.  By themselves, the device codes released in the latest
incident aren’t sensitive. Called unique device identifier
numbers, or UDIDs, they are just strings of numbers and letters
that have limited value when viewed in isolation.  Still, taken with other information, they may be used to
authenticate users trying to access a service. Amid  privacy 
complaints, Apple earlier this year banned applications that use
the code for tracking.  Apple said that its latest version of software for the
iPhone and mobile devices introduces new features that replace
the use of UDIDs, which will be eventually phased out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  