-- Airbus A400M Airlifter Certification Test May Resume in October
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-04T15:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/airbus-a400m-airlifter-certification-test-may-resume-in-october.html
Airbus Military  may resume a pivotal
test phase for the A400M troop transporter next month after
making fixes to the engines that have halted progress.  The first gearbox to undergo modification was fitted with a
new plate, reassembled, and tested over the weekend, and is now
joining the engine again, said Nick Britton, a spokesman for
engine consortium partner  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc. (RR/)   All production turbo-propeller engines are due to be
modified after metallic chips were found in a gearbox.  The interruption of the 300-hour function and reliability
test forced Airbus Military last week to adjust plans for the
more than 20 billion-euro ($25 billion) A400M, Europe’s largest
defense program. Civil and military certification of the
aircraft will be delayed until the first quarter of 2013, the
unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. said. The first
aircraft delivery is now expected in the second quarter, missing
an end-of-March contractual deadline.  Function and reliability tests should resume by the end of
October, Dominique Fouda, spokesman for the European Aviation
Safety Agency certification authority, said in an e-mail. The
regulator is continuously in talks with Airbus, he said.  The plane’s engine, the biggest of its kind, is built by
Europrop, a group of companies including  MTU Aero Engines (MTX) ,
Rolls-Royce and  Safran SA (SAF) ’s Snecma division. The gearbox is made
by Avio in  Italy .  Airbus still plans to deliver four A400Ms to customers next
year.  France  and Turkey will receive the airplanes. The third
French plane and the only Turkish plane among the four aircraft
will be delivered on time, the manufacturer said.  Engine issues forced Airbus Military to pull the A400M from
the flying display at this year’s Farnborough air show in July
and last year’s Le Bourget air show in France. The aircraft is
due to participate in a flying display at next week’s air show
in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  