-- Akamai, Apple, Disney, DuPont: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-04T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/akamai-apple-disney-dupont-intellectual-property.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) ’s patent
claims over online content delivery networks against  Limelight
Networks Inc. (LLNW)  were revived by an appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  ordered a lower court to reconsider whether Limelight
infringed the Akamai patent. In a related decision issued Aug.
31, the court reinstated claims  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  made against
closely held Epic Systems Corp. on a patent for a method of
communication between doctors and their patients.  The issue in both cases was whether a company can be liable
for infringing patents when various parties carry out parts of
an innovation. The ruling will affect disputes over software,
financial systems and medical diagnostic testing.  The Federal Circuit, sitting with all active judges, heard
the Akamai and McKesson cases on the same day.  The Akamai case initially focused on whether Limelight
could be found liable for direct infringement when it didn’t use
all the steps. Instead, the majority said it wouldn’t address
that issue and ruled on whether Limelight could lose the case if
it were found to have encouraged others to use the invention.  Circuit Judge Richard Linn, in his dissent, said the
majority was extending  patent law  beyond what Congress and the
 Supreme Court  have allowed when it comes to indirect
infringement.  San Francisco-based McKesson sued Epic over its MyChart
software program, which is sold to hospitals and medical groups.
Health-care providers use the software to give patients a way to
access their records as well as scheduling and treatment
information.  A federal judge rejected McKesson’s infringement claim,
saying that Epic didn’t perform all the steps covered by the
patent, nor did it control others to perform all of the steps.
McKesson’s patent 6,757,898 is for a method for a health-care
provider and patient to communicate with each other
automatically.  The case is Akamai Technologies v.  Limelight Networks ,
2009-1372, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Akamai Technologies v.
Limelight Networks Inc., 06cv11109, U.S. District Court,
District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  The McKesson case is McKesson Technologies Inc. v. Epic
Systems Corp., 2010-1291, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit. The lower court case is McKesson Information Solutions
LLC v. Epic Systems Corp., 06cv2965, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  Apple Sued by Alcatel-Lucent Trust Over Video-Compression Patent  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was sued by a trust associated with  France ’s
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  over accusations it infringed a patent for
video-compression technology.  “Apple’s products, including but not limited to the iPhone
4S, iPad 2 and the ‘new iPad’ by virtue of the manner in which
they encode video, infringe one or more claims” of the patent,
Multimedia Patent Trust said in a complaint filed Aug. 29 in
federal court in  San Diego .  The trust seeks unspecified damages and a court order
stopping the alleged infringement.  Alcatel-Lucent, based in Paris, set up the patent trust on
Nov. 28, 2006, two days before Alcatel’s purchase of Lucent
Technologies Inc. The trust previously sued  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
 DirecTV (DTV) , among other companies, over video-compression patents.
Apple is also a defendant in a separate infringement case
brought in 2010 by Multimedia Patent Trust in San Diego.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Multimedia Patent Trust v. Apple, 12-02135,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California  (San
Diego.)  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Disney, DC Comics, Sanrio Sue Party-Entertainment Store  The Walt Disney Co. sued a Southern California provider of
birthday-party entertainment for trademark and copyright
infringement.  Co-plaintiffs with Disney are  Tokyo ’s  Sanrio Co. (8136) , which is
famous for its Hello Kitty character, and Time Warner Inc.’s DC
Comics unit. The suit, filed Aug. 27 in federal court in Los
Angeles, claims Party Animals LLC of  Marina Del Rey , California,
infringes  intellectual property  associated with licensed
characters belonging to the three companies.  Party Animals is accused of infringing by its distribution,
sale or rental of character costumers and related merchandise.
Among the characters claimed to be infringed are Mickey and
Minnie Mouse, Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Pluto, Goofy,
Hello Kitty and Dear Daniel.  The Party Animals website lists “look alike characters”
that include a “Green Guy,” “Princess Aurora,”
“Superheroes,” and a “Brown Dog.” According to a  statement 
on the company’s website, “Look-a-like characters are not
officially licensed. We do not use or have copyrighted or
licensed material, costumes or names.”  The owners of the licensed characters say they are harmed
by the actions of the party company, and asked for court orders
barring further infringement. Additionally they asked that the
company be required to surrender for destruction all offending
products and promotional material, and requested that they be
transferred the party company’s Internet domain name.  The damages they seek are $200,000 for each infringed
trademark, and, if the court determines that infringement is
deliberate, for the damages to be increased to $2 million per
mark. They also asked that awards of damages and of profits
derived from the alleged infringement be tripled to punish the
defendants for their actions.  The Party Animals didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Disney Enterprises v. Jason Lancaster, 2:12-cv-
07347-DDP-JC, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California ( Los Angeles ).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  DuPont Wins Order Barring Kolon From Selling Body-Armor Fiber  DuPont Co. (DD) , the inventor of Kevlar, won a ruling barring
Kolon Industries Inc.’s sales of a competing version of the
product used in protective clothing for police and the military
for the next 20 years.  U.S. District Judge Robert Payne in Richmond,  Virginia , in
an Aug. 20 order barred Kolon from selling products in the U.S.
made with its para-aramid fiber after a jury found last year
that the South Korean manufacturer stole  trade secrets  relating
to the Kevlar fiber and should pay more than $919 million in
damages.  “The judge’s order sends a clear message to Kolon and
others that they cannot benefit from the theft of our trade
secrets,” Thomas Powell, a DuPont spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , is expanding Kevlar
production to meet rising demand for armor and lightweight
materials that reduce energy use. The company opened a $500
million plant in  South Carolina  last year to boost output of the
material for use in products such as tires, auto parts and
fiber-optic cables.  “Kolon is disappointed with the court’s rulings and does
not believe an injunction, of any scope, is warranted either
legally or factually,” Jeff Randall, a lawyer for the company,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Kolon will immediately file a
motion to stay the order.”  Jurors in federal court in Richmond found in September
2011 that Gyeonggi-based Kolon and its U.S. unit wrongfully
obtained proprietary information about Kevlar by hiring some
former DuPont engineers and marketers.  DuPont sued Kolon in February 2009 alleging it stole
confidential Kevlar data. DuPont began selling the bullet-
resistant fiber in 1965 and it’s used in  body armor , military
helmets, ropes, cables and tires. Kolon began making its own
version of the para-aramid fiber in 2005.  Jurors found Kolon got access to Kevlar secrets by hiring
Michael Mitcher, a former DuPont engineer who also had served as
a Kevlar marketing executive.  In his order, Payne note that jurors concluded Kolon
executives “willfully and maliciously misappropriated” Kevlar
secrets and the company engaged in “unlawful conduct.”  As a result, Kolon is barred for a period of 20 years from
“manufacturing, using, marketing, promoting, selling,
distributing, offering for sale or soliciting customers for any
para-aramid product,” the judge said.  The case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v.  Kolon
Industries Inc. (120110) , 09-cv-00058, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Richmond).  Penn Settles Trade Secrets Case With Sloan-Kettering Head  Trade secrets litigation involving the president of  New
York ’s  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center , the  University of
Pennsylvania , and two biotech companies has settled, according
to an Aug. 31 joint statement.  The suits were related to research conducted by Dr. Craig
Thompson, the president of Sloan-Kettering, that was funded by a
$100 million donation from the Leonard and Madlyn Abramson
Family Cancer Research Institute at the University of
Pennsylvania. The university and the foundation accused Thompson
of allegedly breaching an agreement with the foundation by
failing to disclose his discoveries to the institute, instead
providing the information to a company he founded and publishing
it in an international journal.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed. The parties said
in a  statement  that Thompson’s company, Agios Pharmaceuticals
Inc., has entered into a collaboration agreement with the
University of Pennsylvania covering the development of
diagnostic products to detect the metabolism of come cancers.  The two cases are Trustees of the University of
Pennsylvania v. Thompson, 12-cv-1330, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ), and Leonard and
Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute v. Thompson,
11-09108, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 