-- American, United Face Trial Over 9-11 Towers Destruction
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/american-united-face-trial-over-9-11-towers-destruction.html
AMR Corp.’s (AAMRQ)   American Airlines and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  lost a bid to avoid a federal
trial over negligence claims tied to the hijacking of jetliners
used in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks that killed about
3,000 people in  New York ,  Washington  and Pennsylvania.  World Trade Center Properties LLC, which owned the twin
skyscrapers in lower Manhattan destroyed in the attacks, sued
the airlines in 2008 alleging negligence against the carriers
for allowing terrorists to board and hijack the planes that were
flown into the buildings. U.S. District Judge Alvin Hellerstein
in Manhattan yesterday said a trial is required.  On the day of the attacks, two planes were hijacked and
flown into the World Trade Center.  American Airlines  Flight 11
crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center. Minutes
later, United Airlines Flight 175 crashed into the South Tower.  After the attacks, the owners sued insurers, eventually
settling for $4.09 billion, the judge said. World Trade Center
Properties sued the airlines seeking $8.4 billion, or the
estimated cost of replacing the two towers as well as claims of
negligence, the judge said in yesterday’s ruling. Hellerstein
said he previously rejected the airlines’ bid for summary
judgment, or a ruling before trial.  Limited Recovery  Hellerstein also limited the owners’ recovery and
determined its destroyed lease on the day of the terrorist
attacks to be worth $2.805 billion, the price the World Trade
Center Properties agreed to pay the  Port Authority  of New York
and  New Jersey  for the lease a few months before the 2001
attacks, he said.  The judge yesterday rejected the air carriers’ argument
that since the buildings’ owners recovered $4.09 billion from
insurance, World Trade Center Properties couldn’t also recover
the $2.8 billion sought for the lease.  “On this record, before trial, I am not able to make such
findings,” Hellerstein said in his ruling.  Matt Miller , a spokesman for American, said the airline has
no comment about the case.  Desmond Barry, a lawyer for the airlines, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment about the ruling.  The case is In Re September 11 Litigation, 21-MC-101, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 