-- America Drinking Top-End Wine Fuels Napa Deals: Mortgages
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-09-04T16:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/america-drinking-top-end-wine-fuels-napa-deals-mortgages.html
A new era for California’s priciest
wine regions began Feb. 1, when PlumpJack Winery partners bought
50 acres in  Napa Valley ’s Stags Leap district, home to heralded
vintners Shafer Vineyards, Clos du Val and Cliff Lede Vineyards.  The purchase kicked off a sales spree for premium
properties across the state that’s poised to climb to $800
million by year end, the most since the 2007 market peak,
according to  Demeter Group , a San Francisco-based consumer
investment bank and advisory firm.  “It’s been a complete turnaround,” Stephen Rannekleiv,
lead U.S. wine analyst in  New York  for Rabobank Nederland NV,
the Utrecht, Netherlands-based bank that finances agriculture
businesses, said in a telephone interview. “There’s lots of
interest in good California properties right now. If you’ve got
vineyard acreage, it’s a hot commodity.”  Renewed dealmaking follows three years of plunging demand
for high-end  California  wine, which accounts for more than two-
thirds of U.S. bottle sales above $20, according to data
compiled by Nielsen Holdings NV. The recession that started in
December 2007 turned luxury consumers into bargain hunters
“dancing on the graves of bloated wine inventories,” Rob McMillan, wine division founder at SVB Financial Group Inc.’s
Silicon Valley Bank, wrote in an April 17  industry report .  Sales Gains  Purchases of California premium wine totaled $410 million
in the 12 months through July 21, up 14 percent year-over-year
and better than the 11 percent gain for all U.S. luxury
producers in the period, store-scan data from New York-based
Nielsen show. High-end wine sales are advancing at more than
double the rate of overall wine sales, with north coast
warehouse shipments up 12 percent in the first half of 2012 from
a year earlier, said Woodside, California-based industry
consultant John Gomberg.  “Everything that was restricted is more fluid compared
with two and three years ago,” Sam Bronfman II, former
president of Seagram Chateau & Estate Wines Co. and now managing
partner of San Francisco-based winery financier Bacchus Capital
Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “From expense
accounts to travel to entertainment, things are moving.”  Credit availability is unlocking sales, as mortgage
distress abates and wineries streamline operations, said Jeff Menashe, Demeter Group’s chief executive officer. Vineyard
defaults plunged last year by 61 percent in Napa and 44 percent
in Sonoma from the 2009 peak, when 18 properties in each county
entered the first stage of foreclosure, according to  DataQuick .
For the first seven months of 2012, only four vineyards in Napa,
50 miles (80 kilometers) north of  San Francisco , and eight in
Sonoma were in default, the San Diego-based research firm said.  ‘Meaningful Tailwinds’  “Luxury wine has gone from having significant headwinds to
meaningful tailwinds,” Menashe said in a telephone interview.
“The industry is growing at the ultra-premium end. Everyone is
trying to push up.”  Distressed sales in 2011 were limited to “fringe”
properties outside prime growing districts, according to a year-
end summary by the California chapter of the American Society of
Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers. Five bank-owned vineyard
sales occurred in Lake County north of Napa, where premium
vintners buy cheaper grapes for blending, said appraiser Michael Pipkin of  Santa Rosa , California-based lender American AgCredit.  Credit Access  “It’s a fairly healthy situation, with access to credit
again and strategic buyers looking for really good property,”
said Bill Stevens, Silicon Valley Bank’s wine division manager
in  St. Helena , California. “Wine producers got right-sized.”  The lender’s wine unit had $374 million in mortgages
secured by real estate as of June 30, an 8.1 percent increase
from the end of 2011, according to an Aug. 8 regulatory filing
from the  Santa Clara , California-based company.  About $500 million in vineyard and winery deals in the
premium north coast and central coast regions of California were
completed this year through Aug. 13, Demeter Group data show.
Another $300 million in transactions are pending, the company
estimates. Property is changing hands after sales “fell off a
cliff” in late 2008 as the financial crisis took hold, said
Sonoma-based land appraiser and real estate consultant  Tony
Correia .  The biggest deal so far in 2012 is  Constellation (STZ)  Brands
Inc.’s $160 million acquisition in June of Mark West brand,
produced from fruit around California and bottled in Sonoma and
Napa, according to Demeter Group. Mark West is the best-selling
U.S. pinot noir, with 600,000 annual cases, said Victor, New
York-based Constellation, the world’s second-biggest wine
company.  Foley Family  In Napa, deals include Fidelity National Financial Inc.
Chairman William P. Foley’s Foley Family Wines purchase in May
of the Sawyer Cellars winery and 49 acres (19.8 hectares) in the
Rutherford district, and PlumpJack’s acquisition of the Stags
Leap property, first planted with wine grapes in 1963 and dubbed
Odette Estate by the new owners, according to statements from
the vintners that didn’t disclose price.  “The last couple years, some vineyards were laying fallow
until the economy turned around and people felt there was demand
for the wines,” John Conover, partner and general manager of
Oakville-based PlumpJack, said in an Aug. 10 interview at the
property, which includes a 25,000-case winery. “Grapes were
available right through the harvest last year.”  In Sonoma, Wilson Family Wine Estates in March purchased
137 acres in Dry Creek Valley; GI Partners LLC’s Duckhorn Wine
Co. in June bought more than  400 acres  in Sonoma’s Alexander
Valley; and West Coast Wine Partners LLC in August bought Valley
of the Moon winery and 60 acres in Sonoma Valley, the companies
said without giving prices.  Gallo Winery  E&J Gallo Winery Inc., the world’s biggest wine company, in
August acquired Monterey County’s  Courtside Cellars  with a
60,000-ton capacity winery, as well as more than 300 acres, also
in Monterey, in a separate central coast deal. Modesto,
California-based Gallo didn’t disclose prices for either
transaction.  Premium deals so far have hewed to valuations that haven’t
changed much since the 2007 boom year, according to Correia. The
best California vineyards are priced at $175,000 to $300,000 an
acre on average in Napa; $75,000 to $125,000 in Sonoma; and
$35,000 to $50,000 in Monterey. Very rarely, a small “A+ super-
primo” Napa property changes hands for as much as $450,000 an
acre, he said.  Napa wine grapes were the most expensive in California last
year at $3,395 per ton, followed by Sonoma at $2,083 and
Mendocino at $1,237, according to the state’s Department of Food
and Agriculture 2011 grape crush report.  “We’re seeing some major players make some major moves,”
Correia said in an interview at Valley of the Moon, where the
new owners had begun pruning fruit in early August to increase
the quality of grapes on the vine before harvest begins next
month. “The wineries are the buyers today, versus hobbyists,
the rich-and-famous, venture capital and vulture funds.”  Deal Multiples  The dollar value of California wine deals this year has
already equaled last year’s tally and will be the highest since
$1.4 billion in 2007, according to Demeter Group. Sales were
$600 million in 2008 and less than $150 million in both 2009 and
2010.  Last year, almost half of the total was from one deal,
Santiago-based Vina Concha & Toro S.A.’s $238 million
acquisition of Fetzer Vineyards, which included 1,060 acres of
owned and leased vineyards in Mendocino County, brands including
Fetzer and Bonterra, and production capacity for 11 million
gallons. In 2007, the total was composed primarily of three
deals, led by Constellation’s $885 million purchase of Fortune
Brands Inc.’s wine unit.  “Today, financing has become more available, and banks are
looking at a stabilizing market,” Dan Zepponi, co-owner of Glen Ellen, California-based West Coast Partners, said in a telephone
interview. Valley of the Moon will concentrate its 45,000-case
annual production on  cabernet sauvignon , zinfandel and
chardonnay from prime Sonoma growing districts, he said.  Gavin Newsom  At Odette, whose other partners include billionaire oil
heir Gordon Getty and California Lieutenant Governor Gavin
Newsom, a new 20,000-square-foot wine cave with dining and
tasting rooms is under construction in Napa’s Stags Leap.  The existing winery will be replaced by a new structure
composed of recycled shipping containers and a “green living
roof” that are intended to reduce energy consumption, according
to Conover. A cabernet sauvignon from Stags Leap, made by
pioneering vintner Warren Winiarski, triumphed in the 1976
“Judgment of Paris” blind tasting against French wines from
Bordeaux, earning Napa its global reputation, he said.  “Spending the money makes sense for us, because we’re in
it for the long haul,” Conover said. “We see the consumer
coming back. Everybody is optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  