-- AMR Can Reject Labor Contract With Pilots, Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/amr-can-reject-labor-contract-with-pilots-judge-says.html
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  won
court approval to throw out its labor agreement with pilots,
capping the airline’s campaign to force cost cuts on the lone
union it couldn’t reach a deal with on concessions.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  yesterday
granted American’s request to reject the pilots’ contract,
saying proposed changes to the agreement are necessary for the
airline’s restructuring.  “I have a lot of sympathy for the employees and the
pilots,” Lane said. “It’s a set of circumstances that nobody
is happy about.”  The decision is a victory for AMR, which blamed its
November bankruptcy filing on labor costs that it said exceeded
competitors’ by as much as $800 million a year. The  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based airline has reached cost-cutting agreements with
unions for flight attendants, mechanics and baggage handlers.
The pilots voted down a contract proposal in August.  “There is no sense of accomplishment in this outcome,”
 Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for American, said in a statement. “We
worked very hard to reach a consensual deal with our pilots,
just as we did with each represented employee group. However,
the pilots rejected the tentative agreement on Aug. 8, so it is
time to move forward.”  American’s goal is to reach a consensual agreement with the
pilots, Hicks said.  ‘Greatly Exceeds’  The  Allied Pilots Association  argued that American’s demand
for $370 million in cost savings from the pilots “greatly
exceeds” the amount required to reorganize. The airline has
said it only needs $315 million, the union said.  Imposing new contract terms alone won’t be enough for AMR
to successfully restructure in bankruptcy, Tom Hoban, a
spokesman for the pilots’ union, said yesterday. The carrier
still needs a long-term labor agreement, a view expressed
earlier in the hearing by an attorney for creditors, he said.  Lane’s ruling is “really unfortunate,” Hoban said in a
telephone interview. “But it’s representative of the toxic
employee-relations culture we’ve seen here for many, many
years.”  Pilots expect to meet with American in the next several
days to learn details about how the new terms will be put in
place, Hoban said.  Contract ‘Burden’  In August, after the pilots union voted down the proposed
contract, Lane issued a decision denying American’s request to
void the labor agreement and impose cuts.  Although Lane agreed at the time that rejection was
necessary for American’s reorganization and that the contract
was a “burden,” he said that American didn’t establish that it
needed plans for lifting restrictions on furloughing pilots and
code-sharing with airlines.  Furloughed workers are those who have been laid off and are
offered their jobs back before new employees are hired. Code-
sharing is the industry practice of agreements between airlines
to put each other’s codes on flights and book passengers on
those planes.  The revised proposal withdraws the prior plan to change
pilot-furlough protections, leaving current contract terms in
place, and proposes “substantially less” code-sharing,
according to Hicks.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  