-- Manchester United Analysts See Shares Rising to $17 Each
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-04T11:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/manchester-united-analysts-see-shares-rising-to-17-each.html
Manchester United Plc (MANU) ’s stock will
increase to $17 over the next year, $3 above the price at which
the shares started trading last month, according to the average
analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  At least five securities firms began  coverage  of the record
19-time English soccer champion today, analyst reports obtained
by Bloomberg showed. They included  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) ,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , all underwriters on
the equity offering, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , which were also involved in the deal. Nomura gave a
neutral rating, while the rest all recommended buying the stock.  Jefferies’ $20 price estimate was the highest in the group
while Nomura’s $13 projection was the lowest. The  shares  closed
at $13.30 in New York trading on Aug. 31.  Manchester United 
spent $12.7 million in underwriting discounts and commissions,
according to calculations based on details in its prospectus.  “Live sports programming is a winner in the new media
landscape,” Randal Konik, an analyst at Jefferies in New York,
wrote in a research report initiating coverage today. “With
football the No. 1 sport in the world and Manchester United the
most popular team, the company is poised to benefit immensely.”  Manchester United fell below its initial public offering
price of $14 on the fifth day of trading on Aug. 16 and hasn’t
returned since. The 134-year-old team and its U.S.-based owners,
the Glazer family, raised $233.3 million after the shares were
priced below the marketed range of $16 to $20 apiece.  Broadcast Deal  Manchester United went to market two months after the
Premier League announced the biggest domestic soccer broadcast
deal in history, securing 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion) for a
three-year cycle beginning next season. Days before it floated,
the club also announced it had signed the richest jersey
sponsorship in history with General Motors Co., worth $559
million. Still, the trend in soccer has been for revenue gains
to be tracked by increases in player salary costs.  “While there is much to like about the company’s revenue
model and near-term growth prospects, we remain cautious about
the potential of greater-than-expected player cost inflation and
valuation,”  Michael Nathanson , an analyst at Nomura in New
York, wrote in a report.  Manchester United beat Southampton 3-2 for its second
victory in three league games this season after losing the
opener 1-0 at Everton.  Robin van Persie , signed for 24 million
pounds from Arsenal in the offseason, scored all three goals at
Southampton. His salary is 250,000 pounds a week, according to
media reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  