-- Manchester City Plans Move for Ronaldo, Star Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-04T10:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/manchester-city-plans-move-for-ronaldo-star-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sad Ronaldo  Manchester City  is preparing a world record 95 million-
pound ($151 million) bid for Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo,
the  Daily Star  said.  Ronaldo has told Real President Florentino Perez he is
unhappy with the Spanish championship and wants to leave, the
Star said. City will offer a four-year contract and manager
 Roberto Mancini  will have to sell players to clear space for the
27-year-old, who makes about 250,000 a week in  Spain , the
newspaper said.  Ronaldo moved to Madrid from  Manchester United  for a world-
record 80 million pounds in 2009.  Damiao Move  Manchester United is considering a move in January for
 Brazil  striker Leandro Damiao, the  Daily Mail  said.  Tottenham failed with a 20 million-pound bid for the 23-
year-old, who was the leading scorer at the London Olympics, the
Mail said. He was also offered to Liverpool on loan but the deal
was considered too costly, the newspaper said.  United held talks with Damiao in February and
intermediaries met his representatives in Brazil on Monday to
outline a proposal, the Mail said.  Jack Back?  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said midfielder Jack Wilshire
is close to making a comeback, the Independent said.  Wilshire missed all of last season with an ankle injury,
which also kept him out of this summer’s European Championship.
The Independent quoted Wenger as saying the 20-year-old has
looked “very good” in training and should “be starting to
play” in a month.  Talking Turkey  Turkish team Galatasaray is in talks with Manchester City
for Kolo Toure, the  Sun  said.  City is willing to listen to offers for the 31-year-old,
who has 12 months left on his contract, the Sun said. The
Premier League champion has put a 3 million-pound price tag on
the defender but could also let him leave on loan, the newspaper
said.  Mensah a Hammer?  West Ham is ready to make a bid for Ghana defender John
Mensah, the  Star  said.  The 29-year-old spent last season on loan at Sunderland and
is now a free agent after ending his contract with Lyon this
summer, Star said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 