-- Manufacturing Revival Is Good Politics but Bad Policy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/manufacturing-revival-is-good-politics-bad-policy-view.html
Manufacturing has been declining as
a  share  of the U.S. economy for three decades, but you wouldn’t
know it from tuning into the campaign frequencies.  Both Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  and
President  Barack Obama  talk dreamily about a manufacturing
revival, with Romney  promising  to roll back regulations and
Obama  offering  tax breaks and other incentives that border on
industrial policy.  Manufacturing matters, especially this year, when
industrial Midwestern states are where a big part of the
electoral battle is being fought. But globalization,
productivity gains and advances in automation make it unlikely
the sector will ever return to its place of prominence in the
U.S. economy. Rather than promising to restore manufacturing to
unachievable heights, Obama and Romney should focus on policies
that can keep the U.S. competitive without wasting resources,
awarding special treatment and undermining sound regulation.  Any discussion should be based on a realistic assessment of
the state of U.S. manufacturing. It had been among the rosier
spots in the  U.S. economy , helping to power much of the early
recovery. Its contribution to gross domestic product has
 increased  11 percent since 2009. Low natural gas prices have
encouraged some companies to return to the U.S. However, the
sector has lost steam in recent months as the global economic
slowdown has weakened demand for U.S. goods. New data show
manufacturing contracted for a third month in August, marking
the longest decline since the recession ended.  Long Decline  The sector’s overall slide has been under way for decades.
Over the past 12 years, manufacturers have cut 31 percent of
their workforce, or nearly 6 million workers. Their contribution
to GDP fell to 12.2 percent in 2011 from 22.7 percent in 1970.  Economists argue over the cause of the sector’s decline,
but the culprits are many: Globalization encouraged employers to
shift jobs overseas; productivity gains enabled companies to do
more with fewer workers; and advancements in automation made
many jobs obsolete.  Manufacturing is also no longer generating the kind of
high-paying, benefit-rich jobs long associated with the sector
as cheaper overseas labor and a steep drop in the number of
unionized workers take their toll. Wages have failed to keep
pace with inflation: Manufacturing workers now earn about what
they did in 2000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  This is not to say the U.S. should give up on
manufacturing, which remains important in large part because it
helps reduce the  trade gap . But as with agriculture,
manufacturing is likely to keep shrinking as a share of national
output. The key will be finding new industries to fill
manufacturing’s void rather than chasing diminishing returns
through distortive policies.  You might not know it, yet Romney and Obama do have some
sound ideas to reboot manufacturing -- ideas that aren’t as far
apart as their rhetoric suggests. Both support lowering the
corporate income-tax rate from its current 35 percent to 25
percent (Romney) and 28 percent (Obama), a move that would help
all industries, including manufacturing, compete overseas. Both
candidates also call for a permanent research and development
tax credit, which is used overwhelmingly by manufacturers. And
both support expanded free-trade agreements, which provide
access to new markets and are critical to manufacturers.  Unfortunately, both candidates have also thrown some ill-
conceived ideas into the mix. Romney wants to roll back
financial, environmental and transportation rules he says hinder
manufacturers; Obama wants to spend more than $120 billion over
the next decade on tax breaks for manufacturing (money he says
will come from cutting oil and gas subsidies). Although some
regulations can surely be made less burdensome, and some
targeted tax breaks make sense, both men go overboard, albeit in
opposite directions.  Tax Breaks  The soundest approach would be to start with the areas of
common agreement, including lowering to 25 percent the corporate
income tax, now among the highest in the world and consistently
cited as a primary reason companies send jobs overseas.
Lawmakers should also make permanent the R&D tax credit.
Manufacturers claimed 42 percent of total credits in 2009,
according to a Bloomberg Government analysis, yet a broad array
of industries could benefit, too.  Expanding free-trade agreements and targeting money to
improve labor-force skills are other ways Obama and Romney could
ensure the U.S. remains competitive.  China   outpaces  the U.S. in
awarding doctoral degrees and has nearly doubled its number of
engineering degrees over the past decade. Businesses can play a
role, too, by investing more to retrain employees.  Reviving manufacturing will always be an easy campaign
line; unfortunately, finding realistic solutions that don’t
raise false hopes about a new manufacturing golden age is a
little harder.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on breaking  South Africa’s
circle of strife ; Clive Crook on why Fed independence is
 essential and indefensible ;  Edward Glaeser  on how Europeans
might view  the “who built it” debate ; Ezra Klein on  whether
you’re better off  than four years ago;  Michael Kinsley  on how
Republicans  don’t really care about jobs ;  Peter Orszag  on moving
health care  from quantity to quality ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on
the roots of the  Harvard cheating scandal ; Arun Sundararajan on
 Facebook’s winning business model .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 