-- Maori Prepare for Battle After Key Delays New Zealand Asset Sale
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-09-04T01:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/maori-prepare-for-battle-after-key-delays-new-zealand-asset-sale.html
New Zealand ’s government faces a
potential legal battle with Maori groups after a water dispute
forced Prime Minister John Key to delay the sale of shares in
Mighty River Power Ltd. until next year.  Some indigenous groups want preferential rights in the
planned partial sale of the Auckland-based electricity generator
to compensate for unresolved water rights claims. While the
government doesn’t favor such treatment, it needs more time to
consult with Maori representatives, Key said in a statement
yesterday. The sale was originally planned for the third quarter
of this year.  Taking time to consult “is the prudent thing to do,” Key
said in the statement. Preparation for the share offer “will
continue to proceed, but in the March to June window next year,
rather than in 2012,” he said.  The government forecasts it will raise at least NZ$5
billion ($4 billion) over the next three to five years by
selling as much as 49 percent stakes in Mighty River and three
other power companies, and by reducing its stake in  Air New
Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  Key may face litigation from Maori groups who argue
the sale of Mighty River will block their claims on the nation’s
waterways.  A report last month from the Waitangi Tribunal urged the
government to work out a mechanism to recognize Maori rights to
water before going ahead with the sale. The Tribunal is a
commission that makes recommendations on claims of breaches of
the Treaty of Waitangi, New Zealand’s founding document that
gave Maori rights to their land and natural resources.  Legal Dispute  The Maori Council, which represents the interests of some
indigenous groups, has told ministers it will take the
government to the  High Court  if it doesn’t follow the Tribunal
recommendations, including preferential rights in the sale,
known as “shares plus.”  “It is not in the national interest for any group within
Mighty River Power’s potential 49 percent minority shareholding
to be given such rights,” Key said in the statement.  The government intends to offer shares in two other
generators, Meridian Energy Ltd. and Genesis Power Ltd., in late
2013 and early 2014, Key said. Which company will be offered
first hasn’t been decided, he told reporters.  “It is quite within the market’s capacity to absorb this
number of floats over that period of time,” he said.  The delay will cost the government no more than NZ$10
million, Key estimated. That cost is offset by the greater
clarity that the consultation period and possible resolution of
any legal challenge will bring, he said.  “I have a responsibility as prime minister to make sure
those floats are put on the firmest foundations they can and
that are as successful as they can be,” Key told reporters in
Wellington yesterday. “That requires me to give the market as
much clarity as possible. By dealing with these issues in 2012
and having a slight delay to 2013, we will be providing the
market with that clarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  