-- Apple Didn’t Infringe Mirror Worlds Patent, Court Rules
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-09-04T16:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/apple-didn-t-infringe-mirror-worlds-patent-court-rules-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won its appeal of a U.S.
patent-infringement verdict related to a Yale University
professor’s invention on how documents are displayed on a
computer screen.  Apple didn’t infringe patents owned by Mirror Worlds LLC,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington 
said today in a ruling posted on its website. The court upheld a
lower-court decision that tossed the 2010 jury verdict.  “The evidence was insufficient to support the jury’s
finding of infringement for all of the asserted claims,” the
appeals court wrote in today’s  decision .  Closely held Mirror Worlds, founded by Yale University
computer-science Professor David Gelernter, sued in 2008,
alleging Apple’s Mac computers infringed its patents. Apple
challenged the validity of the patents and whether they were
infringed.  The jury said Apple was infringing three patents and
awarded damages of $208.5 million for each, for a total of
$625.5 million. Apple argued in court papers that the amount was
too high and that it was improper to add the damages.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis in Tyler,  Texas ,
overturned the October 2010 verdict, saying Apple didn’t
infringe a patent and Mirror Worlds had failed to establish its
case. The court also said the damage award was too high, while
also upholding the validity of the three Mirror Worlds patents.  The trial focused on the  Spotlight , Time Machine and Cover
Flow features in Apple’s Mac operating systems. Cover Flow lets
users scroll through album cover art when browsing for music in
their iTunes libraries. The feature also works for documents,
pictures and other material stored in a computer. Spotlight
searches the computer’s hard drive while  Time Machine 
automatically saves copies of files.  The case is Mirror Worlds LLC v. Apple Inc., 11-1392,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The case
is Mirror Worlds LLC v. Apple Inc., 08cv88, U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net 
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  