-- Hartford to Sell Retirement Plans for $400 Million
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-04T21:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/hartford-to-sell-retirement-plans-for-400-million.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  agreed to sell a retirement-plans business for $400 million
after billionaire investor  John Paulson  pressured the insurer to
improve results.  The sale to Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. may be
completed by year-end, Hartford said today in a statement. The
deal, structured as a reinsurance transaction, will boost
capital by $600 million and won’t affect financial results under
generally accepted accounting principles, the Hartford,
Connecticut-based insurer said.  Hartford Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , 57, agreed
this year to sell a broker-dealer unit and individual-annuities
distribution business. Prudential Financial Inc. emerged last
month as lead bidder for Hartford’s individual life-insurance
business, people with knowledge of the matter said then.  Hartford “could use cash proceeds from the sale of its
life and retirement units to reduce debt, support ongoing
businesses and repurchase stock,”  Jay Gelb , an analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote in an Aug. 20 research note. “Ongoing core
units should deliver improved and stable returns.”  Paulson, whose hedge fund is Hartford’s largest investor,
had called on the seller of life insurance and property-casualty
coverage to “do something drastic” to boost the stock price,
which fell 39 percent in 2011. McGee responded with plans to
sell or shutter parts of the insurer.  Hartford’s Strategy  “We continue to make good progress executing on our
strategy,” McGee said in the statement. “With the Hartford’s
sharper focus on its historical strength in insurance
underwriting, along with efforts to improve expense
efficiencies, increase capital generation and reduce market
risks, we are on the right path to deliver greater  shareholder
value .”  Hartford advanced 2.2 percent to $18.09 at 4:30 p.m. in New
York. It had gained  8.9 percent  this year through the close of
regular trading.  The transaction will help policyholder-owned MassMutual
expand its retirement-plan business to smaller clients, CEO
Roger Crandall said in a telephone interview.  “The opportunity to get into that smaller and mid-sized
plan market is a real positive for us,” Crandall said. “There
are an awful lot of small companies and small plans out there.”  Hartford’s retirement-plan business had about $54.9 billion
in assets as of June 30. The combined businesses will manage
$120 billion, MassMutual said in a separate statement.  Greenhill & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Sidley Austin 
LLP advised Hartford. Barclays and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP advised MassMutual.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  