-- U.S. Stocks Trim Loss on Apple While Spain Bonds Advance
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-04T22:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/asian-stocks-fall-on-moody-s-soybeans-hit-record.html
U.S. stocks  trimmed losses  as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  rose and speculation grew that European leaders will take
new steps to tame the debt crisis. Spanish and Italian notes
jumped on bets the  European Central Bank  will buy the debt.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York , erasing most of a 0.7 percent drop as Apple rallied
on speculation it is preparing to introduce a new iPhone. Ten-
year Treasury yields increased three basis points to 1.57
percent, while gold topped $1,700 an ounce for the first time
since March. Spanish and Italian two-year note  yields  dropped at
least 26 basis points.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  slumped 3.2 percent after
regular trading as it said earnings will be short of forecasts.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank’s primary
mandate compels it to intervene in bond markets to wrest back
control of  interest rates  and ensure the euro’s survival. Draghi
“appears willing to write two- to three-year ‘checks’” to
debt-strapped euro-bloc nations in a reflationary move,  Bill
Gross , co-chief investment officer and founder of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in a  Twitter post .  The ECB’s plan “to stabilize  Europe  takes the big-event
risk off the table,”  Frank Ingarra , who helps manage $1.4
billion at Greenwich, Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset
Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Everyone is
kind of digesting and getting back to the game today.”  Manufacturing Data  U.S. markets were closed yesterday for the Labor Day
holiday.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  slid to its low of the session in morning
trading today after a report from the  Institute for Supply
Management  showed U.S. manufacturing contracted for a third
straight month in August, marking the longest slide since the
recession ended. Data released yesterday in  China  showed that
manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace since 2009.  The market rebounded as Apple extended gains, with the
world’s most-valuable company closing the session up 1.5 percent
at $674.97. The company sent out invitations to a Sept. 12
product event in  San Francisco , where it is expected to
introduce a redesigned iPhone.  FedEx lost 3.2 percent at 6:15 p.m. New York time, after
it said earnings for the quarter ended Aug. 31 will be short of
its forecast after a weak global economy damped revenue from
express shipments. FedEx, operator of the world’s largest cargo
airline, is considered an economic bellwether because it moves
goods ranging from financial documents to pharmaceuticals.  Gauges of commodity, industrial and consumer-discretionary
companies had the biggest declines among the 10 main groups in
the S&P 500 today, while telephone and consumer staples
companies rose the most.  Netflix, Valeant  Netflix Inc. slumped 6.4 percent after Amazon.com Inc.
reached a deal with pay-television channel Epix. Peabody Energy
Corp. lost 3.4 percent as Dahlman Rose & Co. cut its
recommendation on the company’s stock. Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. rallied 15 percent after agreeing to buy
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. for $2.6 billion. Medicis surged 38
percent.  The S&P 500 rallied with commodities and Treasuries on Aug.
31 as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he wouldn’t
rule out more stimulus to lower a jobless rate he described as a
“grave concern.” The gain wasn’t enough for the S&P 500 to
avoid a second straight  weekly decline  as concern over the
global economic recovery overshadowed the Fed.  The S&P 500 jumped 2 percent in August, a third straight
monthly gain, and is up 11 percent in 2012 as leaders in Europe
worked to tame the debt crisis and the Fed vowed to safeguard
the economic recovery.  Street Bullishness  Bank of America Corp.’s measure of Wall Street bullishness
for stocks remains near its lowest level since 1985, a sign
investors should buy equities, according toSavita Subramanian,
the firm’s head of equity and quantitative strategy. Strategists
recommended holding 44.4 percent of investments in stocks in
August, close to the bottom of 43.9 percent reached the prior
month, the Bank of America report said.  “Given the contrarian nature of this indicator, we are
encouraged by Wall Street’s lack of optimism,” New York-based
Subramanian wrote in the note today. “The indicator remains
firmly in ‘buy’ territory, a signal that it first flashed in
May.”  Jonathan Golub , chief U.S. equity strategist of UBS AG,
lowered his estimates for S&P 500 profits in 2012 and next year,
citing a weaker outlook for the world’s largest economy, slower
growth overseas, a strengthening dollar and difficult operating
environment for financial companies. His projection for combined
earnings by companies in the benchmark equity index this year is
now $102.50 a share, down from $103.50. He cut his estimate for
profit in 2013 to $107 a share from $110.  Earnings Watch  Profits are moving U.S. equity prices more than any time
since the  bull market  began 3 1/2 years ago, rewarding investors
for picking stocks based on company data instead of following
the herd rocked by Europe’s debt crisis and the slowing U.S.
economy.  Companies in the  S&P 500  rose or fell an average of 4.4
percent the day after releasing results since July, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time they moved more was in
the second quarter of 2009. Daily moves in the benchmark gauge
narrowed to 0.4 percent last month from 2.2 percent a year ago,
as economic and policy changes battered investors. More than 475
S&P 500 stocks moved in the same direction in six of the first
nine days of August 2011, with all 500 down on Aug. 8.  Treasury 10-year yields increased from the lowest level in
almost a month. U.S. total debt outstanding, which includes
securities held by the public and intragovernmental holdings,
rose past $16 trillion. The figure was $9 trillion in 2007.  Corporate Debt  Corporate issuers led by Deere & Co. and Honda Motor Co.
offered the most dollar-denominated debt today in almost six
months after yields on U.S. investment-grade bonds dropped to a
record low. Deere, the largest maker of agricultural equipment,
and Tokyo-based Honda led borrowers selling or planning to sell
at least $16.4 billion of bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.1 percent today as
automobile, technology and mining companies led the retreat.
Vodafone Group Plc fell 2.6 percent after Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. downgraded the world’s second-largest mobile-phone operator.
Royal Ahold NV rose 2.5 percent after saying it may sell its 60
percent stake in Scandinavian retailer ICA, possibly through an
initial public offering.  Ashtead Group Plc, a U.K. construction-equipment rental
company with most of its business in the U.S., surged 12 percent
to a record after saying full-year earnings will be “materially
better” than previously forecast.  Europe Meetings  Leaders met in  Rome  and Berlin today, two days before the
ECB holds its policy meeting. Mounting his strongest case yet
for ECB bond purchases, Draghi told lawmakers in a closed-door
session at the European Parliament in Brussels yesterday that
the bank has lost control of borrowing costs in the 17-nation
monetary union.  Bloomberg News  obtained a recording of his
comments, some of which were published by Italian news agency
AGI yesterday.  The ECB “is more likely to trigger action when they
meet,” said Matthew Sherwood, Sydney-based head of markets
research at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25
billion. “Whether it’s comprehensive enough to keep sentiment
strong and keep markets rallying is a different issue because in
the end there’s not much central banks can do to address the
global debt situation.”  Yield Curves  The rally in Spain’s two-year notes widened the  yield
spread  to 10-year debt to as much as 356 basis points, or 3.56
percentage points, the most since Bloomberg began collecting the
data in 1993. The  spread  between Italy’s two-year and 10-year
debt reached 338 basis points, also a record.  Volatility on Portuguese government debt was the highest in
the euro area today, followed by Spain and Italy, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps. Portugal’s 10-year yield
lost 28 basis points to 8.69 percent, more than twice the
average daily move over the past 90 days.  Nickel, sugar and cotton fell more than 2 percent to lead
losses in 13 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index,
which slipped 0.4 percent. Soybeans pared gains after climbing
as much as 1.9 percent to an all-time high of $17.89 a bushel.
Prices have risen 46 percent this year as the worst U.S. drought
in 56 years curbed output. Gold for December delivery settled up
0.5 percent at $1,696 an ounce amid speculation that a sluggish
global economy will force central bankers to add monetary
stimulus, increasing demand for the metal as an inflation hedge.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.6 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.8 percent as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut estimates for Chinese earnings and Societe
Generale SA lowered its growth forecast for the world’s second-
largest economy. India’s Sensex rose 0.3 percent.  China’s manufacturing contracted at the fastest pace since
March 2009, a private survey showed, indicating the slowdown in
the world’s second-largest economy is deepening.  The purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics had a final reading of 47.6
for August after a preliminary 47.8 provided Aug. 23. The gauge
was at 49.3 in July. The dividing line between expansion and
contraction is 50.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  