-- Asian Currencies Gain, Led by Ringgit, on Europe Debt Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-09-04T08:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/asian-currencies-gain-led-by-ringgit-on-europe-debt-optimism.html
Asian currencies rose, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, on speculation the  European Central Bank 
will announce details of its new bond-buying plan this week,
bolstering demand for riskier assets.  The ringgit and Thailand’s baht gained for a third day
after ECB President  Mario Draghi  told lawmakers in Brussels
yesterday that purchasing short-dated securities doesn’t
constitute state financing, according to Jean-Paul Gauzes, a
member of the European Parliament.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday Germany must show solidarity with Europe in tackling
the region’s debt crisis.  “The market continues to be supported by the overnight
positive development out of the euro zone,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at  Societe Generale  in  Hong
Kong . “We expect Asian currencies to stay a little stronger
versus the  U.S. dollar .”  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.1075 against the
greenback as of 4:50 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The baht rose 0.1 percent to 31.19, the
Philippine peso advanced 0.2 percent to 41.903 and Taiwan’s
dollar appreciated 0.1 percent to NT$29.902. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, touched 115.73, the highest
level since Aug. 9.  Stabilize Markets  Draghi may give more details on the ECB’s bond-buying plans
when he holds his first press conference on Sept. 6 following
the summer break.  Thailand’s baht climbed to its strongest level since May
after global funds bought $27 million more local shares than
they sold yesterday, snapping a seven-day run of net sales,
exchange data show.  “There is growing speculation the ECB will announce
details after its policy meeting on Sept. 6, a move that will
probably help stabilize financial markets,” said  Hideki Hayashi ,
a researcher at the Japan Center for Economic Research in Tokyo.
“That improves risk sentiment and is positive for Asian assets.
Regional currencies will remain solid this week.”  The baht touched 31.15 earlier, matching an Aug. 24 level
that was the strongest since May 11.  The Bank of Thailand may keep its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3 percent tomorrow, according to 18 of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three predicted a quarter of a
percentage point reduction. Inflation slowed to 2.69 percent in
August from 2.73 percent the previous month, official data
showed yesterday.  “The market is mainly moving on risk sentiment and
inflation and policy-rate outlooks have less impact at this
moment,” Japan Center for  Economic Research ’s Hayashi said.  Taiwan Inflation  The Taiwanese currency gained for a third day before
official data tomorrow that may show consumer prices rose 2.6
percent in August from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
2008, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Typhoon Tembin caused at least NT$72.9 million
($2.4 million) worth of agricultural damage on the island in
August as the storm affected farming facilities and crops.  “The market is hoping for the ECB bond-buying plan to
materialize,” said Ma Tieying, an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “Consumer prices should remain high
in the third quarter due to the typhoon season. But the central
bank might want to keep the currency stable to balance a
weakening economy.”  Elsewhere in Asia, China’s  yuan  fell 0.1 percent to 6.3473
per dollar, South Korea’s won slipped 0.2 percent to 1,133.19,
while Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.2 percent to 9,584. India’s
rupee declined 0.1 percent 55.5750  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 