-- OCBC Markets Dollar Notes as Bond Risk Falls on Draghi Comments
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-09-04T03:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/asia-pacific-ex-japan-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  is
marketing a sale of dollar-denominated notes that may price as
soon as today. Asian bond risk fell on signs the  European
Central Bank  may buy debt from countries in financial distress.  The Singaporean lender is offering the 10 1/2-year notes,
which will be eligible as Tier 2 capital and can be called after
5 1/2 years, to yield about 270 basis points more than five-year
U.S. Treasuries, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan fell 2 basis points to 152 as of 8:19 a.m. in Hong
Kong,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices show. The index is headed for
its lowest close since Aug. 29, according to data provider CMA.  Mario Draghi , the ECB’s president, said yesterday he would
be comfortable buying  government bonds  with maturities of up to
about three years to bring down borrowing costs. Dollar debt
issuance in the Asia-Pacific region fell 80 percent to $6.5
billion in August from July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Asian bond risk dropped 6 basis points last month, declining for
a third-straight period, according to CMA.  “The mild risk-on environment is conducive to Asian
bonds,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit
Agricole. It’s natural to see some pick-up in primary-market
activity following the regular lull in the summer, Cheung said.  JFM Bond  Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities, the
fundraising body known as JFM, is considering pricing five-year
dollar debt at about 80 basis points more than mid-swaps, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  is looking to sell a three-year
covered bond in dollars, another person said.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index was little changed at 209
basis points as of 9:18 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices
show. It has ranged between 168.5 basis points and 211.2 basis
points this quarter, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index dropped 5 basis points to
167.5 basis points as of 10:14 a.m. in Sydney, according to
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  It rose 2.8 basis points last month, the
CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  