-- Materials Stocks at Low Are Seen Too Expensive: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-09-05T00:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/materials-stocks-at-low-are-seen-too-expensive-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian raw-materials producers
from  Vale SA (VALE5)  to  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  are trading at the
lowest valuations since 1998 relative to the nation’s biggest
companies. They aren’t cheap enough for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  or
Citigroup Inc.  With domestic and Chinese demand slowing, Brazilian
suppliers of iron ore and other basic materials posted a 66
percent decline in second-quarter  profit  and analysts cut 12-
month earnings estimates to a two-year low, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley predicted in an Aug. 28
report that iron ore may extend a 32 percent retreat since
December amid rising stockpiles in  China , the biggest consumer
of the steelmaking ingredient.  “Valuations are attractive in the materials sectors but we
are not currently buying,” Jason Press, a New York-based
emerging market strategist at Citigroup, said in a phone
interview. “The earnings outlook is still uncertain.”  The  MSCI Brazil (MXBR)  Materials Index lost 20 percent this year
and was valued at 1.1 times net assets at the end of August, a
25 percent discount relative to the MSCI  Brazil  Index. That’s
the widest gap on a monthly basis since November 1998, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Estimates Drop  Profit  estimates  for companies in the materials index have
fallen 22 percent since December, compared with a 15 percent
drop for the MSCI Brazil gauge, according to forecasts tracked
by Bloomberg. The preferred and common shares of Vale, the
world’s biggest iron-ore producer, account for 68 percent of the
 MSCI Brazil Materials index. (MXBR0MT)   The gauge tumbled 2.9 percent to 1,081.11 in  Sao Paulo , the
lowest close since May 2009. It was the biggest drop among 10
industry groups. Vale’s preferred shares sank 2.9 percent as
iron ore dropped to the weakest level since 2009.  The raw-material’s retreat spurred BlackRock, the world’s
largest money manager, to reduce holdings of Vale in the past
few months, Will Landers, a  Latin America  fund manager at the
New York-based firm, said in a phone interview.  “Vale is suffering with iron ore prices falling in China,
and the market asking itself what is really the equilibrium
price for this commodity,” said Landers, who favors consumer-
related companies and banks in Brazil.  The price of iron ore for immediate delivery to the Chinese
port of Tianjin, a benchmark for  Asia , declined to $86.90 per
ton today, the lowest level since October 2009.  China Growth  The tumble in  iron-ore  prices below $120 a ton will be
“short-lived” and prices will rebound as loss-making producers
in China and other countries reduce output, Roberto Castello Branco, the investor relations director at Vale, told reporters
at an event in  Rio de Janeiro  on Aug. 27.  Growth in China, the biggest emerging economy, slowed to
7.6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
weakest pace since 2009. Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly
contracted in August for the first time in nine months as new
orders shrank and output rose at a slower pace, a Sept. 1 report
showed.  Brazil, the second-largest developing economy after China,
will grow 1.6 percent this year after a 2.7 percent  expansion  in
2011, according to a weekly central bank survey of economists
published yesterday. The projection is lower than the
Washington-based International Monetary Fund’s estimate for
growth in the U.S. and  Japan  this year.  Option Bets  CSN, a Sao Paulo-based steelmaker, tumbled 36 percent this
year while  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , based in  Belo
Horizonte , sank 20 percent as demand slowed for the material
used in cars and home appliances.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , Latin America’s largest steelmaker, rallied 23
percent as sales to  North America  jumped amid buoyant demand for
long steel, used in construction and infrastructure.  CSN dropped 5 percent today, while Usiminas lost 1.6
percent and Gerdau rose 0.6 percent.  The MSCI Brazil materials index snapped a six-day slide on
Aug. 31, rising 3.1 percent as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may increase bond purchases to
spur growth in the world’s largest economy.  Options traders in the U.S. are reducing bearish bets on
Vale’s American depositary receipts. Puts that profit should the
shares decline 10 percent cost 12 percent more than calls
betting on a 10 percent gain on Aug. 30, the smallest gap since
April 2011, according to data on three-month options compiled by
Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew was 13 percent
yesterday.  Bullish Analysts  Iron ore prices may rally to $120 a ton next year as
Chinese policy makers take steps to revive economic growth,
providing a boost to Vale shares, Marco Aurelio Barbosa, an
analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Coinvalores, and his
assistant Bruno Piagentini said in a phone interview.  “The Chinese economy has space to announce stimulus
measures and when they do so, the metal commodities tend to
answer positively,” said Barbosa, who has a buy rating on Vale.  Sixteen of 19  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg have the
equivalent of a buy rating on Vale’s preferred shares.  Vale, which reported a 59 percent drop in second-quarter
net income, gets about a third of its revenue from China. Itau
BBA SA cut its 2012 forecast for Vale’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 13 percent and
reduced its 2013 estimate by 12 percent in an Aug. 28 note.  The Rio-based company was valued at 5.1 times estimated 12-
month  earnings  yesterday, down from 7.1 times two years ago,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It traded for 1.1 times net
assets, or book value, the lowest level in two years, the data
show. The price-to-book multiple for CSN, the steelmaker that
had its first loss in a decade in the second quarter, tumbled to
2 from about 6 two years ago.  John-Paul Smith, a London-based  emerging markets  strategist
at Deutsche Bank AG, predicts China’s economic slowdown is
likely to deepen. Weaker growth will boost raw-materials
inventories and drive metal prices lower, weighing on Brazil’s
stock market, Smith wrote in an Aug. 30 report.  “Investors are particularly aware that iron ore has
reached $100, which has caused skittishness in the short-term
for materials in general and Vale in particular,” Citigroup’s
Press said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  