-- Wallabies Pick Shipperley, Beale; Hernandez Returns for Pumas
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-04T07:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/australia-names-team-to-face-springboks-in-rugby-championship.html
Australia rugby selectors picked
winger Dom Shipperley to make his Test debut against South
Africa this weekend as the Wallabies seek to rebound from back-
to-back losses against top-ranked New Zealand.  Shipperley, 21, replaces the injured Drew Mitchell in one
of three back-line changes to the team that started the 22-0
loss to the All Blacks on Aug. 25. Kurtley Beale was recalled at
full-back, with Adam Ashley-Cooper reverting to outside center
in place of  Rob Horne , who was omitted from the 22-man squad.  In the forwards, Radike Samo comes in at No. 8 for Scott
Higganbotham, who drops down to the reserves bench. Samo, 36,
was picked for his first start of the year as Australia seeks a
record fifth straight victory over South Africa in four days at
Perth’s Subiaco Oval.  Australia, which won its first southern hemisphere title in
a decade last year, is bottom of the Rugby Championship
standings with no points heading into the third of six rounds.
The Springboks have six points, two behind leader New Zealand,
which hosts tournament newcomer Argentina on Sept. 8.  The Pumas today named first-choice fly-half Juan Martin
Hernandez in their starting lineup for the match in Wellington
after the playmaker missed the 16-16 draw against South Africa
in Mendoza. Flanker Juan Manuel Leguizamon returns at openside
flanker in the only other change.  Argentina is being assisted in its preparations by former
All Blacks coach  Graham Henry , who is helping with the
development of Argentine rugby.  New Zealand is scheduled to name its team in two days.  AUSTRALIA: Kurtley Beale, Dom Shipperley, Adam Ashley-
Cooper, Berrick Barnes, Digby Ioane, Quade Cooper, Will Genia
(captain), Radike Samo, Michael Hooper,  Dave Dennis , Nathan
Sharpe, Sitaleki Timani, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore,  Benn
Robinson .  Reserves: Tatafu Polota-Nau, James Slipper,  Scott
Higginbotham , Liam Gill,  Nick Phipps ,  Mike Harris , Anthony
Fainga’a.  ARGENTINA: Martin Rodriguez, Gonzalo Camacho, Marcelo
Bosch, Santiago Fernandez, Horacio Agulla, Juan Martin
Hernandez, Nicolas Vergallo; Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe
(captain), Juan Manuel Leguizamon, Julio Farias Cabello,
Patricio Albacete, Manuel Carizza, Juan Figallo, Eusebio
Guinazu, Rodrigo Roncero.  Reserves: To be named Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  