-- Australia’s Current-Account Deficit Narrowed in Second Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-04T01:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/australia-s-current-account-deficit-narrowed-in-second-quarter.html
Australia ’s current-account  deficit 
narrowed more than economists forecast in the three months
through June as stronger shipments of metal ores and other
minerals outpaced a decline in coal exports.  The shortfall on goods, services and investment was A$11.8
billion ($12.1 billion) from a revised A$13 billion in the first
quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists was
for a A$12.2 billion gap. Net exports added 0.3 percentage
points to gross domestic product growth in the second quarter,
the bureau said today.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  probably
will leave the benchmark interest rate at 3.5 percent today,
according to all 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A high
currency has hurt earnings for manufacturers and retailers,
helping create what the RBA has referred to as a multispeed
economy with those industries lagging behind the performance of
companies linked to the nation’s mining investment boom.  “Export prices edged higher as the Australian dollar
depreciated and volumes more than reversed a first-quarter
fall,”  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  economists led by  Bill Evans  wrote
in a research report before the release. “The import bill rose
by around 3 percent, with prices up by about 2 percent.”  The  net-income deficit  narrowed to A$10.2 billion in the
second quarter from A$10.7 billion in the previous three months,
today’s report showed. The goods and services trade balance
recorded a A$1.38 billion deficit in the second quarter compared
with a A$2.01 billion shortfall in the prior quarter.  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment flows as well as goods and
services shipments. A deficit represents money Australia has to
borrow overseas to pay for the goods and services it imports and
to finance investment not covered by local savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  