-- Lawyer Files Five-Page Cartoon Brief in Apple E-Book Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-04T20:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/lawyer-files-five-page-cartoon-brief-in-apple-e-book-case.html
Bob Kohn, an expert in music
licensing law and chairman of RoyaltyShare Inc., filed a five-
page brief in panel-cartoon format, urging a judge to reject a
settlement in a price-fixing case over e-books.  Kohn, a nonparty to the lawsuit who said he’s a consumer of
e-books, asked U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  New York  last
month for permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief
opposing the  Justice Department ’s suit against Apple Inc. and
its April settlement with three publishers.  Kohn today filed the cartoon, or “graphic novelette,”
version of what he’d proposed as a more conventional 25-page,
prose-only, brief after Cote limited him to just five pages, he
said in an interview.  “The high court said that collusive conduct is OK under
rule of reason where there is a countervailing pro-competitive
virtue,” Kohn explains to his daughter, a Harvard University
graduate student, in one of the panels.  The panels, which include citations to court papers and
legal rulings, are preceded by a page of authorities for Kohn’s
arguments.  Kohn said he believes the brief complies with local court
rules, which require text of 12-point or larger and one-inch
margins on all sides.  “I’m hopeful I can have an impact on the court’s thinking
in a positive way,” said Kohn, a lawyer who has written on
music licensing.  RoyaltyShare, based in  San Diego , provides Web-based
royalty processing and content management services to the
entertainment industry.  The Justice Department sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five publishers
in April, claiming they colluded to set prices for electronic
books. Three of the publishers settled the case. Cote must
approve the settlement for it to take effect.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 