-- Ax Killer’s Pardon Reignites War Fears in Oil-Rich Caucasus
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-05T17:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ax-killer-pardon-reignites-caucasus-war-fears-in-oil-rich-region.html
Azerbaijan ’s pardon of a convicted
murderer who killed an Armenian army officer with an ax risks
reigniting a 20-year-old war between the two foes in the energy-
rich South Caucasus.  Ramil Safarov, who was serving a life sentence for slaying
Gurgen Margaryan in Budapest in 2004, was pardoned by Azeri
President  Ilham Aliyev  and promoted after  Hungary  transferred
him home Aug. 31.  Armenia ’s parliament will hold an emergency
session today, while  Europe , the U.S. and  Russia  have expressed
“deep concern” about regional stability.  Energy-exporter Azerbaijan fought Armenia over the Nagorno-
Karabakh enclave after the 1991 Soviet breakup, leaving tens of
thousands dead and more than 1 million displaced. While border
skirmishes since a 1994 cease fire haven’t triggered renewed
conflict, Safarov being honored threatens the status quo. The
territory remains a potential flash point in a region that
borders  Iran  and  Turkey  and endured a 2008 Russia-Georgia war.  Safarov’s pardon “is a serious blow to confidence building
and trust between Azerbaijan and Armenia,” Sabine Freizer,
director of the  International Crisis Group ’s Europe Program in
Istanbul, said yesterday by e-mail. “Both in Baku and in
Yerevan, there’s a growing public impression that the time to
return to war to defeat the enemy permanently has come.”  Dram, Manat  The Armenian dram strengthened less than 0.1 percent
against the dollar today to 410.5500 after falling yesterday to
the weakest level since Aug. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Azeri manat was unchanged at 0.7845 per dollar.  Armenia has severed diplomatic ties with Hungary and
lawmakers said today in a statement that Azerbaijan’s
“cynical” actions in rewarding the perpetrator of a
“xenophobic” crime undermine regional security.  President Serzh Sargsyan expressed anger at the decision to
pardon Safarov.  “The Armenians must not be underestimated -- we don’t want
a war, but if we have to, we will fight and win,” he said Sept.
2 in comments published on his  website  for Nagorno-Karabakh’s
Independence Day. “We are not afraid of murderers, even of
those who enjoy the highest patronage. And again our words fall
on deaf ears. Well, they have been warned.”  Armenian terrorist organization ASALA, which has previously
claimed responsibility for killing Turkish diplomats, sent a
threatening letter to Azerbaijan’s embassy in Budapest, Azartac,
the Azeri state-run news service, reported yesterday. Security
at embassies has been stepped up, the Foreign Ministry said.  Security Services  Sargsyan has instructed his security services to kill
Safarov, Azerbaijan’s  Defense Ministry  said. Tigran Balayan, a
spokesman for the Armenia’s Foreign Ministry, and presidential
spokesman Arman Arzumanyan declined to comment today.  Peace in the region “depends entirely on Armenia,” Elnur
Aslanov, head of the political analysis and information-
provision department at the Azeri president’s office, said
yesterday by e-mail. He called Sargsyan’s comments provocative.  “It’s a bit odd to hear such bloodthirsty threats and
calls for intolerance from a head of state in the 21st
century,” Aslanov wrote.  Safarov, who was a lieutenant when he committed the murder,
received a hero’s welcome in the Azeri capital of Baku last week
and was promoted to the rank of major. He was also given eight
years’ of back pay and an apartment, the APA news service
reported, citing the Defense Ministry.  NATO Training  Safarov, 35, had been attending language classes with
Margaryan in Budapest in February 2004 as part of training
conducted by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  The U.S.,  France  and Russia, which are leading efforts to
resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute, Sept. 3 urged Azerbaijan
and Armenia to persist with negotiations.  “We are communicating to the Azerbaijani authorities our
disappointment about the decision to pardon Safarov,” the White
House said Aug. 31 in a  statement . “This action is contrary to
ongoing efforts to reduce regional tensions and promote
reconciliation.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and his French and Russian
counterparts  called in June on the two former Soviet republics  
to accelerate a road map for resolving the status of Nagorno-
Karabakh, respect the 1994 cease-fire agreement and abstain from
hostile rhetoric.  Peace Talks  Talks brokered by Russia last year between Sargsyan and
Aliyev failed to yield an accord on the so-called Basic
Principles to allow a peace agreement to be reached.
Azerbaijan’s and Hungary’s actions undermine international
efforts to reduce tensions in the region, Russia’s Foreign
Ministry said Sept. 3.  The European Union said the same day that it was in contact
with both sides in a bid to head off any potential hostilities.  “We are particularly concerned about the possible impact
that these developments might have on the wider region,” Maja
Kocijancic, spokeswoman for European Union foreign-affairs chief
 Catherine Ashton , told reporters in Brussels. “We call on
Azerbaijan and Armenia to exercise restraint on the ground and
in public statements in order to prevent any kind of escalation
of this situation.”  Companies led by London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  have invested more
than $35 billion in Azerbaijan’s oil and natural-gas fields.
Azerbaijan can pump as many as 1.2 million barrels of oil a day
to Turkey through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which is
part-funded by the West to allow supplies to bypass Russia.  Military Spending  The country may also be a source of natural gas for
Azerbaijan’s EU-backed Trans-Anatolia pipeline across Turkey.  Azerbaijan, whose economy grew 0.1 percent last year, used
surging  oil prices  to double military spending to more than $2
billion in 2010, emboldening Aliyev to threaten the use of
military force to regain Nagorno-Karabakh. Regular border
clashes continue to break out.  Military spending will reach $3.6 billion this year, about
60 percent more than Armenia’s state budget, Aliyev told a
Cabinet meeting in June. Azerbaijan’s army numbers 56,840,
according to The Military Balance 2012, published by the
International Institute for Strategic Studies in  London .  Armenia’s economy is set to expand 3.8 percent this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Growth is helped
by large amounts of investment from Iran, which has benefited as
Armenia’s ties with Azerbaijan and Turkey have soured, Vadim
Mukhanov, an analyst at the Moscow State Institute of
International Relations, said today by phone.  Russian Support  Armenia’s army totals 45,846, more than half of which are
conscripts, while Russia’s air force provides national air
defense, according to The Military Balance.  The fallout over Safarov’s release probably won’t spark a
new armed conflict, according to  Alexei Malashenko , a Middle
East analyst at the Carnegie Center in Moscow.  “There have been more border skirmishes between the two
countries this year, but this is far from a war,” he said
yesterday by phone. The situation simply shows that the two
countries “aren’t prioritizing reconciliation.”  June was the deadliest month “in a long time” for border
clashes, with at least 10 people confirmed killed, the ICG’s
Freizer said. An Azeri soldier died and another was wounded in
clashes along the cease-fire line last week, according to
Azerbaijan’s Defense Ministry. Armenia denies Azeri claims that
two of its soldiers were also killed.  The “glorification” of Margaryan’s murder by Azerbaijan
closes any avenues for normalizing relations with Armenia and
should concern the West and Russia, according to IHS Global
Insight analyst Lilit Gevorgyan.  This “certainly increases the security risk for the
region,” Gevorgyan said by e-mail. “A new war is the last
thing that the EU, U.S. and Russia need right now in that region
with the escalation of relations with Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  