-- Bank of America’s Lee Sees One More Rate-Cut in Korea This Year
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-04T05:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/bank-of-america-s-lee-sees-one-more-rate-cut-in-korea-this-year.html
Lee Jaewoo, chief Korea economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Seoul who previously worked for
the  International Monetary Fund , comments on  South Korea ’s
economic outlook. He spoke in an interview at the Grand Hyatt
hotel yesterday.  On  interest rates :  “Certainly, by October there will be a rate cut. There’s
now a consensus that growth this year will be below 3 percent.
If the central bank cuts this month, it won’t be a surprise.
Subsequent rate cuts aren’t likely after this one. Although the
economy is weakening, we’re not looking at a major collapse
comparable to that of 2008, and no one is talking about
contraction.”  The next central bank meeting is scheduled for Sept. 13.  “ Monetary policy  takes a long time to show effect, so a
cut now seems to make sense, but not much more than that because
the second half of next year will probably be a situation where
a rate increase needs to be considered on inflation and economic
growth regaining momentum.”  On Korea’s export outlook:  “I’m not worried that we will see a bottomless decline in
exports. We are at about bottom now, whether it’s in nominal or
real terms.  “The fact that the  trade surplus  is high gives us some
comfort. As the Korean won is still a VIX sensitive currency, if
the trade surplus was negative, then we would have a full-body
blow to the  exchange rate , raising the sense of a semi-crisis. A
strong trade surplus gives a solid cushion to the foreign-
exchange market.”  On Korea’s fiscal policy:  “I’m expecting, with half hope, that the budget next year
will be a little more expansionary than was originally intended.
The government was emphasizing a return to fiscal balance. Not
that they should give up the plan, but postponing it by another
year or two” would be good, he said.  “To actually do a formal supplementary budget for this
year would probably be too late. If all parts of the government
can come out with a bit of solid commitment on providing support
to economic growth, that in itself can be a positive move in
terms of boosting confidence. A clear commitment, even if it may
be a level of stating principles, can be very helpful in
limiting declining confidence.”  On the South  Korean won :  “I doubt the current level is too strong for exports. In
terms of competitiveness for export sectors, macroeconomic
analysis shows the won at 1,000 per dollar is still a reasonable
number. The feeling I get by talking to corporations is that an
exchange rate of 1,050 still provides a fairly comfortable level.
There has been genuine improvement in Korean exporters’
competitiveness.  “I don’t think we’ll see rapid appreciation in the won for
quite some time with the Europe situation the way it is, shaky
China growth, and U.S. unemployment above 8 percent. We’re in a
bit of a fortuitous position of seeing the won not too far from
where it is, providing a comfortable cushion for exporters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net 
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  