-- Banker Plan Would Fund Super-PACs to Sway Senate Races
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-05T14:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/banker-plan-would-fund-super-pacs-to-sway-u-s-senate-elections.html
A banking trade group is preparing
to set up a political fund that would allow members to funnel
money anonymously to pro-industry candidates in the final months
of the U.S. election campaign.  The  American Bankers Association  board is set to vote
tomorrow on a plan to create a nonprofit that would donate to
super-political action committees, or super-PACs, that can spend
unlimited amounts on TV ads and other campaign activities.  ABA officials, during a conference call yesterday to brief
member firms, said they intend to raise several million dollars
in the next few weeks and concentrate their contributions on six
to 12 fiercely contested U.S. Senate races. Attempts in the
Republican-controlled House to roll back regulation of the
financial industry, particularly the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, have
so far run aground in the Democratic-controlled Senate.  The ABA’s effort comes only two months before elections for
president and Congress.  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for  Public
Citizen , which tracks the influence of money on politics, said
donations from the nonprofit could affect some races.  “They still have plenty of time to roll out a giant
campaign,” he said. “They can set this up overnight and tap
into any number of sources in the financial services industry.”  A series of court decisions and regulatory changes in 2010
unraveled previous federal limits on political donations. The
donors pool their money in nonprofits, which keep contributor
names secret, and super-PACs, which have amassed $350 million
through the end of July.  Private Donations  The ABA’s proposed fund would be a nonprofit, or 501(c)(4),
which would allow the organization to disburse money into key
Senate races and fund advocacy efforts.  The financial industry has so far kept a low profile in the
2012 campaign, in part because banks remain targets for both
political parties for their role in the 2008 financial crisis.
While Wall Street banks and their employees have given millions
to presidential and congressional campaigns, some of the largest
banks have stayed away from overt political activities like
funding the parties’ conventions.  The ABA is led by former Oklahoma Governor  Frank Keating , a
Republican. The Washington-based trade group represents about
5,000 banks of all sizes, from community lenders to large Wall
Street firms like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The association also
donates candidates through a more stringently regulated
political action committee that has given more than $2.8 million
this election cycle to candidates from both parties.  Nonprofit Fund  ABA Chief Operating Officer Michael Hunter confirmed the
plans and said that, if approved, the nonprofit’s activities
will be decided by its board. Not all ABA members are expected
to take part.  “It’s not like we’re going to be opening the cash spigots
and influencing races across the country,” Hunter said in an
interview. Other trade groups fund similar advocacy-focused
nonprofits, he said.  On the conference call, Dawn Causey, the ABA’s general
counsel, said she couldn’t promise that the  Internal Revenue
Service  or another agency wouldn’t craft rules that would
require nonprofit funds to reveal their donors.  “Today, we’re OK; tomorrow, I don’t know,” she said.
“There is a risk.”  The ABA’s effort is not the first by members of the banking
industry to take advantage of the reduced campaign finance
restrictions.  Traditional Banking  A group of bank executives representing mid-size and
smaller banks organized a super-PAC in March to support “those
members of Congress, Democrat or Republican, who show a
consistent understanding of the vital importance of traditional
banking in our communities and our local economies,” according
to the website of the Friends of Traditional Banking.  “We will endeavor to replace those members of Congress who
do not,” said the group, whose advisory council has
representatives from 12 state bankers associations, including
 Texas ,  New Jersey  and  Utah .  ABA officials on the briefing call, led by James Ballentine, executive vice president of congressional relations
and political affairs, didn’t specify which Senate races they
would seek to influence.  Democrats, who control the chamber by a narrow margin, are
on the defensive in the 2012 races, trying to hold on to 23
seats while Republicans are only defending 10.  ‘Pure Toss-ups’  The Rothenberg Political Report, a non-partisan publication
that follows elections, on Sept. 3 listed five Senate races as
“pure toss-ups,” three of which are held by Democrats. A sixth
Senate seat, held by retiring Nebraska Democrat  Ben Nelson , is
listed as “Republican favored” and another, held by retiring
Wisconsin Democrat  Herb Kohl , is rated as a toss-up that “tilts
Republican.”  Included in the list of “pure toss-ups” is the race in
 Massachusetts  where Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican, is facing
off against  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University law
professor whose brainchild, the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, drew fierce opposition from the banking industry.  “The real battle when it comes to Congress is the
Senate,” said Holman, who noted that the ABA would likely
target senators that have stood in the way of changes to the
Dodd-Frank financial-regulation law.  Ballentine said the requested donation varies depending on
bank size. Large firms, with $11 billion or more in assets, are
being asked for a minimum of $10,000. Medium-sized banks were
asked to give at least $5,000 and the smallest $1,000.  Foreign banks could only make donations via one of their
U.S.-based subsidiaries, staff said on the call.  War Chest  Hunter said that if all the trade group’s members
contributed at the minimum level, the fund would have a war
chest of about $6 million. A more likely scenario, he said, was
that 40 percent or 50 percent would give money. Some members
also expressed a willingness to give more than the minimum, he
said on the call.  In accord with federal rules, ABA staff members said that
the fund would spend 51 percent of its money on “public-issue
advocacy,” such as research, policy papers and media campaigns.
The other 49 percent would be used for so-called independent
expenditures that aren’t coordinated with campaigns and can be
used to promote candidates, often through advertising. In
practice, they said, much of that money would be donated super-
PACs that share the ABA’s electoral goals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  