-- Banks Beat Industrials for First Time Since ’05: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-04T15:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/banks-beat-industrials-for-first-time-since-05-credit-markets.html
Bonds of financial institutions are
returning more than those of industrial firms for the first year
since 2005 as banks cut debt amid regulatory scrutiny while
companies leverage up to tap record-low borrowing costs.  Bank bonds globally have returned 9.9 percent in 2012
compared with 6.9 percent for industrial companies, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. Yields on  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
notes have dropped 1.85 percentage points, compared with a 1.67
percentage point decline for all financial debt, as the lender
bailed out by the U.S. in 2008 reduced its long-term debt by
about $11.9 billion this year by buying back bonds.  Investors are gaining confidence that banks will be able to
repay their obligations amid a simmering fiscal crisis in  Europe 
as the volume of their outstanding debt in a benchmark index
shrinks 3.4 percent over the past four years, compared with a 58
percent increase in industrial bonds. The extra yield investors
demand to own financial-company notes instead of industrials is
about the least in a year.  “A significant portion of the rally in credit has been a
quiet European front,” with the lack of negative news
increasing risk appetite, said Scott Kimball, a money manager at
Taplin Canida & Habacht LLC, a BMO Financial Group unit that
oversees $7.2 billion. While new regulations spurring banks to
pare  holdings  of riskier assets may weigh on earnings, “it will
be a positive for credit investors,” he said.  Funneling Cash  Investors are funneling cash into the notes even after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded banks on June 21 to an
average four levels lower than at the height of the financial
crisis. Yields on the debt have dropped to an average 3.16
percent from as high as 9.1 percent in March 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index show.  “I do expect U.S. banks/financials to outperform” due to
low net issuance, improving fundamentals and decent relative
valuations compared with industrials,  Mark Kiesel , global head
of corporate bond portfolios at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the world’s
largest mutual fund, said in an e-mail.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Electricite de France SA,
Europe’s biggest power generator, and Enel SpA led at least 8.3
billion euros ($10.5 billion) of debt sales in the region’s
busiest day for issuance since February.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
the biggest maker of power-generation equipment with $32 billion
of bonds  maturing  in the rest of 2012, plans to sell three- and
10-year notes in the U.S.  Swap Spread  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
strain in credit markets, narrowed 0.38 basis point to 16.87
basis points as of 11:32 a.m. in  New York . The measure, which
shrinks when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and
expands when they seek the perceived safety of  government
securities , is at the lowest level since April 2011.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, was little
changed at 101.6 basis points, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has dropped from a six-month high of 127.5
basis points on June 4.  In  London , the Markit iTraxx Europe index, tied to 125
investment-grade companies, fell for the third day, declining 2
to 143.1.  GE Bonds  Credit swaps typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 48 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:31 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  GE intends to issue new 10-year securities and additional
1.625 percent debentures due in July 2015 through its GE Capital
unit for general corporate purposes, according to a person
familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set. The deal will be of benchmark size,
typically at least $500 million, the person said.  European Sales  EDF’s 2 billion-euro sale of bonds due March 2023 is the
first time it tapped  capital markets  since March and the Paris-
based company’s biggest deal since January when it raised 2
billion euros from 10-year notes, data compiled by Bloomberg
 show . Italy’s Enel is selling 1 billion euros of bonds due March
2020, the company’s first sale in seven months.  Issuers today include luxury German carmaker Daimler with a
750 million-euro 10-year deal, Ireland’s Electricity Supply
Board, which is raising 600 million euros for five years and
Sweden’s SKF AB with a 500 million-euro seven-year deal.  Money managers have been emboldened to increase bets on a
shrinking supply of financial debt this year after largely
holding a smaller percentage than is contained in benchmark
indexes in 2009 and 2010, said Kimball of Taplin Canida &
Habacht.  After the 2008 credit seizure that triggered more than $2
trillion of losses and writedowns by the world’s financial
institutions, investors for the first time began demanding more
to own the bonds of those firms instead of industrial companies.  Gap Widens  Financial-bond yield spreads over government debt soared to
as much as 282 basis points more than the same measure for
corporates in March 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Before 2007, investors had always accepted less
relative yield to hold financial debt instead of industrials.  The gap, which was 116 basis points a year ago, narrowed to
75 basis points on Aug. 21, the lowest since July 2011, the
index data show.  The 3 percentage-point advantage in bank-bond returns this
year compares with a 1.5 percentage-point outperformance in
2005, the last time they gained more. From 2006 through 2011,
industrial bonds returned 45 percent, while financial debt
gained 21 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Financial bonds returned 0.9 percentage point more than
industrial notes in August, the biggest monthly outperformance
since March.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest lender, helped lead the bond rally
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed to do
“whatever it takes” to preserve the euro. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  has signaled a softening in her stance toward
Draghi’s rescue plan for Italy and Spain.  UniCredit Returns  UniCredit’s bonds returned an average 3 percent in August,
while Santander debentures gained 2.8 percent. That compares
with a 1.1 percent gain for Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Financial Index.  “We have seen in the last month a rally driven mainly by
Europe,” said Dorian Garay, a money manager for a global
investment-grade debt fund at ING Investment Management, which
oversaw 322 billion euros ($402.7 billion) as of year-end. “A
limited amount of supply has kept cash spreads at very tight
levels.”  While banks have amassed greater reserves to buffer against
risk, they remain vulnerable to macroeconomic pressures and
still hold non-performing assets left over from the credit
crisis, Moody’s said in a report today.  Cutting Debt  Banks are reducing debt as the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker
Rule in the U.S. seeks to limit risk-taking at the biggest
financial institutions and after the 27-country  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  raised minimum  capital requirements  in
2010.  The face value of debt issued by financial companies in the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch global index dropped to $2.85
trillion through Aug. 31 from $2.95 trillion at the end of
August 2008. That compares with an increase in the firm’s Global
Broad Market Industrial Index to $3.4 trillion from $2.15
trillion during the same period.  Banks are buying back bonds and selling assets while a
measure of leverage for U.S. non-financial issuers climbed to
pre-crisis levels, largely by borrowing more, according to an
Aug. 28 report by Bank of America strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen in New York. Companies with investment-grade ratings
had debt of 1.78 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the second quarter, up from
1.62 at the end of 2011, the analysts wrote in the report.  Citigroup Offer  Citigroup last week increased an offer to repurchase debt
from seven series of notes to $1.65 billion from $675 million,
according to an Aug. 29 statement from the New York-based
lender.  “These offers reflect Citigroup’s continued robust
liquidity position and are consistent with its recent liability
management initiatives,” the bank said.  While Pimco’s Kiesel predicted bank bonds would continue to
perform well, he said he prefers debt from pipeline and energy
companies and borrowers poised to benefit from a recovering
housing market.  Home prices  in 20 cities climbed in June for the first time
since 2010, with the S&P/Case-Shiller index increasing 0.5
percent from a year earlier, according to an Aug. 28 report.  The  U.S. economy  expanded more than previously estimated in
the second quarter. U.S. gross domestic product increased at a
1.7 percent annual rate from April through June, up from an
initial estimate of 1.5 percent, revised Commerce Department
figures showed Aug. 29 in  Washington .  The ECB is deliberating over which bonds it will buy as
members seek to strengthen financial institutions in the region
and lower sovereign borrowing costs. Draghi said on Aug. 2 that
the central bank may wade forcefully into bond markets in tandem
with Europe’s rescue fund, stepping up its crisis response
despite the reservations of  Germany ’s Bundesbank.  “People find a lot of comfort in the idea of European
central banks doing debt repurchases,” Kimball said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  