-- Barnes & Noble’s Riggio’s Investor Suit Settlement OK’d
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-09-04T20:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/barnes-noble-s-riggio-s-investor-suit-settlement-ok-d.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  founder  Leonard Riggio ’s $29 million settlement of investors’ claims that he
wrongfully pushed the biggest U.S. bookstore chain to acquire
his college-textbook firm won a judge’s approval.  The agreement by Riggio, who is also New York-based Barnes
& Noble’s chairman, to give up payments due him as part of the
$596 million buyout of the textbook seller was a reasonable
resolution of claims the he reaped excessive benefits from the
2009 acquisition, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine
concluded.  “The only reason this got done was the plaintiffs’ time
and effort,” Strine said today at hearing in Wilmington.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed this year to invest $300 million in
a new Barnes & Noble unit set up to combine its  Nook  digital
reader with the college-textbook business. Microsoft will own
about 18 percent of the unit, company officials said.  Barnes & Noble, the second-biggest U.S. seller of
electronic books, fell last month after officials said sales of
the Nook dropped for a second straight quarter.  The settlement, which will be paid personally by Riggio and
won’t be covered by insurance covering Barnes & Noble officers
and directors, came less than a week before Strine was slated to
hear investors’ claims over the buyout in June.  Promissory Note  Under the terms of the settlement, Riggio will forgo
$22.75 million in payments he was to receive under a
$150 million promissory note Barnes & Noble issued as part of
the purchase of  Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc.   Riggio also will cut $6.3 million in interest payments due
on the note, which matures in 2014, according to court filings
outlining the settlement.  Shareholders’ lawyers argued that the board allowed Riggio
to dictate terms and timing of the buyout and didn’t force him
to seek other offers for the company to justify the price.  Both sides were gearing up for trial in June when they were
able to reach the $29 million settlement, Pam Tikellis, a
Wilmington-based lawyer for Barnes & Noble shareholders, told
Strine today.  “This was a hard-fought case where nothing was easy,”
Tikellis said. The lawyer and her colleagues asked Strine in
court filings to award them more than $11 million in fees and
costs for their work in the Barnes & Noble suit.  $7 Million  The judge cut the total award to $7 million for fees and
costs after Barnes & Noble officials objected to the $11 million
request, saying the final figure provided “reasonable reward”
for the plaintiffs’ efforts.  Because the investors filed their suits as so-called
derivative actions, the settlement -- minus legal fees and costs
-- will be returned to the company’s coffers rather than to
individual shareholders.  Mary Ellen Keating , a Barnes & Noble spokeswoman, declined
in an e-mailed statement today to comment on Strine’s approval
of the settlement.  Barnes & Noble sells the second-most e-books in the U.S.
after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  It was the target of a takeover bid by
billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  last year. Liberty
invested $204 million in the company after dropping its bid.  Barnes & Noble also fended off a bid by billionaire
investor  Ron Burkle  to invalidate its anti-takeover defenses and
clear the way for a proxy fight over board seats in 2010. Strine
concluded the chain’s so-called poison-pill defense didn’t
unfairly hamper Burkle’s effort to have his designees elected as
directors.  The case is In re Barnes & Noble Stockholder Derivative
Litigation, 4813, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  