-- Bernanke, Goldman Agree: 8% Jobless Rate Isn’t Permanent
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/bernanke-channeling-hatzius-dismissing-gross-new-normal.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is betting the new U.S. economy is the same as the old
one as he lays out arguments for more stimulus to revive it.  He made that diagnosis last week in a rebuttal to those who
blame an 8.3 percent  unemployment rate  on structural shifts in
the economy wrought by the financial crisis and who contend
joblessness is permanently elevated.  “I see little evidence of substantial structural change in
recent years,” Bernanke told fellow central bankers and
economists at the annual monetary-policy symposium in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. “Following every previous U.S. recession since
World War II, the  unemployment rate  has returned close to its
pre-recession level.”  The message for investors is Bernanke believes what he
calls the “grave concern” of 12.8 million Americans out of
work can be tackled by a stronger economic recovery, driven by
monetary support if necessary. The view that the country’s woes
are cyclical was a keen subject of debate in the shadow of the
Teton mountains, dividing Bernanke’s fellow central bankers,
Wall Street economists and academics.  Backing Bernanke are  Princeton University ’s  Alan Blinder ,
Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Stanford
University ’s Edward Lazear. On the other side are Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker , Northwestern University’s  Robert Gordon  and Mohamed El-Erian and  Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment
Management Co., who popularized the term “new normal” to
describe how growth patterns changed after the worst recession
since the Great Depression.  Tight Credit  Bernanke and his supporters argue that the sluggish
recovery and lingering unemployment are more the result of
temporary headwinds, such as tight credit conditions and
housing-market weakness, and can be cured with monetary aid. His
critics blame structural changes, such as a mismatch between  job
openings  and skills. They say further easing will help little
and may even do harm by fanning inflation.  “In an environment where the actual unemployment rate is
not coming down, at least not quickly, I think there’s still
room for monetary policy to do more,” said Goldman Sachs Chief
Economist Hatzius, whose estimate of the so-called natural rate
of unemployment that triggers inflation is just below the 6
percent calculation of Fed researchers. “My view of this is
pretty similar to the Fed’s.”  At Pimco, co-Chief Investment Officers El-Erian and Gross
estimate the natural rate is closer to 7 percent.  “Our analysis strikes a different balance between cyclical
and structural factors,” Newport Beach, California-based El-
Erian said in an e-mail after Bernanke’s Aug. 31 speech. “It
places greater emphasis on structural headwinds, including
segments of the labor, housing and credit markets.”  Asset Purchases  Those headwinds can be affected “only at the margin” by
quantitative easing, or large-scale asset purchases, Gross said
in a separate e-mail.  “That is why after three-plus years of zero-based  interest
rates  and $2 trillion of the Fed’s balance-sheet expansion, the
economy is only growing at 2 percent,” he said. “Cyclical
weakness is more easily rectified with quantitative easing
remedies than structural weaknesses, which rest more logically
in the hands of fiscal policy makers.”  Just what is ailing the  U.S. economy  formed part of
Bernanke’s case for greater Fed intervention that may come as
soon as the next meeting of policy makers on Sept. 12-13. The
58-year-old former Princeton University economist and Great
Depression scholar used his Jackson Hole address to lament the
suffering caused by unemployment, and his defense of unorthodox
policies such as bond-buying signaled he may deploy them again.  Costs of Policies  “The costs of non-traditional policies, when considered
carefully, appear manageable, implying that we should not rule
out the further use of such policies if economic conditions
warrant,” Bernanke said. “Over the past five years, the
Federal Reserve has acted to support economic growth and foster
 job creation , and it is important to achieve further progress,
particularly in the labor market.”  Bernanke’s challenge may be highlighted Sept. 7, when
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict Labor Department
data will show unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a 43rd
straight month in August as payrolls grew by 125,000, slowing
from July’s 163,000 gain.  At the same time as some of his colleagues question his
faith in monetary policy’s power, they also push back against
his labor-market analysis. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
told the conference “it sure looks like the economy was on one
trend pre-crisis and is on a very different trend post-crisis.”  “It’s quite unhelpful to equate structural and permanent
factors,” the Richmond Fed’s Lacker said during the same
discussion. The gap will eventually close as “people are
working on training programs” to address the mismatch in skills.  ‘Real Impediments’  “In the meantime these are real costs, real impediments to
clearing labor markets the way we want, and it’s not clear
monetary policy can obviate these costs,” said Lacker, who
dissented from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Aug. 1
statement, which repeated the benchmark lending rate is likely
to stay close to zero at least through late 2014.  The debate over just how transitory high unemployment will
be is also sparking academic scrutiny. In Wyoming, Bernanke
received backing from a study by Stanford’s Lazear and James Spletzer of the U.S. Census Bureau.  It concluded that weak economic growth is the reason for
heightened joblessness rather than fundamental labor-market
weaknesses. Unemployment stems mostly from “cyclic phenomena”
that are more pronounced after the last recession than after
prior contractions, the authors wrote.  Construction, Retailing  They cited data showing that industries such as
construction, manufacturing and retailing that had the biggest
losses during the recession have also gained the most jobs since
the recovery began. The 18-month slump that ended in June 2009
was the longest since the Great Depression.  “The problem is not the structure of the labor market, but
the weakness of the economy,” Lazear said in an interview. “If
the economy was stronger, the labor market would be stronger.”  A study published last month by economists at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  echoed his findings. It estimated only
about one-third of the jump in unemployment from 5 percent to
its 10 percent peak in October 2009 can be traced to a
divergence between the supply of labor and job openings. The
remainder was due mainly to a lack of demand, it suggested.  Potential Growth  Not all economists agree. A paper written by Northwestern’s
Gordon, published last week by the National Bureau of  Economic
Research , concludes the potential growth rate in the U.S. is
damaged, and the past 250 years may prove to have been a
“unique” period of expansion.  “ Ben Bernanke  should read my paper,” said Gordon, a
member of the NBER committee that determines when recessions
begin and end.  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in New York,
is another skeptic. His work suggests a shift in the so-called
Beveridge Curve, which measures the relationship between job
openings and unemployment and indicates there are more jobs
available today than before the recession given the current
unemployment rate.  That suggests to him the natural rate is about 7 percent,
and while “it doesn’t mean the Fed can’t reduce unemployment,
it does mean we’re likely to see inflation pressures emerge
sooner.”  More Dangerous  One area of agreement: the longer unemployment stays high,
the more dangerous it is for the economy. Princeton’s Blinder
and Deputy Bank of England Governor  Charles Bean  cited Europe’s
experience in the 1980s of so-called hysteresis, when the
failure to find jobs led to workers losing skills and becoming
unemployable.  “We may get structural shifts like Europe in the 1980s,”
said Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. Bean warned “cyclical
unemployment can turn into structural unemployment,” especially
if the long-term jobless suffer “disenfranchisement.”  “You shouldn’t assume that they will just naturally get
sucked back in,” Bean said.  “We would agree with Chairman Bernanke that the longer the
economic malaise persists, the greater the risk that it will get
embedded in the structure of the economy,” Pimco’s El-Erian
said. “It is a loud call for policy action, and one that needs
to involve many more official entities than just the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at
;
Joshua Zumbrun in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at +1-
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  