-- Better Place Plans to Fund Dutch Electric Car Network With Debt
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-09-04T14:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/better-place-plans-to-fund-dutch-electric-car-network-with-debt.html
Better Place Inc. plans to use debt
and equity to fund a 100 million-euro ($126 million) expansion
of its Dutch network of stations where electric vehicle owners
can swap the company’s depleted batteries for recharged units.  Better Place, seeking to raise 10 percent to 15 percent of
the money with shares, will increasingly shift to debt financing
after proving its business model with networks in  Denmark  and
Israel, founder and Chief Executive Officer Shai Agassi said. It
will install as many as 40 more stations in the Netherlands.  “The first stations are high risk,” he said. “Once you
see them working, you see them installed and you see consumers
using them, it’s easier for you to see support for future
stations.” The company has yet to raise the Netherlands funds.  Better Place has garnered about $750 million to-date from
investors including General Electric Co. and HSBC Holdings Plc
for the Danish and Israeli networks and announced a 40 million-
euro European Investment Bank loan Aug. 28 to complete them.  It yesterday opened a battery switch station at Amsterdam
Airport Schiphol to serve 10 Renault Fluence Zero Emissions
taxis. In Israel, 20 stations are operating and the company aims
to double that this year. It expects to use about 30 million
euros of the EIB loan to open 13 more stations in Denmark this
year after already running five to connect Copenhagen to Aarhus.  Better Place, incorporated in  Delaware  and headquartered in
Israel, has a partnership with  Renault SA (RNO)  to build and operate
charging networks and battery stations. It’s in talks with other
carmakers, Agassi said without identifying the companies.  Renault Partnership  Under Better Place’s model customers buy electric cars and
pay a monthly fee to use its network including charging points
and the supply of batteries. That cuts $10,000 to $15,000 from
upfront cost of the car, helping to boost the competitiveness of
the vehicles compared with cheaper gas-powered alternatives.  Companies including Daimler AG and Toyota Motor Corp. may
make as many as 135,000 electric vehicles this year, rising to
more than 500,000 in 2014, Bloomberg New Energy Finance says.  Drivers using Better Place’s network in  Israel  averaged
about 2,100 kilometers (1,300 miles) a month and switched
batteries about twice in that period, Agassi said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  