-- Bouygues Said to Near Sale of Phone Towers to BNP Fund
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y ,   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-09-04T15:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/bouygues-said-to-near-sale-of-phone-towers-to-bnp-fund.html
Bouygues SA (EN) , the French building and
phone conglomerate that cut its profit forecast last week, is in
exclusive talks to sell its wireless towers to Antin
Infrastructure Partners for about 200 million euros ($251
million), said two people familiar with the matter.  An agreement to sell the almost 2,300 towers, which are
used to hold antennas transmitting mobile signals, may be
announced in coming weeks, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  A Bouygues Telecom representative confirmed the talks with
Antin, which is partly owned by  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)  He declined to
comment on the amount and timing of the deal. Antin’s head of
 investor relations , Sebastien Lecaudey, declined to comment.  Bouygues, which is based in Paris and runs France’s third-
largest mobile-phone operator, wants to reduce debt which
ballooned following the acquisition of so-called fourth-
generation licenses to operate faster mobile networks. Bouygues
said on Aug. 29 that it’s planning to sell the wireless towers
and some property assets.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising Bouygues’
telecommunications division.  Moody’s Investors Service on Aug. 31 cut the outlook of
Bouygues’ A3  credit rating , the fourth-lowest investment grade,
to negative from stable after the company reduced the 2012
profit forecast for its phone division.  The company is cutting prices and introducing new services
as it loses customers to broadband provider  Iliad SA (ILD) , which
started a mobile phone service in January. Bouygues Telecom is
also shedding 556 jobs and paring marketing and distribution
expenditure to save 300 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  