-- BP, BHP Drill First Producing Wells at Atlantis Since Moratorium
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-04T16:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/bp-bhp-drill-first-producing-wells-at-atlantis-since-moratorium.html
BP Plc (BP/) , whose Macondo blowout in the
 Gulf of Mexico  caused the biggest offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history, is drilling the first producing wells at the region’s
Atlantis field since a moratorium on deepwater operations was
lifted almost two years ago.  The Atlantis and Mad Dog hubs are working again after
months of repairs and maintenance, partner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
said in a conference  presentation  published on its website
today. Mark Salt, a spokesman for London-based BP, confirmed
that the fields are operational and declined to comment on
levels of production.  BP, the owner of the Macondo well that was the source of
the 2010 explosion, has lost a third of its market value since
the disaster. BP’s output in the Gulf of Mexico, some of the
most profitable in its portfolio, has dropped since President
 Barack Obama  banned deepwater drilling for months after the
spill and BP instituted stricter safety standards.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley has said he wants to
focus more on the Atlantis, Mad Dog,  Thunder Horse  and Na Kika
fields in the Gulf. The company has six rigs working in the
region and plans to have a record eight by the end of the year,
Dudley said in July.  The Atlantis field, which is drilled using a mobile unit,
has a capacity of 200,000 barrels of oil a day and 180 million
cubic feet of gas, according to BP’s website. Mad Dog, where the
company operates a platform, can produce 100,000 barrels of
crude a day and 60 million cubic feet of gas.  BP reported a loss of $1.4 billion in the second quarter.
Global output slipped 7.4 percent to 2.3 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  