-- Brazil Plans Wireless Rules to Aid Consumers Over Profits
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-09-04T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/brazil-plans-wireless-rules-to-aid-consumers-over-profits.html
Brazil ’s mobile-phone companies,
reeling from intensifying regulatory scrutiny, must prepare for
more changes as the government puts consumers’ needs ahead of
corporate profits, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said.  “Companies need to make sure the market grows and
develops. They have to make money offering quality,” he said in
an interview yesterday in his Brasilia office. “Better to have
four companies complaining than millions of clients, no?”  The government plans next year to begin reducing
interconnection fees, which currently generate 36 centavos (18
cents) a minute in revenue for wireless companies every time
they connect a call from a competitor’s network. Officials are
also working on a framework to require land-line, wireless and
cable companies to share infrastructure, Bernardo said.  Shares of wireless carriers  Telefonica Brasil SA (TEF) ,  America
Movil  SAB,  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  and  Oi SA (OIBR4)  have tumbled since
July 13, when a government official said regulators would ban
the sale of some wireless subscriptions to force carriers to
improve quality. The ban, since lifted, signaled that wireless
carriers’ Brazilian profits are under threat, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “After two years of stellar wireless growth in Brazil, the
future now looks less bright,”  Robin Bienenstock , a London-
based Bernstein analyst, wrote in an Aug. 22 note. “Brazilians
should benefit from these changes, but the operators (and parent
companies) are likely to find this type of environment more
difficult in which to make money.”  Shares Sliding  Telefonica Brasil, a unit of Madrid-based Telefonica SA and
Brazil’s biggest wireless company, has fallen 7.1 percent in Sao
Paulo trading since July 13. No. 2 carrier Tim, a division of
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , is down 20 percent. America Movil, owned by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , has slid 3.7 percent in Mexico City,
where it is based. Rio de Janeiro-based Oi, partially controlled
by  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , has declined 17 percent.  “There’s no regulatory risk,” Bernardo said. “The market
analysts look at profitability and the financial perspective of
the company. They’re not concerned about the consumer. It can’t
be that way.”  Brazil’s telephone regulator Anatel, which is an
independent agency of the Communications Ministry, is studying
how other countries have cut interconnection fees to put
together a plan for a gradual reduction, Bernardo said. He said
the cuts won’t be as “radical” as in  France , where fees are
declining from 3 euro cents (3.8 U.S. cents) in 2011 to 0.8 euro
cent next year.  Cutting Taxes  Rate reductions and network-sharing arrangements should
create savings that carriers can pass on to consumers, Bernardo
said. He also plans to ask Brazil’s  Finance Ministry  and state
governments to cut phone taxes, which now make up about 38
percent of the average phone bill, he said.  “If we improve regulations, if we increase competition, if
we cut taxes, more people are going to be able to use a mobile
phone because it’s cheaper and works better,” he said.  Mobile Internet use will grow 70 percent this year and for
the next two years at least, Bernardo said. Pay-television
subscriptions will grow 30 percent this year and next year, he
said. Mobile-phone accounts will increase 15 percent this year,
he said, a slowdown from last year, when subscriptions increased
19 percent to 242 million, according to Anatel.  “You have a consumer that’s eager to consume, but has to
be treated well,” Bernardo said. “We have to establish some
regulatory changes, an update for current times, a more modern
regulation, because ours is clearly behind. Europe already did
this. We’re lagging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  