-- Brazil Industrial Production Rises for Second Month in a Row
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-09-04T13:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/brazil-industrial-production-rises-for-second-month-in-a-row-1-.html
Brazil ’s  industrial production  rose
for the second consecutive month in July, the first back-to-back
increase in more than a year, cementing economist expectations
that growth is accelerating as a result of stimulus measures.  Output in July rose 0.3 percent from the previous month,
the national statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro .
Economists had expected output to increase 0.2 percent,
according to the median  forecast  in a Bloomberg survey of 42
analysts. Production fell 2.9 percent from a year ago.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government last week extended
for several months tax cuts on cars and appliances, and the
central bank reduced borrowing costs to a record low, in a bid
to boost flagging growth that was an annualized 1.64 percent in
the second quarter. The stimulus led to record car sales in
August, and the recovery could soon spread to other industries,
said Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The auto sector is still helping to explain this recovery
process, but as we move forward this should become more
widespread,”  David Beker , Bank of America’s chief Brazil
economist, said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  Record Sales  Brazil car sales rose to a record 400,000 units in August
as the tax cuts and lower borrowing costs spurred  consumer
spending ,  Fiat SpA (F) , the country’s biggest automaker, said in a
statement yesterday. The rebound in car sales comes after
inventories accumulated at the start of the year as consumers
delayed purchases.  “This package of measures transmitted optimism to the
Brazilian consumer, who reacted positively,” Cledorvino Belini,
Fiat’s president in  Latin America  and current head of the
Brazilian carmakers association, known as Anfavea, said in the
statement.  Turin-based Fiat, citing preliminary figures, said it sold
about 100,000 units in August as its production in Brazil
reached the highest level in 36 years. Total car sales in August
expanded from 364,196 in July and 257,887 in April.  Today’s report showed that manufacturing in Latin America’s
biggest economy is poised for a turnaround. Of 27 sectors
studied by the statistics agency, 12 registered growth in July,
including a 4.9 percent jump in automobile production and a 3
percent increase in the assembly of machinery and equipment.  “Industry will have a better performance in the third
quarter after weighing down GDP in the second quarter,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “The data is in line with the
government’s contention that stimulus measures should have an
effect and the economy will gradually gain strength over the
second half of the year.”  Durable Goods  Consumption of durable goods rose 0.8 percent in July,
while consumption of semi- or non-durable goods dropped 0.6
percent. The latter compared with an increase of 1.6 percent in
June.  “Durable goods depend more on credit, and they are doing
OK,” Beker said. “Non-durable goods depend more on income, and
they were doing O.K., so for me it was a slight surprise that we
are seeing a decline in this group.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 2 basis points to 7.77
percent at 9:59 a.m. local time. The real, which has declined
8.1 percent this year against the greenback, fell 0.1 percent to
2.0306 per  U.S. dollar .  In addition to spurring demand, the government has tried to
shield manufacturers from cheaper imports by weakening the real,
which has declined this year more than any major currency
tracked by Bloomberg. It’s also been raising import levies on
foreign-made vehicles, making it harder to tap into rising
demand for cars by the country’s expanding middle class.  That’s spurred investment by Asian automakers including
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which is opening this month its first South
American assembly line outside Sao Paulo.  Economic Growth  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent in the
second quarter, the statistics agency reported last week. While
that’s the fastest pace in a year, economists say there’s little
evidence that the world’s biggest emerging market after  China  is
recovering strongly. Growth in Brazil this year trails that of
Russia, India and China, its peers among the BRIC group of the
world’s biggest  emerging markets .  Economists reduced their forecast for growth this year for
the fifth straight week, to 1.64 percent, in the last survey
taken by the central bank on Aug. 31.  Even as growth remains weak, the inflation outlook is
worsening as a result of bad weather that destroyed crops in the
U.S. and Brazil and strong demand being spurred on by low
unemployment and the government stimulus.  Analysts raised their forecast for year-end inflation for
the eighth straight week in the latest central bank survey, to
5.2 percent. Price pressures are limiting the space policy
makers have to lower borrowing costs after they reduced the
benchmark Selic rate last week to 7.50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Boston  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 