-- Brazil’s Low Bond Yields Unsustainable, Buffett’s Gen Re Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-09-04T18:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/brazil-s-low-bond-yields-unsustainable-buffett-s-gen-re-says.html
Bond yields in  developing countries 
including Brazil, Turkey and Indonesia are poised to increase as
“rapid” credit growth raises consumer default risk, according
to General Re-New England Asset Management Inc.  “Booms always appear sustainable at the time, but certain
emerging countries show recognizable signs of
unsustainability,” GR-NEAM Chief Investment Officer John Gilbert wrote in a newsletter published on the website of the
unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  “The credit
growth is merely a doubling up on an unsustainable burst of
demand, and must in time meet expectations of repayment.”  The average yields on emerging-market dollar-denominated
bonds tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co. fell to a record low 4.83
percent last month as falling U.S. Treasury yields prompted
investors to seek alternatives for higher returns. Brazilian
dollar-denominated  bonds  yielded 3.66 percent, or 1.79
percentage points over Treasuries, JPMorgan data show.  Brazil ’s total  bank lending  has almost tripled to 2.2
trillion reais ($1.1 trillion) in July since the end of 2006,
with the consumer default rate rising to 7.9 percent, the
highest in almost three years, according to the central bank. In
Turkey, the  current account deficit  reached a record 10 percent
of its gross domestic product last year as cheap credit
encouraged consumers to buy more than they produced. Indonesia’s
current account surplus has turned into a deficit.  “The fearsome outcome is that growth slows as rising debt
loads bite before deleveraging is complete in emerging
countries,” Gilbert wrote. “In that event there are few growth
engines left.”  GR-NEAM had $67.7 billion in unaffiliated assets under
management as of March 31, according to its  website . The
Farmington, Connecticut-based unit primarily serves insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  