-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Industrial Production; Real Declines
-- B y   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-09-04T21:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-industrial-production-real-advances.html
Brazilian swap rates rose for the
first time in three days as a monthly increase in industrial
output added to speculation the central bank’s reduction in
borrowing costs will end as economic growth accelerates.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2014 increased three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.78 percent today in
 Sao Paulo . The real depreciated 0.5 percent, the most in a
month, to 2.0423 per dollar.  “The industrial output was a little better than expected
and this helps the government a bit, animates the market,”
 Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini reduced the Selic
target lending rate by a half-percentage point last week to a
record low 7.50 percent as he seeks to revive  Latin America ’s
largest economy. If there is room for an additional adjustment,
it “should be carried out with maximum parsimony,” policy
makers said in a statement accompanying their decision.  Traders are betting there is a 90 percent chance that the
central bank will cut borrowing costs one more time at the
October meeting, reducing the target rate by a quarter-
percentage point. Yesterday they were certain of such a
reduction next month, trading in swap rates shows.  Industrial production  rose 0.3 percent in July from the
previous month, the national statistics agency said today in  Rio
de Janeiro . The median forecast of 42 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for output to increase 0.2 percent. Output fell
2.9 percent from a year earlier, less than the median forecast,
which called for a 3.3 percent contraction.  Car Sales  “Even though industrial production grew more than
expected, the number isn’t necessarily a good one,” Perfeito
said. “We’re still in negative territory over the past 12
months, so there ought to be one more cut in the Selic.”  Car sales rose to a record 400,000 units in August as tax
cuts and lower borrowing costs spurred  consumer spending ,
helping the economy emerge from year-long stagnation.  The government last week extended tax breaks on cars and
appliances for several months to boost flagging growth that was
an annualized 1.64 percent in the second quarter.  Brazil ’s government will keep taking action to weaken the
currency to help local manufacturers, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week in Brasilia.  The real is “consolidating” at a level weaker than 2
reais per dollar thanks to the government’s action as other
countries try to gain an advantage through devaluation, Mantega
said. The central bank auctioned reverse currency swaps on Aug.
21 for the first time since March as the real strengthened.  “The message from Brazilian officials has been crystal
clear,”  Diego Donadio , a strategist at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil
SA, said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “They want the
real to be weak to support the economic recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  