-- Brunei Prince Claims Associate Used Him as Figurehead
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-09-04T03:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/brunei-prince-claims-associate-used-him-as-figurehead.html
A Brunei prince sued a business
associate for inducing him through almost daily meetings and
social interactions to inject his electric vehicle business into
a Singapore-listed company and then excluding him from decision-
making.  Elektromotive Group Ltd. (LEX)  Vice Chairman Ang Gee Hing failed
to help Prince Abdul Hakeem, the nephew of Brunei’s Sultan,
raise funds for the electric vehicle charging business as
promised and denied him  office space , according to the lawsuit
in the Singapore High Court. The first closed hearing is
scheduled for tomorrow.  Ang, who is seeking to throw out the lawsuit, said Hakeem
didn’t inject 5 million pounds ($7.9 million) to develop the
company as pledged. Hakeem, who quit as Elektromotive’s
executive chairman in February, also declined to move into the
company’s industrial estate premises, claiming it wasn’t suited
for someone of his standing, Ang said in court papers.  Hakeem is seeking S$7.8 million ($6.3 million) for his
stake as well as more money for lost business opportunities and
damage to his reputation. He invested in the  Singapore  company,
previously a publisher known as Lexicon, as he had confidence in
Ang and trusted him, according to the lawsuit. Hakeem was
provided with an office in Singapore’s prime Orchard Road
shopping belt and left it vacant, Ang said in his court filing.  ‘Brushed Aside’  Hakeem, who said he was “a mere figurehead” at
Elektromotive, claimed he had expressed his unhappiness to Ang
who brushed him aside, according to his complaint.  Samuel Chacko, a lawyer representing Ang, said the lawsuit
will be defended and declined to comment further. Hakeem’s
lawyer Low Chai Chong didn’t return two calls seeking comment.  Hakeem wasn’t shut out of Elektromotive and was instead
encouraged by Ang to exercise his authority, Ang said in his
filing. Hakeem treated Ang as an outsider and wasn’t part of his
inner circle of friends and advisers, according to the
Elektromotive vice chairman.  Elektromotive, which was struggling financially, couldn’t
raise funds publicly, contrary to Ang’s claims, according to
Hakeem’s lawsuit. The company’s net loss widened to S$13.4
million for the year ended in March from S$5.38 million a year
earlier.  Hakeem had claimed that with his father Prince Jefri Bolkiah’s connections and status he could easily persuade the
Brunei government to install a national charging network, Ang
said in his filing.  Rolls-Royce  Hakeem also said he could tap his close ties with carmakers
including Bayerishche Motoren Werke AG, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars
Ltd. and  Aston Martin  to sell Elektromotive’s chargers with
their electric vehicles, according to Ang’s filing.
Elektromotive hasn’t disclosed deals with major carmakers,
according to its stock exchange filings.  Ang also discovered questionable deals at Elektromotive’s
U.K. unit which resulted in overpayment to individuals including
the prince, according to court papers.  Elektromotive started confidential arbitration proceedings
against Hakeem and others in April over the stake sale.  The case is Pengiran Muda Abdul Hakeem v Ang Gee Hing.
S600/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  