-- California Beating Illinois Shows Pension-Gap Cost
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/california-beating-illinois-shows-pension-gap-cost-muni-credit.html
California  debt is beating  Illinois 
bonds by the most in three months as investors choosing between
the two lowest-rated U.S. states reward efforts to bolster the
finances of the nation’s biggest pension.  Illinois lawmakers failed to advance any measures in a
special session Aug. 17 aimed at addressing the nation’s worst-
funded pensions.  Standard & Poor’s  last week cut the state’s
credit one level to A, sixth highest. That’s one step above
California, where the Legislature passed a plan last week that
is projected to curb pension liabilities by as much as $55
billion.  The two states are “a study in contrasts in what they’ve
done recently, especially as it relates to pensions,” said
James Dearborn, managing director in  Boston  at Columbia
Management Investment Advisers, which oversees $16 billion in
munis. “Illinois continues to be the poster child for pension
issues.”  U.S. states and localities face $2 trillion in unfunded
public-employee retirement costs after the 18-month recession
that ended in June 2009, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Some states that have confronted the gap, such as New York and
California, have seen improved outlooks and lower yield
penalties.  New Jersey  had its debt downgraded in February 2011
by S&P in part because of its pension liability.  Further Widening  The extra yield investors demand to own general-obligation
bonds from Illinois issuers rather than those in the most-
populous state reached  0.79 percentage point  last month, the
most since May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Past trading suggests the spread is poised to widen further
after S&P’s Illinois downgrade. Two weeks after Moody’s cut the
fifth-most-populous state’s rating in January to A2, sixth-
highest, the gap rose to a record 0.89 percentage point.  Lawmakers in Illinois have proposed increasing employee
contributions and passing some state costs onto school
districts.  Illinois faces fiscal strains beyond its retirement
obligations. Though Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  helped push
for increases in personal and corporate income taxes in 2011,
the state carried a backlog of about $8 billion in unpaid bills,
not including pension obligations.  ‘Wretched’ Situation  “Pensions have become such an important factor for people
looking at the muni market,” said Matt Fabian, managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors. “Because Illinois has such a wretched pension-funding
situation, it’ll continue to attract negative articles and bad
news.”  Illinois has an unfunded pension liability of at least $83
billion, according to state figures. It had 45 percent of what
it needed to pay future retiree obligations as of 2010, the
lowest among U.S. states, Bloomberg data show.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , with
assets of $237.3 billion, had 72 percent of the funds needed to
cover obligations as of June 30, 2011.  S&P maintains a negative outlook on Illinois, citing “the
potential for further erosion of the state’s pension funds.”
The ratings company elevated California’s outlook to positive in
February and said it was “poised for credit improvement.”
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  is asking voters in November to
raise income and sales taxes to close the state’s deficit.  Weekly Rally  In the $3.7 trillion muni market, yields on top-rated bonds
maturing in 10 years fell a second straight week, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation  index . The benchmark 10-year yield dropped
0.08 percentage point to 1.76 percent. The index’s record low
was 1.63 percent in July.  California is still S&P’s lowest-rated U.S. state because
of recurring budget gaps. Brown in June signed a $92 billion
spending plan that counts on higher taxes and cuts in health
care and welfare.  The overhaul the state’s Legislature passed Aug. 31 would
require public employees to pay half the cost of their benefits
and work longer before they can retire. It also changes formulas
to provide less retirement money and caps pension payments.  Calpers estimated the changes could save the state and its
local governments from $42 billion to $55 billion over the next
30 years. It wouldn’t immediately improve the system’s unfunded
liability, its actuary said.  “We wish it went further, but it’s a step in the right
direction.” said  Robert Miller , senior portfolio manager in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , for Wells Capital Management, which
oversees $30 billion in munis.  Following are pending sales:  CHICAGO plans to sell $300 million of bonds backed by
revenue from its sewer system as soon as Sept. 6, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will go toward improvements to the
system, according to bond documents. (Added Aug. 31)  DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK is set to
issue $238 million of lease-revenue bonds on behalf of the  State
University of New York  as soon as this week. Proceeds will help
finance student residences and refund debt, according to bond
documents. (Updated Sept. 4)  SAN ANTONIO plans to sell $175 million on behalf of its
water system as soon as this week, according to offering
documents. The proceeds will be used for construction and
refunding. (Added Sept. 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  