-- Cameron’s Revamp Shows True Tory, Risks Liberal Democrat Ire
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-09-05T08:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/cameron-s-revamp-shows-true-tory-risks-liberal-democrats-ire.html
David Cameron  asserted his Tory
credentials halfway through his term with Cabinet changes
designed to appeal to his party’s core support, even at the risk
of damaging coalition ties with the  Liberal Democrats .  The premier demoted Justice Secretary Ken Clarke, the
Liberal Democrats’ favorite Tory, replacing him with Chris Grayling, who favors a tougher line on law and order.  Jeremy Hunt , whom the Liberal Democrats refused to back over his
handling of News Corp.’s 2010 takeover bid for British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc, was promoted. The replacement of Justine Greening as transport secretary signaled Cameron may break with
the Liberal Democrats and back the expansion of  London ’s
 Heathrow airport .  Cameron’s Conservatives consistently trail the opposition
 Labour Party  in the opinion polls, and discontent has been
mounting in the Tory ranks over an economic policy focused on
cutting the  budget deficit . Britain remains mired in a double-
dip recession and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was
booed at a Paralympics medal ceremony two days ago.  The prime minister has “always been a Thatcherite -- just
one for the 21st century -- and he’s essentially promoted people
cut from the same cloth, demographically and ideologically,”
Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary, University of
London, said in a telephone interview. “None of this suggests a
change in direction, simply a shift to a superior sales force.”  ‘Liking This’  Cameron’s revamp was welcomed by members of his own party
who’d previously been skeptical of his direction. Lawmaker
Nadine Dorries, who previously dismissed the premier and Osborne
as “posh boys” out of touch with ordinary voters, took to her
Twitter Inc. feed to say “I’m liking this reshuffle.”  Former Liberal Democrat leader Menzies Campbell, though,
said his party would be “watching carefully” Grayling at the
Ministry of Justice to ensure he doesn’t take policy in a
direction the junior coalition party opposes.  Cameron is trying to maintain his deficit-cutting course as
 Bank of England  bond purchases shield him from the debt crisis
engulfing the 17-nation euro region. The 10-year U.K. government
bond yielded 1.62 percent today, compared with 2.18 percent on
French debt of a similar maturity and 5.66 percent on Italian
bonds. Britain’s economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second
quarter, leaving gross domestic product no higher than when
Cameron took office in 2010.  No Change  “This is a reshuffle; it doesn’t mean a change in
government policy,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in London yesterday. “It means you have different
people in different jobs, the policy remains the same.”  Newly installed Conservative Chairman Grant Shapps played
down the idea that Cameron had performed a shift to the
political right.  “People make a huge fuss about these things and actually
in truth what you’re looking for are the right people to do the
job,” Shapps told ITV’s “Daybreak” program today.  Labour lawmaker  Chris Bryant  said on his Twitter feed that
yesterday’s announcement “feels like a core-vote strategy
reshuffle,” in that Cameron was appealing to his rank-and-file
supporters and not to the center ground of undecided voters.
Liberal Democrat lawmaker Andrew George told BBC News television
the reshuffle had “to do with internal matters” for the
Conservatives.  “It’s the backbench Conservatives MPs that are perhaps
more important long-term than the Liberal Democrat coalition
partners,”  Andrew Russell , professor of politics at Manchester
University, said in an interview. “He doesn’t have any control
of the Lib Dems long term.”  Not Clear-Cut  The revamp was not as clear-cut as Cameron might have
hoped. Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith resisted a
move to another position, making it more difficult for Cameron
and Osborne to force through a further 10 billion pounds ($16
billion) of cuts to the welfare budget that may be needed as
Britain’s economy grows more slowly than previously forecast.  Cameron was also locked in lengthy discussions with Sayeeda
Warsi. She emerged, demoted from the job of Tory party
chairwoman, though still allowed to attend Cabinet meetings. The
premier also did not get rid of Clarke, 72, entirely. The oldest
member of the Cabinet stays on as a minister without portfolio.  ‘Re-Arranging Deckchairs’  “Cameron has attempted to recharge his government, to show
he can deal with the deficit with newer faces but he may be just
re-arranging the deckchairs on the Titanic,”  Bill Jones ,
professor of politics at Liverpool Hope University, said in a
telephone interview. “He is trying to relaunch a party that is
trailing in the polls.”  The latest YouGov Plc survey, conducted Sept. 2-3 among
1,716 respondents, put Labour support on 44 percent to the
Conservatives’ 33 percent, with the Liberal Democrats trailing
on 8 percent. That scale of lead would give Labour a majority of
more than 100 seats in the 650-seat House of Commons at a
general election.  Cameron also appointed a new environment secretary, Owen Paterson, who favors the use of hydraulic fracturing to drill
for shale gas. Environmental pressure group Greenpeace reacted
by saying he “must resist the temptation to become the minister
for shale-gas fracking, bulldozing the greenbelt and
deregulation,” according to an e-mailed statement from John Sauven, its  executive director .  Heathrow Dissent  Amid the general applause from Tories, there were
indications of dissent over Heathrow. In July, a group of 39
Conservative lawmakers called for two new runways to be built at
Heathrow to increase passenger capacity and help spur economic
growth. The promise not to expand, which was in the coalition
agreement, is only valid until the next election in 2015, so
Cameron is free to switch stance after that.  Greening, whose west London electoral district is under the
airport’s flight path, had dug in against a third runway. She
was replaced by Patrick McLoughlin, whose constituency is 150
miles away in the English Midlands.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Tory, attacked the decision
to remove Greening and said it would be a “profound mistake”
to build a third runway at Heathrow.  “There’s lots of stuff been coming out of Whitehall to
suggest that a U-turn is in progress,” Johnson told  Sky News 
today. “All the pressure from businesses to do the third runway
-- that’s where the Treasury seems to be focusing its hopes.”  Conservative lawmaker Zac Goldsmith, who represents a west
London district, called on the government to clarify its
position on Heathrow and said he stood by his pledge to resign
and trigger a special election if the government changes stance.  The government has “got to get off the fence,” Goldsmith
told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “It’s not fair to voters,
to communities, to constituencies like mine to keep people in a
state of limbo. People need an honest answer. Have they changed
their mind on Heathrow? Yes or no? And anything less than that
is too ambiguous in my view.”  One Tory lawmaker, Eleanor Laing, was asked by BBC News
television yesterday if the changes were likely to quell future
rebellions.  “I very much doubt it,” she replied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  