-- Cameron Demotes Ken Clarke in Cabinet Revamp
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-09-04T10:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/cameron-demotes-ken-clarke-in-cabinet-revamp.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  removed
U.K. Justice Secretary Ken Clarke from his post today,
appointing him as a Cabinet minister without portfolio.  Clarke, 72, a former chancellor of the exchequer, has been
handed a brief including aspects of the economy and a role on
the ministerial team led by Cameron that discusses national
security, he told reporters outside his home in London today.
Clarke has been a minister in every Conservative government
since 1972.  “At my age you do occasionally have to step down from a
heavy departmental role before you suddenly realise you can’t
handle it,” Clarke said. He said he is “pleasantly surprised”
to still be in the government.  Clarke, a lawmaker since 1970 who counts beer, jazz,
cricket and soccer among his interests, has held five Cabinet
positions. A lawyer by training, he served as chancellor of the
exchequer from 1993 to 1997 before  John Major ’s Conservative
government was defeated in a landslide Labour victory under  Tony Blair .  Though Clarke stood for leader of the Tory party three
times, his pro-European liberal views failed to appeal to
traditional Conservatives. He came fourth in the election that
made Cameron Tory leader in 2005.  “Cameron had to give Clarke something significant as a
compensation for the big job at justice otherwise he would be a
loose cannon,”  Bill Jones , professor of politics at Liverpool
Hope University, said in a telephone interview. “But this is
really a coalition appointment. Clarke is seen as an honorary
Lib Dem and this will be to satisfy them.”  ‘Inner Liberal’  Working in the coalition formed after Cameron failed to
deliver a Conservative majority in 2010 brought out Clarke’s
“inner liberal,” he said. He revamped criminal sentencing
policy, arguing there were too many prisoners and reoffending
rates were too high. That earned him the enmity of The Sun
tabloid newspaper, which campaigned against his “soft
justice.”  Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg  joked last year that
“we only have five Cabinet ministers, or six if you count Ken
Clarke.”  Clarke faced calls for his resignation in May 2011 when,
proposing a 50 percent reduction in sentences for serious crimes
in return for an early guilty plea, he appeared to suggest that
some instances of rape could be less serious than others.  A month later, he was forced to deny giving permission for
a prisoner to father a baby from behind bars under human-rights
legislation, after a front-page story in the Daily Mail
newspaper. The story said that Clarke approved the inmate’s
request to have the child with his partner by artificial
insemination because of the prisoner’s “right to family life.”  Gaffes  That followed a series of gaffes by a junior justice
minister, Crispin Blunt. In July 2010, Blunt suggested prisoners
should be able to hold parties in jail. Two months later, he
warned of “fruit riots” if prisoners were served with
undersized or misshapen apples.  In October last year, Clarke got into a spat with Home
Secretary Theresa May, calling parts of her speech to the
Conservatives’ annual conference as “laughable and child-
like.”  In an attack on human-rights legislation, May said that
courts had allowed an illegal immigrant to stay in the country
because he had a cat. Clarke and the judiciary immediately
responded that the story was untrue. Later he made a partial
climbdown, saying he regretted his “colorful language.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  