-- Cameron Keeps Clarke in Cabinet; Spelman, Gillan Fired
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-04T13:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/cameron-starts-cabinet-revamp-in-coalition-balancing-act-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
promoted  Jeremy Hunt  to health secretary, replacing Andrew Lansley, and also demoted Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke in a
Cabinet revamp that kept the top ministers in their posts.  The premier dismissed underperformers and gave Cabinet jobs
to junior ministers as he sought to quell discontent in his Tory
party at a time when the coalition with the  Liberal Democrats  is
struggling amid a double-dip recession. It’s Cameron’s first
large-scale overhaul of his team since he came to power in 2010.  “This reshuffle represents an attempt to regain the
political initiative without fundamentally altering the
government’s economic strategy,” Mark Wickham-Jones, professor
of politics at Bristol University, said in a telephone
interview. “At the same time it is an attempt to satisfy the
disparate and difficult elements in the coalition. Whether it
succeeds is another question altogether.”  With Britain mired in a second recession since 2009 and the
opposition  Labour Party  ahead in opinion polls, Cameron has come
under pressure for a change of course from traditionalists
within the Tory party disenchanted with his focus on narrowing
the  budget deficit . Dissidents are demanding that their low-tax,
low-spending views be better reflected to counter the influence
of their Liberal Democrat coalition partners.  NHS Revamp  Hunt was promoted from culture secretary after overseeing
the London Olympics. Lansley was made leader of the House of
Commons, managing the government’s legislative agenda, after
widespread opposition to his revamp of the  National Health
Service . Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , Foreign
Secretary  William Hague , Home Secretary Theresa May and Business
Secretary Vince Cable remain in their jobs.  Cameron is trying to maintain his deficit-cutting course as
 Bank of England  bond purchases shield him from the debt crisis
engulfing the 17-nation euro region. The 10-year U.K. government
bond is at 1.64 percent. That compares with 2.20 percent on
French debt of a similar maturity and 5.68 percent on Italian
bonds. The U.K. economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second
quarter, leaving gross domestic product no higher than when
Cameron took office.  Heathrow Expansion  Cameron fired Environment Secretary  Caroline Spelman  and
made Clarke a Cabinet minister without portfolio. Justine Greening was moved aside as transport secretary, in a move that
signals Cameron may push ahead with controversial plans to
expand London’s Heathrow airport. Patrick McLoughlin, who unlike
Greening represents a district that isn’t under the Heathrow
flight path, takes her job. London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Tory
who opposes the expansion of Heathrow, condemned the switch.  Hunt, who’s 45, has overcome a furor over his handling of
News Corp.’s 2010 takeover bid for British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc that saw the opposition Labour Party demand his
resignation over his alleged favoring of the offer.  Lansley, 55, replaces George Young, 71, the second-oldest
member of the Cabinet, as leader of the Commons. Lansley’s move
to hand over NHS management to consortia of family doctors
provoked demonstrations and condemnation from health workers
alongside censure from the Liberal Democrats.  ‘Heavy Role’  Clarke, 72, has been handed a brief including aspects of
the economy and a role on the ministerial team that discusses
national security, he told reporters outside his home today.
“At my age you do occasionally have to step down from a heavy
departmental role before you suddenly realize you can’t handle
it,” Clarke said.  Cameron also dismissed Wales Secretary Cheryl Gillan.
Conservative Party Chairwoman Sayeeda Warsi leaves that job,
though will still attend Cabinet meetings as a junior Foreign
Office minister.  Theresa Villiers, 44, who was a junior transport minister,
replaces Owen Paterson as Northern Ireland secretary. Chris Grayling, 50, the employment minister, takes Clarke’s justice
job while Paterson becomes environment secretary.  Warsi, 42, of Pakistani origin, was the first female Muslim
to hold a Cabinet-level post in Britain. Cameron appointed her
as a lawmaker in the upper, unelected House of Lords in 2007
after she failed to win a seat in the 2005 election in her home
town of Dewsbury, northern  England .  In March, the London Evening Standard newspaper reported
that she faced calls for her resignation after her handling of
the defection of a Conservative European Parliament lawmaker to
the U.K. Independence Party. Tory lawmakers accused her of being
 out of her depth , the Standard said.  Chief Whip  International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell  will
become chief whip in charge of enforcing discipline among
Conservative Party lawmakers. Grant Shapps, who was housing
minister, is promoted to Conservative chairman and Maria Miller,
a junior minister for disabled people, takes over as culture
secretary from Hunt.  Mitchell, 56, takes over as chief whip from Patrick McLoughlin.  Gillan, 60, had threatened to resign over government plans
for the HS2 high-speed rail link that is planned to run through
her parliamentary district. After concessions, including further
tunneling to protect the beauty of the Chiltern Hills, the
Conservative Party lawmaker said she would not quit.  David Jones 
becomes Welsh secretary.  Spelman, 54, presided over an early government U-turn when
she was forced in February 2011 to abandon plans to sell of
hundreds of thousands of acres of state-owned woodland amid
opposition from environmentalists and the head of the Church of
England.  Satisfying Egos  While ministerial “reshuffles” are supposed to allow the
premier to reassert his authority, they’re fraught with traps.
The prime minister must seek to please disparate groups of
lawmakers and satisfy egos. Ministers may refuse to quit and
lawmakers who are fired or not promoted become potential rebels,
waiting to block the government’s legislative agenda or becoming
more vocal in their criticism.  Cameron, 45, had gone nearly 2 1/2 years without a
wholesale reorganization of his government, longer than his two
immediate predecessors.  “It’s really a reshuffle at the margins. Given that the
main high-profile ministers have remained in their posts, does
this mean we are going to get a big shift in the direction of
policy? Probably not,”  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec
Securities in London, said in an interview. “Growth policies
and how the government presses forward is what is more
important.”  During the 13 years Labour was in power under  Tony Blair 
and then  Gordon Brown , the government went through six defense
secretaries. In one four-year period, three different people
were home secretary, overseeing policing and security. Under
Blair, John Reid held seven Cabinet-level posts in eight years,
including health, defense and the  Home Office .  Liberal Democrats  Clegg’s Liberal Democrats hold five Cabinet positions and
18 other ministerial roles, a fifth of all government positions.
None of the Liberal Democrat Cabinet members changed jobs,
though  David Laws , a party lawmaker who resigned as a minister
in May 2010 over his expenses, returned to the government. Laws
becomes a junior education minister with a role in the Cabinet
Office, according to a person familiar with the matter who
refused to be identified because the announcement has not yet
been made public.  Laws, 46, resigned as chief secretary to the Treasury 19
days after the formation of the Conservative-led government when
the Daily Telegraph newspaper disclosed he had claimed taxpayer
funded allowances to pay rent to his partner, James Lundie.  Cameron did “not face an easy equation,” Tim Bale, a
professor of politics at  Sussex University , said in an
interview. He questioned how much difference reshuffles make to
the direction of government, citing the Blair era.  “Under Blair every reshuffle was announced as a new
direction, a new energy, and it very rarely happened,” Bale
said. “How much difference can a minister make in a government
department?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 