-- McEnroe Middle Brother Trades Wall Street for Business of Tennis
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/mcenroe-middle-brother-trades-wall-street-for-business-of-tennis.html
As  John McEnroe  tossed his wooden
racket high in the air to celebrate his first Grand Slam singles
title at the 1979  U.S. Open , a fan tried to grab it off the
court -- only to be elbowed aside by McEnroe’s younger brother.  More than three decades later, Mark McEnroe is still
looking out for his sibling. Mark, the middle McEnroe brother,
traded two decades as a Wall Street lawyer and venture
capitalist to run John’s New York-based tennis academy.  Mark has always defended John and the youngest brother,
Patrick, who followed John into professional tennis, said James
Malhame, a family friend who grew up a few blocks from the
McEnroe boys in the New York borough of Queens.  “Mark was just never jealous and was fiercely protective
of his brothers,” Malhame, a former tennis pro and  Wall Street 
bond dealer, said in a telephone interview. “He was the glue
for those other guys, defusing the rivalry between the two of
them.”  Mark McEnroe, 50, is general manager of the  John McEnroe
Tennis Academy . It’s his first job in tennis, a sport in which
both of his brothers were Grand Slam champions.  He remembers sweeping onto the court at the National Tennis
Center to get John’s Wilson Pro Staff racket after the three-set
victory against Vitas Gerulaitis.  “I was heading out onto the court and saw a guy leap out
of the stands behind the court and go and try to grab the
racket,” Mark said in an interview. “I got there as well and
we both wrestled over it for a bit before I yanked it away from
him, shooed away a cop and went over and gave it to John.”  Family Allegiance  Malhame, 61, who worked for 23 years as a bond broker, said
the incident helps explain why Mark came back to tennis.  “His allegiance to his family and his brothers is
strong,” Malhame said. “He’s working with his brother, John,
so in a sense he’s still protecting him.”  Mark played in junior tournaments and for  Stanford
University . He then headed to the Fordham University School of
Law.  He focused on corporate and securities law from 1989 to
1996 at  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP , and was a senior vice
president and legal counsel at the advertising firm  Young &
Rubicam  until 2000.  In 2001 Mark, who is three years younger than John and four
years older than Patrick, co-founded Cedar Street Group LLC, a
Larchmont, New York-based firm that he said invested about $25
million in early stage technology companies.  Career Change  He took over legal representation for John from their
father in 2009. When John asked if he would run the academy on
Randall’s Island in 2010, the father of three teenagers couldn’t
resist.  “It’s a little different than shuffling papers and reading
contracts all day,” McEnroe said as kids served and volleyed at
the Sportime club that hosts the academy.  The academy, which is adding two sites in the New York
suburbs, follows John’s philosophy that more practice is not
necessarily better.  The top student is 16-year-old Noah Rubin from  Rockville
Centre , New York, who lost in the first round of the juniors at
the U.S. Open this week. He is ranked 16th by the  International
Tennis Federation , up from about No. 1,200 in October 2011.  Intense Effort  “The effort that you put into the short amount of time you
have is better than an OK five-hour practice,” Rubin said in an
interview at the academy. “I’d rather have a 2 1/2-hour
practice that’s more intensive.”  John and Patrick McEnroe, both former captains of the U.S.
Davis Cup team and now network tennis commentators, have
different ideas on how to groom the next great American player.  Patrick, the U.S. Tennis Association’s general manager for
player development, focuses on giving youngsters with potential
the chance at year-round training in tennis-focused programs.
John calls for kids to live at home and make tennis part of a
relatively normal childhood, saying they risk burning out if the
focus on the sport is too intense.  John, 53, won seven Grand Slam singles titles and was
ranked No. 1 in the world for 170 weeks. Patrick, 46, won a
Grand Slam title in doubles at the 1989  French Open  and reached
a career-high of No. 28 in singles.  Different Approaches  Both of his brothers said they are happy to have another
McEnroe be part of the discussion about the future of U.S.
tennis.  “Mark has been the big man in the middle for many years
and I’m happy he’s in the game,” Patrick said last month in an
ESPN conference call.  “It’s nice to have someone you trust who also loves the
sport,” John added on the conference call. “Being the middle
brother, he can bridge the gap of Patrick and me on any issues
that I think in the long run is going to help all of us.”  Mark said he’s happy to let John’s name be the big draw and
to take a back seat to his brothers as they all try to bring the
buzz back to American tennis.  “John really shines when he’s out in front of people and
Patrick has become an excellent public speaker,” he said. “Me,
not so much, so I’m happy doing what I’m doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  New York  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  