-- Chalco Sinks to 2008 Low as Manufacturing Drops: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-04T20:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/chalco-sinks-to-2008-low-as-manufacturing-drops-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
fell to a one-month low, led by  commodity producers , after
manufacturing indexes signaled production in the world’s second-
largest economy slowed further in August.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slumped 0.9 percent to 87.14
yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 2.  Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. , the nation’s largest maker of the metal, tumbled to
the lowest since 2008 and PetroChina Co., the largest oil
explorer, traded at the biggest discount to Hong Kong shares in
a week.  Renren Inc. (RENN)  plunged to a seven-month low on concern the
company’s shift in focus may not boost profitability.  A government Purchasing Managers Index declined to 49.2 in
August from 50.1 in July, the statistics bureau said Sept. 1,
while a separate PMI report released Sept. 3 by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics was at 47.6, indicating the fastest
contraction in more than three years.  China ’s economic growth
has decelerated for six quarters, expanding at the slowest pace
since 2009. The People’s Bank of China has held off signaling
further easing measures after two interest-rate cuts this year.  “Investors are frustrated that nothing has happened just
yet in China after data showed manufacturing keeps
contracting,” Michael Gayed, chief investment strategist at
Pension Partners LLC, which advises on more than $150 million in
assets, said by phone yesterday from New York. “A rally in
Chinese stocks is being held back. The underperforming market
may pressure China to stimulate alongside the  Federal Reserve 
and the  European Central Bank .”  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., plunged 1.8 percent yesterday
to $32.46, the steepest slump since July 23. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares was little changed
at 1,404.94, as speculation European leaders will announce new
steps to tame the debt crisis tempered concern the economic
recovery is slowing.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 that
he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless rate he described
as a “grave concern.” The European Central Bank will hold a
policy meeting tomorrow during which President  Mario Draghi  may
unveil details of his bond-purchase plan to lower borrowing
costs.  American depositary receipts of Aluminum Corp., also known
as Chalco, lost 3.1 percent to $9.36, the lowest level since
Nov. 20, 2008.  SouthGobi Bid  The Beijing-based company said Sept. 3 it dropped its C$925
million ($938 million) bid for Mongolian coal producer  SouthGobi
Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  as it’s unlikely to win regulatory approval.
Chalco’s plans to acquire a stake in SouthGobi have been
hindered by the Mongolian government, which passed a law in May
restricting foreign state-owned companies from controlling key
assets.  Chalco, which proposed in April to buy a stake in coal
trader  Winsway Coking Coal Holding Ltd. (1733)  may abandon the plan
after withdrawing the bid for SouthGobi, Simon Francis, Hong
Kong-based regional head of metals and mining at HSBC Holdings
Plc, said in a report yesterday.  PetroChina’s ADRs sank for a sixth day, declining 2 percent
to $117.86, the lowest level since December. Its ADRs, each
representing 100 underlying shares in the oil producer, traded
2.1 percent below Hong Kong shares, the biggest discount in a
week. China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., the nation’s second-
largest oil company, slumped 3 percent to $91.38, the biggest
tumble in three months.  Oil Declines  Oil futures for October delivery slipped 1.2 percent to
$95.30 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index declined
more than analysts forecast and manufacturing contracted more
than initially estimated in the euro area.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-largest producer of
the fuel, retreated 2.6 percent to $14.05, the lowest level
since October 2009.  Coal inventories at the Chinese port of Qinhuangdao rose
6.8 percent to 6.95 million metric tons from a week ago, the
first increase in seven weeks, according to the Sept. 3 data
from the China Coal Transport & Distribution Association.  Renren, operator of a real-name social networking website
in China, tumbled 7 percent to a seven-month low of $3.56 in New
York.  The Beijing-based company is looking beyond online
advertising to mobile games business for profits, the Wall
Street Journal reported Sept. 3, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer Joe Chen.  “Investors are worried the company’s shift from its core
business, and its possible acquisitions to expand into new
areas, may also mean cash burning,” Andy Yeung, a technology
and Internet companies analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said by
phone from  New York  yesterday. “Games may be good for social
media platforms at the beginning, but can’t drive these
companies’ long-term growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  