-- How to Stop Cheating at Harvard (and Yale)
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-09-04T21:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/cheating-at-harvard-yale-etc-.html
Last spring, as students were apparently sharing answers with one another at
Harvard, I was finishing up my last semester as an undergraduate at Yale. And
though the historic Harvard-Yale rivalry begs me to say otherwise, I'll admit
that this cheating scandal could have happened at my alma mater too. It
implicates not only academic integrity but also exam integrity. Harvard hopes that by making the apparent misdeeds known -- on Thursday, the
university announced that 125 students are being investigated for  cheating on a
take-home final exam -- it can  incite a broader discussion  of academic honesty.
Jay Harris, Harvard's dean of undergraduate education,  told  the Harvard Crimson
last week that he wants to treat the incident as a "teaching opportunity." But
Harvard, whose brand of  academic excellence has surely been tainted by
worldwide coverage of the  cheating, should take this as a moment to
learn as well as teach about how best to examine its students in the
Internet  age. According to  the Crimson, the instructions for the exam in question read as
follows: "The exam is completely open book, open note, open internet, etc.
However, in all other regards, this should fall under similar guidelines that
apply to in-class exams. More specifically, students may not discuss the exam
with others -- this includes resident tutors, writing centers, etc." In my undergraduate career, I was warned against the use of "etc." It's vague
and imprecise. It's what you use when you can't -- or won't -- articulate your
argument. These instructions use "etc." twice. Why? Because in the realm of cheating -- and especially cheating on exams
like this one -- it would be all but impossible to detail what exactly is, and
what is not, permissible. Does "open book" include the scribbles in your used
textbook from the student last year? Does "open note" include those notes from a
friend when you were sick for -- OK, slept through -- lecture? Does "open
internet" allow you to post a question on an internet forum?  As one accused
student  told  the Boston Globe about those et ceteras: "If I posted my exam
answers on the Internet and you found them, could you then use my exam as a
source?" At Yale, I saw people e-mail essays home to mom and dad for a final edit.
They shared notes and study guides and old exams. I pushed my way into sessions
with that one teaching fellow whom everyone knew would walk you through the
problem set question by question -- and more important, answer by answer. I'm not trying to exculpate the students who cheated, who should be
appropriately punished. Instead, I wonder whether at some point in the summer,
as the case grew from  10 to 20 similar exams  to about 125 accusations, some
students -- who, as subsequent  news reports  have indicated, did things like
 sharing notes  and old study guides or going to the same  teaching fellows for
help  -- got lost in the fray of vague rules. So I think it's time -- as some in the blogosphere  have also suggested  -- for
universities to mandate in-class,  closed-book final exams .  Until professors can
itemize those "et ceteras" at the same speed at which the Internet creates new
exceptions, it's best just to shut the laptops altogether. Locking students in
silence, with teaching fellows serving as proctors rather than accomplices, can
test how much students internalized as they worked together on homework or
reading notes or study guides. Those who e-mailed every paper home for a final
look will struggle to edit. Those who chose bed over class won't remember the
diagram the professor drew on the board. And those who tape formulas to the
inside of the bathroom stall will still be cheating. An argument in favor of open-book or take-home exams is that they are meant
to mimic "real life," where one solves problems with time, reflection and
resources beyond a pencil and a light-blue examination booklet. But these skills
can be honed and measured in other ways: research, collaboration, even -- gasp!
-- conversations with teachers and other students. Besides, as someone who just
recently made the transition from college to real life, I can attest that there
is very little overlap. (Zara Kessler is an editor and producer for Bloomberg View.  Follow  her on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .