-- Chinese Executives Sign Letter Denouncing Short Sellers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-05T23:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/chinese-executives-sign-letter-denouncing-short-sellers.html
(Corrects to remove inaccurate reference to 360buy
investor and corrects job title of Microsoft’s Zhang in third
paragraph of story originally published Sept. 4)  A group of 61 Chinese entrepreneurs
and executives signed an open letter accusing  Citron Research 
and other short-sellers of manipulating information and
misleading investors in reports about Chinese companies.  Short-sellers “take advantage of the information asymmetry
between  China  and the U.S., and boldly tell lies, knowing that
their American readers have no way of verifying them,”
according to the  letter , which has been posted to an English-
language  website  created for an “ongoing fight against” short
sellers.  Executives who signed the letter include Lee Kai-fu, former
head of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s operations in China, Zhang Ya-qin,
chairman of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s research and development in Asia,
and Liu Qiangdong, founder and chief executive officer of 360buy
Jingdong Mall.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., has fallen 5.2 percent this
year as Citron Research, Muddy Waters LLC and other short
sellers published reports on companies including  New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has gained 11.9 percent during that same period.  In response, Citron posted a statement on its website
saying that the “attack” ignored its track record of
“exposing wrongdoing in both Chinese and U.S. companies.”
Short selling involves the sale of borrowed stock to profit from
a subsequent decline.  Citron’s recent targets include  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd. (3333) , which last month reported a 21 percent decline in
its first-half underlying profit. In a June report, Citron said
the Chinese developer “has used accounting tricks and bribes to
hide the fact that it is truly insolvent.” Evergrande denied
the report, said its  cash flow  is sufficient and filed a police
report in  Hong Kong  over allegations.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  