-- Chinese Medical Firm Sued by SEC Over Phony Weight-Loss Product
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-09-04T20:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/chinese-medical-firm-sued-by-sec-over-phony-weight-loss-product.html
China Sky One Medical Inc. (CSKI)  and its
top executives have been sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over claims they inflated revenue by about
$20 million with fake sales of a weight-loss product.  The pharmaceutical products firm, which began trading on
U.S. markets after a 2006 reverse merger, claimed in 2007 that a
Malaysian company would become exclusive distributor of its
“slim patch,” generating $1 million per month in sales, the
SEC said today in a lawsuit filed at federal court in
 California . Chief Executive Officer Yan-qing Liu certified the
false statements, which appeared in company disclosures through
2010 and continue to impact its balance sheet, the SEC said.  The agency’s suit against China Sky is the latest in a
series of regulatory actions targeting financial statements from
Chinese companies listed on U.S. exchanges. Several companies
have been delisted and the SEC has sued auditors for failing to
hand over information on firms.  “Accurate and reliable financial reporting is the bedrock
of our  capital markets ,” John McCoy III, associate director of
the SEC’s regional office in  Los Angeles , said in a statement.
“CSKI made a mockery of that by blatantly fabricating sales and
overstating its financial results.”  The company recorded $19.8 million in revenue from
Malaysian sales in 2007 and 2008, while the distributor bought
only $167,542 in slim patches during that period. The SEC is
seeking financial penalties against China Sky and Liu, and is
also asking the executive to disgorge ill-gotten gains.  China Sky One released a statement in February saying that
Liu was being treated for a life-threatening illness and that
the time he would spend working would be “substantially
reduced.” The firm also said that 26 mid-level managers had
recently resigned, including nine from its accounting unit and
two from internal controls, according to the statement.  A phone call outside of normal business hours to a number
listed for the Harbin, China-based company, wasn’t answered.
James Masella III, an attorney at law firm Blank Rome LLP in  New
York  who was listed by the SEC as defense counsel, said he isn’t
currently retained by the company in the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  