-- China Slowing Auto Sales Still Eclipse U.S.-Japan-Germany: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/china-slowing-auto-sales-still-eclipse-u-s-japan-germany-cars.html
Three years ago,  China  passed the
U.S. as the world’s biggest car market. By 2015, it will likely
exceed the U.S.,  Japan  and  Germany  combined -- and that takes
into account the current economic slowdown.  While sales growth has stalled the past two years, high
savings rates and pent-up demand mean Chinese consumers are
expected to buy 25.5 million vehicles three years from now,
according to the average forecast of IHS Automotive, Macquarie
Equities Research and the Economist Intelligence Unit. Most of
the new growth will come from less-developed central and western
areas, such as the city of  Chengdu , where global auto executives
are gathering for an industry forum tomorrow.  The top 10 automakers have announced at least $38.4 billion
of investments in the past two years to expand in China, banking
on the world’s biggest pool of first-time buyers to counter
slowing markets in  Europe  and Japan.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , and Volkswagen AG are adding capacity and introducing
a wider range of models in the country, tailored to cater to the
next wave of consumers.  “It’s right at the take-off stage,” Ford Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally said on Aug. 28 in Beijing, where the
second-biggest U.S. automaker announced it would begin
delivering the Lincoln luxury marque to China by the end of
2014. “People really do value the mobility” a car brings.  Economy Falters  The pace at which new cars are leaving China’s showrooms
has dropped in tandem with the nation’s economy. Gross domestic
product growth has slowed for the past six quarters to 7.6
percent in the three months through June. China’s manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank for the first time in nine months, the
National Bureau of Statistics said last week.  After economic stimulus measures increased sales 32 percent
in 2010 and 46 percent in 2009, overall vehicle deliveries
slowed to 2.5 percent last year, and will expand between 5
percent and 8 percent this year, the China Association of
Automotive Manufacturers forecast on July 11.  Even so, China’s passenger vehicle market, which tracks
sales of sedans, sport-utility vehicles, multi-purpose vehicles
and small dual-use light trucks, is expected to grow 11 percent
this year to 16.09 million units, CAAM said.  Deliveries of light vehicles in the U.S. -- the world’s
biggest auto market until 2009 -- are on pace to exceed 14
million units, the industry’s best year since 2007 and ,
according to Autodata Corp. Sales in Europe will probably fall 7
percent to a 17-year-low, the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association said in June.  IMF Estimates  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates the  U.S. economy 
will expand 2 percent this year, Japan’s by 2.4 percent, and
that the euro area will contract by 0.3 percent. Vehicle sales
in the U.S., Japan and Germany -- the three biggest auto markets
after China -- will total 24.9 million units in 2015, according
to IHS estimates.  “China is indispensable,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based
global head of automotive at researcher Ipsos. Even though the
market is slowing, “it is probably the only place with stable
and substantial growth in the long term.”  Chinese deliveries will still reach 22.9 million units even
in the event of a significant drop in exports or a debt crisis
at the nation’s banks, according to a bear-case estimate by
Sydney-based Macquarie.  Helping to insulate China’s car market from the economic
downturn is a  car-ownership  rate that stood at 44 per 1,000
people in 2011, versus a global average of 135, EIU data show.
In the U.S., six in 10 people own a car, the researcher said.  ‘China’s Turn’  “For us Chinese, owning a car is like fulfilling a
lifelong dream,” said Zhang Yeming, 30, as he stepped out of a
 Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  K2 sedan he’d been inspecting at an auto show
in  Shanghai  last month. “I’ve wanted a car since I was young,
and now I have the chance to own one. Developed nations have
already gone through that stage of car ownership, and now its
China’s turn.”  Ford will spend $4.9 billion to build eight factories and
debut 15 new models in China by 2015, as part of what the
company said was its biggest expansion push in half a century.  GM, which assembles Buick and Chevrolet sedans in China
with partner  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , said last April it would invest
as much as $7 billion in the nation till 2015. Detroit-based GM
credits success in China for making it  the “best positioned
global automaker,” CEO Dan Akerson said on Aug. 2.  “We’re taking a longer view of the market and preparing
for an industry that should grow to more than 30 million units
by the end of the decade,” said Akerson, whose Chinese joint
venture is the largest foreign automaker in the nation.  Look West  Top of carmakers’ expansion lists are the less developed
cities, where the government is promoting investment and
salaries are playing catch-up with the richer coastal provinces.  Consumers in Beijing, Shanghai, and coastal provinces of
Guangdong, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang accounted for almost half of
China’s light vehicle sales in 2005, according to data by
industry researcher LMC Automotive. In 2011, their share had
fallen to a third, the automotive research arm of Oxford-based
LMC Group said.  Less developed markets are expected to account for almost
80 percent of vehicle sales growth, according to Autofacts, a
research division of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, said in June it
would build a 170 million euro ($214 million) assembly plant in
Xinjiang province, western China. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based
automaker plans to invest 14 billion euros on Chinese production
and models by 2016.  Still Behind  While incomes are rising rapidly, they’re lagging behind
those in coastal cities in absolute terms. Per capita disposable
income for urban residents in  Wuhan , for example, rose 15.3
percent in the first half, versus 12.5 percent in Shanghai,
according to local government data. At 14,585  yuan  ($2,297),
that’s still 30 percent lower than than the 20,689 income for
urban residents in China’s financial capital.  Automakers such as GM,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
are launching their own low-priced, China-only brands to compete
against domestic rivals in this market.  GM started selling the 62,800 yuan Baojun 630 sedan a year
ago through its SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive Co. joint venture. The
1.5-liter engine sedan, whose brand name means  “Treasured
Horse,” competes with China’s best-selling sedan in 2010, the
52,900 yuan F3 sedan made by Shenzhen-based BYD Co.  Companies have to design products for the Chinese consumer,
instead of merely taking a successful model from overseas and
selling it there, said  Janet Lewis , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
 Macquarie Research .  “If you look at who’s been most successful recently, it’s
carmakers like VW, GM, who have all been aggressive at launching
products designed for the Chinese market,” Lewis said in an
interview on Aug. 31. “That will be the key to success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  