-- China Boosts Rail Spending for Third Time to Revive Growth
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-09-04T09:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/china-boosts-rail-spending-for-third-time-to-help-revive-growth.html
China boosted plans for spending on
railway construction this year to 496 billion  yuan  ($78
billion), according to  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390) , as the
government seeks to revive flagging economic growth.  Spending on new railways will total at least 67 billion
yuan a month until the end of the year, Bai Zhongren, president
of state-controlled China Railway Group, told reporters in  Hong
Kong  today. The ministry has funding for the new plan, which is
an increase from 470 billion yuan, he said.  “This all shows the government’s determination to boost
rail development,” Bai said. “The government and leaders have
stressed many times that the nation should have a scientific and
sustainable development of railways.”  The new figure, 7.6 percent more than last year’s 461
billion yuan spending, is at least the third increase since the
start of July when Premier  Wen Jiabao  said promoting investment
growth is key to stabilizing economic expansion that has fallen
to the slowest pace in three years. It also marks a renewed
focus on building railways after a fatal crash last year
prompted safety concerns and a construction slowdown.  “The government sees that underlying economic activity is
continuing to deteriorate, so they have to do more in terms of
investment,” said Karen Li, a Hong Kong-based JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst. Railway investments “will be rolled out in a more
aggressive way” in order to meet the new target, she said.  The ministry of railways is also holding a working group
meeting next week, which is an unusual time and a sign that
funding plans are secure, she said.  China Railway Group and  China Railway Construction Corp. (1186) ,
the nation’s biggest builders of railways, both gained in Hong
Kong trading. China Railway rose 2.5 percent, the most in two
weeks, to HK$2.92 at close of trading while CRCC rose 1.7
percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.7 percent.  The companies, both based in Beijing, posted declines in
first-half profit because of a 39 percent cut in spending on new
lines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  