-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Dropped in July
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-04T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-dropped-in-july.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in July for the first time in four months as a
plunge in home-improvement outlays overshadowed gains in
homebuilding.  The 0.9 percent drop was the biggest decrease in a year and
followed a 0.4 percent gain in June, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The  median  estimate of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent rise. Outlays on
remodeling projects, which are volatile, slumped 5.5 percent.  The report also showed public spending declined in July as
budget constraints at all levels of government agencies curbed
new building initiatives. Commercial projects also took a
breather as looming fiscal policy changes deter developers,
while single- and multifamily home expenditures advanced as
record-low  borrowing costs  boost sales.  “The recovery will take place in fits and starts,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before the report. At the same time,
“the improvement should continue this year. There is pent-up
demand for homes.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.3
percent to a gain of 1 percent. Construction spending increased
9.3 percent in the 12 months ended in July, before adjusting for
seasonal variations.  Private construction spending declined 1.2 percent from the
prior month.  Housing Gains  Single-family homebuilding outlays climbed 1.5 percent, and
multifamily advanced 2.8 percent. Private non-residential
projects decreased spending by 0.9 percent for a second month,
led by a decline in factories and power plants.  Recent reports indicate a pickup in demand. Purchases of
 new homes  rose more than projected in July to match a two-year
high annual pace, Commerce Department data show. Previously-
owned house sales rebounded from an eight-month low, the
National Association of Realtors reported.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
reported a better-than-estimated profit and an increase in
revenue for its third quarter ended July 31.  “The housing recovery is being driven by pent-up demand,
very low  interest rates  and attractively priced homes,” Douglas Yearley Jr., chief executive officer of the Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based company, said on an Aug. 22 conference call
with analysts. “With an industry-wide shortage of inventory in
many markets, we are enjoying some pricing power.”  Spending on public construction fell 0.4 percent from the
prior month, today’s report showed. Federal construction
spending declined 1.3 percent, while state and local agencies
cut outlays by 0.3 percent.  Some companies are planning new construction. MGM Resorts
International, the largest casino operator on the  Las Vegas
Strip , in August said it wants to develop an $800 million
gambling, hotel and entertainment project in Springfield,
 Massachusetts . The project, if approved, would be located on
about 10 acres of land heavily damaged by a June 2011 tornado,
the Las Vegas-based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  