-- Copper Falls in London as U.S. Factory Slump Dims Demand Outlook
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-09-04T18:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/copper-falls-in-london-as-u-s-factory-slump-dims-demand-outlook.html
Copper fell for the first time in
three sessions in  London  after U.S. manufacturing contracted for
the third straight month, adding to signs of a global economic
slowdown that threatens metal demand.  The  Institute for Supply Management  said today that its
U.S. factory index fell to 49.6 in August from 49.8 in July.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a reading of 50, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. In  China ,
manufacturing last month contracted at the fastest pace since
March 2009, a private survey showed yesterday.  “The data on manufacturing is not positive, and confidence
is waning a bit,” Harry Denny, a broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-
based PVM Futures Inc., said in a telephone interview. “People
are reminded that there’s still trouble out there.”  Copper for delivery in three months slipped 0.6 percent to
settle at $7,635 a metric ton ($3.46 a pound) at 5:50 p.m. on
the London Metal Exchange. The metal gained 1.5 percent in the
previous two sessions.  In  New York , copper futures for December delivery rose 0.3
percent from Aug. 31 to close at $3.469 a pound on the Comex.
Floor trading was closed yesterday for a U.S. holiday.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for the
European Union’s Aaa credit rating to negative from stable
yesterday. A report showed euro-area manufacturing contracted
more than estimated in August. The  European Central Bank  may
unveil details of a new plan to buy bonds of indebted nations at
a regular meeting of officials on Sept. 6.  Declines in copper may be limited by speculation that
central banks in China and the U.S., the world’s leading
consumers of industrial metal, will take steps to spur their
economies.  “There’s been a slew of discouraging economic data
lately,” Michael Turek, a senior director at Newedge Group in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “Bad news means a
greater probability of stimulus.”  In London, zinc and aluminum rose, while tin, lead and
nickel fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  