-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall as Europe Leaders Debate Plan
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-09-04T20:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-as-europe-leaders-meet-on-crisis.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell as European leaders debate a bond-buying program to address
the region’s fiscal crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of
101 basis points, the lowest in about a week, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  European chiefs are meeting in  Rome  and Berlin today, two
days before the  European Central Bank  holds its policy meeting,
amid investor concern that further economic weakness will
pressure companies’ ability to repay debt obligations. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said the bank’s primary mandate compels
it to intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of
 interest rates  and ensure the euro’s survival.  “The consensus seems to think that Draghi will deliver
details of a bond-buying program,” said  Adrian Miller , director
of global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in  New York .
“If he does follow through with that, that will obviously be a
positive and spreads should tighten further.”  Draghi told lawmakers in a closed-door session at the
European Parliament in Brussels yesterday that the bank has lost
control of borrowing costs in the 17-nation monetary union.
 Bloomberg News  obtained a recording of his comments, some of
which were published by Italian news agency AGI yesterday.
Draghi’s comments come before the ECB’s Governing Council is due
to decide on his bond-buying proposal.  U.S. Manufacturing  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped
from a two-week high of 102.9 on Aug. 30. U.S. bond markets were
closed yesterday for the Labor Day public holiday.  Corporate issuers led by Deere & Co. and Honda Motor Co.
offered the most dollar-denominated debt today in almost six
months after yields on U.S. investment-grade bonds dropped to a
record low.  Deere, the largest maker of agricultural equipment, and
Tokyo-based Honda led borrowers selling or planning to sell at
least $16.4 billion of bonds, the most since $26.9 billion on
March 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales this
year have averaged $5.7 billion per day while August issuance,
the busiest on record for the month, averaged $5 billion.  Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted for a third month in
August. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index  fell
to 49.6 last month, the lowest since July 2009, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected an August reading of 50, which is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  