-- Cross-Border Women’s Soccer League May Lead to Men’s Competition
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-04T06:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/cross-border-women-s-soccer-league-may-lead-to-men-s-competition.html
A start-up women’s soccer league
featuring teams from the Netherlands and  Belgium  may lead to
similar cross-border men’s competitions in  Europe .  UEFA , the region’s soccer governing body, approved the 16-
team BeNe League for a three-year trial. If successful, the
merger could be followed in senior men’s divisions, allowing
clubs from smaller leagues to increase revenue and compete with
wealthier English, Spanish and German teams.  “We are having discussions with the associations on supra
national leagues,” UEFA General Secretary Gianni Infantino said
in an interview. “It’s those who are more geographically
aligned like the Nordics, Balkans. We have to wait for this test
to be finished.”  Soccer clubs from countries with smaller populations have
been the losers as success has increasingly been determined by
the size of domestic television markets. Teams such as
Amsterdam-based Ajax, which won the last of its four European
Cup titles in 1995, can’t match the salaries on offer in richer
leagues and has to regularly sell players. An Ajax women’s team
will be one of eight from the Netherlands in the BeNe League.  Since Ajax’s victory against AC Milan 17 years ago, there
has only been one winner of Europe’s elite club competition to
come from a country other than  England , Germany,  Italy  or  Spain .
Porto of  Portugal  lost manager  Jose Mourinho  and several players
to bigger teams after its surprise 2004 victory.  Atlantic League  The implementation of a trans-national league has been
discussed before, including a concept called the Atlantic League
which would have included teams from Scotland, Portugal, Belgium
and the Netherlands. The plan collapsed in 2001 following
opposition from UEFA, which said teams in the breakaway league
wouldn’t be able to play in its tournaments.  The main issue for such a proposal would be deciding how
clubs qualify for UEFA’s competitions, which currently occurs on
a country-by-country basis, Infantino said.  While the top teams from the second-tier leagues have
struggled in the  Champions League , they dominate their domestic
rivals. In  Scotland , Glasgow rivals Rangers and Celtic have won
every championship since 1985. Rangers were penalized earlier
this year for financial irregularities and demoted to the last
tier, leaving Celtic as the 1-66 favorite to win the title
according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill. Celtic’s 52.6 million
pounds ($83.6 million) in 2011 revenue was six times less than
record 19-time English champion Manchester United.  Sean Hamil, co-director of the Birkbeck Sport Business
Centre at the University of London, welcomed the trial.  ‘One Go’  “UEFA is acknowledging there are problems in the second-
and third-tier leagues in terms of how sustainable and how
competitive they are,” Hamil said in an interview. “They’re
right to go gingerly. To rush head long in it would be wrong.
They’re only going to get one go at it.”  In the BeNe League, the Belgian and Dutch teams will first
play rivals from their own countries before the top four from
each meet in the New Year. There also will be games between the
four lowest-placed clubs.  “As two little countries together we will be more
powerful,” BeNe League spokeswoman Ingrid Vanherle said in an
interview. “All eyes are on us to see if it’s successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  