-- Democrat-Backing Super-PACs Sponsor ‘Super-O-Rama’ for Obama
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-04T19:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/democrat-backing-super-pacs-sponsor-super-o-rama-for-obama.html
Democratic groups are rewarding
donors in Charlotte, North Carolina, this week with special
events including a Wednesday dinner with celebrity chef Alice
Waters and a “Super-O-Rama” festival following President
 Barack Obama ’s nomination acceptance speech.  Like their Republican counterparts in Tampa, Florida, last
week, the Democratic groups are using the party’s national
convention as a way to reach out to donors, thanking them with
perks -- and, of course, asking for more cash. Invitations to
some of the top events were posted online by Politico and the
Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based watchdog group.  As reported in  Political Capital , Bloomberg’s online blog,
Waters, who helped start the organic-food movement, is a guest
at a “Celebration of Truthiness” event planned tomorrow night
at Charlotte’s Mint Museum. Media Matters for America, American
Bridge to the 21st Century and the American Independence News
Network are listed as hosts.  Other guests at the events surrounding the Democratic
National Convention in Charlotte include Democratic strategists
 Paul Begala  and  James Carville . Former Democratic National
Committee Chairman Howard Dean, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend and
Minnesota Senator  Al Franken  also are planning to attend.  The invitation carries a caveat for Franken: The senator
“is appearing at this event only as a special guest. Senator
Franken is not asking for funds or donations.”  Soros Giving  Billionaire financier  George Soros  gave $1 million in June
to American Bridge, which conducts opposition research to assist
Democrats, and his aide says he also funds Media Matters, a
nonprofit media watchdog. Soros is the 22nd-richest person in
the world, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , with
an estimated net worth of $21.9 billion.  Donors to Obama-backing Priorities USA Action or House and
Senate super-PACs allied with Priorities can participate in
Thursday night’s “Super-O-Rama,” taking place at the North
Carolina Music Factory. Actress  Jessica Alba  and rock band
Scissor Sisters are among those expected to attend.  The big donors start their special convention activities
with a cocktail hour with Begala tonight. They’re also eligible
to attend a political brunch tomorrow and break bread with House
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, among other elected officials. The
invitation notes the federal office-holders in attendance “are
not asking for funds or donations.”  Democratic outside groups want to leverage these convention
activities for an infusion of cash, since they’re being out-
raised by the Republican groups, according to reports filed with
the Federal Election Commission.  Republican-leaning super-PACs had spent more than $161
million through the end of July, compared with the $45 million
Democratic super-PACs had spent, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based campaign-finance
research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  