-- Desire2Learn, Startup From RIM’s Hometown, Gets Funding
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-04T13:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/desire2learn-from-rim-s-hometown-attracts-80-million-in-funding.html
Desire2Learn Inc., an online-
education startup from  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s birthplace of
Waterloo, Ontario, raised $80 million in venture funding, aiming
to prove that the area is more than just a BlackBerry town.  New Enterprise Associates Inc., a venture firm with offices
in  Menlo Park ,  California , and Omers Ventures, the investing arm
of the Ontario Municipal Employee Retirement System, led the
financing, according to a statement today.  Desire2Learn plans to use the money to hire more staff and
step up its marketing and research spending. The company already
delivers online teaching tools to 700 customers and 8 million
students, John Baker, Desire2Learn’s founder and chief executive
officer, said in an interview.  “The partners we’re working with are believers in helping
to transform the educational experience in the U.S.,” he said.  Desire2Learn joins  OpenText Corp. (OTEX)  in providing a second act
for Waterloo, which is suffering through thousands of job cuts
at RIM. The BlackBerry maker has been paring its operations as
sales plunge and its market share shrinks. CEO Thorsten Heins is
counting on a new lineup of phones, due next year, to reverse
the company’s fortunes.  OpenText, a 20-year-old maker of  business software , saw
revenue grow 17 percent to $1.21 billion in its most recent
fiscal year and employs more than 4,500 workers worldwide.
Desire2Learn has about 560 employees, up from 350 at the
beginning of this year. It plans to add at least 150 more by the
end of the year, Baker said.  Education Focus  For NEA, which recently completed a $2.6 billion fund, the
deal continues its focus on the online-education market.
Desire2Learn works with elementary schools, colleges and adult-
continuing education across the U.S., including  New York .  Desire2Learn is already profitable, Baker said. The cash
injection, its first round of funding, will allow the company to
ramp up its expansion, he said.  “We didn’t raise the money because we needed it but
because we wanted to accelerate our growth,” Baker said. “We
were a profitable high-growth company prior, and we’re hoping to
remain a profitable high-growth company going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  