-- Deutsche Bank Creates Tradable U.S. Core Inflation Index
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-09-04T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/deutsche-bank-creates-tradable-u-s-core-inflation-index.html
Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
lender, is offering an over-the-counter traded index that tracks
U.S. inflation excluding food and energy prices.  The DB Core US CPI Index follows the core  consumer price
index , which doesn’t include the more volatile components of CPI,
providing “a more accurate measure of the overall trend in
consumer prices,” the Frankfurt-based firm said today in a
statement. Consumer prices increased 1.4 percent in July from a
year earlier, compared with 2.1 percent for the “core” index,
according Bureau of Labor data.  “We are seeing interest from clients for a variety of
reasons that include obtaining exposure to a more stable measure
of inflation, greater diversification from other assets
classes,” as well as using the index as a hedge, Allan Levin,
head of inflation trading for  North America  at Deutsche Bank in
New York, said in the statement.  The DB  Core Inflation  index is implying 1.6 percent
inflation in the next 12 months based on one-year inflation swap
prices, Deutsche Bank said.  The  Federal Reserve  is considering adding to the $2.3
trillion of  government securities  it has bought since 2008 to
reduce unemployment stuck at more than 8 percent. While the
central bank’s unprecedented measures have sparked concern that
the flood of liquidity will spur runaway price increases, core
inflation hasn’t climbed to more than 2.3 percent since
September 2008.  “There may be a scenario where the increase in stimulus
could create a boom in the future which would cause wage
inflation and would also cause other prices to go up,” Levin
said in a telephone interview, referring to Fed easing. “We
expect to see  hedge funds , insurance companies and asset
managers trade the index.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  