-- DLA Piper, Jones Day, Baker Botts: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-04T11:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/dla-piper-jones-day-baker-botts-bird-bird-business-of-law.html
DLA Piper, the world’s  second-
largest  law firm by revenue, and  Jones Day , the top legal
adviser on mergers by deal count, said they bid for licenses in
Singapore as the Asian city further opens its legal market.  Twenty-three foreign law firms applied for the licenses as
at the close of submissions Aug. 31, the Ministry of Law said in
an e-mailed statement. The licenses allow foreign firms to
practice Singapore corporate law and hire locally qualified
lawyers.  K&L Gates LLP, based in Pittsburgh, and Watson, Farley &
Williams LLP, based in London, also said they bid for the so-
called Qualifying Foreign Law Practice licenses in Singapore,
where $35.6 billion of mergers and acquisitions have been
announced this year, a 25 percent increase on the same period in
2011, while deals in U.S. and Europe fell.  “Asia is a key driver of global economic growth,” said
Sushma Jobanputra, the partner in charge of Jones Day’s
Singapore operations. “With that growth will come the increased
need for Singapore law advice.”  The number of licenses to be awarded will depend on the
quality of the applications, Singapore’s law ministry has  said .
Determining factors include the firm’s track record, number of
lawyers, commitment to offshore work and practice areas.  The law ministry, which will assess the applications with
officials from the  finance ministry , central bank and attorney-
general’s office,  said  it expects to award the licenses by the
end of the year.  White & Case LLP, Latham & Watkins LLP, Clifford Chance
LLP, Herbert Smith LLP, Allen & Overy LLP and Norton Rose LLP
won the first licenses in 2008. They committed to double their
revenue, staffing and profits in the city in five years. Twenty
firms including Washington-based Jones Day had applied.  Foreign firms could previously advise on Singapore
corporate law through joint ventures or refer clients to a local
practice. The number of foreign lawyers in the Southeast Asian
city has almost doubled to 1,200 at the end of 2011 from 633 in
2007.  “The license has been very helpful to us in meeting the
needs of our clients since there is an increasing demand to
provide ‘one-stop’ shopping on matters,” said  Barrye Wall , the
Singapore-based regional section head for White & Case in Asia.  For more, click here.  Clint Eastwood’s Surprise Convention Speech Jabs at Lawyers  On the night Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney
had the chance to present a prime-time case for election, the
first thing network television viewers saw as the stations
tuned-in to the ongoing national convention at 10 p.m. was actor
 Clint Eastwood  on stage. He took a jab at lawyers in his speech.  Forgetting that Romney is a Harvard Law School graduate,
Eastwood took a swipe at lawyers, saying, “Always weighing
everything,” he said. “They are always Devil’s advocating this
and bifurcating this and bifurcating that.”  While engaged in a lengthy, rambling imaginary conversation
with a foul-mouthed empty chair standing in for President Barack Obama, Eastwood asked, “What do you want me to tell Romney?”
the 82-year-old actor asked at one point.  “I can’t tell him to do that,” he continued, apparently
in reference to a physically impossible sexual act, eliciting
ripples of laughter from the delegates. “I can’t tell him to do
that to himself.”  The opening skit was a departure from the usual tone of
political conventions, which for decades now have been largely
scripted events. It was immediately mocked on Twitter, with an
@InvisibleChair account created within minutes and  Mike Murphy ,
a Republican political consultant who is now a television writer
in Hollywood, posting the message: “Note to file: Actors need a
script.”  “A great night for Mitt Romney just got sidetracked by
Clint Eastwood,” said former Republican Representative  Joe Scarborough  in a Twitter message. “Wow. That was bad.”  Delegates were spellbound by the comedy routine. When he
declared, “We own this country,” delegates gave him a standing
ovation. When he said if a politician didn’t get the job done
voters should let him go, delegates chanted, “Let him go.”  For more, click here.  Highland Capital Spat With Ex-Partner Daugherty Turns to Lawyers  Highland Capital Management LP’s courthouse feud with
former executive Patrick Daugherty over his statements and the
investment advisory firm’s money has veered into the conduct of
Daugherty’s legal counsel.  Judge Martin Hoffman in Dallas heard Aug. 31 an argument
from lawyers for Highland and Chief Executive Officer James Dondero seeking sanctions against Daugherty and his attorneys at
Houston-based Looper Reed & McGraw PC.  Highland lawyer James Stanton told Hoffman that Daugherty
and his attorneys misled the judge about talking with the media
when they filed a counterclaim in May that included privileged
and confidential information about Highland.  “This is not how it’s supposed to be under the Texas
lawyers’ creed,” Stanton told the judge.  Ruth Ann Daniels, Daugherty’s lawyer, responded, “The
question is, ‘What is confidential and privileged about anything
in our lawsuit?’”  Hoffman, who didn’t rule on the matter, said he would
address the issue of what information might be confidential and
privileged at a future hearing. He said he would issue sanctions
if he believes the material in Daugherty’s counterclaim is
confidential.  Dallas-based Highland sued Daugherty for allegedly making
defamatory comments about the business to investors and for
breach of contract on April 11. Two weeks earlier Daugherty, who
left the firm in September 2011, had testified against James
Dondero as a witness for Rebecca Dondero at a hearing in the
couple’s divorce case.  “He told me his plan was to get his net worth down and pay
her as little as possible,” Daugherty said James Dondero had
told him when they’d met for drinks in February.  Daugherty denied the Highland allegations and in May
countersued, claiming he is owed an unspecified amount of money
from a joint venture and firm employee retention and incentive
plans.  Daugherty and his lawyers also filed a request for the
imposition of sanctions against Highland and its lawyers,
Andrews Kurth LLP, accusing them of waging “a vicious smear
campaign,” after which the case was briefly sealed at
plaintiffs’ request.  In an Aug. 20 filing, Daugherty and Looper Reed also
responded to the sanctions request by calling it “baseless”
and “devoid of merit.”  “Highland initiated this litigation to defame Daugherty,
to avoid paying him the compensation and ownership interests in
Highland affiliated entities that he is owed and to punish
Daugherty for his truthful testimony in Dondero’s divorce
proceedings,” according to the defense filing.  The case is Highland Capital Management LP v. Daugherty,
12-04005, District Court of Dallas County, Texas, 68th Judicial
District.  Firm News  Baker Botts Names Jamie Baker New International Partner  Jamie Baker ,  Baker Botts  LLP’s Washington office partner in
charge, became the firm’s international partner on Sept. 1.  Baker’s practice concentrates on domestic and international
commercial and trade-related matters and transactions. Among his
clients are Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., Interros Holdings and East
Mediterranean Gas JSC.  Paul Cuomo, a partner in the firm’s antitrust and
competition practice based in Washington, will become deputy
partner in charge in that office. In the newly created role,
Cuomo will provide support to the management of the office.  Baker Botts currently has seven international offices in:
 Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Dubai,  Hong Kong , London, Moscow and Riyadh.
The firm has over 725 lawyers and 13 offices around the world.  Moves  Regulator Partner Heiko Hoefler joins Bird & Bird in Frankfurt  Bird & Bird hired Heiko Hoefler as partner in the
international regulatory and administrative practice group. He
joins the Frankfurt office on Oct. 1, along with two associates.  Hoefler was previously the head of the German energy and
infrastructure group at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP,
according to the firm’s website.  Hoefler has experience advising companies, banks, foreign
investors, institutions and governments. He specializes in
complex investments and transactions in the public sector, as
well as advising on variety of infrastructure and technology
projects and public-private partnerships in Germany and
internationally, the firm said.  Bird & Bird has 23 offices in 16 countries in Europe, the
Middle East and Asia.  Litigation  Ex-UBS Executive Ghavami Guilty in Municipal Bid-Rig Case  Ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  managing director Peter Ghavami and two former
colleagues were convicted of rigging bids for contracts for
investing proceeds of municipal bond sales.  After about two days of deliberations, jurors in New York
found Ghavami, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty guilty Aug. 31 of
 wire fraud  conspiracy for rigging bids from August 2001 to July
2002 and arranging to pay kickbacks to the brokerage firm CDR
Financial Products Inc. in exchange for help in manipulating
auctions.  Ghavami and Heinz were further found guilty of wire fraud
in connection with making payments. Welty was found not guilty
of wire fraud, and Heinz was found not guilty of one count of
witness tampering.  The trial followed a five-year federal antitrust
investigation into the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market .  “We’re disappointed with the verdict but we look forward
to pressing ahead in this fight,”  Charles Stillman , a lawyer
for Ghavami, said after the verdict.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, said, “We respect the
verdict. We will continue to fight hard for Gary in the next
stage of the process.”  Lawyers for Welty,  Preston Burton  and  Gregory L. Poe ,
declined to comment.  Sentencing dates have not yet been set for the three men.
The most serious charge, conspiracy to commit wire fraud,
carries a 30-year maximum sentence.  “A lot of people in this industry lost their moral
compass,” Kalina Tulley, a Justice Department lawyer, said Aug.
28 in closing arguments.  Defense lawyers blamed the cooperating witnesses for much
of the alleged illegal activity.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Pentagon Says Ex-Navy Seal’s Book Broke Non-Disclosure Pact  The Pentagon said a former U.S. Navy SEAL who wrote a
firsthand account of the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden 
violated an agreement he signed never to divulge classified
information and may face legal action.  The former SEAL broke the agreement by writing the new
book, “No Easy Day: The Firsthand Account of the Mission That
Killed Osama  Bin Laden ,” Pentagon General Counsel Jeh Johnson
wrote in a letter. The letter was addressed to the author, who
wrote the book under the pen name “Mark Owen,” care of the
book’s publisher.  “In the judgment of the Department of Defense, you are in
material breach and violation of the non-disclosure agreements
you signed” in 2007, Johnson wrote to Owen. “Further public
dissemination of your book will aggravate your breach and
violation of your agreements.”  Johnson said the letter was meant to put the author on
notice that “the department is considering pursuing against you
and all those acting in concert with you all remedies legally
available to us.”  The author was first identified publicly by  Fox News  as
Matt Bissonnette, 36, of La Mirada, California, who was a member
of the elite counterterrorism SEAL Team Six that killed Bin
Laden. Among Bissonnette’s awards and decorations are five
Bronze Stars with “V” for Valor device, according to a Navy
information sheet released earlier this week. The Bronze Star is
the military’s fourth-highest award for bravery.  The 2007 agreement “invites, but by no means requires Mr.
Owen to submit materials for pre-publication review,”
Bissonnette’s attorney, Robert Luskin of the Washington firm of
Patton Boggs LLP, said in a letter Aug. 31 to Johnson.  Although the agreement “does require pre-publication
security review under certain circumstances, that obligation is
expressly limited to specifically identified” classified so-
called Special Access programs spelled out on the date it was
signed, Luskin wrote.  “It is difficult to understand how the matter that is the
subject of Mr. Owen’s book could conceivably be encompassed by
the non-disclosure agreement that you have identified,” Luskin
said.  The book is scheduled to be published Sept. 4 by Dutton, a
unit of Penguin Group USA, and is already No. 1 on  Amazon.com ’s
best-seller list. Bissonnette co-wrote the book with Kevin
Maurer, who has previously written about special-operations
warfare.  For more, click here.  Bankruptcy  MF Global Trustee Giddens Says Rival Freeh Conflicted on Claims  MF Global Inc. trustee James Giddens, of Hughes Hubbard &
Reed LLP, said he’s better suited to pursue claims against
former directors and officers of the brokerage than  Louis Freeh ,
a rival trustee unwinding the bankrupt parent company.  Giddens struck an agreement with lawyers for the plaintiffs
to pursue claims to recover money for customers and creditors of
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which filed the eighth-biggest U.S.
bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on Oct. 30. Freeh objected to the
agreement, claiming general estate creditors would be
shortchanged.  As a customers and general claim holders’ representative,
Giddens doesn’t “have the same apparent conflicts the Chapter
11 trustee has with some potential defendants who are employees
or creditors of the Chapter 11 debtors,” James Kobak, Giddens’s
lawyer, wrote in a court filing yesterday in Manhattan
bankruptcy court. “Concerns that the interests of MFGI’s
general creditors will not be protected are misplaced.”  Giddens said he determined claims for breach of fiduciary
duty and negligence against former MF Global Chief Executive
Officer Jon S. Corzine, former chief financial officer Henri
Steenkamp and former assistant treasurer Edith O’Brien, among
others, which he plans to pursue to recover more money for
creditors. A hearing on Giddens’ request to cooperate with the
class-action plaintiffs is scheduled for Sept. 5, according to
court records.  Because the agreement calls for general estate creditors to
be paid only if the customers are paid in full first, the
customers “are clearly not properly incentivized to litigate
fully,” Freeh said in an objection filed Aug. 29.  He said that while some lawsuit proceeds may belong to
customers, it is up to the general estate to manage them.  MF Global Holdings, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Co-Chairman Corzine until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed for
bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds
of some of Europe’s most indebted nations led to margin calls.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  