-- Dollar-Funding Stress Abates, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-04T14:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/dollar-funding-stress-abates-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled strains in short-term dollar funding abated.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.41185 percent, down from 0.41435 percent
yesterday, and the lowest since October according to the British
Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks
reluctance to lend, narrowed to 28.7 basis points from 28.9
basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, rose to 24.9 basis points from 24 basis
points yesterday, according to the second rolling three-month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 0.75 basis point to 16.5 basis points. The gap,
a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor, touched 16 basis points on Aug. 31, the smallest since
May 2011.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Company Funding  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $6.8 billion to $1.032 trillion in the week ended Aug. 29,
according to Federal Reserve data.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market fell to the least since June 2011. The
three-month cross-currency basis swap was 27.3 basis points
below Euribor, compared with 28 basis points below yesterday.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 28.7 basis points, from minus
28.9 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  