-- Draghi Told Lawmakers ECB Must Buy Bonds for Euro’s Survival
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-09-04T15:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/draghi-told-parliament-ecb-must-buy-bonds-for-euro-s-survival.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the bank’s primary mandate compels it to
intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of interest
rates and ensure the euro’s survival.  Mounting his strongest case yet for ECB bond purchases,
Draghi told lawmakers in a closed-door session at the European
Parliament in Brussels yesterday that the bank has lost control
of borrowing costs in the 17-nation monetary union.  Bloomberg
News  obtained a recording of his comments, some of which were
published by Italian news agency AGI yesterday.  “We cannot pursue price stability now with a fragmented
euro area because changes in interest rates affect only one
country, or two countries at most,” Draghi said. “They have no
importance whatsoever in the rest of the euro area.” ECB bond
purchases are therefore “a way to comply with our primary
mandate,” he said, adding: “Frankly, all this also has to do
very much with the continuing existence of the euro.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB referred to the closed-door format
of the hearing and did not provide any further comment. Draghi’s
comments come two days before the ECB’s Governing Council is due
to decide on his bond-buying proposal, expectations for which
have already driven down yields in  Italy  and  Spain . In the
testimony, Draghi rebuts arguments that bond purchases stretch
the central bank’s mandate.  “Do we give up our primary mandate for maintaining price
stability?” he said. “It’s exactly the opposite situation.”  Draghi’s Plan  The euro rose more than a quarter of a cent after the
comments were published before falling to trade at $1.2564 at 5
p.m. in Frankfurt. Spanish and Italian 10-year spreads to
German bunds tightened further.  Draghi’s plan involves the ECB buying bonds on the
secondary market of countries that ask  Europe ’s bailout fund to
purchase their debt on the primary market, which would require
them to sign up to conditions. Neither Spain nor Italy has made
such a request yet.  The ECB sent proposals for the plan to national central
banks today ahead of the Sept. 6 policy meeting.  Germany ’s
Bundesbank opposes the ECB purchasing  government bonds , saying
it is too close to state financing for its comfort.  Monetary Financing  Draghi’s comments to the lawmakers go further than his
defense of the plan in Germany’s Die Zeit newspaper last week,
in which he said the ECB sometimes needs to use unconventional
tools to fulfill its mandate. He told the members of parliament
that the ECB’s interventions will not amount to monetary state
financing as long as it purchases short-dated bonds.  “If we are to buy long-term bonds we are in a very
delicate situation,” he said. “But if we go on the short-term
part of the market where bonds have a length of time, a maturity
of up to one year, two years or even three years, these bonds
will easily expire, so there is very little monetary financing
if anything at all that we are doing.”  While many countries have made “substantial progress”
recently, “we can’t exclude that at some point in time this
progress can easily stop because of adjustment fatigue,” Draghi
said. “So that’s why we are asking for conditionality combined
with these interventions by the ECB. I think this could stand
against the charges that we are doing monetary financing,
because we are not doing it.”  Economic Outlook  Draghi started his testimony yesterday with an overview of
the economic outlook.  He said financial-market sentiment “has somewhat calmed
down over the past few weeks.” Still, the situation “remains
fragile and it’s surrounded by heightened uncertainty,” he
said. “Looking ahead we continue to expect only a gradual
recovery with subdued momentum and risks on the downside.”  Draghi said risks to the inflation outlook “are still
broadly balanced, but certainly further intensification of
financial-market tensions has the potential to affect the
balance of risks for both growth and inflation towards the
downside.”  Lending to households and private sector companies is
“still very, very sluggish,” he said.  Asset Classes  Draghi said the debt crisis has distorted yields across a
range of asset classes.  “Markets have perceptions of a certain country in a
crisis,” he said. “Therefore they ask for higher  interest
rates  in order to buy the bonds issued by the country. And when
I say bonds I don’t only mean government bonds. Bank bonds,
corporate bonds. Markets are asking for higher and higher
interest rates, which in return reinforce the situation of the
perception of the crisis. That’s where the main justification to
step in is for the ECB and start buying bonds.”  Italian and Spanish bond yields have receded since Draghi
promised on July 26 to do whatever is needed to preserve the
euro. While Spain’s two-year rate has dropped to 3.10 percent
from 6.65 percent on July 24, it compares with minus 0.04
percent in Germany. Spain’s 10-year rate was at 6.57 percent
today compared with Germany’s 1.39 percent.  The fact that the ECB’s monetary policy is only being
transmitted in one or two euro nations compels the ECB to
intervene, Draghi said.  “We have to rebuild the euro area,” he said. “We have to
overcome this fragmentation exactly for pursuing  price stability 
through changes in interest rates.”  ‘Genuine’ Union  For a “genuine” monetary union to be achieved, policy
makers must make progress in four areas, Draghi said --
financial, fiscal, political and economic.  It is “high time to take a comprehensive approach,” he
said. “I’m convinced that we need a robust and shared vision
for the duration of the European monetary union over the next
decade. A solid long-term anchor is essential to put the euro
area back on the path of stability. This long-term vision is an
indispensible complement to the short-term management of the
crisis.”  Draghi began the session by thanking committee members for
their warm wishes.  “We collectively are going to need all of them in the
coming weeks and coming months,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  