-- Drought Damps Optimism of U.S. Farmers, Agribusinesses
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-04T13:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/drought-damps-optimism-of-u-s-farmers-agribusinesses-1-.html
U.S. farmers struggling through the
worst drought in a half century are  less optimistic  about their
circumstances and more hopeful about the future than they were
in March, a survey by  DTN/The Progressive Farmer  shows.  Farmers evaluated their present conditions at a score of
120.4, down from 140.2 earlier this year, industry researcher
and publisher DTN said today. Expectations for a year from now
registered 98.2, up from 87.4. In a separate survey,
agribusinesses rated conditions now at 112.2 and in a year at
80.5, both down from February. The benchmark rating of 100 was
set in 2010 when the analysis began.  “This year will be a tougher year for us,” said Dietrich
Kastens, who said he’ll have “significant losses” with the
wheat, corn, sorghum and peas he’s raising on more than 10,000
acres (4,046 hectares) near Herndon,  Kansas . Still, “the future
looks good,” he said. “I anticipate that farming will continue
to see some pretty good times.”  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  has declared  natural
disasters  in more than 1,800 counties in 35 states, more than
half the nation’s total, mostly because of drought. Still, U.S.
net  farm income  may reach an all-time high of  $122.2 billion 
this year, the USDA said last week, as record corn and soybeans
prices overcome yield losses.  Ethanol Production  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-biggest U.S. ethanol
producer, and other companies have idled biofuel plants as corn
prices climbed. Beef and pork inventories are rising as animals
are sent to slaughter earlier than usual because of higher feed
costs. Input sales also may be affected by the drought as
farmers seek to cut costs and low water levels affect
distribution patterns, Roger Oliver, chief executive officer of
Van Horn Inc. in Decatur,  Illinois , said in an interview.  “We’re going to see some supply issues because of the low
river levels,” said Oliver, whose business sells fertilizer,
seeds and herbicides from  Monsanto Co. (MON) ,  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and Dupont
Co. “Some farmers may cut back because of costs.”  Crop-insurance payments, which reached a record $10.8
billion last year, may top $20 billion this year, National Crop
Insurance Services, an industry trade group, said last month.
The government-backed support helps explain farmers’ optimism
relative to their agribusiness counterparts, said Katie Micik,
an analyst at DTN, a unit of Madrid-based Telvent GIT SA.  ‘Volatile Market’  “Farmers are saying, ‘I’ll be OK, I can plant another
crop,’” while the co-operatives and merchants selling and
hedging grains and oilseeds in a volatile market have less room
for error and no federal support, she said. Weather also remains
a concern for businesses and farmers, she said. “They’ll be a
whole lot more optimistic if they get rain.”  The survey’s composite ratings, which combine the current
and future expectations measure, show less confidence among both
agribusinesses and farmers. The rating for business operators
fell to 93.3 in August from 111.1 in February, while farmer
sentiment declined to 107 from 108.5.  The report is based on two surveys, one of 500 farmers and
another of 100 agribusinesses, conducted in mid-August, before
harvesting began in the Farm Belt. The company conducts  three
surveys  a year: before planting and before and after harvest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  