-- ECB’s Draghi Criticizes Global Regulators’ Bank Liquidity Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-04T17:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ecb-s-draghi-criticizes-global-regulators-bank-liquidity-rule.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  criticized a liquidity rule proposed by global
regulators for lenders, telling lawmakers that the standard
discourages banks from lending to each other.  The measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio,
“strongly penalizes interbank lending,” Draghi said in a
closed-door session of the European Parliament in Brussels.
 Bloomberg News  obtained a recording of his comments, some of
which were published by Italian news agency AGI yesterday.  Global regulators are split over how far to revise the
draft LCR rule, which would require banks to hold enough easy-
to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The ECB is
pushing the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  to expand the
types of assets banks can use to meet the requirements,
according to three people familiar with the talks.  The central bank presented its plan for overhauling the LCR
during discussions in the Basel committee’s working groups,
including a meeting in  New York  last month, according to one of
the people, who couldn’t be named because the talks are private.
Its arguments received only limited support, the person said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB referred to the closed-door format
of the hearing and didn’t provide any further comment on
Draghi’s remarks. The ECB has warned regulators that the LCR may
hamper efforts to combat the euro-area debt crisis by curtailing
lending and making it harder for central banks to implement
monetary policies.  Collective Shortfall  The 212 largest global banks would have had a collective
shortfall of 1.76 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) as of June 2011
in the assets needed to meet the LCR, according to figures
published by the Basel Committee.  The standard was drawn up by the Basel committee as part of
a package of measures to prevent a repeat of the turmoil that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Basel Committee will meet Sept. 11 to 13 to weigh
changes to the measure ahead of a January 2013 deadline.  “Good steps are being undertaken at the Basel Committee
level” to revise the rule, Draghi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  