-- ECM Asset Starts First Fund to Invest in Leveraged Loans, Bonds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-09-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ecm-asset-starts-first-fund-to-invest-in-leveraged-loans-bonds.html
ECM Asset Management Ltd., a  money
manager  owned by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , started its first fund that
will buy both senior secured loans and high-yield bonds.  The investment vehicle, with a 500-million euro ($628
million) target size, will focus on borrowers from northern non-
peripheral European countries, including  Germany , the U.K., and
 France , the London-based firm said in an e-mailed statement.
Torben Ronberg, head of loans at ECM, will be the lead manager
for the fund, along with Andre Mazzella.  ECM, which manages $9 billion, is looking to maximize
returns for its investments in the high-yield fixed-income
markets by combining loans and bonds in a single fund, as the
sovereign credit crisis and reduced bank lending in Europe are
forcing non investment-grade borrowers to offer higher yield for
their debt.  “The shrinking CLO market and bank retreat from high-yield
corporate lending is creating appealing opportunities for
institutional investors,” said Ronberg in a telephone call.
“In the current environment we don’t think we need to go to
peripheral countries in  Europe  to achieve our target annual
return of 6 to 8 percent for the fund.”  The premium investors demand above government debt to buy
high-yield bonds in euros rose to a two-year high of 1,049 basis
points in October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Euro High Yield Index. The average bid price for leveraged loans
in Europe rose 4.1 percent this year, compared with 3.2 percent
increase in the U.S., according to data provider Markit Group
Ltd. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “This fund is conceived to offer the flexibility to trade
relative value across senior secured loans and senior secured
bonds in primary as well as secondary markets,” Ronberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  