-- Telefonica Said to Advance on German IPO as It Adds Banks
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-05T08:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/telefonica-said-to-move-ahead-with-german-ipo-as-it-adds-banks.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone
company, is moving ahead with plans for an initial public
offering of its German unit after adding four banking advisers,
people with knowledge of the process said.  Bank of America Corp. ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have been hired as bookrunners, said the
people, asking not to be identified as the process is
confidential. Lead banks  UBS AG (UBSN)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
preparing analyst presentations and may begin gauging investor
interest as early as the end of September, they said.  Telefonica is discussing the sale of a 20 percent stake in
the O2 division for about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to 1.5
billion euros, they said. The sale, part of Madrid-based
Telefonica’s asset-disposal program to help repay debt and
protect its debt ratings, will be a test of investors’ appetite
for mobile-phone stocks as Europe’s deepening debt crisis has
set back interest in new share sales.  “Telefonica continues to work on its asset disposals
program, and it’s trying to keep the majority of possibilities
open in order to carry out the best option for each of them,”
Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete, head of Telefonica Europe, told
reporters yesterday in the town of Santander, northern  Spain .  Officials at Telefonica, Bank of America, Citigroup and BNP
declined to comment. An official at HSBC wasn’t available for
comment.  Net Debt  Companies raised a total of $4.3 billion in western Europe
this year, compared with $26.7 billion during the same period a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telefonica slipped 0.7 percent to 10.38 euros at 10:09 a.m.
in Madrid. Spain’s former phone monopoly said in May that it
will explore stock sales for O2 Germany as well as its Latin
American businesses. Its net debt amounted to more than 58
billion euros at the end of June.  The phone operator is still studying different scenarios
for an IPO in  Latin America  and the timetable will depend on
which one is picked, according to another person with direct
knowledge of the matter. Telefonica is also trying to sell its
call-center unit Atento, while it considers its 5 percent
remaining stake in China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. relevant to its
strategy, the person said.  E-Plus Competition  O2 competes with  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus division in Germany,
where the two largest wireless network operators are  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Telefonica’s German unit had wireless-service revenue of
789.3 million euros last quarter, almost the same as E-Plus. The
division, which also offers fixed-line phone and Internet
services, reported 18.8 million mobile-phone customers as of
June.  Telefonica and KPN had explored a combination of their
German units and an IPO of the joint carrier this year as the
former Dutch phone monopoly was fending off an unsolicited offer
by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)  America Movil reached the 28
percent stake it sought in KPN on June 28, after increasing its
holding in Telekom Austria AG the same month.  Telefonica, run by Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta,
has fallen about 23 percent since the company reorganized its
management a year ago, putting Alvarez-Pallete in charge of
Europe and Santiago Fernandez Valbuena for Latin America.
Alierta remains enthusiastic about the company’s future and
doesn’t plan to step down, the person said.  “Since I took over this role, it’s been a tough year,
perhaps even tougher than what we thought it would be for the
company,” Alvarez-Pallete said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  