-- Elpida Files Opposition to Bondholders Move to Stop Micron Sale
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-09-04T10:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/elpida-files-opposition-to-bondholders-move-to-stop-micron-sale.html
Elpida Memory Inc., the bankrupt
Japanese chipmaker, said it opposes moves by a group of
bondholders to block its sale to  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  because
it would interfere with an “entirely fair” reorganization.  The bondholders have not presented any basis for changing
terms of the sale and are attempting to “interfere with the
reorganization process and sponsorship arrangement” with
Micron, Elpida said in its filing to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Delaware Aug. 30. Tadashi Shiokai at Ashton Consulting, who
works as a spokesman of the bondholders, declined to comment on
the Elpida filing.  Elpida is willing to share information with the
bondholders, while the group canceled a July 10 meeting and
hasn’t sought to reschedule, the Tokyo-based chipmaker said.
Micron agreed to buy Elpida in July in a deal that may help the
U.S. company vie with industry leader Samsung Electronics Co.
while giving it greater control over supply gluts that have
caused it to report  losses  amid falling prices.  Elpida, Japan’s biggest maker of dynamic-random-access
memory chips, filed a Chapter 15 petition in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in March, a month after filing bankruptcy at home.  Bondholders Demand  Bondholders owning $293 million in bonds, including Linden
Advisors LP and Owl Creek Asset Management LP, filed a motion on
Aug. 10, asking the bankruptcy judge to modify the sale because
it was for less than Elpida’s liquidation value.  Elpida’s Chapter 15 petition should be modified so the
agreement with Micron doesn’t become “an illegitimate transfer
of enterprise value from old equity to new equity at the expense
of existing creditors,” according to the filing.  In April the U.S. court recognized Japan as home to the so-
called foreign main proceeding. As a result, the court in  Japan 
ordinarily would administer the sale of the business and
distributions to creditors, receiving assistance from the U.S.
court if necessary.  Bondholders are also trying to stop the sale in court in
Japan. They told a Tokyo court on Aug. 14 that Micron’s takeover
offer of 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion) for Elpida is too low.  The offer is fair to Elpida shareholders, Mark Durcan,
chief executive officer of Boise, Idaho-based Micron, said Aug.
13.  The U.S. case is In re Elpida Memory Inc., 12-10947, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  