-- Emerson CEO’s Global Growth Goals Sidelines Consumer Unit
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-04T20:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/emerson-ceo-s-global-growth-goals-sidelining-consumer-business.html
Chief Executive Officer  David Farr 
is focusing  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  on four businesses with
worldwide growth potential while shrinking his most profitable
unit: the maker of wet-dry vacuums and InSinkErator disposals.  Farr said he considers network power, climate technologies
and process management to be “global franchises,” and he wants
to expand the industrial automation division to the same level.
Businesses in the  commercial and residential solutions unit 
can’t compete as well on a worldwide basis, he said.  “They’re going to be good businesses,” Farr, 57, said in
an interview at Emerson’s St. Louis headquarters. “You’re just
going to have a small position in them, or over time you may
move out of it.”  Farr has shrunk sales at the commercial and residential
solutions unit by half since 2008 while expanding into network
power to hitch the company’s future to the world’s growing
reliance on computing.  Emerson, which was founded in 1890 as a manufacturer of
electric motors and fans, sold its motors and appliance controls
business to Nidec Corp. in 2010 and this year is shedding a
tool-storage company called Knaack. Farr compared the businesses
left in commercial and residential solutions, which include
ClosetMaid organizers, to the company it sold to Nidec.  “If you can’t compete on a global basis today, it’s hard
to sustain a value proposition for a long, long term,” Farr
said. “It’s just like the appliance-components business, you
moved out over time.”  Most Profitable  The unit posted sales of $1.84 billion in the fiscal year
through September 2011, or about 7.6 percent of Emerson’s $24.2
billion in revenue. When Farr took over 12 years ago, it made up
24 percent of total sales.  The businesses are the most profitable for Emerson. For the
first nine months of fiscal 2012, commercial and residential
solutions had profit margins of 21 percent, compared with 19
percent for the process unit and 9 percent for network power.  Farr said he’s working to expand the global reach of
industrial automation, which posted a profit margin of 17
percent in the nine-month period and makes factory equipment
from conveyor-belt motors to welders that join plastic parts.
The unit gets 67 percent of its sales from the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Europe .  “I think we can create Industrial Automation into a global
franchise, but we haven’t done it yet,” Farr said.  Seeking Deals  To keep building the four focus businesses, Emerson is
making small acquisitions, Farr said, such as a refrigerated-
container controls business from Johnson Controls Inc. in April.
Concern that global growth is slowing has made companies
cautious about larger purchases, he said.  “We’re all looking for deals but there’s not a lot out
there at this point in time,” Farr said. “Until you get some
clarity at what’s going to happen in the global world on growth,
the big deals are going to be fewer and fewer and far between.”  Emerson’s talks earlier this year to acquire  Invensys Plc (ISYS) ,
a British maker of metering equipment and railroad signaling,
fell through. Emerson has been looking at Invensys on and off
for 15 years, Farr said.  “What we’re interested in is clearly the process
business,” he said. Farr described Emerson as a “major
player” in process, where the company makes instruments that
measure the flow and composition of fluids. It also produces
valves to regulate fluid flow for industries including oil, gas,
food and beverages.  ‘Unique Position’  Invensys has “a unique position there,” he said. “We’ll
continue to look at that. I still think there’s going to be
consolidation in this industry.”  Invensys fell 0.8 percent to 239.5 pence in  London , erasing
earlier gains. Emerson dropped 1.7 percent to $49.84 in  New
York , paring this year’s advance to 7 percent.  Farr has said he’s pushing to improve performance at the
network-power unit, where profit has declined on a year-to-year
basis for the past seven quarters. The CEO spent a combined $2.7
billion in 2010 and 2009 for Chloride Group Ltd. and Avocent
Corp. to expand the division’s services for data centers.  Different Play  Sagging profits at embedded power, which sells products
such as chargers for mobile phones, have dragged on the larger
unit. Part of the reason is because of “technology shifts”
that have caused turmoil for  customers  such as  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) , Dell Inc., Cisco Systems Inc., Nortel Networks Corp. and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , Farr said.  “I think the turmoil, I think the uncertainty and I think
the change in technology are going to create a situation where
we’re going to have to play something different, and we’re going
through that process now,” Farr said.  Farr reiterated that he will announce a decision by the end
of the year on his effort either to turn around embedded power
or divest it. For now, the profitability is improving, he said.  “It’s a business that’s obviously hurting, but it’s not
killing me,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  