-- Lenovo Rises to Two-Week High on Brazil Expansion Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-04T08:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/lenovo-rises-to-two-week-high-on-brazil-expansion-plans.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  rose to the
highest in two weeks in Hong Kong trading after the world’s
second-largest computer maker said its chief executive officer
will announce plans for expansion in  Brazil  tomorrow.  Lenovo rose 1.2 percent to close at HK$6.62, the highest
level since Aug. 21. Earlier it gained as much as 5.2 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  will make the
“biggest announcement in the company’s history in Brazil”
tomorrow, Lenovo said in a statement. The company didn’t
immediately supply additional information.  Lenovo is looking for  sales  to first-time computer buyers
in  emerging markets  such as Brazil and India to continue driving
growth that’s faster than the industry average as the company
closes in on Yang’s goal of passing market leader  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  in global shipments. Yang in an Aug. 31 interview
had said he would consider acquisitions to build competence in
areas where the company is weak.  The company on July 5 announced plans to invest $30 million
to build a computer factory and a distribution center in Itu, in
the Brazilian state of São Paulo. That unit will have as many as
700 employees in two years, when it’s expected to reach maximum
capacity, Lenovo said at that time.  Lenovo will also “fully leverage” the tool of
 acquisitions  if a target “is consistent with our strategy,”
Yang said in an Aug. 31 interview in Beijing.  Shares Surge  The company’s  shares  have gained 28 percent in  Hong Kong 
this year, compared with a 5.4 percent advance in the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Lenovo on Aug. 16 posted a 30 percent increase in fiscal
first-quarter  profit  as it expanded market share globally. Net
income climbed to $141.4 million in the three months ended June
30, from $108.8 million a year earlier. That  beat  the $133.5
million average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales in the company’s Asia-Pacific and Latin America
division that includes Brazil increased 72 percent to $1.72
billion during the period, the company said at the time.  Lenovo increased shipments of computers including Thinkpad
laptops by almost 15 percent in the second quarter, even as
industry levels fell 0.1 percent, Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc. said July 11. That increased its market share by
two percentage points to 14.7 percent in the second quarter,
almost matching Hewlett-Packard’s 14.9 percent, Gartner said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho in  Sao Paulo  at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  