-- EPA’s Margo Oge Retires Following U.S. Fuel-Economy Rule
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-09-04T22:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/epa-s-margo-oge-retires-following-u-s-fuel-economy-rule-1-.html
The U.S. official who led the
writing of standards to make automakers double vehicle fuel
economy by 2025 said she’s retiring, a week after her agency
released the final rule.  Margo Oge, 63, director of the Environmental Protection
Agency’s office of transportation and  air quality , disclosed her
plans today, Alisha Johnson, an EPA spokeswoman, said in an
interview. Oge has worked at the EPA for more than 30 years,
spending 18 in the air quality office.  “I feel it’s time to start a new chapter,” Oge wrote in
an e-mail to EPA employees. “I haven’t decided on exactly what
yet -- first I want to catch my breath and share time with my
family -- then dive into new challenges in the new year.”  Oge, who said she’ll step down at the end of the month,
leads the U.S. office responsible for setting standards for
emissions from cars and vehicles ranging from airplanes and
buses to snowmobiles and forklifts. She has testified before
Congress to defend her agency’s support for allowing gasoline
sold for cars to contain as much as 15 percent ethanol, a change
auto-industry groups oppose.  The EPA and  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
on Aug. 28 released the final version of a rule setting fuel-
economy mandates from 2017 to 2025.  The standards, projected to cost automakers $136 billion to
comply with while saving consumers as much as $451 billion in
fuel costs, follow a rule that took effect this year setting
fuel-economy rules through 2016.  Thick Skin  Together, the two rules force automakers selling passenger
vehicles in the U.S. to double the average fuel economy of their
fleets.  Oge has won praise from both environmental advocates and
the industries she regulated.  “Margo is first and foremost a very conscientious
environmental advocate,” Jo Cooper, former head of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s  Washington  office, said in an interview last year.
“Margo is tough, tough but willing to listen. That’s what it
takes to be a regulator. You have to have pretty thick skin.”  While cabinet secretaries are the names in the news when an
agency releases a rule, Oge’s a key behind-the-scenes decision
maker in Washington,  Dan Becker , director of the Washington-
based Safe Climate Campaign, said in an interview last year.  “She is one of those people who the American people
probably don’t know about,” Becker said. “I think most people
believe decisions get made somewhere in the government and they
don’t know where and they don’t know how. I think they would
probably be surprised and impressed that someone with the
experience and knowledge that Margo Oge has is the kind of
person who is making these decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  