-- Merkel Swings Into 2013 Election Mode Evoking Crisis, China
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-09-04T15:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/merkel-swings-into-2013-election-mode-evoking-crisis-china-rise.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
swung into campaign mode with a message of cutting debt,
bolstering  energy security  and a jab at her Social Democratic
challengers.  Merkel used separate events in the south and west of the
country yesterday to hone her stump speech one year out from
federal elections that she has said will be fought on the euro-
area crisis that spread from  Greece  and on Germany’s shift away
from nuclear power to renewable energies. Due in the fall of
2013, the vote will determine whether Germany’s first woman
chancellor and its first from the former communist east secures
a third term.  “We got used to living beyond our means and to running up
debts,” Merkel told a meeting of her Christian Democratic Union
party in the western Ruhr Valley city of Recklinghausen. “This
has brought us into dependency on financial markets. We will
only get out of this dependency if we start thinking more about
how we spend less than we take in.”  Merkel’s remarks, made to a senior citizens’ group within
her CDU, echoed comments in a speech delivered three hours
earlier to a traditional beer-tent gathering of her Bavarian
sister party, the  Christian Social Union . There she attacked
financial markets for allowing a few to get rich at the expense
of the many, saying they can’t be allowed to destroy the fruits
of people’s labor and governments can’t be put at their mercy
through excess debt.  Democratic Questions  “The real question about our democracy is: Can we in
Germany and in  Europe  win elections when we jointly stand up for
solid finances, when we don’t always spend more than we take
in?” Merkel told CSU party officials who face their own
regional Bavarian election next year.  Merkel, 58, has taken the lead in tackling the crisis in
the 17-nation euro area and is  Germany ’s most popular politician
ahead of national elections that must be held between Aug. 28
and Oct. 27 next year, according to the Federal Election
Director’s  website . With polls showing a majority of voters back
her crisis-fighting efforts, Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc surged to its
highest level in four years in a survey last week.  Voters trust Merkel because “people have the feeling that
she’s taking care that the euro crisis, with all of its bad
effects, doesn’t hit them squarely in the face,” Manfred Guellner, head of the Berlin-based Forsa polling company, said
in an interview. “She shields people from the crisis.”  China’s ‘Dynamism’  Speaking in Recklinghausen after sweeping into the
convention hall to throbbing music and a standing ovation, the
Chancellor warned that it won’t be enough for Europe to simply
exit the sovereign debt crisis given challenges posed by the
rise of  China , which she visited last week.  “When you see with what elan they are trying to raise
their  living standards ” and their “great dynamism,” it’s
clear that “Europe can’t afford to be complacent and we have to
show that we can do better,” she said.  Europe, Merkel said, has 500 million people who produce 25
percent of global gross domestic product yet are responsible for
50 percent of global spending on social welfare. The message of
China’s success is that “Europe can’t stand still” if it wants
to preserve its living standards, she said, again echoing
comments made in Bavaria.  Merkel contrasted the speed of development in China with
the delayed opening of Berlin’s new airport and difficulties in
building new runways at airports like  Frankfurt  or a new train
station in Stuttgart. This, she said, showed that Germany must
accelerate infrastructure projects including power-transmission
lines to take  wind energy  from the northern coast to the
southern industrial bases of Europe’s biggest economy.  Party Attacks  She also ratcheted up attacks on the main opposition  Social
Democratic Party , including a swipe at her predecessor,
Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder . She criticized the SPD premier of
North Rhine-Westphalia state, where Recklinghausen is located,
for “doing nothing” to allow a new coal-fired plant to begin
operation, and blasted the SPD mayor of Munich “who’s doing
nothing to build a new airport runway.”  Support for the CDU/CSU climbed three percentage points to
39 percent, the most since July 2008, while Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition ally held steady at 5 percent,
according to a weekly Forsa poll published Aug. 29. That gave
the coalition parties a combined 44 percent compared to 38
percent for the SPD and its traditional Green Party ally, both
of which slipped a point, to 26 percent and 12 percent
respectively. The anti-capitalist Left and the Pirates each had
7 percent in the poll.  Returning to the euro crisis, Merkel made a rare personal
attack on Schroeder and former SPD Finance Minister Hans Eichel
for what she said was their role in making Germany a bad example
by allowing it to breach euro state budget deficit limits in
2003.  Back then “it was a different understanding of politics,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  