-- Errol Morris Says ‘Fatal Vision’ Killer Was Railroaded: Books
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2012-09-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/errol-morris-says-fatal-vision-killer-was-railroaded-books.html
Errol Morris, whose 1988
documentary, “ The Thin Blue Line ,” helped exonerate a man
convicted of killing a police officer in  Texas , has found
another crime to investigate.  This time it’s the 1970 triple murder of Captain Jeffrey
MacDonald’s wife, Colette, and their daughters, Kimberley, 5,
and Kristen, 2. MacDonald, a U.S. Army doctor and Green Beret,
was convicted of the crime in 1979. Now 68, he is serving a life
sentence in federal  prison  in  Maryland , where he continues to
protest his innocence and fight to overturn his conviction.  In “ A Wilderness of Error ” -- a book because he couldn’t
sell it as a movie -- Morris revisits the case and critiques the
accepted version of events as portrayed in court and in Joe
McGinniss’s 1983 book “ Fatal Vision .” He finds a catalog of
leads unpursued, evidence obscured, logic inverted and
confidences betrayed.  “We know that Jeffrey MacDonald was railroaded,” Morris
concludes. Which isn’t the same as saying he’s not guilty.  There’s plenty of reason to hang the crime on MacDonald.
Colette, Kimberley and Kristen were stabbed dozens of times, and
two of them were clubbed with bone-shattering force. Jeffrey
escaped with cuts and bruises and a single serious stab wound
that punctured his lung -- the kind of incision a surgeon would
be able to inflict on himself.  Manson Style  While MacDonald blamed a quartet of drug-crazed hippies,
investigators concluded that he concocted a Charles Manson-style
massacre (the Tate-LaBianca murders had occurred only a few
months before) to cover up a quarrel with Colette that had
triggered a spasm of homicidal rage.  But what Morris learns disturbs him. Investigators decided
the crime scene in the MacDonalds’ Fort Bragg,  North Carolina ,
living room was staged, based on the placement of a flowerpot
and a coffee table. Those leads both turned out to be false, but
by then it was too late: MacDonald was the prime suspect.  “What happens when the narrative of a real-life crime
overwhelms the evidence?” Morris asks. “When evidence is
rejected, suppressed, misinterpreted -- or is left uncollected
at the crime scene -- simply because it does not support the
chosen narrative?”  The crime scene was compromised: an ambulance driver stole
MacDonald’s wallet; fingerprints were lost; objects (including
the flowerpot) were moved. A woman who matched MacDonald’s vague
description of one of his alleged attackers was spotted by
police on the way to the crime scene -- before MacDonald
described her. No one went back to look for her that night.  ‘Not True’  Because of the shoddy investigation, an Army officer deemed
the accusations against MacDonald “not true” and let him go.  That might have been the end of it had MacDonald kept his
mouth shut. Instead, he appeared on “ The Dick Cavett Show ” to
ridicule the Army for going after him. Some, including Colette’s
grieving stepfather,  Fred Kassab , found the spectacle
unsettling. MacDonald was reinvestigated, indicted, tried and,
nine years after the murders, convicted.  Morris lambastes prosecutors for overlooking evidence and
finessing lab results. He questions why the judge let the
government read a copy of Esquire magazine to the jury. A drug-
addled woman who allegedly told people she was present during
the killings was, Morris suggests, frightened by prosecutors
into changing her story.  Show Trial  The prosecution commissioned a psychiatric assessment of
MacDonald that reads like testimony from a Soviet show trial.
Morris despairs.  “A trial is not a science fair, but rather a magic show,”
he says. “A show based on appearances and logical fallacies and
sleight of hand. It isn’t about proof. It is about convincing
the jury.”  He supplies diagrams, thumbnail biographies and timelines
of the decades of investigation and obfuscation. While Morris
may not sow reasonable doubt about MacDonald’s guilt, he shows
how zeal can trump truth when authorities focus on, as one Army
lawyer puts it, “the most convenient person to charge.”  Nor does Morris hide his contempt for McGinniss, who began
as a MacDonald partisan but switched sides before “Fatal
Vision” came out. Morris calls him “a craven and sloppy
journalist who confabulated, lied and betrayed while ostensibly
telling a story about a man who confabulated, lied and
betrayed.”  Janet Malcolm  Morris isn’t the first person to go after McGinniss. Janet
Malcolm’s “ The Journalist and the Murderer ” examined how he
gained MacDonald’s trust and suggests he hoodwinked his subject.
MacDonald himself sued McGinniss over his portrayal in “Fatal
Vision.” That case settled after the jury deadlocked on the
first of dozens of claims.  “Fatal Vision” harps on MacDonald’s every flaw: He’s
vain, he cheated on his wife, he reads (gasp) Mickey Spillane.
But the tale isn’t completely one-sided. McGinniss notes the
investigators’ missteps and gives space to MacDonald’s rambling,
self-justifying monologues. And it must be noted that before
“Fatal Vision” appeared, a jury had already decided
MacDonald’s guilt.  The last thing any look at this case should be is an
examination of character, and Morris’s personal jabs at his
subjects diminish an otherwise estimable book. Just as we
shouldn’t decide MacDonald is a killer simply because he’s a
manifest jerk, so too should we not discount “Fatal Vision”
because McGinniss may have blindsided its protagonist.  Morris is at his best when he looks at the physical proof,
and technologies that were unavailable in 1979 can now make more
specific determinations of who bled where and whose hair was
whose. MacDonald is seeking a reexamination of the evidence, and
there’s a hearing set for Sept. 17 in Wilmington, North
Carolina.  “A Wilderness of Error: The Trials of Jeffrey MacDonald”
is published by the Penguin Press (524 pages, $29.95). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor at Bloomberg news. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Dunn in  New York  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  