-- EU Said to Consider Linking Carbon-Permit Supply to Growth
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-04T08:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/eu-said-to-consider-linking-carbon-permit-supply-to-growth-1-.html
The European Union may propose
linking the supply of carbon permits with economic performance
as a long-term option for the world’s biggest emissions market,
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, may
propose introducing a so-called adjustment mechanism to react to
macroeconomic developments in a report on the carbon market due
to be published next month, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. The EU currently
doesn’t have any tools to adapt emission caps once established.  European permits for delivery in December advanced as much
as 1.1 percent to 8.35 euros ($10.53) a metric ton, and traded
at 8.30 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 8:52 a.m.
in  London . The EU emissions trading system, known as the EU ETS,
imposes pollution limits on about 12,000 manufacturing companies
and utilities in the region.  “Linking EU ETS supply with economic performance of the EU
would be a benign idea and indeed a bullish signal,” said Milan
Hudak, a Prague-based carbon analyst at Virtuse Energy s.r.o.  Linking the supply of EU emission allowances to growth may
help avoid creating an excess of permits in the region, which
will be oversupplied by about 1.1 billion metric tons of CO2 by
the end of next year, or 10 percent of all permits handed out in
the five years through 2012, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance estimates.  $148 Billion  The report will summarize the functioning of the EU carbon
cap-and-trade program to date and sketch out ways of improving
the market, valued at $148 billion last year, according to the
 World Bank . It will be presented to EU national governments for
consideration, the person said.  It will also include an option of the so-called permanent
set-aside, or withholding some excess permits from the market
and canceling them at the end of the next trading period,
according to the person. Another scenario for the consideration
by national governments will be setting a 2030 emission-
reduction goal for the EU as soon as possible, the person said.  It was not immediately clear when any of the options could
become a law. The commission’s report won’t constitute a
legislative proposal and the potential introduction of a
flexibility mechanism would need support from national
governments to change the existing rules.  “The EU has talked a lot about several lofty ideas on how
to improve the EU ETS but as we know, realization and
implementation of such promises is hard to achieve,” Virtuse
Energy’s Hudak said.  The EU carbon market, started in 2005, is now in its second
trading period and will enter the so-called third phase next
year. The fourth stage is set to start in 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  