-- European Stocks Decline on U.S. Manufacturing Report
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-04T16:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/european-stock-futures-climb-before-u-s-report.html
European stocks retreated the most
in two weeks as a report showed that U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted in August.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  fell 2.6 percent after Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. downgraded the world’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator. Royal Ahold NV rose 2.5 percent after saying it
may sell its 60 percent stake in Scandinavian retailer ICA,
possibly through an initial public offering.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.1 percent to 265.43 at
the close of trading, its biggest drop since Aug. 22. The equity
benchmark has still  surged 13 percent  from its lowest level this
year on June 4 amid speculation that central banks will do more
to support growth.  “Investors won’t be willing to do much before the  European
Central Bank ’s meeting on Thursday,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a
senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, where he
helps oversee $220 billion. The ECB’s president “should reveal
details of what he plans to do. There’s a limit to how many
times investors are willing to accept no news.”  European (SXXP)  stocks advanced the most in a month yesterday as
an unexpected drop in Chinese manufacturing increased
speculation that the government will announce further stimulus.  U.S. Manufacturing  In the U.S., a measure of manufacturing activity contracted
for a third month. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory
index  fell to 49.6 in August from 49.8 in July. The  median
estimate  of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a
reading of 50, the dividing line between contraction and
expansion.  A separate release showed that  spending on construction
projects  dropped in July. Economist had predicted an increase.  National benchmark indexes decreased in 14 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 1.5
percent. France’s CAC 40 retreated 1.6 percent and Germany’s DAX
slid 1.2 percent.  Austria’s government bonds stayed higher as the nation sold
1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of securities, in the first of
a series of debt sales by euro-area countries this week. Spain,
France and Germany also return to the market.  The ECB sent proposals for a new bond-buying program to
national central banks today. The plan involves the ECB buying
bonds on the secondary market of countries that ask the euro
area’s bailout fund to purchase their debt on the primary
market. They must first meet some conditions.  The ECB has lost control of borrowing costs in the euro
region, Draghi told lawmakers in a closed-door session at the
European Parliament in Brussels yesterday.  Bilateral Meetings  The leaders of the single currency’s biggest economies hold
further meetings this week as they brace for their central
banker’s plan to defend the euro from bond-market turmoil.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  travels to
Berlin for talks with German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  today,
while Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  welcomes French
President  Francois Hollande  to Rome.  Vodafone slid 2.6 percent to 178.45 pence for the biggest
contribution to the Stoxx 600’s retreat. Bernstein lowered the
telecommunications company to market perform from outperform,
meaning that investors should not buy more of the shares.  The brokerage said recent regulatory changes may make
Vodafone struggle to meet its organic service revenue growth and
margin targets in 2012 and 2013.  RBS Review  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  declined 2.6 percent to
220.7 pence as a parliamentary report revealed that the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority will investigate the computer
failures that left some of its 17 million customers unable to
access their accounts.  Parliament published the correspondence between FSA
Chairman  Adair Turner , RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  and Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie .  Sanofi (SAN)  sank 3 percent to 64.52 euros as the French
drugmaker offered to buy as much as 30 percent of the securities
issued in last year’s purchase of Genzyme Corp. Sanofi will buy
as many as 86.8 million of the contingent rights at $1.50 to
$1.75 each. That’s 7.1 percent to 25 percent
above their closing price of $1.40 on Aug. 31.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  dropped 2.9 percent to 133.50 euros.  Europe’s
biggest carmaker  retreated after a report showed that German car
registrations declined 5 percent in August.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the  largest maker of luxury cars , slid 3.1 percent to
55.39 euros, while Porsche SE slipped 1.6 percent to 39.70
euros.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  declined 3.4 percent to 2.29 euros as the world’s
second-biggest maker of mobile phones said it will start a free
music service in the U.S. that will work exclusively on its
Lumia handsets.  Ahold, Vestas  Ahold climbed 2.5 percent to 10.09 euros, its biggest rally
since December, after the Dutch retailer said it will take 6 to
12 months to review options for its stake in ICA. Ahold will
probably return at least part of the proceeds from a sale to
shareholders in the form of a buyback or  special dividend ,
analysts at SNS Securities NV wrote in a note. They value the
stake at 2.1 billion euros to 2.4 billion euros.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  jumped 9.4 percent to 48.50 kroner,
its highest price in four months, after SEB AB raised the shares
to buy from hold.  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  rose 3.5 percent to 167.6 pence after the
British packaging group said that volumes grew faster than gross
domestic product in France, Italy and eastern Europe.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  advanced 2.9 percent to 1.41 euros as an economy
ministry official said that the Spanish state’s rescue fund,
FROB, will recapitalize the nationalized lender with Treasury
debt rather than cash. The official asked not to be named in
line with government policy.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was
8.5 percent lower than its average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  