-- Euro Strengthens on ECB’s Unlimited Bond-Buying Plan
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-05T21:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/euro-remains-lower-against-most-peers-before-ecb-meets.html
The euro rose against most of its 16
major peers after two central bank officials said European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will announce unlimited
sterilized bond buying to quell the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency climbed to a two-month high against
the dollar last week amid optimism Draghi would announce
additional monetary stimulus at tomorrow’s ECB meeting. The
pound touched a three-month high against the dollar as services
growth accelerated, adding to speculation the central bank will
refrain from policy stimulus.  Canada ’s dollar weakened even as
the Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated that an
increase in the central bank’s interest rate may be needed.  “In the very short run, there is potential for the euro to
appreciate as the  risk premium  on European assets decline with
the ECB potentially doing a little bit more,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.
“We expect the ECB to reaffirm the tone from their last
meeting, but there are a lot more details that will be needed to
be filled in.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.2601 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after falling as much as 0.5 percent. It reached $1.2638
on Aug. 31, the strongest since July 2. The shared currency
gained 0.2 percent to 98.77 yen.  Japan ’s currency was little
changed at 78.39 per dollar.  The shared currency gained as much as 0.3 percent versus
the Swiss franc, its largest intraday move in a month. It traded
at 1.20400 per euro.  Chart Patterns  “Technically, the euro is in a really nice downtrend and a
convincing break above $1.2650 could reverse this downtrend,”
said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital
Group LLC in  New York . “Draghi talked about bond buying at the
last meeting, so there has been a lot of optimism priced in and
the euro has already moved higher. It could be buy-the-rumor,
sell-the-fact.”  The euro may decline to a two-year low after it reaches the
upper range of its so-called downward channel, Forecast Pte
said.  Option traders have cut  bearish bets  on the euro to the
lowest since February 2009 as the ratio of outstanding puts to
sell shares of the Euro Currency Trust versus  calls  to buy the
securities fell to a more than three-year low of 1.38-to-1 on
Aug. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 99.05 cents per  U.S.
dollar  after the central bank maintained benchmark  interest
rates  at 1 percent. Carney said an interest rate increase may be
needed as domestic spending props up an economic recovery
restrained by weak global demand for exports.  Market Test  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, may test a four-
month high versus its U.S. peer that it has failed to breach
three times during the past two weeks, according to Toronto-
Dominion Bank, citing technical indicators.  It touched 98.43 cents per U.S. dollar yesterday, which
represents the top of the currency’s recent range versus the
greenback, after previously reaching that level on Aug. 21 and
28, Bloomberg data show. That’s the strongest since it reached
98.29 on May 3.  The Australian dollar is the strongest net-sold currency
today, according to Bank of New York Mellon client flows. The
pace of selling is double the average during the past year,
 Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange
group wrote to clients today. The euro is net-bought today after
seven consecutive sessions of outflows he said.  The so-called Aussie weakened 0.3 percent to $1.0193 after
dropping to $1.0167, the lowest level since July 13. The
currency slid 0.4 percent to 79.91 yen as growth in the south
Pacific nation slowed more than economists forecast in the
second quarter.  Pound Up  The pound rose on signs the U.K. recession is easing. It
gained 0.2 percent to $1.5902, after reaching $1.5934, the
strongest level since May 16. The U.K. currency was 0.1 percent
weaker at 79.23 pence per euro.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against those of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.1 percent to 81.312.  Under the ECB blueprint, which may be called “Monetary
Outright Transactions,” the ECB would refrain from setting a
public cap on yields, according to the central bankers, and a
third official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The plan
will only focus on  government bonds  rather than a broader range
of assets and will target short-dated maturities of up to about
three years, two of the people said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers she can
accept temporary ECB bond buying, according to a member of her
party. German legislator  Norbert Barthle  said in Berlin that
Merkel spoke in a closed-door meeting of Christian Democratic
Union lawmakers.  German Ruling  Germany ’s  Constitutional Court  is set to rule on the
legality of the European Stability Mechanism, the euro region’s
permanent bailout fund, on Sept. 12. The ECB may delay giving
full details of Draghi’s bond-buying plan until after the
ruling, two central bank officials said on Aug. 24.  “The move looks like a sugar high as we’ve been
anticipating Draghi’s plan, but it heightens curiosity going
into the press conference tomorrow,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “There’s still a lot to be done with
the German constitutional vote coming up.”  The euro has dropped 3.2 percent in the past six months,
the worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen gained 4.8
percent, and the dollar appreciated 1.2 percent.  The euro will fall to $1.22 by year-end, according to the
median forecast of Bloomberg survey of 53 analysts. The common
currency will be little changed at 98 yen, the forecasts show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  