-- Ex-Altera Executive Pleads Guilty to Passing Insider Tips
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-07T22:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ex-altera-executive-said-to-plead-guilty-in-insider-case.html
(Corrects defendant’s title provided by a law enforcement
official in second paragraph in story published Sept. 4.)  A former  Altera Corp. (ALTR)  executive
pleaded guilty to passing illegal tips about his company and
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , some which were relayed to a group of fund
managers accused of running an insider-trading “criminal
club.”  Hyung Lim, 46, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to commit
securities and wire fraud before U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan . Lim was a product marketing manager at
Altera, according to the company. Lim later worked at  Broadcom
Corp. (BRCM)  from 2008 to 2011 and is cooperating with the government,
his lawyer, James T. Reilly, said in court.  Lim told Sullivan that he got information about Nvidia from
an unidentified friend who worked in the technology company’s
accounting department. He told the judge he then passed the
Nvidia tips to Danny Kuo, a former  investment adviser  who worked
at Whittier Trust Co. in South Pasadena,  California . Lim also
admitted to passing inside information about Altera to Kuo from
about 2005 until early 2008.  “On a number of occasions, and at my request, this friend
provided to me material, nonpublic information concerning
Nvidia,” Lim said. “When I did this, I knew that Kuo wanted
the Nvidia information so that others could trade Nvidia
stock.”  “In return for providing this information to Kuo, I
received cash and other items of value from Kuo, including
material nonpublic information concerning other publicly traded
technology companies, which I used to trade on my own account,”
Lim said.  Securities Fraud  Kuo pleaded guilty in April to securities fraud and
conspiracy, admitting he passed inside information about Nvidia
to fund managers. He’s cooperating with federal prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Lim will testify at the upcoming trial of Anthony Chiasson,
a former Level Global Investors LP co-founder; Jon Horvath, a
former technology analyst at SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma
Capital Management LLC; and ex-Diamondback Capital Management
LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , Reilly said after court. That
trial is scheduled to begin before Sullivan on Oct. 29.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today filed a
civil complaint alleging that Lim passed material nonpublic
information about Nvidia to Kuo. Kuo in turn passed the
information to fund managers and analysts at Diamondback Capital
and Level Global, the SEC said.  When the case against the fund managers was announced in
January, federal authorities described the insider-trading ring,
which involved five different hedge funds and investment firms,
as the largest to date involving a single stock. The illegal
profits earned as a result of the scheme were almost of the same
magnitude as those proven in the Galleon Group LLC insider-
trading scheme, Bharara said.  Hedge Fund  Kuo used the information he obtained from Lim to benefit
his hedge fund, the SEC alleged. Kuo’s fund earned or avoided
trading losses of at least $90,000, the SEC alleged. Diamondback
reaped profits of at least $73,000 while Level Global made
profits and avoided losses of at least $15.9 million, the SEC
said in the complaint.  Kuo also passed Lim’s tips to other investment
professionals including Newman, Jesse Tortora, a Diamondback
analyst, and Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a Level Global analyst.  Prosecutors alleged in their insider-trading case against
Chiasson, Newman and Horvath that Tortora, Horvath and Adondakis
were friends who often shared nonpublic information they
received.  Bharara’s Office  Adondakis and Tortora pleaded guilty last year to
 securities fraud  and conspiracy and are cooperating with
Bharara’s office.  Chiasson, Horvath and Newman have all pleaded not guilty to
the charges. Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, John
Nathanson, a lawyer for Newman, and Steve Peikin, a lawyer for
Horvath, declined to comment on Lim’s guilty plea.  Roland Riopelle, a lawyer for Kuo, declined to comment on
Lim’s statements in court.  The SEC said today Kuo became friends with Lim after
attending poker parties organized by a mutual friend. He
compensated Lim for the illicit Nvidia tips with nonpublic
information about other technology companies and also paid Lim’s
gambling debts, the SEC said. Kuo once wired $5,000 to a Las
Vegas casino to pay Lim’s debt and later made two cash payments
of $5,000 each to Lim, the SEC alleged in its complaint.  Agreement Unsealed  Lim’s plea agreement unsealed late today indicates that he
also “provided confidential business information pertaining to
Broadcom Corporation to an analyst at an investment wealth
management firm,” and that Lim had also personally traded on
inside information related to Nvidia, Wind River Systems Inc.
and McAfee Inc.  Lim, who worked at Altera from 1990 to March 2008, faces a
maximum of 25 years in prison for both counts, Sullivan said
today. No sentencing date was set and Lim was allowed to remain
free on $100,000 bond. Sullivan ordered Lim to surrender all
travel documents and remain in the continental U.S.  Altera, based in  San Jose , California, designs, makes and
markets semiconductors that can be reprogrammed after they’ve
been installed in electronic devices.  Santa Clara , California-
based Nvidia is also a chipmaker.  The conspiracy count against Lim covers the Nvidia tips,
while the wire fraud count stems from the material nonpublic
information about Altera that he admitted passing.  Sue Martensen, an Altera spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at her office seeking comment
on Lim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  