-- Ex-Goldman Banker Managing Nigeria Fund Targets Spending
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-09-04T15:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ex-goldman-banker-managing-nigeria-fund-targets-spending-1-.html
Uche Orji, the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker named to lead  Nigeria ’s sovereign
wealth fund, plans to make spending on local infrastructure a
key aim after local lawmakers opposed the fund’s creation.  “It’s a crucial cornerstone of the mandate of the fund,”
Orji, 42, who also worked at  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and most
recently spent almost 16 years in the U.S. and  Europe , said last
week in a telephone interview from  New York . “This is not
saving money for savings sake, this is about impacting the lives
of people in a way that will be very fundamental for the future
of Nigeria.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous
country, imports gasoline because of a lack of refining
capacity. Power cuts are a daily occurrence and cost the country
at least 3 percentage points of gross domestic product growth
annually, the Bureau of Public Enterprises said in April.  Nigeria’s 36 state governors challenged the creation of the
fund in a lawsuit at the  Supreme Court , saying it violated a
constitutional requirement that all government revenue must be
shared among federal, state and local governments. They later
agreed to back plans to appoint the wealth fund’s board, while
planning to almost double the amount in the excess crude
account, which the wealth fund was originally to replace, to $10
billion.  Expected Bargaining  It’s “inevitable that there would be always be some
bargaining around it, but I don’t think we should assume that
this is going to be the case forever,” Gary van Staden, a
politcal analyst at NKC Independent Economists, said by phone
today from Johannesburg. “They’ve made agreements to get it off
the ground and then they’re going to be able to claw back some
of the concessions.”  Orji was named head of the Nigerian Sovereign Wealth
Investment Authority, as the fund will be known, on Aug. 28. He
will have a first term of five years, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said, and will work from Abuja. Nigeria’s crude
production of about 2.2 million barrels a day accounts for 95
percent of foreign income and 80 percent of government revenue.  Nigeria’s sovereign wealth law requires the creation of
funds for infrastructure, the future generation and budget
stabilization, with each representing at least 20 percent of the
total. Savings through the fund will enable the West African
nation to build its infrastructure and also provide a buffer
against volatility in  oil prices , Okonjo-Iweala said.  Crucial Institution  “It’s a crucial institution for the country and I think
it’s important that it went through a robust debate,” said
Orji. “Our country is making progress, it might not be visible
to people, but we’re building foundations and institutions.”  Nigeria’s economic growth accelerated to 6.6 percent in the
second quarter, from 6.2 percent in the previous three months,
the  Central Bank of Nigeria  said in a report yesterday. The
country has the capacity to generate about 4,000 megawatts of
power, about a tenth of  South Africa ’s installed base, with a
population that’s three times bigger.  Nigeria is among the last members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries to set up a wealth fund, as it
battles to reduce corruption and safeguard cash generated from
crude production.  The fund, signed into law by President Goodluck Jonathan in
May 2011, aims to replicate the long-term growth of funds such
as the  Abu Dhabi  Investment Authority, Orji said.  Overseas Acquisitions  “I’m actually very close to many of the sovereign wealth
funds in the  Middle East ; I’ve known many of them for many years
and I’ve watched them grow,” he said. “It takes time for a
fund to build and get invested and contribute, but you have to
start somewhere.”  Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab Emirates  and home to
about 7 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, set up its
wealth fund in 1976 to diversify its sources of income by
investing globally.  The wealth fund, known as ADIA, doesn’t invest in the
U.A.E. or typically in the Gulf Arab region, and had assets
valued at $328 billion at the end of 2008, according to the New
York-based Council on Foreign Relations.  Sovereign wealth funds such the Qatar Investment Authority
are boosting overseas acquisitions as oil prices hover near $100
a barrel. The country has taken a 12 percent stake in Swiss
miner  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and last month bought a 22 percent stake in
Chinese private equity firm Citic Capital Holdings Ltd.  “I’ve run money and been part of a portfolio management
team and this isn’t any different,” Orji said, without giving
more details on plans. “All Nigerians must support it because
the signal it sends to the international community is huge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  