-- Pena Nieto Says Videgaray to Co-Lead Mexico Transition Team
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-04T22:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/mexico-s-pena-nieto-says-videgaray-to-co-lead-team-correct-.html
Mexican President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto named former campaign manager Luis Videgaray as co-head of
the team that will set policy direction for the new government
that takes office on Dec. 1.  Videgaray, who’s often mentioned as a possible finance
minister or chief of staff, will manage the transition team with
Miguel Osorio Chong, Pena Nieto said at a press conference today
in  Mexico  City. Emilio Lozoya will head the international
agenda. The incoming president didn’t name a finance
coordinator, and Videgaray will handle that issue for now,
Lozoya said in an interview.  “In this period of transition, we’ll be dedicating time to
define actions to be implemented as of Dec. 1,” Pena Nieto told
reporters.  Pena Nieto’s campaign focused on promises to ease
restrictions for employers to hire and fire workers, overhaul
the tax system to increase government revenue and open the oil
industry to more private investment. He may choose Videgaray as
finance minister because of his proximity to the incoming
president and experience working as his finance chief in Mexico
state, Sergio Luna, chief economist for Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit said in an interview today.  Others see Videgaray, a member of the  Institutional
Revolutionary Party  that Pena Nieto will restore to power after
a 12-year hiatus, as a potential cabinet chief.  “It makes a lot more sense to have him as the head of the
president’s office, the guy who’s going to bring everybody into
line, to act as the main line of communication with the
Congress,” said Duncan Wood, a professor of international
relations at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico.  Economic Record  Videgaray, 44, twice refinanced Mexico state’s debt,
leading to its first ever investment grade rating. He helped
reduce the amount owed by the state by 45 percent in the past
decade, according to Mexico City-based Aregional, a public
finance research organization.  In addition to Lozoya, whose father was an energy minister
under Carlos Salinas de Gortari in the 1990s, other advisers
include Enrique de la  Madrid  Cordero, the son of former
President Miguel de la Madrid, who will serve as agriculture
coordinator for Pena Nieto.  Ildefonso Guajardo will be an economic adviser, Cuauhtemoc
Ochoa was named as energy policy coordinator, and Fernando
Galindo will be in charge of negotiating the budget with the
current government. Roberto Rafael Campa will be the security
coordinator and Eduardo Sanchez will be the president-elect’s
spokesman.  Challenges  Videgaray earned a doctorate in economics from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . His market-friendly leanings and political savvy
will help him push ahead with economic changes that have proved
too much for previous governments,  Gabriel Casillas , chief
economist and head of research at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB
in Mexico City, said in an interview before the announcement.  “The challenges he’ll face with Calderon’s  National Action
Party  will not be as difficult as the challenges he’ll face
within his own party,” which has stalled changes in the past,
Casillas said. “But he has significant experience in the public
sector that will help him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  