-- Facebook Falls to Record Low After Morgan Stanley Report
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-09-04T20:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/facebook-falls-to-record-low-after-morgan-stanley-report.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  closed at a record low
after  Morgan Stanley (MS) , a lead underwriter of the company’s
initial public offering, cut its price forecast on concern that
the social network is struggling to reach mobile users with ads.  Facebook fell 1.8 percent to $17.73 at the close in  New
York , the lowest closing price since the  Menlo Park , California-
based company went public at $38 a share on May 17.  As more users access Facebook’s site over smartphones and
tablets, they’re exposed to fewer ads,  Scott Devitt , an analyst
at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a note to clients today.
Facebook’s desktop site shows about 30 times more ads per user
each day than its mobile counterpart, he said.  Devitt now expects Facebook shares to reach $32 in the next
12 months, down from his previous projection of $38. Facebook,
which has lost more than half its value since May 17, has been
suffering as analysts and researchers temper expectations for
revenue growth. Douglas Anmuth, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , said in a separate note today that the company may not be
able to make as much money from games as he previously thought.  “The dynamics around social gaming have changed, leading
to lower monetization for  Facebook ,” Anmuth said in the note.
“Web games now operate in a more competitive space, and users
are rapidly shifting to mobile devices where Apple and Google
control app distribution and payments.”  Lower Estimate  Still, Facebook’s advertising revenue should increase more
quickly in the second half of 2012 and into next year as it
boosts the use of sponsored story ads, said Anmuth, who rates
the stock overweight.  Last week, advertising researcher EMarketer Inc. lowered
its revenue estimate for Facebook. The company expects Facebook
to post $5.04 billion in sales this year, less than its
projection in February of $6.1 billion.  Growth in advertising, which makes up the majority of
Facebook’s sales, will slow to 34 percent in 2012 and 29 percent
in 2013, from more than 68 percent last year, New York-based
EMarketer said.  In July, Facebook reported sales growth of 32 percent in
the second quarter, down from 45 percent in the first quarter
and 55 percent in the fourth quarter.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Jillian Ward  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  