-- Facebook CEO Won’t Sell Shares for at Least a Year
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-09-05T13:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/facebook-ceo-won-t-sell-shares-for-at-least-a-year.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , faced with a plummeting stock price and
deluge of shares hitting the market, said he won’t start selling
his holdings in the company for at least a year.  Zuckerberg has yet to adopt a share sale plan, the Menlo
Park, California-based company said yesterday in a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Typically, insiders
use plans to pare their stakes over time to avoid flooding the
market. Zuckerberg owns 444 million shares of Class B stock and
60 million shares issuable upon the exercise of an option.
Facebook’s stock gained the most in two weeks.  Facebook’s shares have been marking record lows since the
first share sale lockup for insiders expired in August amid
concern that businesses are spending less to advertise on the
world’s largest social-networking website. Even with the 53
percent  plunge  in the stock price since the May 17 initial
public offering, Facebook still trades at 33 times earnings over
the next year, compared with 14 for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “The whole problem with the stock has been with the
lockups coming up,” said  Herman Leung , an analyst at
Susquehanna International Group in San Francisco, who has a
positive rating on the shares. The filing “offers the market a
little more transparency,” he said yesterday.  Facebook rose 3.9 percent to $18.42 at 9:32 a.m. in New
York, for the biggest intraday gain since Aug. 20.  Present Intention  Facebook board members  Marc Andreessen  and  Donald Graham 
also said they have no “present intention” to sell shares in
Facebook, other than to settle tax obligations, the filing said.
Director  Peter Thiel , an early investor in Facebook, sold more
than $1 billion worth of Facebook shares in the IPO and after
the end of the first lockup, a move that analysts and other
venture capitalists described as “unprecedented.”  The company shortened the lockup period for certain
employees, so 234 million shares will now be available for sale
on Oct. 29, instead of Nov. 14. After the amendment, and
accounting for the shares that Zuckerberg won’t sell, the total
number freed up for sale by insiders through November will
shrink to 1.01 billion from 1.44 billion previously, according
to the filing.  Facebook  is also spending an estimated $1.9 billion to buy
back 101 million shares from early employees, instead of issuing
shares to cover tax obligations. To fund the buyback, Facebook
is using “our existing cash and borrowings from our credit
facilities.” Facebook had $10.2 billion in  cash and equivalents 
at the end of June.  On Aug. 16, Facebook unlocked 271.1 million shares, the
first of five insider sale restrictions scheduled during its
first year as a public company.  Three months earlier, Zuckerberg sold 30.2 million shares
Facebook for $1.15 billion at the offering. Most of the proceeds
will be used to pay taxes associated with exercising 60 million
 stock options .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  