-- FedEx Cuts Profit Forecast as Express Sales Slump on Economy
-- B y   E d   D u f n e r   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-04T22:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/fedex-cuts-profit-forecast-as-weak-economy-damps-express-sales.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s
largest cargo airline, said quarterly earnings will fall short
of its forecast after a weak global economy damped revenue from
express shipments.  Profit for the quarter that ended Aug. 31 will range from
$1.37 to $1.43 a share, Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx said
today in a statement. That was less than the June 19  projection 
of $1.45 to $1.60 a share, and the  stock  slid 3.5 percent to
$84.50 at 5:21 p.m. after regular  New York  trading.  The cut in profit adds to evidence of how  Europe ’s economic
slump and slowing growth in  Asia  are dragging on FedEx, which is
seeking money-saving efforts such as buyouts for some employees.
The company is considered an economic bellwether because it
moves goods ranging from financial documents to pharmaceuticals.  “The global economy is weak and it’s impacting their
business in the short run,” said Arthur Hatfield, a Raymond
James & Associates Inc. analyst in  Memphis . “I don’t think
there’s anything inherently broken with their business.”  Analysts had predicted adjusted profit in the quarter would
be $1.56 a share, based on the average of 23  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. They already had lowered their projections from
earlier in the year. The average for the quarter was $1.70 a
share prior to FedEx’s outlook statement in June.  Quarterly Report  Profit was $1.46 a share in the year-earlier quarter, FedEx
said today. Additional information will be released in a
quarterly earnings report on Sept. 18, according to FedEx, which
said it hasn’t closed the books on the period.  The slowdown may add urgency to cost-cutting efforts that
include a voluntary buyout program and the grounding of some
older, less-efficient cargo planes.  Buyouts will be focused on staff employees at FedEx Express
and FedEx Services, which operates combined sales, marketing,
administrative and technology functions across other businesses.
Shea Leordeanu, a spokeswoman, said last month that FedEx hadn’t
decided how many workers will need to accept offers and expects
to release more details at an Oct. 9-10 investor conference.  In June, FedEx said it was retiring 24 jet freighters and
43 older engines to better match shipping volumes. The company
also has said it expects to retire 21  Boeing Co. (BA)  727s this
fiscal year. Those planes will be replaced with Boeing 767-300
and 757-200 aircraft that are more fuel efficient and carry
lower operating costs, FedEx said.  Express Pullback  Restructuring the express business may remove $200 million
to $900 million in costs, Hatfield said in an interview, citing
analysts’ estimates.  That pullback is more significant for FedEx’s finances “in
the short to medium term” than changes in earnings forecasts
because of the economy, said Hatfield, who has a strong buy
 rating  on the shares.  The company said in June that it expected U.S. economic
growth of 2.2 percent for the fiscal year that ends May 31, down
from a projection of 2.3 percent given in December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  