-- Few Jobs, Dim Hopes Feed South Africa’s Circle of Strife
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-04T23:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/few-jobs-dim-hopes-feed-south-africa-s-circle-of-strife.html
With the largest reserves of more
than a dozen minerals,  South Africa  is not about to run out of
riches. Yet the unrest rumbling through its mining industry
reflects the deepening failure of Africa’s largest economy,
almost two decades after the end of apartheid, to tap its
natural wealth for the lasting benefit of all its citizens.  On Monday, police used tear gas to disperse strikers at a
gold mine near Johannesburg. This came not long after the worst
violence of the post-apartheid era: On Aug. 16, police at a
platinum mine owned by  Lonmin Plc (LON)  used live ammunition to turn
back strikers armed with spears and machetes, killing 34 of
them. The workers were demanding a near-doubling of their
monthly pay to 12,500 rand ($1,500); they were also fighting
with one another, in a clash triggered by a breakaway union.  South Africa’s  mining industry , which  generates  nearly one-
tenth of its gross domestic product and half its foreign
exchange and provides about 500,000 jobs, has been hard hit by
slowing demand from  China  and  Europe . (The price of platinum,
for example, which is used in catalytic converters for cars,
slumped with sluggish auto sales in Europe.) But the country’s
economic problems go well beyond that. Unemployment, now at 25
percent, has not dipped below 22 percent since 2000; the level
of inequality, as measured by South Africa’s  Gini coefficient ,
is worse now than at the end of apartheid.  According to one World Bank  study , only the top 20 percent
of South Africa’s population saw any growth in real wages
between 1997 and 2008; in the bottom 10 percent, average wages
were almost cut in half -- if you were one of the 30 percent in
that bottom group lucky enough to have a job, that is. Comparing
the lot of job seekers in 18 middle-income countries, the  World
Bank  noted that individuals in South Africa had the lowest
chance of actually finding work.  To the credit of South Africa’s leaders, millions more
South Africans now have clean water and electricity and are
living above the poverty line. Still, giving out welfare grants
(which go to more than 15 million people, or nearly one-third of
the population) and government jobs (more than  20 percent  of the
workforce, far outstripping the country’s emerging market peers)
is an expensive anti-poverty strategy with diminishing returns.
Between 2007 and 2011, government debt jumped by more than 10
percentage points of gross domestic product, far more than in
other BRICS.  Instead of creating more private sector jobs and promoting
small enterprises, the governing African National Congress party
has catered to entrenched elites, whether in business or in
labor. The clashes at the Lonmin mines were partly the result,
as the combative Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union sought recruits among workers disenchanted by the pro-ANC
and mainstream National Union of Mineworkers. President  Jacob Zuma ’s failure to rush back to South Africa after the killings,
his dispirited subsequent visit with the miners and prosecutors’
initial decision to use apartheid-era laws to charge the
strikers have fed the impression that the government is out of
touch.  December’s election for head of the ANC -- and thus in all
likelihood the country’s next president -- bodes ill for a
change in approach. Zuma and his potential rivals will probably
do all they can to curry mainstream union support, including
backing legislative “reforms” that will actually hurt  job
creation  by extending the country’s onerous labor regulations to
cover temporary jobs. According to the  World Economic Forum ,
South Africa ranks 139th out of 142 countries in the ease of
hiring and firing; the World Bank  reports  that South  Africa ’s
minimum monthly wage of $543 dwarfs that of $300 in  Brazil , $183
in China and $30 in  India .  A  better approach  would be to give more South Africans a
chance to work for a living wage. A subsidy for young workers in
new jobs would be a good place to start, though the idea is
stalled by opposition from labor unions who fear the
displacement of their workers. Another strategy would be to
channel state procurement purchases away from the big,
established companies that dominate the economy and toward newer
small and medium enterprises. A third would be to tackle one of
apartheid’s most stubborn legacies -- the segregation of
Africans in remote townships -- by providing a transportation
subsidy to enable people to commute to where the jobs are. As
things stand, unskilled workers must commit significantly more
time and resources just to get to and from work, let alone to
find a job.  Stubborn inequality is a problem that South Africa shares
with much of the rest of the world. One of the best ways to
reduce it would be to invest more in the country’s educational
system, where the problem is not enrollment but achievement: One
survey ranks South Africa’s primary school system 127th out of
142 countries, below that of  Mali . That is tough, long-term
pick-and-shovel work, much less dangerous than working South
Africa’s deep mines, to be sure, but even more essential to
tapping the country’s single greatest resource.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the right way to  bring
manufacturing back ; Clive Crook on why Fed independence is
 essential and indefensible ;  Edward Glaeser  on how Europeans
might view  the “who built it” debate ; Ezra Klein on  whether
you’re better off  than four years ago;  Michael Kinsley  on how
Republicans  don’t really care about jobs ;  Peter Orszag  on moving
health care  from quantity to quality ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on
the roots of the  Harvard cheating scandal ; Arun Sundararajan on
 Facebook’s winning business model .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 