-- Finra’s Luparello Stepping Down to Join Washington Law Firm
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-04T21:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/finra-vice-chairman-luparello-takes-job-at-washington-law-firm.html
Stephen Luparello, vice chairman at
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, is leaving after
more than 16 years to take a job at a Washington law firm, the
brokerage industry’s self-regulator said in a statement.  Luparello, 52, who was interim chief executive officer of
Finra before being named vice chairman in 2009, will leave Oct.
7 to join Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP, Finra said
today. He oversaw enforcement and market regulation at Finra,
and helped create systems to monitor markets, detect fraud and
protect whistle blowers, according to the statement.  “He helped lead the organization through one of the most
critical times for securities regulators,” Finra Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Ketchum  said in the statement.  Finra oversees U.S.-listed broker-dealers under authority
of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Luparello, who was
set to receive a $1.3 million compensation package this year,
started with the regulator when it was the National Association
of Securities Dealers Inc. He has also worked for the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and the SEC, Finra said.  “Because of the breadth of his experience and
responsibilities in the realm of securities policy, regulation,
and enforcement, Steve will bring an invaluable perspective to
our securities practice and to our clients,” William McLucas,
the former SEC enforcement chief who leads WilmerHale’s
securities department, said in a statement released by the firm.
“His background makes Steve a natural fit at WilmerHale, and we
are very pleased to welcome him to the team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  