-- Ex-Seal’s Bin Laden Book Discloses Secrets, Pentagon Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-09-05T04:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/former-seal-s-book-reveals-classified-information-pentagon-says.html
The Pentagon’s chief spokesman said
a former Navy SEAL who participated in the raid that killed
 Osama bin Laden  disclosed classified information, in an
escalation of the conflict over a book about the mission.  “Sensitive and classified information is contained in the
book,” spokesman  George Little  said yesterday at a Pentagon
news conference.  The dispute pits the Pentagon against the author of “No
Easy Day: The Firsthand Account of the Mission That Killed Osama
Bin Laden.” Little has previously said the author, who wrote
under the pen-name “Mark Owen,” violated a non-disclosure
agreement he signed as a Navy SEAL by not submitting the book
for pre-publication review.  The author’s attorney, Robert Luskin, has said a 2007
agreement “invites but by no means requires” pre-publication
review. Luskin didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mailed
requests for comment yesterday. The book was scheduled for
publication yesterday by Dutton, a unit of Penguin Group USA.  The author, first identified by  Fox News , is Matt
Bissonnette, 36, of La Mirada,  California , who was a member of
the elite counterterrorism SEAL Team Six that killed bin Laden.
In the book, Bissonnette says he took steps to ensure that he
wouldn’t be inadvertently releasing classified information and
that he hired a former special-operations attorney to review the
manuscript.  Additional Shots  Bin Laden was killed on May 2, 2011, local time after the
team of U.S. special operations forces raided the compound in
 Pakistan  where the al-Qaeda leader had been hiding. The killing
came almost 10 years after bin Laden orchestrated the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, which killed almost 3,000 people at
the World Trade Center in  New York , the Pentagon in  Virginia  and
a field in  Pennsylvania  where the hijacked United Airlines
Flight 93 crashed.  In the book, Bissonnette writes of his eight years as a
member of SEAL Team Six. He says that he was in a helicopter
that careened almost out of control in the opening minutes of
the raid on bin Laden’s hideout. A point man fired a first shot
into bin Laden’s head, and Bissonnette joined a third raider in
firing additional shots into the downed terrorist’s chest,
according to the book.  Rear Admiral Sean Pybus, commander of the Naval Special
Warfare Command, sent a written message to his forces decrying
the author for “hawking details about a mission against Enemy
Number 1”  and releasing “sensitive information” that he said
puts the force at risk.  ‘Humble, Disciplined’  “For an Elite Force that should be humble and disciplined
for life, we are certainly not appearing to be so,” Pybus
wrote. “We owe our Chain of Command much better than this.”  Little said yesterday that the Pentagon continues “to
review our options when it comes to legal accountability.”  The Defense Department hasn’t issued a directive to block
sales of the book at military bases, he said.  Asked why the Pentagon made no move to stop publication if
the book contains classified information, Little said, “We
didn’t have much time in this case.”  By the time the Pentagon obtained and began reviewing the
book, “pre-release copies of the book were already being
circulated around,” he said.  Pentagon General Counsel Jeh Johnson sent a letter to the
author dated Aug. 30 warning that he was “in material breach
and violation of the non-disclosure agreements you signed” in
2007. “Further public dissemination of your book will aggravate
your breach and violation of your agreements.”  Johnson’s letter didn’t specify whether the book contained
classified information. Little said on Aug. 31 that the Pentagon
hadn’t reached a conclusion.  “Sometimes it takes awhile to come to a final decision in
a legal review,” he said at the time. “We want to be
prudent.”  ‘Sensitive’ to Classified  In response to reporters’ questions yesterday, Little
gradually toughened his statements, first saying the book
contains “sensitive” information, and then saying it
“probably” contains “classified” information before saying
the Defense Department believes classified information is in the
book and finally that it does contain such information.  The Pentagon has consulted the  Justice Department  about the
book while reviewing all legal options, Little has said.  “It is the height of irresponsibility not to have this
kind of material checked for the possible disclosure” of
classified information, Little said yesterday.  The need for a pre-publication review is “a no-brainer,”
Little said. “This is common sense.”  It is too early to assess what damage might be done by the
release of classified information contained in the book, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  