-- Gatland Hired as Head Coach for Lions Rugby Tour of Australia
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-04T10:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/gatland-hired-as-head-coach-for-lions-rugby-tour-of-australia.html
Warren Gatland was named as head
coach of the British and Irish Lions for next year’s rugby tour
of  Australia , concluding an appointment that had been delayed
after the New Zealander broke both heels in a fall.  Gatland, who guided Wales to the 2011  World Cup  semifinals,
follows countryman  Graham Henry  in being picked to lead the
Lions to Australia. Henry’s 2001 squad lost the Test series
against the Wallabies 2-1.  The 48-year-old Gatland will try to secure the Lions’ first
series victory since the combined team from the U.K. and Ireland
won in  South Africa  15 years ago. He was the Lions forwards
coach in 2009, when they lost 2-1 to the Springboks.  “There is no question it will be one hell of a
challenge,” Gatland said in a  statement . “Playing in the
southern hemisphere is one of rugby’s hardest challenges.”  Gatland had been the favorite to get the job after leading
Wales to a so-called Grand Slam sweep of its European rivals in
this year’s Six Nations. The Lions delayed naming their head
coach after he fell from a ladder in April while cleaning
windows at his family beach house in  New Zealand .  His injuries forced him to miss  Wales ’s three-Test tour of
Australia in June, which ended in a 3-0 series defeat for the
touring team under Rob Howley, Gatland’s assistant in the Wales
coaching setup.  Hong Kong Opener  Gatland has less than nine months to settle on a squad and
develop a playing style before the Lions kick off their tour
June 1 against the Barbarians in  Hong Kong . The stopover is
their first visit to the city.  The first of nine matches in Australia is scheduled four
days later against the Western Force Super Rugby team in Perth.
The best-of-three Test series against the Wallabies starts June
22 in Brisbane with matches to follow in  Melbourne  a week later
and Sydney on July 6.  “Over the coming months I will give careful consideration
to the make-up of my coaching staff and of course the playing
squad itself,” Gatland said. “I want to ensure that we get the
tour environment right so that we are hugely competitive and
that our fans are proud of their team.”  Australia’s only series triumph against the Lions came 11
years ago when the Rod Macqueen-coached Wallabies fought back
after losing the opener to clinch a 2-1 victory with a 29-23 win
in Sydney.  The Lions lost all three Tests to the All Blacks four years
later in New Zealand. They went 2-0 down to South Africa in 2009
before snapping their seven-Test losing streak with a victory in
the final match.  Former Australia captain  John Eales , who led the Wallabies
in the 2001 series, has said that facing the Lions is the next-
best thing to playing at the World Cup in a rugby career.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  