-- Germany’s Image Damaged by Euro-Crisis Sniping, Westerwelle Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-04T10:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/germany-s-image-damaged-by-euro-crisis-sniping-westerwelle-says.html
German politicians’ derogatory and
conflicting comments about other euro member states have created
an impression of arrogance and sullied Germany’s image abroad,
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said.  The foreign minister’s remarks, made in the  Frankfurter
Rundschau  newspaper today, are a slap to members of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s coalition who have taunted  Greece  and other euro
countries blighted by the debt crisis, clashing with the
government’s position.  Westerwelle said that he’s been questioned about the
“debate in Germany” over the euro crisis on recent trips to
Beijing,  Hong Kong  and  Kuwait , according to a transcript of the
interview e-mailed by his Free Democratic Party.  “Unfortunately, some comments are giving the illusion of
doubt about our commitment to the common currency and to
 Europe ,” Westerwelle said. Such statements “form the
impression of a lack of respect toward other European
countries.” He didn’t identify specific remarks.  Weighing Words  Statements from coalition lawmakers and officials calling
on Greece to quit the euro, lambasting the  European Central Bank 
and mocking indebted euro states proliferated over the summer
recess, prompting Merkel to rein them in upon her return from
vacation. German officials calling on Greece’s exit should
“weigh their words very carefully,” the chancellor said in an
Aug. 26 interview, reiterating her determination to keep Greece
a euro member.  Some of the most withering comments have come from the
 Christian Social Union , the Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , which faces a challenge at regional
elections next year from a bailout-skeptic party known as the
Free Voters.  Bavarian Finance Minister Markus Soeder told Bild newspaper
in an Aug. 5 interview that Greece should be cut loose for the
greater good of the euro area. “There’s an old mountain-
climbing rule,” he was cited as saying. “If somebody hanging
on your line threatens to knock you to the ground, the line has
to be cut.”  Soeder also said it was “important that Spain and Italy
see what can happen if they don’t pay their debt” and that “at
some point everybody has to move out of Mama’s house, and that’s
where the Greeks are at this point.”  ‘Money Forger’  Alexander Dobrindt, the CSU’s general secretary and a
federal lawmaker in Berlin, followed up by taking a shot at ECB
President  Mario Draghi , telling  Bild am Sonntag  that the central
bank chief was “making the ECB into an inflation bank,” and
risked going down in history as “the money forger of Europe.”  Dobrindt’s assertion in that same interview that Greece
would probably leave the 17-member currency region next year
prompted Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to demand an end
to the “cacophony” of speculation, saying during a visit to
Berlin on Aug. 24 that such “toxic statements” deterred
investors, undermining his country’s task of sticking to its
bailout terms.  Merkel joined many of the same CSU euro critics yesterday
at a traditional Bavarian political gathering northeast of
Munich, sharing a table and sipping a beer with Dobrindt, before
telling them that bailouts for euro countries are here to stay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  