-- German Stocks Decline as U.S. Manufacturing Contracts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-04T16:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/german-stocks-decline-as-u-s-manufacturing-contracts.html
German stocks  declined for the first
time in three days as a report showed U.S. manufacturing
contracted for a third month in August, adding to signs of a
global economic slowdown.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  slid 3.1 percent as Morgan
Stanley said rival  Daimler AG (DAI)  has “more room to surprise.”
 Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s largest retailer, fell 1.7 percent after a
report the shares may leave the benchmark DAX Index. Deutsche
Post AG rose 0.7 percent as the Wall Street Journal said the
company plans to sell a stake in Blue Dart Express Ltd.  The DAX lost 1.2 percent to 6,932.58 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The measure has still rallied 16 percent
from this year’s low on June 5 as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said he would do everything possible to
preserve the euro and speculation grew the  Federal Reserve  will
announce a third round of bond purchases. The broader HDAX Index
also retreated 1.2 percent today.  “A lot of investors see the European economy as very
sluggish and when they see the  U.S. economy  also cooling down
they get a little stressed and sell equities,” said  Markus Wallner , an equity strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Volumes are very low. A little news increases volatility.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 24 percent lower than the 30-day average today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. manufacturing
 index  fell to 49.6 in August from 49.8 a month earlier, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey projected an August reading of 50, which is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction. The gauge averaged 55.2
in 2011 and 57.3 a year earlier.  EU Outlook  The European Union’s credit outlook was cut by Moody’s
Investors Service, reflecting the risks to  Germany , France, the
U.K. and the Netherlands that account for about 45 percent of
the group’s budget revenue. The ratings company lowered the
outlook on the EU’s Aaa long-term bond rating to negative from
stable, according to a statement released late yesterday.  BMW fell 3.1 percent to 55.39 euros as Morgan Stanley said
the the largest maker of luxury cars is priced to beat long-term
guidance while Daimler has “simply more room to surprise,” as
it is already discounting disappointment. Daimler shares offer
better value over a two-year outlook, according to Morgan
Stanley.  Daimler, the world’s third-largest luxury automaker,
declined 2.2 percent to 37.77 euros.  Metro dropped 1.7 percent to 23.56 euros. The  second-
smallest  stock in the DAX may be removed from the benchmark
index in this week’s rebalancing, according to a report from
Handelsblatt.  Kloeckner Falls  Kloeckner & Co. SE, Europe’s largest independent steel
trader, retreated 1.3 percent to 7.13 euros after Jefferies
Group Inc. gave the shares an underperform  recommendation , with
a price estimate of 6 euros.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the owner of the Frankfurt stock
exchange, slipped 0.9 percent to 41 euros.  Deutsche Post rose 0.7 percent to 15.80 euros. Europe’s
largest mail carrier plans to reduce its ownership of Blue Dart
in order to comply with India’s minimum public-shareholding
requirement, according to a report in the Journal.  Nordex SE (NDX1) , a German wind-turbine maker, rose 2.4 percent to
3.30 euros as rival Vestas Wind Systems A/S was the second-
biggest gainer in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  