-- Gillard Momentum Halted as Support for Labor Party Falls
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-09-04T03:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/gillard-momentum-halted-as-support-for-labor-party-falls-1-.html
Support for Australia’s governing
 Labor Party  fell for the first time in six weeks, halting Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s political momentum before elections due
next year.  Labor’s primary vote dropped 2 percentage points to 33
percent, while  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition gained 1
point to 46 percent, according to a  Newspoll survey  published in
the Australian newspaper today. Taking preference votes into
account, Labor was 10 points behind the opposition, compared
with 6 points in the previous survey.  Australia’s first female prime minister is trying to gain
traction with voters after a challenge to her leadership this
year, criticism of new taxes on  carbon emissions  and mining
profits and an increase in the number of asylum seekers trying
to reach Australia by boat. Support for Labor rose 7 points in
the period from July 22 to Aug. 19 as Gillard sought to focus
voters’ attention on her economic management and education
policies, before falling back in the latest poll.  “Gillard’s team may be worried that the improved
performances in the past couple of months may have just been a
blip on the radar,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst
in Melbourne at  Monash University . “The coalition is still
leading comfortably and Gillard is still struggling to build
Labor’s core support. Labor has got on with the job of governing
but it seems unable to deliver a broad narrative that voters can
follow.”  Greens Slide  Gillard was preferred over Abbott by 1 percentage point at
39 percent when respondents were asked who would make the better
prime minister. The survey of 1,151 people, conducted Aug. 31-
Sept. 2, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  Labor’s poll ratings slid after the prime minister
backtracked on a pledge before the 2010 election not to
introduce a carbon tax, to win the backing of the Greens for her
minority government. The Greens, who changed leadership in April
when  Christine Milne  took over from the retiring  Bob Brown ,
today had their worst performance in the poll since March 2009,
dropping 3 points to 8 percent.  Gillard has been trying to bolster Labor’s ratings with
policy initiatives. Yesterday the prime minister announced plans
to draft legislation that would see education spending increase
by about A$6.5 billion ($6.7 billion) a year to create one of
the top five schooling systems in the world by 2025.  Asylum Seekers  Last month, the government said it would reopen camps on
the South Pacific island of Nauru and Papua New Guinea to
process asylum seekers in an effort to deter refugees trying to
reach Australia by boat. Almost 1,000 people, often from war-
torn Middle Eastern and South Asian nations, are known to have
drowned in the waters between Indonesia and Australia since
2001.  While Australia is in its 22nd year without recession,
Gillard’s role as a sound economic manager has been questioned
by Abbott, who says her introduction of taxes on carbon
emissions and coal and iron-ore profits on July 1 is deterring
investment.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron
ore producer, today cut its full-year  capital spending  forecast
by 26 percent. It joins rivals including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in
delaying projects as falling demand from China triggers a
decline in commodity prices.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-largest mining company,
today said it plans to cut some jobs at the Argyle diamond mine
in  Western Australia  to reduce costs and improve efficiency.  “Reports of the mining boom’s death have been
exaggerated,” Gillard told business leaders at a conference in
Perth today. “China is still only 50 percent through its
process of urbanization and industrialization.”  Australian retail sales unexpectedly declined in July by
the most in almost two years and company profits dropped for a
third straight quarter. The nation’s unemployment rate  probably
rose  to 5.3 percent in August, from 5.2 percent, economists said
in a Bloomberg News survey before a Sept. 6 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  