-- Glaxo Studies Three-In-One Emphysema Medicine to Keep Lead
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-04T12:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/glaxo-studies-three-in-one-emphysema-medicine-to-keep-lead-1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , maker of
Advair, the world’s best-selling drug for smoker’s cough and
asthma, is considering a three-in-one treatment delivered in a
single device to stay ahead of competitors such as  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   Glaxo is exploring the next steps for its experimental
GSK961081 drug, which combines two different types of treatments
that help open up the airways in a single molecule for patients
who have emphysema or chronic bronchitis from smoking, said
Darrell Baker, head of the company’s respiratory drug
development. The double-duty molecule may allow Glaxo to develop
a triple-therapy for hard-to-treat patients delivered through a
single device, which has not yet been done.  The new formulation would differentiate Glaxo from
competitors, particularly Novartis, with which it is currently
racing to commercialize a once-daily treatment for smoker’s
cough, said Daniel Mahony, a health-care fund manager at Polar
Capital LLP in  London .  “Novartis is trying to stamp into the field,” he said.
“This is Glaxo’s way of flexing their muscles.”  Glaxo is developing new treatments to replace its aging
best-seller, Advair, which had global sales of $8 billion last
year. Patients taking 400 micrograms of GSK961081, also known as
MABA, once a day were able to expel 215 milliliters (7.3 ounces)
more air from their lungs in one second than those receiving a
placebo after 29 days of treatment, according to a mid-stage
study presented today at the  European Respiratory Society ’s
annual meeting in Vienna.  Quickest Route?  Triple-therapy would mix an inhaled corticosteroid, or ICS,
which reduces inflammation, with MABA, whose two compounds help
open up the airways. Currently 25 percent to 30 percent of
patients with smoker’s cough receiving treatment are already
combining the three agents using two inhalers, Baker said.  “MABA may be the quickest route to triple-therapy,”
Glaxo’s Baker said in an interview in Vienna yesterday. “If you
can have a product like the MABA, which is one molecule with two
modes of action, then you reduce the level of complexity down to
the level of complexity of a dual formulation like Advair.”  MABA may enter late-stage trials soon and reach the market
in 2016,  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note to
investors today. AstraZeneca Plc has just begun mid-stage
testing on a rival product, he added.  “MABA could be a defining asset,” Amusa said.  Glaxo is now in talks with partner  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  about
further clinical studies on MABA, Baker said, declining to
outline a timeline for the trials.  “That’s the strategic discussion we’re having right now:
what is the right ICS and how do we go forward with the MABA,”
Baker said.  Inhaler Device  The triple therapy is also possible because Glaxo has
already developed a new Ellipta inhaler device, which has two
strips for delivering two compounds, unlike the single strip in
the Advair Diskus.  “So you only mix the medicines at the point of
inhalation,” Baker said. “That greatly simplifies the
development.”  While Novartis is also looking at triple-therapy, there are
“a lot of technical formulation issues” that make it
challenging, said David Morris, Novartis’s head of development
for primary care, which includes respiratory disease.  For new asthma treatments, Glaxo is interested in the
possibility of targeting protein molecules such as Toll
receptors that can change the innate immune reaction that people
have to allergens and other triggers, Baker said.  “If you can modulate that, you may actually be able to
turn off the asthmatic tendency,” he said. “But this is very
early discovery work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Vienna via 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  