-- Goldman Sachs Plans Private-Equity Comeback in Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 2012-09-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/goldman-sachs-plans-private-equity-comeback-in-brazil.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the Wall
Street bank that doubled its Brazil headcount in the past two
years, is planning a comeback in the nation’s private-equity
market and expects returns as high as 35 percent.  “We are looking at some sectors that we think we
understand and that need investments,” Alejandro Vollbrechthausen, president of the New York-based company’s
Brazil unit, said in an interview in Sao Paulo. Infrastructure,
commodities and telecommunications are among the target
industries, the 44-year-old banker said.  Goldman Sachs’s last major foray in the Brazil private-
equity market ended in 2007, when the bank invested 400 million
reais ($196 million) of its own capital in Santelisa Vale SA, a
sugar-cane processor that later had to restructure its debt.
Santelisa was bought in 2009 by Louis Dreyfus Commodities.
Goldman Sachs also in 2007 invested in BRA Transportes Aereos
Ltda., an airline that went bankrupt.  Now the bank thinks returns could be as high as 35 percent
from taking stakes in projects for roads, airports, railroads,
ports and other infrastructure, said Paulo Leme, chairman of
Goldman Sachs’s Brazil’s unit.  “If Brazil plays it right from the regulatory point of
view, with transparency and predictability of the macro
environment, and avoids stirring too much uncertainty related to
taxes and exchange rates, it is just a natural diffusion of
capital moving from low-return to high-return,” Leme, 57, said
in a interview. “The most stable, lasting economy is the
easiest for foreigners to navigate.”  Government Help  Brazil’s development bank, BNDES, has said it will finance
as much as 80 percent of the nation’s 1 trillion reais in
infrastructure needs during the next five years as the country
prepares to host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics. Private
investors may have to fund 10 percent to 20 percent of the
total, according to Denise Pavarina, president of Brazil’s
capital-markets association.  “The roads, airports and port concessions in Brazil are
attracting a lot of interest from foreign private equity,” said
Patrice Etlin, managing partner for  Latin America  at Advent
International Corp., the Boston-based private-equity fund.  Advent acquired a 50 percent stake in Terminal de
Conteineres de Paranagua SA in January 2011 in its biggest deal
in Brazil and has about $3 billion to invest in the country,
Etlin, who is also chairman of the Latin American Venture
Capital Association, said in a telephone interview.  International Airport  “Advent has been in the region since 1996 and never
left,” he said. The fund participated in a consortium that bid
for the license to operate  Sao Paulo ’s Guarulhos international
airport in an auction earlier this year. “We are going to
participate in other auctions for sure,” he said.  Warburg Pincus LLC, Hamilton Lane Advisors LLC, Actis LLP,
TPG Capital, 3i Group Plc and Carlyle Group LP are among firms
that have opened offices in Brazil since 2008.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  acquired a 40 percent stake in Patria
Investimentos, a Brazilian private-equity and asset-management
company, in 2010, while JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Highbridge
Capital Management unit bought Gavea Investimentos Ltda’s
private-equity business in October of that year. Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co., the New York-based buyout firm, named former
Brazilian Central Bank Governor Henrique Meirelles as a senior
adviser in June.  BRIC Investments  “You still have sectors in the BRIC countries where in
order to reach equilibrium you need to grow at a much faster
pace than the general economy,” Goldman Sachs’s Leme said,
referring to Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China . He cited
infrastructure as one example.  Total credit has doubled from 25 percent of Brazil’s  gross
domestic product  to 50 percent and has room to grow to about 80
percent, according to Leme. “Mortgages are still
underleveraged,” he said.  Goldman Sachs expanded its workforce in Brazil in the past
two years from about 150 people to 300.  The firm became a full-service bank in Brazil in late 2009,
after two failed attempts to buy local companies. In 1998,
Goldman Sachs tried to purchase Banco de Investimentos Garantia
SA, which was acquired by Credit Suisse Group AG. Seven years
later it sought to purchase Banco Pactual SA, a top investment
bank eventually acquired by UBS AG. Pactual was sold back to BTG
partners in 2009 and is now Grupo BTG Pactual.  Equity, M&A  Goldman Sachs ranks third among equity underwriters in
 Brazil  this year and seventh for merger advisers as both markets
shrink. New Brazilian equity sales declined 53 percent to $5.16
billion this year through August, and M&A transactions dropped
41 percent to $43.3 billion. Still, Goldman Sachs plans to
maintain its expanded workforce.  “We don’t feel that we have overstretched or that we’ve
built something that we cannot sustain,” Vollbrechthausen said.
“We have a diverse portfolio of businesses, so when some
businesses start to shrink a little bit others pick up.”  Falling  interest rates  in Brazil offer Goldman Sachs an
opportunity, even as economic growth slows below 4 percent, Leme
said. “It is a great opportunity for trading and to develop a
business since it is going to be a prolonged cycle of low real
interest rates,” he said.  Goldman Sachs will have to navigate the U.S. Volcker rule,
which lawmakers passed in 2010 to reduce risks at deposit-taking
banks. The restrictions, still being finalized by regulators,
will bar banks from proprietary trading and limit how much
capital they can dedicate to private-equity firms. The rule,
named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , exempts
some activities, including certain public-interest investments
and hedging.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
say how the firm plans to comply with the rule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  