-- Goldman Sachs Cuts China Earnings Forecasts as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-04T05:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/goldman-sachs-cuts-chinese-earnings-forecasts-as-economy-slows.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered
 earnings growth  forecasts for  China ’s companies and Credit
Suisse Group AG cut the nation’s stock index targets as the
economy slows.  Profits for companies in the  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  may increase
1.8 percent this year and 8.6 percent in 2013, compared with
previous growth estimates of 6 percent and 12.3 percent, Helen Zhu and Timothy Moe, analysts at the U.S. bank, wrote in a
report dated yesterday. Credit Suisse lowered its 12-month
target for the index to 60 from 70, analysts Vincent Chan and
Peggy Chan said in a report today.  Third-quarter “earnings growth may not yet show a clear
inflection point,” Goldman’s Zhu and Moe wrote. “We expect
further earnings cuts in the coming months, albeit at a slower
rate, as current revision sentiment is very weak already.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has retreated 6.8 percent this
year on concern two reductions in borrowing costs and bank
reserve ratios this year will fail to halt a decline in economic
growth.  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the three months
through June, the slowest pace since 2009, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis hurt exports and a crackdown on property speculation
damped domestic demand.  Manufacturing shrank for the first time in nine months in
August as new orders contracted and output rose at a slower
pace, according to the  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released by
the statistics bureau on Sept. 1.  Growth Target  Earnings per share for companies in the MSCI China Index of
mainly Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies rose 2 percent in the
first six months of 2012, slowing from 28 percent growth in the
same period a year earlier, according to the Goldman Sach
report. China’s economy may risk missing the government’s 2012
growth target of 7.5 percent, according to Lu Ting, head of
Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp.  The MSCI China lost 0.4 percent to 52.65 as of 1:49 p.m. in
 Hong Kong , taking its drop this year to 0.7 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.5 percent to 2,049.86.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which tracks so-
called H shares traded in Hong Kong, has slumped 7 percent this
year. It fell 0.5 percent to 9,238.53. The Credit Suisse
analysts lowered their target for the Hang Seng gauge to 12,000
from 13,000, based on an assumption of “flat” earnings growth
in the next three years.  Lower Valuations  For stocks to rise, “we will need either a stabilized
global economy or the Chinese government’s macro policy
addressing stimulus or structural reform,” the analysts said.
They downgraded China’s banking stocks to market weight from
overweight.  The Shanghai Composite trades at 9.3 times estimated
profit, near the lowest level since January, while the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  is valued at 7.7 times, 41 percent lower
than its seven-year average, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The Hang Seng gauge trades for 1.25 times book value,
compared with its seven-year average of 2.28.  Stocks may rebound in the next three-to-six months on
valuations, according to Credit Suisse’s analysts. Current
earnings forecasts have already factored in weak economic
conditions, Minggao Shen and Ben Wei, analysts at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “Further policy easing looks inevitable after weak August
data, cost pressure will be lessened and restocking before year-
end is possible, all contributing to a better earnings
outlook,” Shen and Wei said.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Jan Dahinten and Weiyi
Lim in  Singapore . Editors: Darren Boey, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  