-- Google Rival Foundem Seeks Disclosures to Users in EU Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/google-rival-foundem-seeks-disclosures-to-users-in-eu-deal.html
An  Internet company  that filed a
European Union antitrust complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said the
company should tell users when it inserts its own products into
search results as part of any settlement with antitrust
regulators.  Foundem, a U.K. shopping comparison website that asked the
EU to investigate after its ranking fell in Google search
results, also said in a document outlining its proposals that
the search engine should refrain from highlighting its own
services or penalizing rivals’ rankings. Foundem also said an
oversight panel should adjudicate disputes over the rankings.  “Google must be able to justify its actions when
challenged, allowing the technical oversight panel to determine,
for example, which penalties can be considered legitimate and
which cannot,” Foundem said.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is negotiating
with EU regulators over a possible settlement of the antitrust
probe. It is under growing pressure from global regulators
probing whether the company is thwarting competition in the
market for Web searches. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and
antitrust agencies in Argentina and South Korea are also
scrutinizing the company.  Under Foundem’s proposals, the oversight panel would be the
final port of call for any complaints that Google artificially
moves some websites down in the search rankings. Foundem
suggests that sites that are bumped down should be informed why
and given the chance to appeal against Google’s decision, it
said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company was working with the European Commission and has made a
proposal to address the potential concerns of regulators.  Foundem was one of several companies, including  Microsoft (MSFT) 
Corp. that complained to the EU about Google, prompting the
antitrust probe.  While Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 