-- Greek Finance Ministry Calculating German War Reparations Bill
-- B y   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-09-04T15:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/greek-finance-ministry-calculating-german-war-reparations-bill.html
Greece ’s  Finance Ministry  will
calculate the country’s claim for World War II reparations
against  Germany , Deputy Finance Minister Christos Staikouras
said.  The General Accounting Office will make the calculation for
the first time, Staikouras said today in response to a question
from a lawmaker from the Independent Greeks party. The ministry
has begun collecting archival material to be examined by a group
of experts, he said.  “The German reparations are a particularly complex legal
issue and subject to study and settlement at an international
level in accordance with the rules of international law,”
Staikouras said. “The case is still outstanding, and as a
country we reserve the right and the possibility to manage it to
a satisfactory conclusion.”  Some Greek politicians have evoked memories of the
country’s Nazi occupation during World War II since the start of
the country’s debt crisis. During the country’s election
campaigns in May and June Independent Greeks demanded Germany
pay reparations.  Greece has in the past decade had to juggle claims on war
reparations from Germany with close bilateral relations between
the countries. The claims include compensation for loans the
country was forced to make to Germany during the Nazi
occupation.  Germany’s  Constitutional Court  ruled in March 2006 it
didn’t have to pay compensation to individuals seeking damages
over  war crimes  committed during World War II. Germany paid 115
million deutsche marks ($74 million) to Greek victims of Nazi
crimes under a 1960 treaty, in addition to funds paid out to
victims of forced labor under the  Third Reich , German Foreign
Ministry spokesman Andreas Peschke told reporters in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  