-- Gulf Gasoline Weakens as Valero Plants Start After Hurricane
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-09-04T17:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/gulf-gasoline-weakens-as-valero-plants-start-after-hurricane.html
Gulf Coast gasoline’s premium
weakened for a third day as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  started the St.
Charles and Meraux refineries in Louisiana that were shut for
Hurricane Isaac.  The plants, shut Aug. 27 in preparation for the storm, have
begun the restart process,  Bill Day , a Valero spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “It will be several days before all production units
are online at the plant,” he said.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast weakened 1.25 cents to 7.75 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:06
p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery
fell 0.35 cent to $3.0616 a gallon, the lowest since Aug. 21.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  restored power at its Alliance refinery in
Louisiana, according to an e-mail statement from the company.
Workers are starting the plant, which will take a couple weeks
to reach normal rates, the company said.  Placid Refining Co. has returned its Port Allen refinery in
 Louisiana  to full rates after idling it before Isaac made
landfall Aug. 28. The refinery returned to normal operations
Sept. 2, Rafael Bermudez, a spokesman for the company, said in
an e-mailed statement. The company idled the refinery Aug. 27.  The U.S. Energy Department last week  approved  a 1 million-
barrel loan of crude oil to Marathon Petroleum Corp. to address
shortages caused by Hurricane Isaac.  The loan of sweet crude oil will be returned within three
months, plus premium barrels, which is similar to interest, the
department said in a statement. Marathon can resume normal
operations after running at reduced rates, Shane Pochard, a
Findlay, Ohio-based spokesman, said in an Aug. 31 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 