-- Microsoft Aims for VMware With Debut of Windows for Cloud
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-09-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/microsoft-aims-for-vmware-with-debut-of-windows-for-cloud.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  released a new
version of Windows for running corporate networks, trying to
take share from  VMware Inc. (VMW)  and gain ground as companies seek to
cut the cost of managing business programs.  Windows Server 2012 improves features for virtualization,
which allows companies to cut costs by using fewer server
computers in their data centers. More businesses are relying on
virtualization technology amid the shift to so-called cloud
computing, where information is managed and stored remotely,
rather than on local software and hardware.  The new program has already won over customers such as
 Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and Bank of Montreal, which tried out early
versions of the product, said Satya Nadella, president of
Microsoft’s server and tools division, in an interview.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, wants to
boost sales of Windows Server by getting customers to set up so-
called private clouds, which are accessed from within a
corporate network, rather than the wider Internet. Forrester
Research Inc. forecasts spending on private clouds will top $20
billion in sales next year, allowing companies to get the
benefits of running applications on large pools of servers and
storage machines while keeping programs secure on their own
servers.  “They have to go into hand-to-hand combat with strong
competitors,” said Al Gillen, an analyst at IDC. “VMware is
very, very well established and has a very strong platform.”  VMware rolled out its latest offering last month.  Competitive Offering  Microsoft doesn’t break out annual sales of Windows Server,
which market research firm IDC estimated at more than $5 billion
in 2011.  Included in Windows Server is a program called a
hypervisor, a piece of software that lets companies run multiple
operating systems on a single server, helping cut costs. Many
customers will stick with their current hypervisor vendor when
setting up private clouds, Gillen said.  That’s a disadvantage for Microsoft, which had 26 percent
of the hypervisor market last year, compared to VMware’s 58
percent, according to IDC.  Part of the issue is that for years Microsoft didn’t have a
competitive hypervisor offering, so even companies using
Microsoft products for things such as e-mail and internal
company websites chose VMware when they wanted to use
virtualization software on fewer servers, Nadella said.  Good Enough  Now Microsoft is trying to get those customers back and
attract new ones, Nadella said. One such company is window-maker
 Pella Corp. , which mostly uses Microsoft programs yet chose
VMware for virtualization software in 2004. The company, which
plans to deploy Windows Server 2012, will save hundreds of
thousands of dollars in the costs of licensing the software
compared with what Pella paid VMware, Nadella said.  “The refrain was ‘hey we are good enough,’” Nadella said
about Microsoft’s previous appeal to VMware customers. “For the
first time we can claim we are better.”  VMware executives said they’ve heard that before.  “This is not a new strategy for Microsoft,” said former
VMware Chief Executive Officer Paul Maritz, in an interview on
Aug. 27. A former Microsoft executive until 2000, Maritz left
VMware on Sept. 1 to become chief strategist at  EMC Corp. (EMC) , which
owns 79 percent of VMware. “This is the third or fourth time
they’re coming to market saying, ‘Our product is now good
enough.’”  Equifax, which provides credit reports, is using Windows
Server 2012 to handle the data that enables lenders to verify
the employment status of people applying for credit or buying a
home. Next, the company will probably start using Windows Server
hypervisor software for virtualized networks and the company
plans to turn to Microsoft to build its first private cloud,
said Equifax’s Chief Technology Officer Bryan Garcia in an
interview.  “This one is really data center quality,” Garcia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  