-- Mighty Who Fell Wield Wrong Kind of Clout: Bloomberg Markets
-- B y   R o b e r t   S .   D i e t e r i c h
-- 2012-09-04T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/mighty-who-fell-wield-wrong-kind-of-clout-bloomberg-markets.html
Money laundering and interest-rate
manipulation, brokerage collapses and insider convictions. The
past year has had enough failure and scandal in the world of
finance to perhaps overshadow the successes.  The 50 Most Influential list, published in the October
issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine, recognizes those who have
been on the good side of bad events, such as U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. To complete the picture, though, here are five people
who were influential for the wrong reasons.  JON CORZINE
Former CEO,  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   He ran  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , served as a U.S. senator
and was governor of  New Jersey , although he failed to win
reelection. Then, in about a year and a half at the helm of MF
Global, Corzine, 65, drove the firm into bankruptcy by embracing
increased trading risk. About $1.6 billion of brokerage customer
money went missing in the process. Corzine hasn’t been charged
with any wrongdoing.  What he says: “I did not instruct anyone to lend customer
funds to MF Global or any of its affiliates, nor was I told that
anyone had done so.” Testimony to Congress on Dec. 15  BOB DIAMOND
Former CEO,  Barclays Plc (BARC)   An American in  London , Diamond, 61, rose to the top job at
Barclays by building an investment bank that kept the company’s
profit growing. He courted controversy, though, pushing back
against some regulations and commanding the highest pay of any
British bank CEO. He resigned after Barclays paid a record fine
for manipulating the London interbank offered rate.  What he says: “I worry that the world looks at Barclays,
and a group of traders who had reprehensible behavior, and that
that is being put on Barclays in a way that is not
representative of the firm that I love so much.” Testimony to
Parliament on July 4  RAJ GUPTA
Former Managing Director, McKinsey & Co.  The top job at McKinsey and a Goldman Sachs board seat gave
Gupta, 63, the aura of success. Now, he faces years in prison,
convicted of  insider trading . His lawyer said he will appeal.
Prosecutors showed at his trial that Gupta used his lofty
positions to pass tips to hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam .  What his lawyer says: “We continue to feel that Mr. Gupta
is innocent of all the charges.” Attorney Gary Naftalis,
speaking after the June 15 verdict  PHIL FALCONE
CEO,  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG)   Smart bets on the mortgage bust helped Falcone, 50, build
Harbinger into a successful hedge fund. He had $26 billion under
management as of mid-2008. Losses and customer withdrawals since
then have shrunk the fund to about $3 billion. Falcone’s biggest
investment, wireless startup LightSquared Inc., filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in May. He’s being sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over alleged improper loans
from the fund.  What his lawyer says: “The notion propagated by the SEC
that investors were harmed by that conduct or any other is not
only irresponsible but completely unsupported by any evidence.”
Statement from attorney Matthew Dontzin on June 27  BRUNO IKSIL
Former Derivatives Trader,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   As a London-based trader in the bank’s chief investment
office, Iksil moved markets. His credit derivatives index trades
were big enough to earn him the London Whale nickname. Then they
were too big, and the market moved against him. JPMorgan’s
losses total at least $5.8 billion.  What his lawyer says: Iksil “considers he did nothing wrong
and will cooperate fully with the authorities.” Attorney Raymond Silverstein, in a July 23 e-mail  (Click  here  for a slide show of Bloomberg Markets
magazine’s 50 Most Influential.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert S. Dieterich in  New York  at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  