-- ING Said to Seek Single Buyer for Southeast Asia, Japan Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-04T15:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ing-said-to-seek-single-buyer-for-southeast-asia-japan-business.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , facing a regulatory
deadline to sell its insurance business, is pressing prospective
buyers of operations in Southeast Asia and Hong Kong to also
acquire part of its Japanese unit, three people with knowledge
of the matter said.  Bidders including  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  have expressed
willingness to buy the Japanese operations as part of a deal for
ING units in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the process is private.  ING said on Aug. 8 its Asian insurance and asset-management
businesses had a combined book value of 6.6 billion euros ($8.3
billion). Its operations in the region encompass  emerging
markets  such as  Malaysia , where rising incomes are fueling
demand, and  Japan , which is grappling with deflation and an
aging population.  “It could make sense to press a buyer of the attractive
 Southeast Asia  operations to accept a less popular unit as part
of the deal to avoid being stuck with leftovers,” said Dirk Peeters, a Brussels-based analyst at KBC Securities. “Country-
by-country sales could lead to higher proceeds, yet can be more
cumbersome in terms of capital demands and inter-group debt.”  The sale of ING’s Japanese operations excludes its variable
annuities business there, said the people. ING stopped selling
variable annuities in Japan in 2009. The business still had
384,000 policies with a total account value of about 17.9
billion euros as of June 30, according to Victorina de Boer, an
ING spokeswoman.  Annuities  Variable annuities offer policy holders guaranteed benefits
while relying on investment returns. Dropping equity markets and
 interest rates  can push up costs of the guaranteed returns.  The Japanese corporate-owned life insurance unit could
fetch about 1.3 billion euros in a sale, Rabobank International
analyst Cor Kluis said in a note to investors today. The
variable annuities part will not result in any proceeds,
according to his estimates.  ING  shares  fell 1.6 percent to 6.01 euros at the close of
trading in Amsterdam, compared with a 0.5 percent drop in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance Index. (SXIP)  The shares are still up about
4 percent in the last four days after the company announced the
sale of its Canadian online bank for 2.5 billion euros.  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  has bid for ING’s South Korean
operations while  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and J.C. Flowers &
Co. are in talks to buy the variable annuity business in Japan,
people with knowledge of the process said in July.  ING is also evaluating offers that include Japanese
operations from  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  and Hong Kong billionaire  Richard
Li , one person said. ING’s De Boer declined to comment on the
sale process, as did spokesmen for Manulife, AIA and Li.  EU Requirements  ING’s corporate-owned life insurance and variable annuity
businesses in Japan had a book value of 2.1 billion euros at the
end of June, according to the company. That excludes 1 billion
euros of capital held in the firm’s reinsurance unit, which re-
insures the variable annuity book.  ING has to sell the insurance business globally before the
end of 2013 to comply with conditions imposed by the European
Union after the firm received state aid in 2008 and 2009.  To date it has repaid 7 billion euros out of 10 billion
euros, with 2 billion euros in interest and premiums. Chief
Executive Officer Jan Hommen said last month he intends to repay
another tranche this year.  The sale of ING’s Canadian online bank and the proceeds of
the Asian insurance operations should help ING to repay the
remaining state aid and offer more flexibility on the divestment
of the European insurance business, Peeters said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  