-- ING to Sell Capital One Stake After Sale of Online Bank
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-05T07:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ing-to-sell-capital-one-stake-after-sale-of-online-bank.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  will sell a stake of
more than 9 percent in Capital One Financial Corp. that the
biggest Dutch financial-services firm acquired in the sale of
its U.S. online bank this year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
will jointly manage the public offering of about 54 million
shares, McLean, Virginia-based Capital One said in a statement
yesterday. Pricing is expected before regular trading opens
today in  New York , with settlement on Sept. 10, ING said in a
separate statement.  ING acquired the stake, valued at about $3 billion as of
yesterday, when Capital One bought ING Direct USA for $9.1
billion of cash and stock in February. The deal made Amsterdam-
based ING the largest shareholder and entitled it to name a
director to  Capital One (COF) ’s board. It prevented the Dutch lender
from selling the holding until the lock-up ended, according to a
June 2011 statement announcing the sale.  ING shares  rose  1.7 percent to 6.11 euros at 8:15 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading today, giving the company a market value of
23.4 billion euros ($29.3 billion). The shares have increased 6
percent since Aug. 29, when the company announced the sale of
its Canadian online bank for 2.5 billion euros to help repay
state aid received in 2008.  ING Gain  Capital One shares have risen 15 percent since the
transaction was completed in February, closing yesterday at
$56.49.  The sale may result in a gain of about 200 million euros
for ING, taking into account the strengthening of the dollar in
that period and assuming a discount of 10 percent on the
offering, said Jan Willem Weidema, an analyst at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. ING’s Core tier 1 ratio will be boosted by about 20
basis points, he said.  “This is positive, even as the sale as such is no surprise
seeing the lock-up period ended,” Weidema said in a telephone
interview. “More importantly, the stake sale creates room for
ING to accept a new payment in shares from Capital One in a new
transaction, for ING’s U.K. online bank.”  ING also last month said it was considering a sale of the
U.K. unit. The firm is reviewing “non-core” banking assets
after its target of repaying aid in 2012 became less certain
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and stiffer regulatory burdens.  Sale Ordered  The Dutch bank and insurer was ordered by the European
Union to sell its U.S. online bank as a condition of its
government bailout during the financial crisis. The company,
which received 10 billion euros in aid from the Netherlands in
2008, has returned 7 billion euros, plus 2 billion euros in
interest and premiums.  It’s “a bit surprising to us to see ING sell all shares at
once,” instead of gradually as many investors had expected,
Jason Arnold, an RBC Capital Markets analyst, wrote in a note.
While some investors may sell in the coming days, “eliminating
the share overhang should be beneficial over the longer term,”
he wrote.  Capital One closed yesterday in New York at $56.49 and has
gained 34 percent this year, outpacing the 20 percent advance by
the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The shares fell as much as 2.6
percent in extended trading after the announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  