-- Irish Central Banker Pays Price as Googletown Rents Climb
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-09-05T11:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/irish-central-banker-pays-price-as-googletown-rents-bounce-back.html
Lars Frisell thought it would be
easy to find an apartment to rent in Dublin, the epicenter of
western  Europe ’s biggest real estate crash, after he moved from
 Sweden  to become chief economist at Ireland’s central bank.  Three months later, he’s still looking, joining the ranks
of students, high-tech professionals and frustrated would-be
homebuyers competing for space and pushing up rents in the Irish
capital.  “You’d think that there’d be so many apartments and so
many houses available,” Frisell told a gathering of Irish
accountants on Aug. 30. “There’s not.”  The property crash and lack of financing has encouraged the
Irish to rent rather than own their properties, lifting the
number of households in rented accommodation by 47 percent in
five years, the  Central Statistics Office  said in a  report  last
week. That’s creating an opportunity for real estate investors
to profit from higher rental income.  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW)  wants to own more than a
thousand homes in Ireland after purchasing a 210-apartment block
close to Google Inc.’s European headquarters, according to Peter Collins, the Dublin-based managing director of the U.S.
investment firm’s European unit.  ‘Rental Play’  Ireland “is very much a rental play for us,” Collins
said.  Kennedy-Wilson teamed with Canadian insurer Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. to buy the Dublin apartments for about
40 million euros ($50 million) in June. The  Beverly Hills ,
California-based company owns about 14,000 homes across Japan
and the U.S.  Renting a home became more common after Ireland’s 10-year
property boom ended in 2007. The proportion of households that
own their homes dropped to 70 percent last year from 75 percent
in 2006, according to the  Central Statistics Office  report.  Average rents have fallen by about a quarter since the
market’s peak, less than the 50 percent decline in prices. In
Ireland’s largest cities, Dublin and Cork, rents have climbed on
an annual basis for the last six quarters even as prices have
declined, according to Ronan Lyons, an economist at the  Daft.ie 
website.  Rents for three-bedroom properties in central Dublin rose
12 percent to 1,709 euros a month in the second quarter from a
year earlier, while the average rent across all property types
in the city center increased 1.8 percent.  Ireland’s largest real estate auction is due to take place
in Dublin next month. A former convent and a Georgian house are
among the 130 properties that will be offered for sale at the
Shelbourne Hotel by Allsop Space.  Google, Facebook  Dublin tends to fare better than the rest of Ireland in
part because U.S. companies drawn to the country tend to be
based in or around the capital. Google and Facebook Inc. are
within ten minutes’ walk of each other across Grand Canal
Square, close to the River Liffey, in a neighborhood now known
as Googletown.  “A lot of people coming in here maybe for one or two
years working for the Googles and Facebooks” will drive demand
for rental homes, said Collins at Kennedy-Wilson.  The squeeze is being felt elsewhere, with students
returning for the new academic year struggling to find
apartments.  “I got the bad news two weeks ago,” said Micheal
Gallagher, student welfare officer at University College Dublin,
after his landlord increased the rent for his three-bedroom
south Dublin house by 100 euros to 1,400 euros from this month.
“I’m going to stick with it anyway because I know from my job
it’s difficult to find a new house.”  Fewer Mortgages  Some potential homebuyers have been deterred by the
difficulty of obtaining a loan. New mortgage lending fell 22
percent in the first quarter, according to the  Irish Banking
Federation .  Even those that can finance a purchase are holding off
because they expect prices to fall further, according to the
central bank’s Frisell. Home values rose 0.2 percent in July
from the previous month, after dropping 1.1 percent in June. On
an annual basis, there was a decline of about 14 percent. In
Dublin,  house prices  were 17 percent lower than a year earlier.  “There’s so much psychology in this,” Frisell said in his
presentation last week. “There are so many buyers out there
waiting to buy because if you would expect prices to go down
just a bit further, you’d be waiting.”  Home construction has almost ground to a halt since the
2008 crash. Housing completions dropped to about 10,480
nationally in 2011 from about 93,400 in 2006, according to
Frisell’s presentation.  National Narrative  The number of empty properties fell 4 percent across the
country between 2006 and 2011, according to census figures
released last week. In Dublin, the vacancy rate is now about 8
percent, compared with 15 percent nationally, the report showed.
About 4,200 rental properties were on the market at the start of
August, down from 5,400 a year ago, according to Daft.ie.  “Planners in Dublin shouldn’t be tricked into believing
that the national narrative will apply everywhere and Ireland is
swimming in property,” Lyons said. “Because property takes a
long time to build, we should be looking now where we are going
to get our next batch of supply for Dublin.”  With so few houses in the pipeline, some economists expect
rents to keep rising, at least in the biggest cities.  “For Dublin as a whole, you’ll probably see rents rise,
but at a pretty slow pace” through the first half of next year,
Lyons said.  Other analysts said that signs of a bottom in the  property
market  may tempt some would-be buyers to make a move. That would
help to slow the increase in rents.  “It takes very little,” Frisell said. “As soon as people
start anticipating ‘Oh, we might have hit the bottom, I’d better
get in there before prices start rising,’ and it all starts
swinging in the other direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 