-- Isaac Remnants Send Rain to U.S. East, Cause Air Delays
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-04T12:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/isaac-remnants-send-rain-to-u-s-east-cause-air-delays.html
Hurricane Isaac’s remnants have
combined with another weather front to bring soaking rains that
have disrupted air traffic in  New York  and warm, humid air that
may boost energy demand across the U.S. Northeast today.  The rain and clouds have caused delays averaging one hour
and 14 minutes at La Guardia Airport in New York, according to
the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s website. One to 3 inches
(2.5 to 7.6 centimeters) of rain are possible overnight from
northern  New Jersey  to southern Connecticut including New York
City, according to the  National Weather Service .  “Higher-than-normal humidity associated with the remnants
of Isaac is also helping to keep overnight temperatures muggy,
enhancing late-season cooling demand,” said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  As much as 4 inches of rain may fall overnight in
Philadelphia and Boston, the weather service said.  Energy use may rise as much as 60 percent above normal for
this time of year from Boston to Richmond, Virginia, according
to  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in Belton,
Missouri.  High nighttime temperatures often drive up energy use as
people turn to air conditioners to cool homes and make it more
comfortable to sleep. When this happens in the large cities of
the East Coast, electricity demand can soar.  In addition to the rain and humidity, large ocean waves are
expected to crash into East Coast beaches for the rest of the
week from Tropical Storm Leslie, which is about 545 miles (877
kilometers) south-southeast of Bermuda with winds of 65 miles
per hour.  Leslie’s tropical-storm-strength winds of at least 39 mph
extend about 205 miles from its center, according to the
National Hurricane Center in Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 