-- Titan in Diamond Jewelry Push to Protect Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   H a r s h a   S u b r a m a n i a m
-- 2012-09-04T18:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/titan-in-diamond-jewelry-push-to-protect-profit-corporate-india.html
Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN) , India’s
largest maker of branded jewelry by market value, plans to
expand sales of diamond adornments to shield  profit margins  as
the rising cost of gold crimps demand for the precious metal.  The company will focus on premium products, including
watches, as the slowest pace of  economic growth  in three years
dents earnings from its  consumer goods  such as Sonata watches
and fashion accessories, Managing Director Bhaskar Bhat said in
an interview with Bloomberg TV India. The company is spending 2
billion rupees ($36 million) this year to increase retail space
and manufacturing, he said.  “We need to address these low-growth periods, so what we
are doing is pursuing profitable opportunities,” Bhat said.
“It’s really the diamond jewelry sales that we are pushing. If
the growth on the diamond side is higher, your margins are
better and therefore profits are achieved.”  Shares of Bangalore-based Titan have retreated 9.5 percent
from their April 4 record as demand for jewelry in  India , the
world’s biggest buyer of gold, tumbled 30 percent last quarter.
Sales of diamond jewelry in India are set to rise 16 percent
annually in the five years to 2015, twice as fast as the 7
percent growth predicted for adornments made of the yellow
metal, according to a study by New Delhi-based consultants  AM
Mindpower Solutions . Prices of the gems have dropped this year.  Import Duty  Gold in Mumbai has risen 15 percent this year as the
government, in a bid to curb imports and rein in a record
 current-account deficit , doubled the duty in March to 4 percent
on coins and bars. Inbound shipments slumped 56 percent in the
second quarter after touching a record 969 tons in 2011.  Policy makers may increase the levy for a third time this
year, curbing demand for the metal, according to Prithviraj Kothari, president of the Bombay Bullion Association.  In contrast, internally flawless,  one-carat diamonds  have
dropped 11 percent this year after climbing 26 percent in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With the price of gold going up, buyers no longer feel
that diamonds are expensive,” said Rajiv Jain, chairman of the
government-backed Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council in
Mumbai. “Diamond is more of fashion and is a security when it
is more than one carat. It is a good investment.”  Bain & Co. estimates global demand for rough diamonds will
climb more than 6 percent annually this decade, exceeding growth
in supply.  Significant Decline  The Tata Group venture, set up in association with Tamil
Nadu Industrial Development Corp. in 1984 to make watches and
compete against state-owned  HMT Ltd. (HMT) , is finding ways to boost
earnings as  inflation  and slowing growth threaten to shrink
disposable income in the $1.8 trillion economy.  Demand for coins and bars for investment slid 51 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, the  World Gold Council  said in
a report on Aug. 16.  “Certainly investment demand has come down, and we haven’t
had such a significant decline in market sales,” Bhat said.
“When people had extra money, they were parking it in gold, and
I don’t think they are doing that anymore. The tendency is not
to park significant sums.”  India’s  GDP rose  5.4 percent in the first half of 2012, the
smallest gain since 2009, even as consumer price inflation
remained the fastest among the four biggest emerging economies
of  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China .  Jewelry accounted for 79 percent of Titan’s sales in the
year ended March 31, while watches made up for about 17 percent,
with the rest coming from the company’s eyewear and precision
engineering businesses, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .
The company controls 5 percent of India’s jewelry market, which
is fragmented and dominated by family businesses, Bhat said.  Bridal Trousseau  Gold jewelry sales in India may reach $41.3 billion by
2015, compared with $9.5 billion for diamond ornaments,
according to estimates by AM Mindpower Solutions. In India, gold
is traditionally bought during the festival season, on
auspicious days and for weddings as part of the bridal
trousseau.  Sixteen of the 31  analysts  who track Titan Industries,
recommend buying the stock, while eight rate it a sell and seven
a hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have
 risen  32 percent this year to 225.65 rupees after reaching
249.25 rupees on April 4, the highest closing price on record.  A weakening rupee adds to the “landed cost” of gold,
making it even more expensive and reducing sales volume, said
Kaustav Kakati, an analyst with Proactive Universal Group in
 Mumbai . He recommends holding the stock with a 12-month target
price of 249 rupees.  “Since the jewelry segment is the largest contributor to
the topline, that would imply that volumes would be lower,” he
said. “That is one of the key reasons we are expecting a muted
growth outlook for the next 18 months.”  Rupee Weakness  The Indian currency has plunged 18 percent against the
dollar in the past year, making it the worst performer in  Asia .
A weaker rupee drives up import costs.  Net income  at Titan grew 39 percent to 6 billion rupees in
the 12 months to March 31. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, a key measure of
profitability, stayed at about 9.5 percent in the last two
financial years, compared with as high as 13.2 percent in 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A government approval that allows Titan to import gold
directly by cutting out intermediaries and sales of more diamond
jewelry will help boost the margin, said Dhvani Modi, a Mumbai-
based analyst with ICICIdirect.com, who rates the stock a buy.
India previously allowed only state-run banks or companies such
as  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC)  to import gold directly.  Return Ratio  “The company still stands better among the entire
consumption pack, considering its strong return ratios,” she
said. “The company is looking at aggressively expanding its
retail space. The stores will also add to the topline growth.”  Titan’s  return on equity , another measure of profitability,
was 48.2 as of March 31, compared with 17.3 for  Gitanjali Gems
Ltd. (GITG) , Bloomberg data show.  Titan has 847 stores in India, it said in a presentation to
investors on Aug. 1, of which 134 are Tanishq stores. The maker
of Tanishq jewelry and Xylys watches will raise retail space for
jewelry to 600,000 square feet (55,742 square meters) this year
from 500,000 square feet a year earlier, Bhat said.  “Tanishq, particularly, has awareness greater that its
actual access, so providing access to all those customers who
are aware of Tanishq would be the least we can do,” Bhat said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Harsha Subramaniam in Mumbai at 
 hsubramaniam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Parameshwaran Ravindranathan at 
 pravindranat@bloomberg.net . 