-- Jackson’s Lawyer Remembers Chimp, Buying Beatles Catalog
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/jackson-s-lawyer-remembers-chimp-buying-beatles-catalog.html
When John Branca got married on
December 11, 1987, Bubbles the chimpanzee was a guest.  “He was fully dressed in a tuxedo with a pocket square,”
remembered Branca,  Michael Jackson ’s lawyer and friend, and now
the co-executor and co-manager of his estate.  Three years after Jackson’s death, Branca, 61, was at the
 Venice  Film Festival to promote “Bad 25” -- a vivid making-of
documentary about the 1987 album, directed by Spike Lee. Branca
is an executive producer.  We met on the seafront terrace of the Excelsior Hotel on
Venice’s Lido Island, after Lee presided over a small media
roundtable, memorably attired in a “Bad” T-shirt, a black
beret, and a large crucifix composed of tiny skulls.  Lee would have preferred “Bad 25” to come out on the big
screen instead of directly on TV. He fretted that, nowadays,
youngsters watch movies on smartphones, even on first viewing,
and pointed to his unamused teenage son, who listened quietly
from behind a table of uneaten sandwiches.  Branca -- in a black suit and pocket square -- looked back
to his time with Jackson, whom he represented in the 1980s and
1990s, all the way up to 2006. He rejoined the team the week
before his death.  Financial Motive  I asked whether there were financial as well as creative
motives behind the 25th-anniversary tribute.  “Yes: It’s been widely reported in the press that there
was a substantial amount of debt,” Branca said. “So we felt we
had to address that for the benefit of Michael’s children.”  Privately, Branca remembered Jackson as “always very
respectful of people,” “very fun-loving” and “a bit of a
prankster.” At the Jackson residence, the chimp was a great
source of entertainment: He copied whoever he saw -- including
the domestic help.  “Bubbles would have his cleaning rag out,” Branca said.
“And Michael would joke with him: ‘Oh, Bubbles, there you are
cleaning again!’”  Jackson was otherwise very close to Barry Gibb of the Bee Gees -- he was the godfather of one of Gibb’s children -- and to
 Marlon Brando , whose son worked with Jackson and still works for
the estate, according to Branca.  Prince Competition  By contrast, Jackson’s relationship with Prince was frosty,
and there was a “healthy competition” between them. Still, one
day, Jackson asked Branca to set up a meeting between them to
discuss collaborating on the song “Bad.”  “Michael’s vision was that he and Prince would sing this
as a duet,” Branca said. “’Who’s bad?’ and they would sing
back and forth.”  The meeting (which Branca didn’t attend) went badly, and
the duet never happened. “Apparently Prince brought Michael a
gift, and it was some sort of voodoo box, and Michael was
convinced Prince was trying to place a spell on him.”  After the release of “Thriller” -- the best-selling album
of all time -- Michael had “a significant amount of disposable
income.”  Never keen on buildings or tax shelters, he started buying
music catalogs, including Sly and the Family Stone’s. When the
Beatles library came on the market, Jackson asked Branca to
contact  Yoko Ono  and  Paul McCartney .  Ono “said she would be very pleased.” McCartney’s
attorney said he wasn’t bidding. After a year, Jackson forked
out $47.5 million for the purchase. The songbook is now part of
a conglomerate that Branca describes as the biggest music
publisher in the world, in which the Michael Jackson estate has
a minority interest.  Which of the children look likely to follow in his
footsteps?  “They’re a little too young, to predict that,” Branca
said. Yet he can’t help share a foreboding. “Paris is very
charismatic, and she’s expressed an interest in a film career.”  “I could see her doing that,” he said of Jackson’s 14-
year-old daughter, who may one day be promoting her own movie in
Venice.  The 69th Venice Film Festival continues through Sept. 8.
Information:  http://www.labiennale.org/en/cinema/   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  James Russell 
on architecture and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 