-- Japan Fiscal Impasse Threatens Stimulus to Spur Growth: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p ,   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-09-04T04:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/japan-fiscal-impasse-threatens-stimulus-to-spur-growth-economy.html
Japan’s political gridlock threatens
to curtail the government’s ability to apply fiscal stimulus as
a rebound falters in the world’s third-largest economy.  Opposition parties in the upper house of parliament stymied
legislation approved in the lower house Aug. 28 that enables the
issuance of 38.3 trillion yen ($490 billion) of deficit-
financing bonds, seeking to force Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
into an early election. The government could hit a spending
ceiling as soon as October, according to the  Finance Ministry .  The freeze may suspend outlays from this year’s budget for
the first time, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and
limits Noda from proceeding with the supplementary spending
package he mooted in July. With economists increasingly seeing
an economic contraction this quarter, the deadlock adds to risks
facing global expansion that include a so-called fiscal cliff of
spending cuts and tax increases in the U.S. at year-end.  “The impasse on deficit-covering bonds may delay the
compilation of a stimulus package and would be a drag for the
economy,” said Taro Saito,　Tokyo-based director of economic
research at NLI Research Institute and a past winner of a  Japan 
Center for Economic Research award for accuracy in forecasting.
“This is not as severe as the U.S. fiscal cliff but could be
said to be Japan’s fiscal slope.”  Stocks Fall  Japanese stocks headed for a fourth day of declines, the
longest losing streak in more than a month, on pessimism about
the global expansion. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was down 0.4
percent as of 1:31 p.m. in  Tokyo . The yen was at 78.37 per
dollar, about 4 percent from its postwar high, underscoring the
threat to exporters of a strong currency.  Besides exchange-rate appreciation, Japan’s manufacturers
are facing diminishing demand abroad, hurt by the European
crisis,  China ’s slowdown and stunted American growth. A
government report yesterday showed  capital spending  rose 6.6
percent in the second quarter from a year before, less than the
7.8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Yesterday’s report spurred economists to cut forecasts for
Japan’s second-quarter gross domestic product, initially
reported at an annualized 1.4 percent gain. Officials may pare
that calculation to 0.9 percent on Sept. 10, according to the
median of seven projections in a Bloomberg survey.  GDP Outlook  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse Group AG and
BNP Paribas SA see a contraction in GDP this quarter, the first
slide since  back-to-back declines  in the first half of 2011,
when Japan was hit by the record earthquake and tsunami.  The Japanese fiscal impasse is an echo of political
struggles in the U.S., where Republicans and Democrats have
failed to agree on a phased plan to rein in the  budget deficit .
The split leaves the economy facing some $600 billion of pre-set
tax increases and spending cuts at the end of the year.  U.S. manufacturing  stagnated in August after shrinking the
previous month, a Bloomberg survey indicated before an Institute
for Supply Management Inc. report today. In the euro region,
producer prices probably rose at a slower pace in July, gaining
1.6 percent from a year before, a separate survey showed.  In the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ’s central bank today
left its benchmark  interest rate  at 3.5 percent even after signs
the nation’s mining boom is decelerating.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s biggest miner, last month mothballed projects valued at
more than A$50 billion ($51 billion) by Credit Suisse Group and
Deutsche Bank AG.  Second Tussle  This is the second straight year that opposition lawmakers
in Japan have held up enactment of the deficit-financing
legislation. In 2011, they agreed to its passage only after then
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  had signaled he’d step down from
office.  This year’s struggle comes in the run-up to leadership
elections in both the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan and the
 Liberal Democratic Party , which ruled the nation for almost half
a century until its ouster by the DPJ in 2009. Key legislation
may be enacted in an October session of the Diet that precedes a
dissolution of the lower house, Goldman analysts wrote in an
Aug. 30 note, the step that precipitates an election.  Credit-rating companies have repeatedly cited failure of
political leadership as a danger to Japan’s sovereign credit
rating, which was cut by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings since the start of 2011. Japan has the
world’s largest public debt, at more than 200 percent of GDP, a
legacy of stagnant growth since deflation took hold in the
1990s.  Policy Inertia  “This recent episode of deadlock between the political
parties underscores the persistent policy inertia that has made
it difficult for the Diet to forge and implement” measures to
rein in Japan’s borrowing, Moody’s analysts David Erickson and
 Thomas Byrne  in  Singapore  wrote in a note yesterday. Without
resolute leadership following elections, “Japan risks a market
demand for a  risk premium  on Japanese  government bonds , making
deficit financing and debt refinancing very costly,” they said.  For now, yields on Japanese government bonds show little
sign of strain. The benchmark 10-year note yielded 0.775 percent
as of 1:33 p.m. in Tokyo, down from about 1 percent at the start
of the year.  The government may delay transfers of revenue to local
authorities in municipalities and prefectures that are due early
this month, and temporarily cut spending on travel and the
upkeep of buildings, Finance Ministry documents showed last
week.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said Aug. 31 that he’s willing
to beg to get the legislation passed by the end of the Diet’s
current session on Sept. 8, and that the risk of running out of
money is “not a fiction.”  “A delay in the passage of the bill will make it difficult
for the government to compile an extra budget to boost growth,”
said  Akihiko Inoue , chief strategist at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Exports and production have weakened
on the slowdown in global demand, posing a risk of a faltering
recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  