-- Johnson, Furyk, Snedeker, Stricker Join U.S. Ryder Cup Team
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-04T16:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/johnson-furyk-snedeker-stricker-added-to-u-s-ryder-cup-team.html
Dustin Johnson,  Jim Furyk ,  Brandt Snedeker , and Steve Stricker were selected today by U.S. captain
 Davis Love III  to complete the squad that will face Europe in
next month’s  Ryder Cup  golf matches.  The four selections join eight U.S. players who
automatically qualified for the biennial event, scheduled for
Sept. 28-30 at Medinah Country Club in Medinah, Illinois.  Tiger Woods, Bubba Watson, Jason Dufner, Keegan Bradley,
Webb Simpson, Zach Johnson, Matt Kuchar and  Phil Mickelson 
earned the first eight spots on the U.S. team.  Hunter Mahan, who ranked ninth on the points list, and
Rickie Fowler, who ranked 12th, weren’t selected.  Snedeker, who leads the U.S. PGA Tour in putting average,
ranked 13th and will make his first appearance in the matches.
Johnson won the FedEx St. Jude Classic in June, and finished
third and fourth in the past two U.S. Tour playoff events. He
was 15th on the points list.  “It was a tough decision, but in the end I think we
rounded out our team the best way we knew how,” Love said in a
press conference in New York. “I think we’re extremely deep
this time, deeper than we’ve ever been.”  The U.S. team features 10 of the top 20 players in the
Official World Golf Ranking. All 24 players on the two Ryder Cup
squads are among the world’s top 36-ranked players.  Misplayed Chip  Mahan, with two wins this year, was left off the team two
years after a misplayed chip shot on the 17th hole of his final-
day singles match against Graeme McDowell helped the European
team claim victory. Mahan cried during the post-match press
conference and had to be consoled by teammates Mickelson and
 Zach Johnson .  Snedeker is one of four Ryder Cup rookies on the U.S. team,
along with Dufner, Simpson and Bradley.  “It was a little nerve-wracking,” Snedeker said during a
media conference call. “I didn’t have any clue really. I was so
excited I could hardly sleep last night. It’s just a huge thing
for my career.”  The European team, with 10 automatic berths and two picks,
was completed on Aug. 27 when captain Jose Maria Olazabal added
Ian Poulter and Nicolas Colsaerts to the squad.  Luke Donald,  Sergio Garcia , Peter Hanson,  Martin Kaymer ,
Paul Lawrie, McDowell, Rory McIlroy,  Francesco Molinari , Justin Rose and Lee Westwood earned automatic spots on the European
team.  Europe  won the cup in 2010 with a 14 1/2 to 13 1/2 win over
the U.S. at Celtic Manor Resort in Wales. The matches were last
played in the U.S. in 2008 at Valhalla Golf Club in Louisville,
Kentucky, where the home team won 16 1/2 to 11 1/2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  