-- Deere Leads Busiest Day for Bond Sales in U.S. in Six Months
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-09-04T21:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/john-deere-to-honda-leading-most-u-s-bond-sales-in-three-weeks.html
Corporate issuers led by  Deere & Co. (DE) 
and  Honda Motor Co. (HMC)  offered the most dollar-denominated debt
today in almost six months after yields on U.S. investment-grade
bonds dropped to a record low.  Deere, the largest maker of agricultural equipment, and
Tokyo-based Honda led borrowers selling or planning to sell at
least $17.1 billion of bonds, the most since $26.9 billion on
March 5, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales this
year have averaged $5.7 billion per day while August issuance,
the busiest on record for the month, averaged about $5 billion.  Borrowers are tapping the market as investors return from
U.S. holidays, with September standing as the  most active  month
of the quarter during the past three years. Unprecedented low
 interest rates  are encouraging companies to sell debt before
potential volatility from a meeting of the  European Central Bank 
and from U.S. payroll data at the end of the week, said Simon Mayes at BNP Paribas SA.  “Things are back in full swing now,” Mayes, head of the
financial institutions group syndicate in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “We definitely expect it to be busy for
the next couple of weeks, and it’s going to be front-loaded this
week.”  Yields on investment-grade securities fell below 3 percent
for the first time on Aug. 31, reaching a record low 2.98
percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master index. The extra yield investors demand to own
company bonds rather than government debentures was at 186 basis
points, or 1.86 percentage points.  Record Low Yields  Deere issued $1 billion of debt, selling $500 million each
of 0.7 percent, three-year notes to yield 42 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries and 1.2 percent, five-year debt
at a relative yield of 62 basis points, Bloomberg data show. The
bonds may be rated A2, the sixth level of investment grade, by
Moody’s Investors Service, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who asked not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set. Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc
managed the sale for the Moline, Illinois-based company.  Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest carmaker, sold $1.5 billion of
debt through its U.S. unit, Bloomberg data show. The company
issued $1 billion of 1 percent, three-year notes at a relative
yield of 77 basis points and $500 million of 1.5 percent, five-
year debt at a spread of 95 basis points.  Honda Sale  The debt may be rated A1, the fifth level of investment
grade, by Moody’s, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Bank of America Corp., BNP Paribas and Deutsche
Bank are managing the offering, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Policy makers will convene at the European Central Bank
meeting Sept. 6, when ECB President  Mario Draghi  is expected to
flesh out plans for a sovereign bond-purchase program that would
aid nations struggling to fund themselves.  U.S. payrolls probably increased 125,000 in August
following a gain of 163,000 in July and unemployment exceeded 8
percent for a 43rd month, economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News 
said ahead of Labor Department figures Sept. 7.  Public Service Co. of Colorado , the Denver-based
electricity and natural gas provider, sold $800 million of
notes, Bloomberg data show. The company issued $300 million of
2.25 percent, 10-year debt at a spread of 68 basis points and
$500 million of 3.6 percent, 30-year securities at 95 basis
points. The debt may be rated A2, the sixth level of investment
grade, by Moody’s, the data show. Bank of America, Credit Suisse
Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc managed the sale.  GE Offering  General Electric Co. (GE) , the biggest maker of power-generation
equipment with $32 billion of bonds maturing in the rest of
2012, sold $2 billion of 3.15 percent, 10-year notes and an add-
on offering of $800 million of 1.625 percent, three-year notes,
Bloomberg data show.  U.S. sales reached $74.5 billion in September 2011 and
$162.2 billion for the same period in 2010, the highest on
record for the month, Bloomberg data show.  “With estimates around $100 billion for the month from
many market participants, I think there is an element of trying
to be at the front of the queue while the going is good,”
according to Mayes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 