-- Kazakh Weather Set to Improve for Grain Harvest, Ministry Says
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-09-04T10:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/kazakh-weather-set-to-improve-for-grain-harvest-ministry-says.html
Kazakhstan ’s weather is likely to
improve as farmers seek to bring in the grain harvest earlier
than usual, Agriculture Minister Asylzhan Mamytbekov said.  “We’ll finish before the end of September, weather
permitting,” Mamytbekov told reporters today in the capital,
Astana. The current periodic rainfalls are “not so favorable”
for harvesting the crop, he said.  The forecast is “not so bad,” with “normal, average”
autumn weather predicted, Mamytbekov said. September is expected
to be warm and arid with some rains possibly in the northern and
mountainous regions,  Kazhydromet , the national weather service,
said on its website.  Kazakhstan, the biggest wheat producer in Central Asia, has
harvested from 8.5 million hectares (21 million acres), or 55.1
percent of the area planted with grains, so far this season,
according to a statement published on the  Agriculture Ministry ’s
website. That compares with 22.7 percent of the area harvested
at the same time in 2011. Farmers started reaping in July this
year, earlier than usual.  The country has milled 6.4 million metric tons of grain as
of today, compared with 5.2 million tons milled in the same
period last year, according to ministry data.  The yield has dropped by almost half this year, to 750
kilograms per hectare (1,650 pounds) from 1,410 kilograms per
hectare last year, as dry weather damaged crops.  Falling Yields  “The average yields will grow by the end of the harvest,
because there are going to be more productive fields at the end,
which weren’t touched as much by the drought,” Mamytbekov said.  The Kostanay region in the north led the declines among
Kazakhstan’s main growing regions, with yields falling about 65
percent to 560 kilograms per hectare this year, according to the
ministry. Yields dropped about 43 percent in the Akmola region
to 610 kilograms a hectare, and about 37 percent in North
Kazakhstan region to 1,120 kilograms per hectare this year.  About 3.7 percent of plantings were damaged by drought,
Yevgeny Aman, the Agriculture Ministry’s executive secretary,
said Aug 28. About 600,000 hectares of the 16.2 million hectares
planted will be “written off,” he said.  Kazakhstan may gather about 13 million tons of grain this
season, Aman said Aug. 15. The country has about 9 million tons
of stock left from last year, he said. Kazakhstan harvested a
record 26.9 million tons of grain in 2011, according to
government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana, Kazakhstan at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  