-- Kenya Spends $25 Billion on Bond-Backed Port for Oil: Freight
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-04T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/kenya-spends-25-billion-on-bond-backed-port-for-oil-freight.html
Kenya , East  Africa ’s largest
economy, is moving to spend $25 billion on a second port, a
crude pipeline and roads that will open up export routes in a
region luring investors with oil and gas discoveries.  The Kenyan government has agreed with oil-rich  South Sudan 
to build a 2,000-kilometer (1,243-mile) pipeline to the northern
Kenyan coastal town of Lamu. Early-stage construction began in
March to clear the way for a deepwater port that will serve
Kenya’s underdeveloped north, South  Sudan ,  Ethiopia  and  Uganda .  The planned northern corridor may provide South Sudan with
an alternative route for its oil exports, other than via Sudan,
after a dispute earlier this year over oil-transit fees brought
the neighboring states to the brink of war. The two nations
together hold 6.7 billion barrels of crude  reserves , the third-
largest in sub-Saharan Africa after Nigeria and  Angola .  “This a massive project, equivalent to about two-thirds of
Kenya’s annual gross domestic product,” said Mark Bohlund, a
sub-Saharan Africa economist with IHS Global Insight who in July
attended a conference on Lamu in  London . It “could boost growth
in the entire region because the overdependence on the Mombasa
port has held it back.” Lower transport costs and faster goods
movement could help both agriculture and industry, he said.  Kenya’s $34 billion economy, which earns most of its
foreign exchange from tea and tourism, is forecast to withstand
the global slowdown and expand 5 percent this year and next,
from 4.4 percent in 2011, according to the  World Bank . Abundant
rains this year have boosted agriculture, an industry that
generates a quarter of Kenya’s output, and curbed inflation to
6.1 percent in August from a 20 percent peak in November. Kenya
is the world’s largest exporter of black tea.  Infrastructure Bonds  The Kenyan government last month opened a tender for the
design and construction of the first three berths at Lamu, to be
financed by the annual sale of 13 billion shillings ($154.4
million) of infrastructure bonds over five years.  Kenya sold 37.2 billion shillings of 12-year infrastructure
bonds between September 2011 and February, the most recent
auctions of the debt, at an average yield of 16.64 percent,
according to the central bank. That compares with a rate of
12.959 percent for 8.13 billion shillings of 30-year savings
development bonds sold in February 2011.  “Right now our  interest rates  are extremely attractive in
a global context to bring investors in,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , chief
executive officer of Nairobi-based investment company Rich
Management Ltd., said by phone.  Projected Demand  The bulk, container and general cargo docks are scheduled
to be built by 2016, expanding to 32 berths capable of handling
24 million tons of cargo a year by 2030. That would meet 40
percent of projected local demand by shippers, according to a
2011 report by the 19-nation Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa.  Private operators will eventually be hired to run the Lamu
harbor, Peter Oremo, a project manager at Kenya Ports Authority,
said in a phone interview. Plans to expand the congested Mombasa
port, which handles shipments for businesses in Kenya and other
East African nations, aren’t keeping pace with increasing trade
demand, while the port’s maximum depths and narrow layout
restrict the size of the vessels that can safely enter, he said.  The planned pipeline has drawn interest from companies
including  Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015) , a unit of  Japan ’s Toyota Motor
Corp., which has bid $5 billion to build it, according to the
Standard, a Nairobi-based newspaper. State-owned  China  National
Petroleum Corp., one of three companies that pump most of South
Sudan’s oil, may also participate, the newspaper said.  Toyota  East Africa  Ltd. Chairman Dennis Awori wasn’t
available for comment when Bloomberg contacted his office. Li Zhanbin, a spokesman for CNPC in Beijing, didn’t answer his
mobile phone when called yesterday for comment.  Production Halt  South Sudan, which kept three-quarters of the former
unified country’s crude output of 490,000 barrels per day after
seceding from Sudan last year, relies on oil for almost all of
its government revenue. It halted crude production in January
because of the dispute with Sudan over transit fees. While the
country is preparing to resume production after reaching a
provisional agreement last month over the payments, the friction
has injected new impetus into discussions to build the pipeline.  South Sudan has also raised the possibility of building a
pipeline via neighboring Ethiopia and  Djibouti . Feasibility
studies are being conducted on both proposals over the next six
months, South Sudan Oil Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau told
reporters on Aug. 30, without saying who will fund construction.
The goal is for a new pipeline to be operational by 2015.  Tourist Attacks  With virtually no industry or infrastructure in place
across Kenya’s north, investors may be reluctant to put their
wealth in a territory better known for ethnic conflict and
kidnappings. The Lamu archipelago, a tourist destination near
the border of war-torn Somalia, was the site of an attack last
year that left one British tourist shot dead and his wife taken
hostage. Kenya blamed al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda’s affiliate in
Somalia, and its army began an incursion into the warn-torn Horn
of African nation.  “There are definitely risks with these projects,” said
Bohlund. “And it’s probably one of the reasons why Kenya
intervened in Somalia.”  Environmentalists and coastal residents have also raised
concerns that the project may harm the environment in an area
that boasts the Swahili settlement known as Lamu Old Town, a
UNESCO World Heritage Site.  The Lamu project is part of a wider plan, known as the Lamu
Port-Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport corridor, to furnish
northern Kenya with roads, airports and a refinery in Isiolo,
and help spur economic growth of at least 10 percent by 2030.  ‘New Frontier’  “We are moving to a  new frontier  of the world and these
types of investment opportunities of this scale are fast-
dwindling,” Silvester Kasuku, an adviser in the prime
minister’s office overseeing the project, said in an interview.  Kenya’s government is in talks with funders, including
 Export-Import Bank of China , for a $1 billion loan to lay
highways and rails to South Sudan and Ethiopia, where
infrastructure development is bolstering economic growth, Kasuku
said.  The transit route may also provide farmers in southern
Ethiopia who grow crops including coffee and corn with access to
international markets and lead to further investment in Kenya’s
Turkana region, the site of the country’s first oil find. It was
announced by London-based  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  in March.  That discovery, along with the expected start of crude
production in Uganda later this year, and natural gas finds off
the coast of Tanzania and  Mozambique , has boosted competition
among oil and gas companies for a greater role in exploring.  “Uganda will need more imports with its oil discovery,
South Sudan and Ethiopia are landlocked and are developing,”
said the Kenya Ports Authority’s Oremo. “We have to be able to
serve these growing markets in the hinterland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net . 