-- Kenya Set to Make Biggest Rate Cut, Driving Yields Down
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/kenya-set-to-make-biggest-rate-cut-driving-yields-down.html
Kenya ’s central bank is set to make
its biggest interest-rate cut on record to protect growth in
 East Africa ’s largest economy, driving bond yields to all-time
lows.  The Central Bank of Kenya, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u,
will probably reduce its benchmark  lending rate  by 2.5
percentage points to 14 percent, according to the median
estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee is due to announce the rate decision
in an e-mailed statement after 3 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  Policy makers are reversing tack after six interest rate
increases last year helped to bolster the shilling and bring the
inflation rate down to an 18-month low. Growth in Kenya’s $34
billion economy is now coming under pressure as credit demand
weakens and  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs tourism and cuts
agricultural exports, Kenya’s main sources of foreign exchange.  “The central bank is facing pressure to encourage cheaper
credit and help the economy,” Mutahe Karuoro, the head of money
markets at Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd., said in a telephone
interview from Nairobi. “The cut would see yields go down on
government debt, and eventually it makes sense banks would offer
lower lending rates.”  Kenya’s economy expanded 3.5 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in two years, and the government forecasts
growth of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent this year, compared with a
4.4 percent expansion in 2011.  Yields Slump  Yields on Kenya’s 12.705 percent shilling bond due June
2022 slumped 207 basis points, or 2.07 percentage points, in the
past month to a record low of 10.81 percent yesterday. The yield
on the 11.855 percent security due May 2017 has dropped 2.16
percentage points to 10.4 percent in the same period.  The central bank boosted the policy rate by 12.25
percentage points to 18 percent last year to halt the shilling’s
decline after it plunged to a low of 106.75 against the dollar
on Oct. 11. Inflation peaked in November at 19.7 percent as the
worst regional drought in 60 years pushed up food prices.  Soaring commercial bank lending rates curbed credit growth
to 16.4 percent in June from 21.5 percent in the previous month,
and boosted defaults. Non-performing loans increased 7 percent
to 57.5 billion shillings ($683.7 million) in the first half of
the year, according to the central bank.  The shilling has gained 16 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of November, while inflation eased to 6.1 percent
in August, giving the central bank room to cut  interest rates 
for a second time this year. The forecasts for today’s reduction
range between 200 basis points and 450 basis points.  ‘Excess Liquidity’  “The central bank has allowed excess liquidity to build up
in the system,” Phumelele Mbiyo, head of macroeconomic research
for East Africa at CFC Stanbic Bank Ltd. in Nairobi, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “If the central bank is looking to
stimulate economic activity they will have to cut the rate.”  The central bank has reduced the frequency of its monetary
policy meetings to six times a year from once every month,
adding to expectations of a more aggressive interest-rate cut,
Mbiyo said.  Policy makers are under pressure to help make loans more
affordable for borrowers and boost economic growth before
elections scheduled for March 4, said Ignatius Chicha, head of
markets at Citigroup Inc. in Nairobi. In the last election in
2007, two months of ethnic violence left more than 1,100 people
dead and uprooted another 350,000.  “There’s pressure from the government for rates to come
down as an indicator to the market that commercial lending rates
should also fall,” Chicha said in a phone interview. “There is
an election coming up and the government wants to spur economic
growth so individuals can feel a benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  