-- Nazi-Persecuted Exiles Honored, Nobel Winner Wants Museum
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/nazi-persecuted-exiles-honored-nobel-winner-wants-museum.html
Dora Schindel arranged the escape of
48 intellectuals persecuted in  Nazi Germany  to  Brazil  in 1941.
They forged passports to erase evidence of Jewish origins and
pretended to be a team of technicians to get visas.  The exiles then founded a factory making wooden
candlesticks, clothes hangers and toilet seats. Schindel, who
turns 97 in November, took charge of the business side.  “We had no clue what we were doing,” she told an audience
at the opening of an  exhibition  at the German National Library
in  Frankfurt  called “I Am a Stranger to the People There.”
Yet, she said, after Brazil joined World War II on the side of
the allies in 1942, the company even won government contracts.  Schindel’s story of exile is one of 16 narrated in the
show, which focuses on those who left  Germany  after the Nazis
won power. There is the cheerfully embroidered bag documenting
new experiences made by Irma Lange, who emigrated with her son
from Berlin to the U.K. where they were interned on the Isle of
Man as suspicious foreigners; and the story of Fritz Neumark,
who became a professor of finance at Istanbul University.  No one knows exactly how many emigrated, though estimates
put the figure at around 500,000. To Romania-born Nobel laureate
Herta Mueller -- who herself fled to Germany to escape
persecution under Nicolae Ceausescu’s dictatorship -- these
exiles are the forgotten victims of the Nazis.  Letter to Merkel  Mueller, who is campaigning for a permanent museum in
memory of the artists and writers who fled, wrote a letter
to Chancellor  Angela Merkel  putting forward her arguments last
year. Culture Minister Bernd Neumann in May pledged 745,000
euros ($939,000) toward establishing a “virtual museum,” an
online research resource.  For Mueller, the 2009  Nobel Prize  in Literature winner, a
virtual museum is not enough.  “Hopefully this is a step toward a real museum,” she said
at the opening of the exhibition, of which she is the patron.
“Germany has to take responsibility for this, just as for the
Holocaust.”  Mueller recalled the fate of writers like Stefan Zweig, who
committed suicide in Brazil; the poet Paul Celan, who faced
ridicule in German literary circles after his return from exile;
Konrad Merz, who escaped death in Amsterdam hidden in a
cupboard, and Nelly Sachs, who fled to  Sweden  a week before she
was scheduled to go to a concentration camp.  Spellbound Audience  Living witnesses like Schindel are becoming thin on the
ground. She told her life story with an energy that belied her
quavery voice and kept her audience spellbound.  Despite the difficulties of settling in Brazil, Schindel
said she integrated, learned the language, and grew to love the
people. She recounted the trouble she had readjusting to Germany
when she returned from exile in 1955.  “It was a bewildering experience,” she said. “I couldn’t
get used to the bitterness in people’s faces. There seemed to be
no friendly faces.”  On her return, she worked for a lawmaker in Bonn and became
involved with the German-Brazilian Society, devoting herself to
improving relations between the two countries. She is, she said
with some pride, “still active in the Society” at the age of
96 and considers herself “half Bavarian, half Brazilian.”  “I wouldn’t want to do without either side,” she said.  For more information, go to  http://www.dnb.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  James Russell 
on architecture and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 