-- New York Accuses Madoff Trustee of Intimidation
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-04T16:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/new-york-seeks-new-judge-for-410-million-merkin-madoff-deal.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman accused the Bernard Madoff brokerage trustee of
trying to intimidate the state’s top law enforcers in a bid
to overturn a $410 million settlement with a former Ponzi-
scheme investor.  Schneiderman on Aug. 31 asked a district judge to take over
the case so he could complete the settlement of a state lawsuit
against J. Ezra Merkin, who allegedly diverted customer funds to
Madoff. Trustee Irving Picard has asked a bankruptcy judge to
block the deal, saying it obstructs his own efforts to collect
$500 million from Merkin and his funds for a different group of
Madoff investors.  Picard is interfering with the attorney general’s power to
enforce New York’s Martin Act and other legal rights of the
people of the state, Schneiderman said in a filing in federal
court in  Manhattan . Since 2009, Picard has “made intermittent
efforts to intimidate” New York’s  attorneys general ,
threatening to sue to make them turn over any funds taken from
Merkin, Schneiderman said.  “There is no basis in law, fact, or equity for the
trustee’s claims,” Schneiderman said. Removing the case from
 bankruptcy court  “will promote judicial efficiency and avoid
further delay in making distributions from the Merkin
defendants’ assets” to hundreds of investors who otherwise
would get nothing from Madoff’s estate, he said.  48 Hours  Late last year, a Picard lawyer called the attorney
general’s office, saying he had heard a settlement was close,
Schneiderman said. Picard’s lawyer said the trustee would sue to
stop the deal “if the NYAG did not agree within 48 hours that
the bankruptcy court would have exclusive jurisdiction over any
disputes between the trustee and the NYAG,” according to the
filing.  The attorney general rejected the demand, offering a
meeting that the lawyer said he would set up, and didn’t,
Schneiderman said.  Under the deal, Merkin and his funds would pay $405 million
to compensate customers, and $5 million to New York State.
Schneiderman and his predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , used state law
including the Martin Act in their pursuit of Merkin for
allegedly fraudulent conduct, and weren’t interfering with
separate claims pursued by Picard, according to the filing.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the filing.  Sole Right  Picard has said that under bankruptcy law he has the sole
right as trustee to sue former Madoff investors who allegedly
participated in the con man’s fraud, and to use the proceeds to
pay customers whose claims he has authorized. Schneiderman and
Cuomo were acting for Merkin customers who don’t have approved
claims to money raised by Picard, Schneiderman said.  According to Picard, $200 million of Merkin’s settlement
money is already sitting in an escrow account with Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., awaiting completion of the deal with
Schneiderman.  In January, Picard sued California Attorney General  Kamala Harris , alleging her $270 million lawsuit against a former
Madoff investor’s estate interfered with the collection of
assets needed to help compensate Madoff victims, and would help
only Californians.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who oversees the
Madoff brokerage liquidation, told the two parties to go into
mediation, and picked a former judge, James L. Garrity Jr., as
the mediator.  Secure Settlements  Asking Lifland to stop the Merkin deal last month, Picard
said, “If other attorneys general around the country could
simply walk into state courts and secure settlements as the NYAG
did, the BLMIS estate would be decimated, with residents of
various states favored.”  Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, or BLMIS, is
the defunct Madoff firm.  Schneiderman’s move comes as district judges are reviewing
hundreds of Picard’s lawsuits against companies and individuals
to decide whether the trustee is using a valid interpretation of
his powers under bankruptcy law, or his actions conflict with
state and federal law. U.S. district judges Jed Rakoff and
 Colleen McMahon  together knocked out $90 billion of Picard’s
claims against banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Concealed Role  In the Merkin lawsuit, Cuomo claimed Merkin and his funds
secretly steered assets to Madoff and concealed Madoff’s role in
the  Ponzi scheme , harming investors. Cuomo, a Democrat, is now
New York’s governor.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after pleading guilty
to a fraud that wiped out $17 billion of customers’ principal.
Picard has raised around $9 billion for customers, mostly from
settlements, although some of it is still tied up in court
challenges.  The suit is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-01778,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 