-- News Corp. Nominates Chao, Uribe to Board as Directors Step Down
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-09-04T21:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/news-corp-nominates-chao-uribe-to-board-as-directors-step-down.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company run by
billionaire Rupert Murdoch, nominated ex-Colombian President
 Alvaro Uribe  and former U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao as
directors, bolstering the board’s government experience.  Uribe and Chao will replace Andrew Knight and John Thornton, who plan to step down as directors following the
annual meeting, News Corp. said today in a statement.  The changes presage a broader shakeup in News Corp.’s
organization over the next year. Murdoch announced a plan in
June to break up News Corp.’s publishing and entertainment
divisions into separate companies. Murdoch will remain chairman
of both businesses and CEO of the entertainment division.  Chao served as labor secretary under President George W.
Bush from 2001 to 2009. After that, she became a distinguished
fellow of the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington. The Harvard-
educated Uribe was president of Colombia from 2002 to 2010 and
more recently served on an advisory council for  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , News Corp. said.  Murdoch received $30 million in total compensation last
year, New York-based News Corp. said in a regulatory filing.
That was down from $33.3 million in 2011, in part because of
fewer stock awards.  News Corp. shares rose 0.6 percent to $23.53 in New York
today. The stock has climbed 32 percent this year.  The company will hold its annual shareholder conference in
Los Angeles on Oct. 16. Another board member, Arthur Siskind,
will serve as a director emeritus after the event. He will
continue attending meetings but won’t vote on resolutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  