-- Nokia to Start Free Music Service in U.S. to Boost Sales
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-09-04T12:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/nokia-to-start-free-music-service-in-u-s-to-boost-sales.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the smartphone maker
seeking to make a comeback in the U.S., said it will start a
free music service in the country that will work exclusively on
its Lumia handsets.  Users will have access to millions of songs and can listen
to playlists created by artists including Rihanna, Lana Del Rey
and Lady Gaga, Nokia said today in a statement. The service
carries no advertisements and requires no subscription.  Mobile phone companies have fought over music listeners for
years. Apple Inc.’s iTunes helped create the digital music
market, while Google Inc., Spotify Ltd. and  Pandora Media Inc. (P) 
have heated up competition. Nokia Music’s gig-finding service
will use a consumer’s position to find live concerts and shows
happening nearby.  Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , is struggling to win back
customers from Apple and devices running Google’s Android
software. It has identified the U.S. as a key market where it
has to woo customers to gain momentum for a global comeback.
Nokia is set to introduce its first devices based on the mobile
version of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new Windows 8 operating system in
New York tomorrow.  “The U.S.A. is the most vibrant and competitive digital
music market in the world,” Jyrki Rosenberg, head of
entertainment at Nokia, said in the statement.  Nokia, whose U.S. market share peaked at 32 percent in
2001, accounted for about 2 percent of smartphone purchases in
the second quarter, according to  Strategy Analytics . IPhone and
Android combined made up about 90 percent.  Shares of the Finnish company have dropped 38 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  