-- Nomura Investment Bank Co-Head Vereker Named Vice Chairman
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-09-04T04:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/nomura-investment-bank-co-head-vereker-named-unit-vice-chairman.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. appointed
 investment banking  co-head  William Vereker  as vice chairman of
the business, leaving Kentaro Okuda to lead the unit as Japan’s
biggest brokerage deepens cost cuts.  James DeNaut and Charles Pitts-Tucker were named joint
international heads of investment banking, reporting to Okuda,
according to an internal memo. Jonathan Hodgkinson, a Nomura
spokesman in  New York , confirmed the contents of the document.  Nomura said last week it will cut another $1 billion of
costs by March 2014 after implementing a $1.2 billion program
last year to reduce expenses that swelled following its purchase
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. businesses in 2008. The latest
retrenchment will center on wholesale operations, including
investment banking and equities.  As vice chairman, London-based Vereker, 45, will be able to
focus more on clients and ensure deals are executed quickly,
according to the memo sent by Chief Operating Officer Atsushi Yoshikawa. Okuda, 48, is based in  Tokyo .  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai, 53, who took the helm
on Aug. 1, is retreating from a global expansion after Nomura
posted pretax losses abroad for nine straight quarters. He is
scheduled to brief investors on the reductions on Sept. 6.  The bank will cut jobs, mainly overseas including  Europe ,
while strengthening areas including mergers and acquisitions
advisory, a person with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Operations in Europe have taken the brunt of efforts to
trim costs over the past year, with the region accounting for
450 of the 560 jobs cut worldwide as the sovereign debt crisis
roiled markets and slowed economic growth. Most of Nomura’s
European employees work in its wholesale unit, which includes
investment banking and trading  operations (8604)  in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  