-- Notre Dame’s Analyst Pinkett Gets Ban for ‘Criminals’ Comment
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-09-05T04:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/notre-dame-s-pinkett-gets-three-game-ban-for-criminals-comment.html
University of  Notre Dame  football
radio analyst Allen Pinkett was banned from three games without
pay after he said the team needs “criminals” to win.  Pinkett has missed one game, being pulled from Notre Dame’s
50-10 season-opening win over the U.S. Naval Academy in Dublin,
Ireland, on Sept. 1.  A two-time All-American running back in the 1980s, Pinkett
will miss games against Purdue and Michigan State, according to
a statement from IMG, which holds the broadcast rights for Notre
Dame football. A replacement would be named in the coming days,
IMG said in the statement, which included an apology from
Pinkett.  “I love this school as much as I love my kids and would
never want to compromise the ethics and morals of my alma
mater,” Pinkett said. “This offering of forgiveness is an
extremely humbling life lesson. I will work very hard to make
the most of this second chance in representing the high
standards and proud tradition of Notre Dame football.”  Pinkett had said during a radio interview that successful
teams need a few bad citizens. He spoke after Notre Dame
suspended two players, including leading rusher Cierre Wood, for
two games for violating team rules.  “I mean, that’s how Ohio State used to win all the time,”
he said. “They would have two or three guys that were
criminals. That just adds to the chemistry of the team. I think
Notre Dame is growing because maybe they have some guys that are
doing something worthy of a suspension, which creates edge on
the football team. You can’t have a football team full of choir
boys.”  Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick called the
remarks “nonsense.”  Notre Dame was 8-5 last season.  Bloomberg Radio  is the broadcast home for Notre Dame
football in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  