-- NYPD Abuse Increases Settlements Costing City $735 Million
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-04T18:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/nyc-police-abuse-joins-pothole-settlements-costing-735-million.html
New York City plans to spend $735
million this year on settlements or awards in lawsuits claiming
negligence, police abuse and property damage, the most in its
history and almost six times what  Los Angeles  pays per capita.  The cost of claims is forecast to rise to $815 million by
2016, more than the city pays to run the Parks and Recreation
Department, according to  budget documents . Among the incidents
triggering payments are malpractice in public hospitals, police
beatings, improper arrests, collisions with fire trucks and
potholes causing accidents.  The increase in litigation payouts may put pressure on
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  as he weighs job and service cuts to
close a $3.5 billion deficit in a $72 billion budget next year.
The gap widened by $1 billion last month when a court struck
down a plan to sell 2,000 new taxi medallions.  “It’s a huge problem for the city and trial lawyers will
say it’s only justice, but it’s also a matter of some people
considering a case before a New York jury the same as winning
the lottery,” said E.J. McMahon, a research fellow for the
Manhattan Institute’s  Empire Center for New York State Policy .
The institute calls for changes to contingency fees for
plaintiffs’ lawyers and advocates a so-called loser pays system
for legal costs.  One reason  New York ’s legal payouts are rising, according
to the Law Department, is that unlike California, Illinois and
 Pennsylvania , the state has no laws that cap damages or limit
liability in suits against municipal governments.  Volatile Expense  The city’s claims forecast for this year includes
litigation arising from personal injury, property damage and
contract disputes. Raymond  Orlando , a spokesman for the budget
office, said the estimate is based on experience that takes into
account the potential for large payouts from lawsuits
originating years ago.  “These expenses are quite volatile from year to year,”
Orlando said.  New York spent $664 million on claims in the fiscal year
that ended June 30, 2011, the most recent year for which data
are available, according to the Law Department. Claims alleging
personal injury accounted for $565 million, including $119
million for police misconduct and civil-rights violations.  Deep Pockets  Bloomberg, 70, called on state and federal lawmakers to
“reform tort law” at a news briefing today in Queens.  Settlements will remain expensive as long as courts and
juries believe the city has ample money, said the mayor, who is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  “A lot of times we just make a business decision to
settle, rather than run the risk of a much greater tort judgment
against us,” he said.  Law Department officials say the office has been able to
contain costs, partly through early identification of cases the
city should settle. New York’s ability to persuade the state
Legislature to enact a 2003 law making adjacent property owners
responsible for maintaining public sidewalks saved about $40
million a year in slip-and-fall cases, said Kate Ahlers, the
department’s spokeswoman.  Big Responsibilities  New York’s payouts dwarf those of other large U.S. cities.
Los Angeles, with a population of 3.9 million, paid $54 million
for claims in 2011, or about $14 per capita. New York’s per
capita cost, based upon a population of 8.2 million, is $81.  Comparing New York’s settlement payments to other cities
“is an apples-to-oranges undertaking because of the breadth of
agencies and functions covered in  New York City ’s tort payouts
and the differences in other states’ tort laws,” Ahlers said.  The city of Los Angeles, for example, isn’t legally
responsible for operations under the control of Los Angeles
County, which runs local jails and maintains roads, she said in
an e-mail.  “New York City is a self-insured mega-metropolis with a
population of more than 8 million people under a single umbrella
for the purposes of tort liability,” she said.  Unlike most cities, New York has its own system of 11
public hospitals, which generate malpractice claims of more than
$130 million a year. Schools in other cities are controlled by
independent districts; not so in New York City, where the mayor
runs the schools, she said.  ‘Cottage Industry’  The city reduced its annual claim costs among its hospitals
17 percent to $134.4 million from 2006 to 2010, in part by
creating a specialized legal team within the  Health and
Hospitals Corp. , said Ana Marengo, an HHC spokeswoman.  By contrast, claim payouts alleging abusive police conduct
increased 46 percent during the same period, to $136 million in
2010, according to the city comptroller’s office. There were
8,104 claims filed against the police that year, a historical
high, Comptroller  John Liu  said in a June 2011 report.  “A growing area of concern is the increase of claims filed
against the NYPD,” Liu said.  Deputy Police Commissioner  Paul Browne , the department’s
chief spokesman, says the Law Department is too quick to settle
cases and that some lawyers manipulate the system.  “It’s a cottage industry, suing the department,” Browne
said. Attorneys in the Law Department make an “economic
calculation to settle these cases without taking into account
the damage done to the reputation of the police from false or
exaggerated claims.”  Paying Out  Fay Leoussis, the  Law Department’s  torts division chief,
said the city has several issues to consider before agreeing to
a settlement.  “In the vast number of cases, our police officers did the
right thing, but from a risk-management point of view we want to
settle meritorious claims, reviewing the venue, the sympathy
factor, the injury,” Leoussis said. “We’re very concerned
about our police officers’ morale and we believe that what they
do is on the right side of the law for the most part.”  The Law Department has asked the state Legislature to enact
laws that would reduce the  interest rate  on unpaid settlements
held in escrow; limit the city’s liability in cases when the
plaintiff is partially at fault; and expand the ability to
bypass juries with cases adjudicated by judges, Leoussis said.  Plumbing the Numbers  The volume and cost of claims should spur city officials to
analyze whether repeat wrongdoers or faulty practices may be to
blame, said Carol Kellermann, president of the  New York Citizens
Budget Commission , a business-funded watchdog of city and state
fiscal policy.  Leoussis says city lawyers meet with and train police.
Kellermann and others say New York could do more.  “The problem is, city officials pretend that there’s
nothing to be learned from the information contained in these
claims,” said  Paul Chevigny , a New York University criminal-law
professor and author of the 1995 book “Edge of the Knife:
Police Violence in the Americas.”  Civil-rights claims against the police and other city
departments totaled 2,657 in fiscal 2010, a 35 percent increase
over the previous year.  The largest payout that year, according to the
 comptroller’s office , was a $33 million settlement in a class-
action accusing the Department of Corrections of illegally
strip-searching 100,000 inmates upon admission to jail after
arraignment on misdemeanor or lesser charges.  Expensive Loitering  In February, the city paid $15 million to settle a class-
action suit filed in 2005 against the police on behalf of 22,000
 New Yorkers  charged with loitering from 1983 to 2011 -- in
violation of a law declared unconstitutional in 1992.  Lawsuits claiming police abuse “are very serious cases
where people die or people have their rights violated,” said
Katherine Rosenfeld, an attorney with  Emery Celli Brinckerhoff &
Abady LLP , a firm involved in the strip-search and loitering
suits. In the loitering case, the settlement reached $15 million
because “they were compensating people for things that had
happened over a very long period of time,” she said.  The city litigated the case for almost seven years and was
held in contempt in 2010 for continuing to make such arrests
after the law had been ruled unconstitutional, Rosenfeld said.  Christopher Dunn, associate legal director for the New York
Civil Liberties Union, said that while his organization opposes
the police department’s stop-and-frisk policy, which affects
mostly black and Hispanic males, those momentary encounters
rarely result in injuries for which it’s appropriate to seek
monetary damages. The organization usually seeks court-ordered
changes in police training and procedures rather than money
awards in civil-rights cases, he said.  “Most people would be disappointed when they see how
little reform takes place, even when large amounts get paid
out,” said Dunn. “Police officers who get sued usually don’t
even know the city has paid tens of thousands of dollars for
their illegal act. So, how can there be deterrence?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  