-- Obama Super-PAC’s Begala Urges ’Give Until It Feels Good’
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-04T23:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/obama-super-pac-s-begala-urges-give-until-it-feels-good-.html
Democratic strategist  Paul Begala 
climbed atop a table at a Charlotte, North Carolina, restaurant
tonight and addressed President  Barack Obama ’s super-donors this
way: “I don’t want you to give until it hurts. I want you to
give until it feels good.”  He added the caveat that by not writing big checks, “it’ll
really hurt,” if Republican presidential challenger  Mitt Romney 
defeats the president after outspending him. Begala recapped the
donor event in an interview with Bloomberg News.  A former adviser to President  Bill Clinton , Begala said
he’s never really done fundraising until this year, when he
signed up to help Priorities USA Action. The super political
action committee is run by former Obama aides and is helping the
president by buying television ads. Super-PACs can accept
unlimited contributions from individuals, corporations and
unions.  Priorities is overmatched by its Republican counterparts,
though it raised $10 million last month, its biggest haul yet.  Restore Our Future and American Crossroads, two super-PACs
supporting Romney, had spent about five times as much as
Priorities by the end of July, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.  Begala said he is concerned about the future of super-PAC
spending because “corporations haven’t even started yet. Right
now, it’s just idiosyncratic billionaires giving” to Republican
groups.  The Begala table-top pep talk came as donors to Priorities
attended their first of three special events.  Tonight was a welcome cocktail hour at Roosters Wood Fired
Kitchen. Tomorrow they have a brunch with House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and others. And
Thursday night they conclude their donor-oriented convention
activities with a bash at the North Carolina Music Factory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  