-- Obama Ad Overstates Romney Tax Impact: Reality Check
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-04T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/obama-ad-overstates-romney-tax-impact-reality-check.html
Each side has made statements about
the other’s positions in the presidential campaign. How do they
square with the facts?  The Romney $2,000 Tax Increase  The Claim: President  Barack Obama ’s campaign charges
Republicans with proposing a middle-class tax increase. “Under
the Romney plan, a middle-class family will pay an average of up
to $2,000 more a year in taxes,” a new ad says.  The Background:  Mitt Romney  has offered a tax plan that he
says would lower rates, protect the middle class and still hold
revenue flat. He hasn’t said what tax breaks he would cut to
make up for rate reductions. Obama says Romney would help
millionaires while forcing tax increases on the middle class.  The Facts: The Obama ad is an exaggeration that uses an
outdated estimate. It relies on a report by the nonpartisan  Tax
Policy Center . The Washington-based center had tested Romney’s
plan and said that, even if all tax breaks were dropped, it
wouldn’t raise enough money from those with the highest incomes.
The center said the likely outcome would be a $2,000 increase
for taxpayers who make less than $200,000 and have children.
However, after complaints from Romney allies, the authors
changed some of their assumptions and came to the conclusion
that only half of what they originally estimated would have to 
be shifted to those further down the income scale. That suggests
a tax increase of $1,000, not $2,000.  Romney told Fortune magazine, “I will under no
circumstances raise taxes on the middle class.”  Obama and Socialized Medicine  The Claim: A new super-PAC ad proclaims, “Under President
Obama, America’s health care is becoming more like the Canadian
system.”  The Background: This is the second time Americans for
Prosperity, a super-political action committee founded with the
support of David and  Charles Koch , has run an ad featuring Shona
Holmes, a Canadian who warns of the dangers of a government-run
health-care system. Rather than wait several months for
treatment in  Canada , Holmes said, she sought care for a fatal
brain tumor in the U.S. “To protect America’s patient-centered
care, we must replace President Obama,” an announcer says. AFP
is spending $6.2 million to broadcast the ad in 11 swing states.  The Facts: This ad is false. The U.S. health-care law
didn’t implement a single-payer system, where all Americans are
covered by the government, a key characteristic of Canadian
health care. Additionally, the claim that Holmes would have died
from her condition is “an exaggeration,” according to a 
Canadian neurosurgeon quoted in a July 31, 2009, report by the
Canadian Broadcasting Corp. Holmes was diagnosed with Rathke’s
cleft cyst, a benign, slow-growing tumor that’s not known to be
fatal, the CBC said. Back home, Holmes was vilified as a traitor
and received death threats, according to a July 30, 2009, report
in Toronto’s Globe and Mail.  ’Are You Better Off?’  The Claim: Democrats say Americans are “better off” than
when Obama took office. Republicans say the public is worse off.  The Background: Whether Americans are better off or worse
off has been a central question in presidential campaigns since
President  Ronald Reagan  asked it in 1980. The issue exploded
this week when Democrats waffled and Republicans pounced.  The Facts: The economy is stronger than when President
Obama took office, but  unemployment  remains stubbornly high, so
each side emphasizes the facts that make its argument look 
better.  Democrats stress the rising direction of the economy, which
was contracting at an 8.9 percent annual rate during the final
quarter of 2008, just before Obama took office. It grew at a 1.7
percent annual rate in the second quarter of this year. The U.S.
lost 818,000 jobs in January 2009, and is now adding them, with
a net increase last month of 163,000.  Republicans focus on the standard of living and employment
prospects of middle-class families, which haven’t recovered to
previous levels. The  unemployment rate  has been at least 8
percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch in monthly
records that go back to 1947. Median  household income  began
declining in President  George W. Bush ’s administration, shortly
after the recession began in December 2007 and continued
dropping until about a year ago, according to data from Sentier
Research. Median household real income in June was $50,964, down
from $53,508 in June 2009, when the economic recovery officially
started.  --Richard Rubin, Lisa Lerer and Mike Dorning. Editors:  Steven
Komarow , Bob Drummond  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  