-- Obama Speech Will Meld Aspiration With Pragmatism: Aides
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-04T13:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/obama-speech-will-meld-aspiration-with-pragmatism-aides.html
President  Barack Obama ’s speech
accepting his party’s nomination for re-election this week will
be more specific than Republican  Mitt Romney ’s in detailing a
path forward on deficit reduction and will emphasize tax
fairness over Medicare, top aides said.  Obama’s speech on Sept. 6 to the Democratic National
Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, will tell Americans
“where we’ve been and where we need to take this country,”
campaign manager  Jim Messina  said at a Bloomberg Breakfast in
Charlotte today.  Deputy campaign manager  Stephanie Cutter  said the speech
will be “aspirational” and “pragmatic” and “lay out a
tangible path forward” with “a pretty clear sense of what the
second term will be about.” Cutter and Messina declined to
preview specifics of the president’s convention address.  The campaign aides, joined by Larry Grisolano, director of
paid media, said they will emphasize tax fairness over Medicare
from now until the Nov. 6 election because it has been a more
compelling issue with voters.  Messina said the contest has remained stable, with Obama
leading or running even with Romney in public opinion polling in
battleground states. Grisolano said Republicans had run a
“suspended reality” convention in Tampa, Florida.  Ground Game  The Obama campaign maintains a superior ground game in
states, including  North Carolina  and Ohio, that will give it an
advantage over Romney in the final stretch of the race, Messina
said. While Messina expressed confidence that Democrats have
secured Michigan and Pennsylvania, he was more guarded in his
assessment of the contest in Wisconsin, home to Romney’s running
mate, Representative  Paul Ryan .  Messina said he is confident minority turnout will be equal
to or more than 2008, in terms of the percentage of the total
vote.  Cutter defended Obama’s record when asked whether the
country is  better off  now than four years ago. She said, even if
Americans may not feel so individually, “The country is
stronger” for Obama’s success against al-Qaeda, for his
domestic policies, including expansion of health-care coverage
and insurance protections, and for ending the war in Iraq and
winding down the war in Afghanistan.  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama, said in a
separate interview today that the president will work with the
business community to reform the  tax code  in his second term.  “Let’s broaden the base and increase the base,” Jarrett
said at a second Bloomberg Breakfast in Charlotte. “That’s
going to benefit the broader business community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Charlotte at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  