-- Obama Vows Convention Speech Will Offer Specific Plans
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-04T17:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/obama-vows-convention-speech-will-offer-specific-plans.html
President  Barack Obama , offering a
preview of his speech this week at the Democratic National
Convention, promised to lay out details of how he’d right the
nation’s battered economy while saying Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  proposes only “retreads.”  “I will offer what I believe is a better path forward, a
path that will create good jobs and strengthen the middle class
and grow our economy,” Obama told a rally today at Norfolk
State University in Virginia.  Making a final campaign foray in a swing state before
heading tomorrow to the party gathering in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , Obama sought to rev up supporters with attacks on
Romney.  Romney is in Vermont today, preparing for the presidential
candidate debates that begin next month.  Obama repeated the line of attack he’s been using against
Romney, saying Republican proposals are vague promises to return
to policies that haven’t worked in the past.  At their convention last week, Republicans argued “Romney
knows a secret to creating jobs and growing the economy,” Obama
said. “The only problem was he kept it secret.”  Obama in 2008 became the first Democratic presidential
candidate to carry Virginia since former President  Lyndon B. Johnson  in 1964. While the Obama won the commonwealth by 6
points four years ago, polls now show him locked in a tight race
against Romney. Obama campaign advisers have said there may only
be a point difference between the two candidates on election day
in November. Virginia holds 13 of the 270 Electoral College
votes needed to win.  While  Virginia’s July unemployment rate  of 5.9 percent is
below the national average, it’s been increasing slightly each
month since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Norfolk, Virginia, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  