-- Ohio Says It Will Appeal Ruling on Early-Voter Limits
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-04T18:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ohio-says-it-will-appeal-ruling-on-early-voter-limits.html
Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine
appealed a ruling by a U.S. judge that threw out a Republican-
backed law that cut three days of early voting for most of the
state’s citizens.  U.S. District Judge Peter Economus in Columbus ruled Aug.
31 in a lawsuit brought by Obama for America that Ohio can’t
give members of the military and citizens living abroad three
days more than other voters to cast ballots. He ordered the
previous schedule restored, which allowed anyone to vote until
the day before an election.  DeWine, a Republican, filed a one-paragraph notice of
appeal of the decision to the federal appeals court in
Cincinnati today. Jon Husted, Ohio’s secretary of state, joined
the appeal, DeWine said in the filing.  The appeals court will next set a briefing schedule for
both sides to file papers on their positions, Dan Tierney, a
spokesman for DeWine, said in an interview today. No schedule
has been set yet, Tierney said.  Fights over voting access are intensifying in states
including Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and  Wisconsin , where both
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see a
possibility of victory. Voter cases are also under way in
 Alabama ,  Texas ,  Tennessee  and  South Carolina .  Electoral College  Ohio holds 18 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to
win a presidential race and no Republican has captured the White
House without a victory there. In 2008,  Barack Obama  carried the
state with 51.5 percent of the vote.  Ohio previously had one early-voting period that enabled
all voters to cast ballots until the day before Election Day.
Legislation signed by Republican Governor  John Kasich  during the
past two years cut back early voting, retaining the right to
vote in person during the last three days only for people
residing abroad or in the military.  Obama and Democrats sued DeWine and Husted on July 17,
arguing the disparate treatment of two groups was
unconstitutional.  Economus, appointed in 1995 by Democratic President  Bill Clinton , rejected the state’s arguments that election boards
would be “tremendously burdened” by allowing the last three
days of early voting for all.  “This court finds that plaintiffs have a constitutionally
protected right to participate in the 2012 election -- and all
elections -- on an equal basis with all Ohio voters,” Economus
said in his Aug. 31 ruling.  Ohio officials disagreed with the decision, DeWine said in
a statement last week.  “We have always allowed distinction for military voters,
and to say this violates equal protection is wrong,” he said.  The case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-cv-00636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  