-- Oil Falls on U.S., European Manufacturing Data
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-09-04T19:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/oil-fluctuates-on-stimulus-speculation-european-outlook.html
Oil fell as U.S. and euro-area
manufacturing contracted in August, raising concern that slower
economic growth will reduce demand.  Prices dropped 1.2 percent after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s U.S. factory index declined more than analysts
forecast. Manufacturing slipped more than initially estimated in
the euro area, London-based  Markit Economics  reported yesterday.  “We are seeing downward prices because of the poor
economy,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The ISM number
compounds the earlier manufacturing number from  Europe , and
overall, the economic data is weak.”  Oil for October delivery decreased $1.17 to settle at
$95.30 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 3.6 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement fell $1.60, or 1.4
percent, to end the session at $114.18 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The U.S. manufacturing index decreased to 49.6 in August
from 49.8 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM said
today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected an August
reading of 50, which is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  U.S. Manufacturing  The gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 a year earlier.
The group’s  production  index decreased to 47.2, the weakest
level since May 2009.  “The ISM number is obviously sending oil lower,” said
Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “Oil traders have a good case to
deleverage a little bit.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped as much as 0.7
percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid as much as 0.9
percent.  “The decline in oil is well-calibrated to the decline in
the  S&P 500 ,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “It’s not unusual lately for a 1-point
move on the S&P to translate into a 10-cents-a-barrel change in
oil. Today, that’s particularly strong in the case of Brent.”  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of purchasing managers was revised lower to 45.1
from the reading of 45.3 estimated earlier, Markit Economics
said. It stood at 44 in July and has held for 13 months below
50, indicating contraction.  Moody’s Cut  Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook on the
European Union’s Aaa long-term bond rating to negative from
stable yesterday, reflecting the risks to Germany, France, the
U.K. and the Netherlands that account for about 45 percent of
the group’s budget revenue, according to a company statement.  In  China , the largest oil-consuming country after the U.S.,
the  Purchasing Managers  Index shrank for the first time in nine
months in August, a government survey showed Sept. 1.  The index dropped to 49.2 in August from 50.1 in July, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said. The figure was below the estimates of 24 of
the 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “China is definitely part of the same equation,”
Ilczyszyn said. “While  oil prices  are weakening, traders are
looking at China as well.”  ‘Soft Fundamentals’  Oil prices will be pushed lower as a result of weakness in
the global economy, according to a report by Morgan Stanley.  “Soft fundamentals and a challenged macro environment
should continue to pressure oil prices,”  Hussein Allidina , the
bank’s head of commodities research in New York, said in the e-
mailed report.  Oil gained earlier on speculation that central banks will
take more steps to boost economic growth and as government data
showed about 52 percent of U.S. Gulf of Mexico oil production
remained shut in after Hurricane Isaac made landfall last week,  “Stimulus expectations are still driving the market,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut. “However, there is still a good
chance that we’ll see Europe falling back to recession and
that’s kind of weighing on the market. It seems like the
recovery in the Gulf is a bit slow.”  In the Gulf, 710,866 barrels a day of production remained
shut in, U.S.  Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement 
reported today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 441,342
contracts as of 3:02 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 511,483
contracts on Aug. 31, 5.7 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.53 million, the most since May 16.  There was no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S.
Labor Day holiday. Transactions since the Aug. 31 close will be
booked with today’s trades for settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  