-- Oil Advances to Highest Price in a Week on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-04T12:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/oil-advances-to-highest-price-in-a-week-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil climbed to the highest level in
more than a week in New York on speculation that central banks
will take more steps to boost economic growth, spurring demand
for raw materials.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent from the Aug. 31
close. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told
officials yesterday he would be comfortable buying three-year
 government bonds  to cut borrowing costs for nations in financial
distress. Leaders are meeting in  Rome  and Berlin today, two days
before the ECB holds its policy meeting. The U.S. Energy
Department will release its weekly report on oil stockpiles and
demand Sept. 6.  “The ECB will obtain a broader mandate over time,” said
Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment officer at Archbridge
Capital in Zug,  Switzerland , who correctly predicted in May that
 oil prices  would recover. “All commodity-related assets, and
especially the ones with tight supply-demand balances will
rally” as a result of central bank action.  Oil for October delivery increased as much as 90 cents to
$97.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest intraday price since Aug. 27, and was at
$96.88 at 1:24 p.m. London time. There was no floor trading
yesterday because of the U.S. Labor Day holiday, and
transactions since the Aug. 31 close will be booked with today’s
trades for settlement. Prices are 2 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 44 cents to $116.22 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
expanded to as much as $19.32, the widest since Aug. 17.  Stimulus Outlook  Oil has technical support at $95.76 a barrel, along the
bottom of an uptrend channel on the daily chart, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. This channel started from $77.28,
the 2012 intraday low traded on June 28. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Draghi may unveil details of his bond-purchase program when
he holds his first press conference after the summer break on
Sept. 6. He told lawmakers in a closed-door meeting yesterday
that purchasing short-dated bonds doesn’t constitute state
financing, according to Jean-Paul Gauzes, a member of the
European Parliament.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  is traveling to
Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel today as
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  welcomes French President
 Francois Hollande  to Rome. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 that he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus.  Isaac, Leslie  “Speculators are looking to bet that the ECB will deliver
more stimulus,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , who last month correctly
predicted oil’s gains would stall. “It will be a balancing act
for the ECB. In the oil market, the medium- and long-term trend
remains for higher prices.”  The U.S. Energy Department report will be released a day
late this week because of Labor Day. The holiday marks the end
of the U.S. summer driving season, the peak demand period for
gasoline. Refiners often idle processing units for maintenance
in September and October as consumption of the motor fuel drops
and before heating-oil use increases.  About 58 percent of oil output and 39 percent of natural-
gas production from the  Gulf of Mexico  remained shut because of
Hurricane Isaac, a U.S.  Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement  report showed yesterday. Daily crude capacity was
cut by as much as 95 percent as Isaac moved through the Gulf
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  