-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low as U.S. Manufacturing Contracts
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-05T06:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/oil-advances-from-one-week-low-as-crude-stockpiles-seen-falling.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
almost a week in  New York  after a report showed manufacturing
declined in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures were little changed after slipping 1.2 percent
yesterday, the most since Aug. 2. U.S. manufacturing slid for a
third month in August, according to the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index yesterday, adding to contractions in
Europe and  China . Concern that supply will increase also weighed
on oil as companies resumed output in the  Gulf of Mexico . Crude
stockpiles dropped  5.5 million barrels  last week as Hurricane
Isaac shut offshore platforms, according to a Bloomberg survey
before a government report tomorrow.  “The somewhat disappointing ISM figure in the U.S. clouds
the demand outlook,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “It’s showing a picture of relatively
weak conditions and the possibility of softness in production
output for the next few months. For oil, that comes against a
background where prices have risen a long way already and
there’s adequate supply capacity.”  Oil for October delivery was at $95.18 a barrel, down 11
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2:21 p.m. Singapore time. The contract decreased $1.17
yesterday to close at $95.30, the lowest level since Aug. 30.
Front-month prices are down 3.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement fell 26 cents to $113.92 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West  Texas  Intermediate
was at $18.75, down from $18.88 yesterday.  Manufacturing Contraction  Oil may extend its decline in New York as futures drop out
of an upward-sloping trend channel, signaling a breach of
technical support, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
channel started from $77.28, the 2012 intraday low on June 28.
Investors typically sell contracts when futures fall below
chart-support levels.  The ISM factory index slid to 49.6 last month, the lowest
level since July 2009, from 49.8 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected an August reading of 50, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of  purchasing managers  was revised lower to 45.1 in
August from 45.3 estimated earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said Sept 3. The index has held below 50 for 13
months. A similar survey for China showed the fastest
contraction in August since March 2009, Markit and HSBC Holdings
Plc said the same day.  Fuel Supplies  Crude markets are “reasonably well supplied,” Maria van der Hoeven, the head of the Paris-based  International Energy
Agency , told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. “High prices are
always a concern to the IEA members and also to others.”  Members of the agency are free to tap emergency reserves as
long as they maintain 90 days of stocks, van der Hoeven said.
The IEA’s 28-member countries released 60 million barrels of
crude and oil products in June 2011 after Libyan output was
disrupted by an armed uprising against Muammar Qaddafi.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably fell  3 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of nine analysts in
the Bloomberg survey before the Energy Department report.
Distillate supplies, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, dropped 1.5 million barrels, the survey shows. The
 American Petroleum Institute  will release separate inventory
data today.  Production lost because of Isaac totals about 7.8 million
barrels of oil and 33.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas, LCI
Energy Insight, an energy-analysis company in El Paso, Texas,
said on its website. About 52 percent of crude output and 29
percent of gas production from the Gulf of Mexico remained shut
as of 12:30 p.m. East Coast time yesterday, the Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  