-- Hooker Nanny Rules ‘Petal’; Barkin’s Snarky ‘Normal’: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-04T08:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/hooker-nanny-rules-petal-barkin-s-snarky-normal-tv.html
“There is a giant homosexual elephant
in the room,” says the snidely bigoted grandmother played by
Ellen Barkin in NBC’s fall sitcom “ The New Normal .”  She could be talking about “ Modern Family .”  As tart quips do battle with teary-eyed earnestness --
captured by zooming, home-movie-style camerawork and occasional
direct-to-audience dialogue -- much of “The New Normal” feels
commonplace in the post-“Modern” world.  Co-created by  Ryan Murphy  (“Glee,” “American Horror Story”)
and “ Glee ” writer Allison Adler, “The New Normal” blends two
families into one sitcom unit when gay couple David and Bryan
(Justin Bartha, Andrew Rannells) hires surrogate Goldie (Georgia
King) to carry their child.  Recently separated and looking for a new start (and money to
raise her precocious eight-year-old daughter Shania, played by
Bebe Wood), the sweet-natured Goldie instantly bonds with the
two hopeful dads.  “Love is love,” she says in one of the pilot episode’s
treacly bits. (Earlier, Goldie walks out on her cheating husband
after pronouncing, “I forgot to dream.”)  If the hugginess can be written off as a new kid’s attempt
to ingratiate, the hit-and-miss zingers are more troublesome.  With Murphy’s pedigree and a cast this good, “The New
Normal” should do better than the second-rate Archie Bunkerisms
dished out by a game Barkin as Goldie’s narrow-minded
grandmother.  “I happen to love the gays,” says her well-tailored Cruella
de Vil-type. “My hair would never look this good without them.”  “The New Normal” airs Sept. 11 on NBC at 9:30 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Crimson Petal’  Jack the Ripper would appear 14 years later, but the back
alleys and gaslit brothels of “ The Crimson Petal and the White ”
couldn’t look more foreboding if the Victorian killer was
crouching in the shadows.  Handsomely filmed in russets and velvet reds, “Crimson
Petal,” a two-part British miniseries making its U.S. debut on
Encore, gives the working girls of ye olde  London  their due, and
a memorable voice.  Adapted by British playwright Lucinda Coxon from Michael
Faber’s 2002 bestseller, “Crimson” is the story of Sugar (Romola
Garai), a prostitute in 1874 who dreams of escaping the brothel
and, in writings that would get a smile from Pirate Jenny,
exacting bloody revenge.  “Eternal Adam,” she writes, “I indict you!” She may be a
fallen woman but, she assures us, she was pushed.  Wealthy Beau  Sugar’s life, and her opinion of men, begins to soften when
wealthy gentleman William Rackham (Chris O’Dowd) falls smitten.
His mentally fragile wife has been driven mad by barbaric
treatments for “hysteria.” Rackham installs quick-study Sugar
into his well-appointed household as governess for his young
daughter.  Faber’s tale spins on modern notions of sexism and
exploitation in a world just past Dickens, and if Coxon’s four-
hour adaptation sometimes drags, “Crimson” nonetheless draws us
in as the power play between man and mistress shifts back, forth
and back again.  Garai (“ Atonement ”) gives a nicely shaded performance as
Sugar, a woman too bright for her era, and O’Dowd, as the
businessman with more money than brains, might astound anyone
who recognizes him as the doofus cop in “ Bridesmaids .”  Gillian Anderson  And Gillian Anderson, topping her own performance as Miss
Havisham in the  BBC ’s 2011 “ Great Expectations ,” is deliciously
creepy as the cold-hearted, face-powdered brothel madam who
raised Sugar.  Reminiscing with her newly independent charge, she recalls
cold winter nights when she’d sneak into the little girl’s room
and snatch away the blanket.  “And I’d say, ’That’s what God does,’” she coos. “’That’s
what God does.’”  “The Crimson Petal and the White” airs Sept. 10 and 11 on
Encore at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***1/2  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Andrew
Dunn  on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 