-- Osaka Considers Pricing Change to Boost Volatility Index Futures
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-09-04T00:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/osaka-considers-pricing-change-to-boost-volatility-index-futures.html
Osaka Securities Exchange Co. (8697)  is
considering offering rebates to customers willing to make a
market in futures offering a hedge against swings in the  Nikkei
225  Stock Average, according to Matthias Rietig, executive
advisor to the board.  The exchange plans to offer maker-taker pricing, which pays
the suppliers of bids and offers and charges those executing
against them, to boost liquidity and volumes for contracts on
the Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index. Futures on the gauge,
a measure of expected movement in stocks over the next 30 days,
began trading in February. Average daily volume for the
contracts, worth 10,000 yen ($128) each, was 40 in June and 44
and July, according to  data  from the bourse.  The Osaka bourse, in the process of merging with Tokyo
Stock Exchange Group Inc., is the only venue in  Japan  where it’s
possible to trade futures on the Nikkei 225. Stock volatility
futures have been traded on public exchanges in the U.S. since
2004. The securities surged in popularity after the 2008
financial crisis, when investors sought to hedge against large
market swings.  “We’re currently doing a consultation on if it’s
attractive or not,” Rietig said of the pricing model, noting
that it would probably happen in October.  The  Nikkei volatility index (VNKY)  was created by Nikkei Inc. and
Nomura Securities Co.’s Quantitative Research Center. The Osaka
exchange began calculating the index in November 2010. The  index 
fell 0.7 percent to 20.69 today, indicating investors expect to
see a 5.9 percent swing in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average in the
next 30 days.  Volatility-index futures were created as exchange-traded
alternatives to derivatives bought directly from banks that
allow investors to take a position on the direction of the
market with a bank or dealer. The Nikkei 225 volatility gauge
uses the price of futures and options on Japan’s benchmark
equity index to gauge estimated price swings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  