-- Osborne Seeks Caesar’s Wife for BOE Governor Role, Goodhart Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/osborne-seeks-caesar-s-wife-for-boe-governor-role-goodhart-says.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Charles Goodhart  said U.K. finance minister  George Osborne  may
struggle to find a successor for central bank Governor Mervyn King untainted by the financial crisis and banking scandals.  “There’s a general impression that whoever gets appointed
needs to be as pure as Caesar’s wife,” Goodhart said in a
telephone interview in London yesterday, referring to  Julius
Caesar ’s comment that his wife must be above suspicion. “In the
present climate, and after all the events of the past five to
six years, it’s actually quite hard to find a Caesar’s wife.”  Osborne will shortly begin the search for a successor to
King, who is scheduled to retire in June, and his task may have
been complicated after the Libor scandal embroiled several
potential candidates. At the same time, lawmakers are debating
handing the central bank sweeping new powers over financial
stability and bank oversight.  Goodhart, a professor at the  London School  of Economics who
served as a founding member of the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee from 1997 to 2000, said the changes may give
one individual too much responsibility.  “I think there is some truth in the claim,” Goodhart
said. “It’s difficult to argue against the suggestion that it
does concentrate power very much in a person.”  Still, the job is doable and its expanded power “makes it
even more important to appoint a really excellent person for
that position,” he said.  BOE Search  The search for a governor will begin as soon as this month
and the successful candidate may be announced by the end of the
year. Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and Financial
Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  have been linked to the
job, as has former top U.K. civil servant Gus O’Donnell.  While Tucker was the frontrunner to replace King, his odds
at bookmakers lengthened earlier this year after he was dragged
into the Libor scandal.  “The various problems in the area of banking and finance
have been so general that an awful lot of the possible
candidates have had their credentials for appointment made more
complicated,” Goodhart said. Still, candidates with a financial
industry background shouldn’t necessarily be ruled out, he said.  “It’s not necessarily the case that everybody has got to
be 100 percent experienced in all aspects of the role of being
governor,” Goodhart said. The appointment is likely to be made
toward the end of 2012 “to give the incoming governor time to
get up to speed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  