-- Emerging Market Stocks Decline on China, Europe Concerns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-04T21:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/most-emerging-stocks-decline-on-china-europe-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in three days as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut Chinese
earnings estimates and a report showed contraction in U.S.
manufacturing for a third straight month.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.6 percent to
947.37. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index retreated to a one-month
low, with homebuilder  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  and  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the
world’s largest beef producer, leading the decliners.  China
Merchants Bank Co. (3968)  dropped for a fifth day in Hong Kong, while
the Shanghai Composite Index closed at its lowest level since
February 2009.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  retreated
more than 2 percent in Seoul.  Goldman Sachs cut its projections for Chinese earnings this
year and next while Credit Suisse Group AG reduced its target
for the MSCI  China  Index and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA lowered
forecasts for the nation’s economic growth. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 49.6 last month, the
longest slide since the recession ended.  “You have weaker growth in the U.S., China’s slowdown and
the euro zone debt crisis all adding to a reduced appetite for
risk,”  Win Thin , global head of emerging-market strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said by phone from  New York . “I
still believe in  emerging markets  in the long-term, but in the
shorter term, I am a little bit more nervous and defensive.”  ETF Slides  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, decreased 0.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 5.6 percent.  The Bovespa lost 1.8 percent to the lowest since Aug. 2
with Rossi falling 9.6 percent. JBS declined 7.1 percent.  Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected an August
reading of 50 for factory activity in the U.S., which is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. Measures of
orders, production and employment were the weakest since 2009.  The MSCI emerging market gauge has climbed 3.4 percent this
year, trailing a 7.8 percent increase by the MSCI World  Index (VXEEM)  of
advanced-nation equities. Shares in the emerging-markets gauge
trade at 10.7 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 12.9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Shanghai Composite lost 0.8 percent today, matching the
drop in MSCI’s China gauge of mainland companies accessible to
foreign investors. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 0.3
percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index advanced 0.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 320, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Goldman Forecast  Profits for companies in the MSCI China Index may increase
1.8 percent this year and 8.6 percent in 2013, compared with
previous growth estimates of 6 percent and 12.3 percent, Helen Zhu and Timothy Moe, analysts at New York-based Goldman Sachs,
wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Credit Suisse lowered its 12-month target for the index to
60 from 70, analysts Vincent Chan and Peggy Chan said in a
report. The gauge traded at 52.42 today.  Societe Generale  cut
its 2012 economic growth forecast to 7.7 percent from 8.1
percent.  China Merchants Bank sank 3 percent in  Hong Kong , while
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
lender by market value, dropped 1 percent.  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest carmaker, fell 2.3
percent, the most in a month, after its August car sales slid
4.6 percent from a year earlier. Kia declined 2.5 percent. The
company shipped 0.5 percent fewer vehicles during the period,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  Macronix International (2337)  Co. rose the most on the MSCI index
and closed at the highest level since July 9 in Taipei. The
company has received NOR flash memory orders for the next
iPhone, Digitimes reported, citing people familiar with the
supply chain.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  jumped 3.9 percent, the most since Aug.
22, after the Economic Daily News reported the company will
boost its supply of television panels to Sony Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  