-- Outotec Falls on Concerns Iron Ore Boom Slows: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-09-04T15:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/outotec-falls-on-concerns-iron-ore-boom-slows-helsinki-mover.html
Outotec Oyj (OTE1V) , a Finnish supplier of
equipment and services to mining companies, slumped the most 12
weeks after Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. cut its  capital spending 
forecast.  Outotec fell 5.6 percent to 34.54 euros at the 6:30 p.m.
close in Helsinki trading, the second-biggest intraday decline
in the  Stoxx Europe 600 index , and the most since June 13.
Outotec has lost 15 percent since Aug. 21 on concerns  China ’s
economic growth is slowing.  “The decline started on bad news from China,” Markus Liimatainen, an analyst at FIM Bank Oyj, said by phone. “Most
firms that have recently announced production cuts or postponing
of investments have had something to do with  iron ore , which is
driven by China.”  Fortescue, Australia’s third-biggest iron ore producer,
today cut its full-year capital spending forecast 26 percent to
$4.6 billion, following other miners including BHP Billiton Ltd.
in delaying expansion as commodity prices fall.  Concerns over a slowdown in the Chinese economy have sent
iron ore trading to near three-year lows. Manufacturing in the
world’s second-largest economy slowed for the first time in nine
months in August, a government survey of  purchasing managers 
showed on Sept. 1.  Outotec’s revenue will increase to 1.97 billion euros ($2.5
billion) this year, corresponding to a 42 percent gain,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 18
analysts. Last year, sales grew 43 percent from 2010.  “The sales growth we’ve seen in the past couple of years
will cool down,” Liimatainen said. “It’s not that Outotec is
fading, rather the expectations are quite high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  