-- How Facebook Can Still Rule the Internet Economy
-- B y   A r u n   S u n d a r a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-04T22:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/how-facebook-can-still-rule-the-internet-economy.html
The unrelenting negative reports
about  Facebook Inc. (FB)  are enough to rattle even the true believers
among us.  Since the initial public offering in May, the beleaguered
chief executive officer and founder,  Mark Zuckerberg , hasn’t
found much to “like.” The company’s  stock  is down by more than
50 percent, an influential board member has unloaded shares, and
Silicon Valley analysts are openly questioning the management.  Yet it would be premature to despair over the company’s
long-term viability and health. Facebook is still potentially
the most valuable information-based business. It had 955 million
monthly active users at the end of June, and benefits from a
tremendous amount of attention.  More than any other company, Facebook is positioned to
radically expand digital marketing, moving us from today’s
narrow, intent-based approach to a broader and more
familiar persuasion-based model. For that to happen, it needs to
step out of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s shadow and embrace a strategy that
plays to its strengths and unique position at the center of
today’s Internet. It must reinvent rather than replicate.  Google, as we know, came of age when our connection with
the Web was largely individual. We searched for information,
read news, bought a few products and traded stocks. Today’s
Internet is a vast digital space in which we live with our
friends, family, colleagues and multitudes of slightly familiar
strangers. Facebook controls the platform of this community; it
mediates the digital link to our physical-space lives and owns
the rich data trails that still might revolutionize our
understanding of individual behavior and social interaction.  Google’s Shadow  So why does it seem trapped in the older world of sponsored
search and product placements? One answer is that Google’s
tremendously successful business model has created a perception
that digital marketing requires being narrow and precise,
matching superficial intent (as expressed by a few words typed
into a search box) with a targeted low-bandwidth message, such
as a 35-word sponsored search advertisement, whose effectiveness
is then measured by counting click-throughs.  But even a casual viewer of the television program “Mad
Men” realizes that successful advertising requires more than a
carefully targeted message or generating leads or assessing
intent. It requires persuasion, evoking a response, striking and
maintaining a connection with the customer.  Facebook  is ideally suited to expand into this terrain. It
knows more about us than any company in history, information
about what persuades each of us, what makes us react
emotionally, what makes us sentimental and what turns us off.
And persuasion doesn’t end with the “what”; it also knows the
“who.” It can identify our friends and those whom we are
likely to respond to, about what topics and in what contexts. It
hosts user communities for most large brands, the starting point
for digital customer retention. (After all, marketing involves
more than just attracting customers: You also have to keep
them.)  To capitalize on these assets, Facebook needs to push into
real advertising -- which involves persuasion, emotion and
intuition -- with the added ingredient of deep technology-based
customization. To succeed, it has to invent and execute a
business model that expands digital marketing into a realm of
truly attracting, persuading and retaining customers.  One building block will be the increasingly sophisticated
science of automated sentiment analysis, which gleans the
connection between words and phrases and the reactions and
emotions they evoke. It can tell us, for example, whether
specific users react more favorably to and seem more persuaded
by Facebook posts that involve humor, sporting metaphors,
religious allusions, logical arguments or references to history.
Sentiment analysis can also help determine the best way to
categorize these reactions and topics, the variations in the
intensity of reaction across source and subject, and how these
can be linked to emotional triggers embedded in marketing
messages that will grab, engage and maintain a bond with a user.  Networks Science  Another piece of the puzzle lies in the new computational
science of networks, which allows us to understand the structure
of population-scale human social networks. Facebook has far
better  data  on this than any competitor. This could allow us to
determine whether users who occupy a particular position in
their local friendship network or the broader social graph are
particularly influential, or whether they are especially
susceptible to messages of particular kinds, about particular
products or topics.  The Facebook network generates data that can show how
persuasiveness or the tendency to be persuaded varies across
close friends, family members, colleagues, topic experts and
casual acquaintances, across relationships of different strength
and kind, and about how deep within the network this influence
flows. This would enable the company to determine the mix of
message content and source that will induce the right sentiment
and the appropriate reaction.  As Facebook converts this heady blend of technology and
sociology into a new business model, it will devise a way to
personalize persuasion while simultaneously increasing its
scale. This is well within the realm of possibility; the science
already exists and Facebook has the users, the platform and the
corporate relationships to make it happen.  The Internet has moved beyond the Google-dominated
formative era. Facebook’s time has come. Rather than succumbing
to the earnings pressure that will no doubt distract them in the
coming year, Zuckerberg, his board and their investors need to
summon the vision and courage to rise to this challenge, move
past the fallout of their too-early IPO, and invent the future
of digital marketing.  (Arun Sundararajan is NEC faculty fellow and professor of
information, operations and management sciences at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to 
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today's highlights: the editors on the right way to  bring 
manufacturing back  and on breaking  South Africa's circle of
strife ; Clive Crook on why Fed independence is  essential and
indefensible ;  Edward Glaeser  on how Europeans might view the
" who built it" debate ; Ezra Klein on  whether you're better off 
than four years ago;  Michael Kinsley  on how  Republicans don't 
really care about jobs ;  Peter Orszag  on moving health care
 from quantity to quality ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on the roots
of the  Harvard cheating scandal .  To contact the writer of this article:
Arun Sundararajan at  asundara@stern.nyu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 