-- P&G Directors Face Own Challenges While Keeping Tabs on McDonald
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/p-g-directors-face-own-challenges-while-keeping-tabs-on-mcdonald.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s directors are
facing a time management challenge: monitoring Chief Executive
Officer  Robert McDonald ’s turnaround plan while running their
own companies.  Until Angela Braly resigned as  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s top
executive last week, six of the 10 outside directors on P&G’s
 board  were active CEOs, the highest number of any company in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to an analysis by GMI
Ratings in New York. Now that Braly is no longer a CEO, P&G ties
International Business Machines Corp. with five, GMI found.  The concentration of leaders on  P&G’s board  threatens to
turn from benefit to burden as the executives confront
financial, operational and macroeconomic difficulties at the
companies they run. Braly stepped down from health insurer
WellPoint after investors called for her ouster, while  James McNerney , another P&G director, is steering  Boeing Co. (BA)  through
defense spending cuts and delays to new jets. P&G director  Meg Whitman , CEO of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , had an $8.86 billion record
loss last quarter as her company wrote down the value of its
enterprise-services unit.  “This is probably not the kind of board you want for a
company that’s about to face a crisis,” said  Jay Lorsch , a
management professor at Harvard Business School in Boston.
“When you have directors who are busy with their own companies,
that limits time they have for P&G and that can be
problematic.”  Turnaround Plan  McDonald, who lowered  profit forecasts  three times this
calendar year at the world’s largest maker of consumer products,
is trying to cut $10 billion in costs and restructure the
Cincinnati-based company to focus on developing products and
winning back market share. He also faces pressure from activist
investor  Bill Ackman , founder of Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, who disclosed a  stake  in P&G in July.  P&G’s board unanimously supports McDonald and his plan and
is monitoring its effectiveness, directors said in a July 18
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
statement followed a Bloomberg News report that directors had
discussed whether to replace McDonald, who has been CEO since
July 2009, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  McDonald, who is 59, has been given more time after
improvements in how he delivered financial results for the most
recent quarter, said another person.  “P&G’s board has an extraordinary level of leadership
experience, is highly engaged and has a strong track record of
attendance and participation,” Jennifer Chelune, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Time Commitment  So far P&G directors have kept up with board commitments,
with 97 percent in attendance at seven board meetings and 23
committee meetings in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012,
according to regulatory filings. While a typical board seat
requires about 20 hours a month of work, a company facing
challenges can quickly consume more time, said David Larcker, a
law professor at Stanford University.  “From the outside, Procter & Gamble is an all-star board
but it’s hard to know what the dynamics will be in a crisis
situation,” said Larcker, who co-wrote the book “Corporate
Governance Matters.” “If they have an active position of their
own and on another board, it can really ratchet up.”  During Hewlett-Packard’s fiscal 2010, when former CEO  Mark Hurd  resigned, the board met 34 times, compared with 10 times in
2009 and 9 in 2008, regulatory filings show.  Monitoring Plan  Charles Elson , who was a director at Sunbeam Corp. and
 HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)  during restructurings at those companies, said
a turnaround effort will increase the time requirement for P&G
board members “dramatically.” Directors would typically need
to monitor the plan’s execution at each stage, looking at
everything from how products are selling to financial statements
to employee retention and hiring, he said.  “In some months, it would double or even triple your time
requirements,” said Elson, who is director of the John L.
Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of
Delaware. “I know, I’ve been there.”  Ackman’s involvement with P&G gives board members an
additional responsibility. Ackman may seek management changes,
people familiar with the matter said in July. He previously
waged campaigns for changes at  Target Co. (TGT)  and Fortune Brands
Inc., and in June he successfully installed his candidate for
CEO at Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. after a proxy fight.  CEO Directors  In addition to Hewlett-Packard and Boeing, the public
company CEOs on P&G’s board are the leaders of  American Express
Co. (AXP) ,  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Frontier Communications
Corp. (FTR)  McDonald, who is the board’s chairman, and four of the
other CEOs are on at least one additional public board.  The CEOs for the companies declined to comment through
spokesmen. Braly, the former WellPoint CEO, remains a
“productive and valued member” of Procter & Gamble’s board,
P&G’s Chelune said.  “Under our governance guidelines, a major job change
requires the board to reassess the director’s continued service
on the board, and the board will follow its established
process,” Chelune said. There isn’t a specific timetable for
the review, she said.  Kristin Binns, a Wellpoint spokeswoman, declined to comment
on behalf of Braly.  GMI, a corporate governance advisory company, gave P&G a
letter grade of “D” on corporate governance last year, saying
“multiple overcommitted directors can seriously weaken a
board.” American Express, Boeing, Hewlett-Packard and WellPoint
also received “D” grades for governance issues relating to
compensation or board composition, while Archer-Daniels-Midland
and Frontier were given “C” grades.  Frontier, Archer-Daniels  Frontier CEO Maggie Wilderotter, who joined P&G’s board in
2009, is trying to reverse seven straight quarters of revenue
declines after the company purchased Verizon Communications
Inc.’s local wireline business in 14 states for more than $8
billion. She is also a director at  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  alongside
McDonald and at bankrupt media company Tribune Co.  Archer-Daniels-Midland, the corn processer led by P&G
director Patricia Woertz, is confronting the U.S. drought and
rising costs to buy corn from farmers. The Decatur, Illinois-
based company has missed analysts’ earnings estimates in four of
the last five quarters.  Best Performer  American Express CEO  Kenneth Chenault  leads the best-
performing company among the chief executives on the P&G board.
The biggest credit-card issuer by purchases reported a second-
quarter profit in July that beat analysts’ estimates. The shares
have risen 24 percent this year. Chenault, who joined the P&G
board in 2008, is also on the board of IBM with McNerney.  The other P&G directors include Intuit Inc. founder Scott Cook, who remains an Intuit board member and is also an EBay
Inc. director; Susan Desmond-Hellman, chancellor of the
University of California, San Francisco; Johnathan A. Rodgers,
former CEO of TV One LLC and a director at Nike Inc. and Comcast
Corp.; and  Ernesto Zedillo , former president of Mexico, who is
also a director at Alcoa Inc., Citigroup Inc. and Grupo Prisa.  The lineup at P&G is increasingly an anomaly, said
Stanford’s Larcker, who recently wrote a paper on whether CEOs
make the best board members. In 2000, 53 percent of newly
elected, independent directors were a CEO or other active high-
level executive compared with 26 percent in 2010, he said,
citing a 2010 study by recruiting company  Spencer Stuart .  In a separate survey last year of corporate directors from
Stanford’s Rock Center for Corporate Governance and recruiter
Heidrick & Struggles, 87 percent of respondents said active CEO
directors are too busy with their own companies to be effective,
Larcker said.  A better strategy is to mix directors with experience in
the industry of the company, specialists like technologists or
accounting experts and then a minority of generalists such as
sitting or retired CEOS in other fields, said Robert Pozen, a
senior lecturer for Harvard Business School and the Brookings
Institute.  “It’s easy to see what expertise each of these CEOs bring,
but I wouldn’t have a majority of these people as a general
rule,” said Pozen, who is also a director at Nielsen Holdings
NV and Medtronic Inc. “These are all very good, smart people
but CEOs have less time to be on boards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  