-- Palm-Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia to Jump to 11-Month High
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-09-05T11:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-to-jump-to-11-month-high.html
Palm-oil  stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
world’s biggest producer after  Indonesia , probably climbed 7
percent in August to the highest level in 11 months as exports
lagged behind output, according to a survey. Prices slumped.  Stockpiles increased to 2.14 million metric tons from 2
million tons in July, according to the median in the Bloomberg
survey of two analysts and three plantation companies. That
would be the highest level since 2.16 million tons in September
last year. Output climbed 0.5 percent to 1.7 million tons on-
month, while  exports  rose 9.5 percent to 1.42 million tons, the
survey showed. The Palm Oil Board releases the data on Sept. 10.  Higher inventories of the commodity used in everything from
candy to fuel may extend this year’s 5.8 percent decline in
prices even as a rally in soybeans to a record increases the
cost of a rival edible oil that’s crushed from the crop. Lower
palm-oil prices may hurt profits at growers including  Sime Darby
Bhd. (SIME) , the biggest listed palm-oil producer.  “Palm-oil stockpiles are expected to climb further as
production is seen outpacing exports,” said Nagaraj Meda,
chairman of Hyderabad, India-based Transgraph Consulting Pvt.
“September and October production is expected to be robust.”  Palm oil for November delivery fell 2.2 percent to 2,990
ringgit ($958) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the
biggest decline at close since July 26. The price has dropped
from a 13-month high of 3,628 ringgit in April on concern slower
global economic growth may cut consumption, boosting stockpiles.  Intertek Estimate  Exports from Malaysia climbed 17.7 percent to 1.45 million
tons last month, surveyor Intertek estimated on Aug. 31. In
July, shipments declined to 1.3 million tons, while output
increased for a fifth month to 1.69 million tons, according to
the board. Output typically peaks from July to October.  Soybeans in  Chicago  rallied to a record $17.89 a bushel
yesterday as a drought in the U.S. hurt supplies from the
biggest producer. The rally boosted  soybean oil ’s  premium  over
palm oil to $316.12 today, the highest since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Both oils are used in foods and
fuels.  Prices may advance to as much as 3,300 ringgit a ton in the
fourth quarter on demand from  India  and  China , Sabri Ahmad,
chief executive officer of  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) ,
said on Aug. 29. India’s edible-oil consumption normally peaks
during the festival months of September to November.  ‘Huge Discounts’  “With current huge discounts against soybean oil it should
start to encourage demand for palm oil,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , said from  Kuala Lumpur . “If demand
picks up due to festivals in China, then stockpiles could remain
at the lower end of 2 million tons during September-October.
Above 2.2 million tons is bad for the market.”  World crude palm-oil consumption will probably climb to
54.7 million tons in 2013 from 49.6 million tons this year,  Abah Ofon , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said on Aug. 27. Per
capita demand in India, the biggest importer, has more than
doubled in the past six years, he said.  Malaysia’s production estimate for 2012 was cut to 18.5
million tons from 19 million tons, the Plantation Industries and
Commodities Ministry said on Aug. 1. Output was a record 18.9
million tons last year, board data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  