-- Pelosi Touts Congress’s Women, Candidates to Win Votes
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-09-04T15:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/pelosi-touts-congress-s-women-candidates-to-win-votes.html
Democrats tonight will showcase
women in Congress and running for office, a move that may appeal
to voters concerned about comments from Missouri Republican Todd Akin that “legitimate rape” rarely leads to pregnancy.  At least 28 women will take the stage, from actress Eva Longoria to  women’s rights  activist Lilly Ledbetter to Caroline Kennedy. House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California is
leading a presentation of women in the U.S. House of
Representatives tonight at 7 p.m. at the Democratic National
Convention in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Included will be Representative  Rosa DeLauro  of Connecticut,
 Carolyn Maloney  of New York, Nydia Velazquez of New York,
Allyson Schwartz of Pennsylvania and U.S. House candidates Joyce Beatty of Ohio and Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, all Democrats.
Pelosi will speak again at the convention tomorrow, also at 7
p.m.  “Women have the most to gain” by President Barack Obama’s
re-election and the “most to lose” if he doesn’t win, Pelosi
told a meeting today of the DNC Women’s Caucus.  Representative Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, the first openly
gay woman to serve in the U.S. House, will have a prominent
speaking role on the last day of the convention, Sept. 6.
Baldwin is running for the  U.S. Senate .  “It is nice that Democrats have so many women to choose
from,”  Hilary Rosen , a Democratic strategist, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “Women across the country are so
proud that Pelosi was the first-ever woman speaker -- the
respect she holds today is undiminished.”  Republican Women  The Republican National Convention last week presented a
roster of women speakers in the aftermath of comments made by
Akin, a Missouri congressman who is trying to unseat Democratic
Senator  Claire McCaskill . She isn’t attending the Democrats’
convention this week, saying she wants to focus on her campaign.  Akin said Aug. 19 in a television interview that “if it’s
a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that
whole thing down,” so a rape exception to a ban on abortion
isn’t necessary. Republican nominee Mitt Romney, who has
described himself as a defender of women’s rights, called Akin’s
remarks “outrageous” and joined other party leaders in trying
to pressure Akin to drop his Senate bid.  “The Democrats have had an advantage for a long time as a
result of policy as much as anything,”  Julian Zelizer , a
history and public affairs professor at  Princeton University ,
said in an e-mail.  Women, who represent 52 percent of the U.S. electorate,
prefer Obama over Romney by an 8 percentage-point margin,
according to Gallup daily tracking polls conducted July 30
through Aug. 19.  TV Prime Time  So far, the women in Congress aren’t scheduled to appear in
the 10 p.m. time slot, carried by the TV networks. The  schedule 
is still being finalized and women speakers could deliver their
remarks in prime time, Democratic officials said.  There are 5,556 delegates and 407 alternates at the
convention in Charlotte, according to Alice Germond, the
Democratic National Committee secretary. Half of the delegates
are women, which Germond called “pretty darn special.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  