-- Pfizer Wins Approval for Drug to Treat Type of Leukemia
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-04T21:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/pfizer-wins-approval-for-drug-to-treat-type-of-leukemia.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, won U.S. regulatory approval of its treatment for one
of the four most common types of leukemia.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug, to be
known as Bosulif, for adults with previously treated chronic
myeloid leukemia who also have an abnormality known as the
Philadelphia chromosome, the New York-based company said today
in a statement. There are expected to be about 5,400 new cases
and 610 deaths from the blood cancer this year, according to the
 American Cancer Society  in Atlanta.  Bosulif will compete with  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Tasigna and
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Sprycel. Pfizer’s treatment is
expected to generate $171 million in sales in 2015, according to
the average  estimate  of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bosulif is an important new addition to the CML treatment
landscape,” Jorge Cortes, a professor of medicine at the
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, and a lead
investigator of the Pfizer-sponsored study on the drug, said in
the company’s statement. “Despite recent advances, an unmet
need remains.”  Treatment is improving based on a better understanding of
the molecular basis of the disease,  Richard Pazdur , director of
the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in the FDA’s
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a  statement 
from the agency. The FDA designated Bosulif as an orphan drug,
meaning it treats a disease that affects fewer than 200,000
people. Bosulif is chemically known as bosutinib.  Pfizer’s Drugs  This is Pfizer’s third oncology drug approved in the past
13 months, preceded by Xalkori for  lung cancer  and Inlyta for
advanced kidney cancer.  Chronic myeloid leukemia  produces an excess of white blood
cells. The disease is one of the four main types of leukemia and
accounts for 15 percent of all leukemia worldwide, according to
Pfizer.  Novartis’s Tasigna generated $716 million in sales last
year and Sprycel by Bristol-Myers, based in New York, made $803
million.  Gleevec, from Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis, is the
most-popular initial treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia with
$4.7 billion in sales last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) , based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , asked the FDA to review its chronic myeloid
leukemia drug ponatinib in July. Ariad said in a July 30
statement that it expects approval in the first quarter of 2013.  Ariad is seeking accelerated approval in patients with
resistant or intolerant chronic myeloid leukemia based on the
second of three phases of trials typically required for approval
on the condition the company proves ponatinib’s benefit in later
studies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  