-- Philippine Peso, Bonds Advance on Stimulus, Rating Speculation
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-09-04T08:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/philippine-peso-climbs-to-3-week-high-on-stimulus-rating-bets.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced to a
three-week high on speculation the  European Central Bank  will
announce new bond-buying plan this week and that faster growth
at home will help the nation win a debt-rating upgrade.  The currency strengthened for a fourth day, the longest
winning streak since July 18. ECB President  Mario Draghi  told
lawmakers in Brussels yesterday he would be comfortable buying
bonds with maturities of up to about three years, boosting
demand for riskier assets. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said last week that he wouldn’t rule out more monetary
easing to reduce unemployment in the U.S.  “We are looking at the support from investors shifting
funds to  Asia  as well as mounting expectations for more
quantitative easing in the U.S.,” said Ryanna Berza-Talan, a
Manila-based  fund manager  at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “The
prospect of an upgrade has accelerated the peso’s strength.”  The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 41.903 per dollar as
of 4:41 p.m. in  Manila , data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It
earlier reached 41.86, the highest since Aug. 13. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was little changed at 5.7 percent.  The Philippine economy grew  5.9 percent  last quarter, after
a 6.3 percent expansion in the first three months of 2012, the
government said on Aug. 30, and compared with economists’
forecast for a 5.5 percent expansion.  Credit Rating  The nation’s foreign-currency debt rating was upgraded one
level to Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service in June last year, or
two levels below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its
rating one step to BB+ on July 4 this year, or one level below
investment grade.  The yield on the 8 percent bonds due July 2031 dropped for
a third day, easing by one basis point or 0.01 percentage point
to 5.60 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The
yield touched a six-week high of 5.73 percent on Aug. 23.  Consumer prices probably rose 3.5 percent in August from a
year earlier, after a 3.2 percent increase in July, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before official data due tomorrow. The central bank cut its
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low of 3.75
percent in July.  “Inflation is manageable and not really a problem,”
Berza-Talan said. “We’re still at the lower end of the range,”
based on the official target of 3 percent to 5 percent for 2012,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  