-- Poland to Overshoot Deficit Target as Economy Slows
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-09-05T12:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/poland-lowers-2013-growth-forecast-amid-euro-debt-crisis.html
Poland will overshoot its 2012
budget-deficit target as the European Union’s biggest eastern
economy slows to its weakest pace in three years amid the euro
region’s debt crisis.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government now expects a
shortfall of 3.5 percent this year, compared with a previous
goal of reducing it to within the EU’s limit of 3 percent,
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told a news conference Warsaw
today.  “Now that we know what’s happening with growth, it won’t
be possible,” Tusk said at the briefing, which came after the
government approved a 2013 draft budget yesterday that lowered
the forecast for growth. Poland’s fiscal reputation remains
“satisfactory” and financial stability is the priority, the
premier said.  Tusk, 55, must weigh EU deficit demands against concerns
that further spending cuts may damp growth in the nation of 38
million people, whose gross domestic product per capita is 40
percent below the 27-nation bloc’s average. Austerity measures
to tackle the debt crisis helped suffocate growth in EU nations
from Romania and  Spain .  No Cut  Poland’s central bank kept borrowing costs today at the
highest level since 2009, even after the economy slowed to 2.4
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, down from 3.5
percent in the January-March period. The zloty retreated to a
six-week low, sliding to 0.3 percent at 1:50 p.m. in Warsaw.  Gross domestic product will rise 2.2 percent instead of a
previously forecast 2.9 percent, according to a 2013 draft
budget. Employment will grow 0.2 percent, wages will increase
1.9 percent and inflation will average 2.7 percent, it said.  Tusk has said he will give a parliamentary speech, probably
next week, to outline measures aimed at tackling threats to the
economy. The government has said it’s sticking to a 2.5 percent
growth target for 2012, down from last year’s 4.3 percent.  Next year’s central budget deficit will total 35.6 billion
zloty ($10.7 billion), 600 million zloty more than planned for
this year, the government said yesterday. The general shortfall,
which includes all state expenses and is the measure monitored
by the EU, wasn’t revised from 2.2 percent of output.  Zero Growth  Keeping the 2.2 percent goal for 2013 would “mean we end
up next year with zero growth or even a recession,” said Jakub Szulc, a member of Tusk’s Civic Platform who sits on
Parliament’s Public Finances Commission.  “We can’t drop the long-term goal for a 1 percent deficit
in 2015, but next year’s plan obviously needs to be adjusted,”
Szulc said by phone from Warsaw yesterday. “Foreign investors
will understand this because it’s growth that matters for the
international credibility of countries these days.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, has given
 Poland  until the end of this year to cut the deficit to 3
percent from 5.1 percent last year and 7.8 percent in 2010.  Failing to do so may cost the country access to development
grants that totaled 67 billion euros ($84 billion) and added an
average of 1 percentage point per year to gross domestic product
in the seven years through 2013. Rostowski said today he expects
Poland to exit the EU’s so-called excessive deficit procedure.  EU Forecast  The Brussels-based commission forecasts the economy will
grow 2.7 percent in 2012, the most in the EU. The expansion
slowing next year to less than the 1.6 percent rate posted in
2009, when Poland was the only EU member to avoid a slump,
“can’t be ruled out,”  Maja Goettig , a member of Tusk’s  Council
of Economic Advisers , said by phone on Aug. 31.  “There is room to reduce which, if necessary, I’m sure
we’ll utilize,” Narodowy Bank Polski Governor  Marek Belka  told
Bloomberg Television in a weekend interview during at a meeting
of central bankers and economists in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .
Belka will hold a press conference at 4 p.m. in Warsaw to
comment on today’s rate decision.  Tusk, who began his second term in October, doesn’t face
any immediate political threats to his coalition, which has a
four-seat majority in parliament. The current legislature’s term
ends in three years.  Still, 64 percent of Poles are increasingly concerned about
the economy’s future, up 5 percentage points from July,
according to an Aug. 14-23 poll of 1,011 people by Warsaw-based
researcher CBOS. No margin of error was given.  ‘I dont think this undermines the credibility of policies
overall given the current environment,’’  Benoit Anne , an
emerging-markets strategist at  Societe Generale  in  London , said
about the budget overshoot. “I am happy to give them a break on
that one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  