-- Political Donations, EU Banks, Citigroup, FCC: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-04T12:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/political-donations-eu-banks-citigroup-fcc-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said  bankers (SX7P)  may be donating illegally to state and
local politicians who hire them to underwrite bond deals.  The SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
said on Aug. 31 that banks may be breaking the law by
underwriting bond deals within two years of the donations. The
SEC said financial institutions may also have made inadequate
disclosures to regulators.  The SEC is urging banks to take greater steps to comply
with limits on political donations enacted in 1994 to curb the
practice of awarding bond deals to campaign contributors. The
SEC didn’t identify banks or say whether any cases triggered
enforcement action. Judith Burns, a spokeswoman for the SEC,
declined to comment.  “We hope that by describing practices that our examiners
have observed, we will promote compliance by helping firms to
consider how each of them can most effectively meet their
obligations,” Carlo di Florio, the director of the compliance
office, said in a statement.  The compliance issues related to donations were described
in a so-called risk alert from the SEC.  The SEC has previously cautioned banks against running
afoul of the curbs on political donations. In March 2010, the
agency warned that the rules also apply to top bank executives
after faulting a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  vice chairman who was a
fundraiser for a one-time  California  state treasurer.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations enforced by the SEC, has also evaluated whether
stricter curbs are needed over political giving by underwriters.
On Aug. 15, it proposed forcing greater disclosure of
contributions to election campaigns that support new bond deals,
citing concerns that banks are using donations to win business.  Compliance Policy  EU Plan Said to Give ECB Sole Power to Grant Bank Licenses  The  European Central Bank  would have the sole power to
grant banking licenses under proposals to give it supervisory
powers and build a euro-area banking union, a European Union
official said.  The ECB would have a monopoly on granting all bank licenses
within the 17-nation euro area under the draft rules, due to be
unveiled on Sept. 12, the official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity because the plan isn’t final. This means the ECB
could decide to withdraw banks’ licenses, although national
regulators would still control when to shut down a lender.  Under the proposals, which are being drafted by the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, the ECB would also
gain discretion over which banks to supervise directly and when
it will delegate day-to-day oversight responsibilities, the
official said.  National regulators will retain control over when and how
to close a bank under the proposals. At the same time, the
central bank would be able to make recommendations and have a
voice in the process, and it will have authority over setting
capital requirements.  “The ECB should be given full supervisory powers related
to financial stability,” Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, told
reporters Aug. 31 in Brussels. National regulators should remain
in charge of some other tasks, including consumer protection and
payment services, he said.  If adopted, the proposals would be a major step toward
creating an EU-wide financial services framework that can
override national self-interest. EU officials want the ability
to rein in local banking systems that have proven as big a
source of systemic risk as their larger, internationally
operating counterparts.  For more, click here.  Banker Bonuses Would Be Curbed by Shareholders Under EU Plan  Banker (BARC)  bonuses would be limited by shareholders under
compromise plans criticized by European Union lawmakers who are
calling for stricter limits on financial-industry pay.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, has
proposed that bank investors should set maximum ratios on the
size of bonuses compared with fixed pay, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The European Banking Authority would
publish aggregate data on the limits.  Bonuses that are a “large” multiple of fixed pay “are
likely to encourage excessive risk taking and undermine
confidence in the financial sector generally,” according to the
plans.  Bankers are facing a backlash from European Parliament
lawmakers determined to cut variable pay as part of a quest to
reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making machines.
The regulatory push comes as public outrage and shareholder
rebellions this year forced some banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Barclays Plc, to retreat from their initial pay plans.  Barnier’s move is an attempt to broker a compromise between
parliament members, who are calling for a ban on bonuses that
exceed fixed pay, and national governments that are concerned
about the impact the measure may have on competitiveness.  The ban has become a sticking point in negotiations on a
draft law to overhaul bank rules that the EU is seeking to
settle by Jan. 1, 2013.  For more, click here.  FCC Chief Said Ready to Propose Changing Test on Spectrum Deals  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius
Genachowski  will propose altering how the agency judges whether
airwaves purchases by wireless providers raise anti-competitive
concerns, two officials said.  Changes would affect largest U.S. mobile carrier Verizon
Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and smaller wireless carriers as they buy
frequencies. The companies need FCC approval as they seek to
acquire airwaves to meet soaring demand for wireless data
sparked by the popularity of smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s
iPhone.  Genachowski will propose changes to the so-called spectrum
screen at a meeting Sept. 28, said the agency officials, who
spoke last Friday on condition of not being identified because
the matter hasn’t been made public. They didn’t say whether
Genachowski’s proposed changes would make it easier or more
difficult for companies to buy airwaves.  The FCC’s test generally limits buyers to amassing one-
third of airwaves in any market. Purchases that would carry a
company’s holdings beyond that threshold invite extra scrutiny
from the agency, which may require companies to sell airwaves so
frequencies remain available for competitors.  The agency is preparing to auction airwaves relinquished by
television broadcasters to help relieve shortages for mobile
carriers.  For more, click here.  U.K. Watchdog Plans to Curb Commission-Led Sales: Independent  Martin Wheatley, the managing director of Britain’s
Financial Services Authority, will announce tomorrow that the
commission-led selling of all financial products is to be
banned, the Independent reports, without saying where it got the
information. The prohibition will be introduced after Wheatley
takes over as chief of a new Financial Conduct Authority next
spring.  A ban on commission payments to financial advisers for
sales of investment products under the Retail Distribution
Review, which comes into force on Dec. 31, will be extended.  Wheatley will unveil his plans in a speech to City of
London notables tomorrow morning.  Compliance Action  U.K.’s FSA to Start Independent Review Into RBS Computer Failure  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority is to start an
independent investigation into computer failures at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  that left some of its 17 million customers
unable to access their accounts.  The review was revealed in correspondence between FSA
Chairman  Adair Turner , RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen
Hester  and Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie , published
today by parliament.  Turner wrote in a letter to Tyrie on July 13 that on
receipt of the independent review, the agency will consider
whether further regulatory action is required.  The FSA review will also seek to understand why it took
longer to resolve the matter for customers of its Ulster Bank
division, according to the letter.  RBS set aside 125 million pounds ($199 million) to cover
the costs of the computer glitch, saying it will pay all fees,
charges and debt interest which may have been charged in error
as a result of the incident. Hester said on June 29 that he
won’t seek a bonus this year following the failure.  RBS spokesman David Gaffney declined to comment. FSA
spokeswoman Cerris Tavinor declined to comment beyond the
letter.  In the Courts  Citigroup Settles Suit Over Home-Equity Credit Reductions  Citigroup Inc. will let customers challenge the suspension
of home-equity loans and provide $120 apiece to some ex-
borrowers whose credit lines were cut, under the settlement of a
lawsuit challenging its practices.  The accord, disclosed last Friday in documents filed in
federal court in  San Francisco , resolves a class action, or
group lawsuit, that accused the bank of improperly suspending or
reducing home-equity lines of credit for several hundred
thousand customers.  Citigroup’s Citibank unit will improve its suspension
notices and restore some customers’ access to home-equity
accounts under the agreement, according to the filing.  Borrowers who closed their accounts and were charged a fee
are eligible for $120 each under the agreement. The filing
doesn’t say how many borrowers that covers. New York-based
Citibank agreed to pay $1.2 million to the customers’ lawyers.  The settlement requires court approval, and customers
seeking the $120 payment will need to submit claims. Customers
whose accounts were suspended or reduced by Citibank based on
their property value from 2008 through January are eligible for
settlement benefits.  Citibank denied wrongdoing, according to the court filing
by the customers’ lawyers.  Mark Rodgers , a bank spokesman,
declined in an e-mail to comment immediately on the agreement.  The case is In Re Citibank Heloc Reduction Litigation,
3:09-cv-00350, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  JPMorgan Sued by Louisiana Pension Fund Over Currency Trades  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was accused in a lawsuit of
manipulating clients’ foreign-exchange transactions for its own
benefit.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement System
filed a complaint Aug. 30 in  Manhattan  federal court alleging
that the bank took advantage of investors by causing them to pay
what were often the worst currency rates available on a given
trading day.  “JPMorgan’s scheme allowed it, in violation of its
contractual and fiduciary obligations, to extract hundreds of
millions of dollars in illicit risk free profits from its
clients under the guise of FX trading,” according to the
complaint.  JPMorgan, the largest bank in the U.S. by assets, recorded
more than $4 billion in foreign exchange revenue between 2005
and 2011, according to the complaint.  The pension fund, which is suing on behalf of other
institutional investors for which the New York-based bank
executed currency trades since 2005, is seeking damages,
punitive damages and disgorgement of profits.  A JPMorgan spokeswoman,  Jennifer Zuccarelli , didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 12-cv-6659, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  AT&T’s $600 Million Bid Undervalues NextWave, Investor Says  NextWave Wireless Inc. (WAVE) , the wireless technology provider,
was sued by a shareholder who contends AT&T’s $600 million
takeover offer undervalues the company’s shares.  The shareholder, Burt Weiss, said in a filing Aug. 31 in
Delaware Chancery Court that  directors  have a duty to get the
best price for the shares and instead agreed to sell the company
at an initial $1 a share, with possible further contingent
payments, without conducting an auction or other market-check.  The deal is also unfairly designed to “cure the massive
debt owed by the company to several of its officers and
directors,” including senior and subordinated note-payoffs,
“lucrative severance payments” and vested  stock options ,
according to the lawsuit, filed in Wilmington.  The companies said Aug. 2 that Dallas-based AT&T would buy
San Diego-based NextWave to add more network capacity for
services such as mobile  Internet access .  Jeff Seedman, a spokesman for NextWave at Finn Partners in
San Francisco, said the company had no comment on the suit.  The complaint alleges that common stockholders were
originally slated to get $6 a share, later reduced to $1, and
that if the deal is consummated, some NextWave executives may
receive cash incentive awards of $1 million each or more.  The case is Weiss v. NextWave, CA7821, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  Hudson City Bancorp Sued by Investor Over M&T Takeover Offer  Hudson City Bancorp (HCBK)  was sued by a shareholder who claims a
$3.7 billion buyout offer from  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  is “fundamentally
unfair.”  The shareholder, Howard Lasker, named Hudson City’s
directors and M&T in the complaint filed in Delaware Chancery
Court Aug. 30.  Lasker asked a judge to halt work on the proposed deal
until Hudson City “adopts and implements a procedure or process
to obtain a proposed transaction agreement providing the best
possible terms for shareholders.”  Should the transaction go through, M&T would become the
fourth-largest bank in  New Jersey , measured by deposits. Hudson
City has 135 branches in New Jersey,  Connecticut  and New York.  Hudson City, based in Paramus, New Jersey, and M&T, based
in Buffalo, New York, announced the deal on Aug. 27.  Ronald E. Hermance Jr., Hudson City’s chief executive
officer, wasn’t immediately available to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Lasker v. Hermance, 7818, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington)  Ex-UBS Executive Ghavami Guilty in Municipal Bid-Rig Case  Ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  managing director Peter Ghavami and two former
colleagues were convicted of rigging bids for contracts for
investing proceeds of municipal bond sales.  After about two days of deliberations, jurors in New York
Aug. 31 found Ghavami, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty guilty of
 wire fraud  conspiracy for rigging bids from August 2001 to July
2002 and arranging to pay kickbacks to the brokerage firm CDR
Financial Products Inc. in exchange for help in manipulating
auctions.  Ghavami and Heinz were further found guilty of wire fraud
in connection with making payments. Welty was found not guilty
of wire fraud, and Heinz was found not guilty of one count of
witness tampering.  The trial followed a five-year federal antitrust
investigation into the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market . With
the Aug. 31 convictions, 19 of 20 people charged have been
convicted or pleaded guilty to charges stemming from the probe,
the government said. One is awaiting trial.  Zurich-based UBS,  Bank of America Corp . and other banks
have paid more than $700 million to settle U.S. claims over the
scheme.  “We’re disappointed with the verdict but we look forward
to pressing ahead in this fight,”  Charles Stillman , a lawyer
for Ghavami, said after the verdict.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, said, “We respect the
verdict. We will continue to fight hard for Gary in the next
stage of the process.”  Lawyers for Welty, Preston Burton and Gregory L. Poe,
declined to comment.  Sentencing dates have not yet been set for the three men.
The most serious charge, conspiracy to commit wire fraud,
carries a 30-year maximum sentence.  Issuers of tax-exempt municipal bonds must use competitive
bidding when selecting firms to handle deals to invest the
proceeds, according to the indictment in the case. Prosecutors
alleged that the defendants skirted that requirement by
colluding with competitors to set bid prices, often to
deliberately lose the auctions.  Christiaan Brakman, a UBS spokesman and  Joseph Evangelisti ,
a JPMorgan Chase spokesman, didn’t return calls seeking comment
about the verdict.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for  GE
Capital , declined to comment on the cases. A Bank of America
spokesman,  William Halldin , also declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Barclays Chief Tells Times New Rules Challenge Investment Bank  Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said
the Basel III regulations may make some investment-banking
operations unprofitable, the Sunday Times reported, citing an
interview.  The U.K.’s plans to “ring-fence” retail units of the
banks from risky operations may also affect profit at the
investment division, Jenkins told the newspaper. The economic
environment in most of the markets will remain challenging,
Jenkins said, forecasting “many years of low to no growth.”  Jenkins said he has no plans to change the executive team
and his top priority as a CEO is to “rebuild the reputation”
of the bank, the Times reported.  Barclays named Jenkins as CEO on Aug. 30, as the bank
recovers from the scandal over the manipulation of  interest
rates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in  Jersey City , New Jersey, at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 