-- Portuguese MP Says Troika Indicated ‘Flexibility’ on Aid Plan
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-09-04T16:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/portuguese-mp-says-troika-indicated-flexibility-on-aid-plan.html
A member of parliament for
 Portugal ’s ruling  Social Democratic Party  said officials from
the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union indicated
their “flexibility” on adjustments to the nation’s bailout
program.  “The troika demonstrated its flexibility for the program
to be adapted to the economic conditions and to the evolution
that the economy has had since the memorandum was signed in May
2011,” Miguel Frasquilho, a Social Democrat lawmaker, told
reporters today after a meeting with officials from the IMF, EU
Commission and  European Central Bank . The comments were
broadcast by television channel SIC Noticias.  The so-called troika comprising officials from the three
institutions on Aug. 28 started the fifth quarterly review of
Portugal’s aid program. The review focuses on topics including
the 2012 and 2013 budget plans as well as on a planned return to
bond markets in 2013.  Portugal is cutting spending and raising taxes to comply
with the terms of its 78 billion-euro ($98 billion) rescue.
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said on March 5 that if the
country can’t tap bond markets by September 2013 due to
“external reasons,” it would be able to count on continued
support from the IMF and the EU.  Increasing Risks  The government predicts the  economy  will shrink 3 percent
this year before expanding 0.2 percent in 2013. Economic growth
has averaged less than 1 percent a year for the past decade,
placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  The IMF said in a report released on July 17 that the 2012
budget-deficit goal of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
remains within reach, “although risks to its attainment have
clearly increased in recent months.” It said the target could
be adjusted.  “Should the target become difficult to reach as a result
of weaker revenue performance than currently assumed, there
would be a good case to allow automatic stabilizers to operate
and adjust the target,” the IMF said in that report.  The adjustment that has to be done to reach this year’s
budget deficit target is more difficult as  tax revenue  has been
lower than forecast, an official at the  Finance Ministry  who
asked not to be identified said on Aug. 23. Portugal targets a
 deficit  of 3 percent of GDP for 2013.  The Finance Ministry on July 6 said it will study measures
for the 2013 budget that will make up for the impact of a
Constitutional Court decision that blocked cuts to the Christmas
and summer salary payments of state workers in 2013 and 2014.
The court allowed the cuts that will be applied this year, with
projected savings of 2 billion euros, more than 1 percent of
GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  