-- Prasarn Braves Rate-Cut Calls as Thai Government Seeks Easing
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-09-04T03:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/prasarn-braves-rate-cut-calls-as-thai-government-seeks-easing.html
Thailand ’s central bank may tomorrow
spurn calls by Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government
to lower  interest rates  as it seeks to preserve policy
credibility in Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong last month called for
lower rates and a weaker currency to boost growth. Bank of
Thailand Chairman Virabongsa Ramangkura, who was picked by the
government and doesn’t vote on policy, dismissed inflation-
targeting as ineffective, signaling Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul should abandon the policy-setting measure. Even
so, the bank will hold its benchmark  rate  at 3 percent,
according to 18 of 21 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Prasarn joins counterparts from the euro region to  Japan 
and the U.S. as a central bank chief pushed to apply stimulus by
politicians seeking to shore up growth around the world. He said
last month the central bank is increasing communication in an
effort to safeguard itself from political interference.  “This will potentially undermine the effectiveness of
monetary policy,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Given that the
credibility of the central bank is itself one of the monetary
policy tools these days, these are discussions that should stay
in a closed room rather than be publicized and hence easily
politicized.”  The  Thai baht  has declined about 2 percent in the past six
months as the weakening global outlook prompted investors to
pull funds from  emerging markets . Still, stocks have risen more
than 6 percent over the same period as the economy recovered
from last year’s floods, the worst in almost 70 years.  At Odds  Yingluck’s efforts to boost wages and spur domestic demand
since she took office last year have at times put her
administration at odds with Prasarn’s mandate to keep core
inflation at 3 percent or less. The governor, who was appointed
by the previous administration, said Aug. 21 political
interference in central bank operations “has existed and will
continue.”  Prasarn, who has a doctorate in business administration
from  Harvard University , resisted the Yingluck government’s
pressure to cut rates until two quarter-point reductions in
November and January to help the nation recover from the floods.
He has kept borrowing costs unchanged since then.  Thai  consumer prices  climbed 2.69 percent in August from a
year earlier, easing from a 2.73 percent pace in July. Core
inflation was 1.76 percent.  Malaysian Decision  Three of the 21 economists in the Bloomberg News survey
predict a quarter-point cut by Thailand’s central bank tomorrow.
 Malaysia ’s central bank will also decide on borrowing costs this
week, with all 19 economists in a survey expecting Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz to hold the  key rate  at 3 percent on Sept. 6.  “The BOT has resisted these pressures, which to me
demonstrates that under Prasarn they will value independence and
will be careful not to undermine it,” said Euben Paracuelles, a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  While the chairman, who assumed the role in June, is
pushing for monetary policy that supports growth, Prasarn’s
success in replacing two outgoing rate-setting committee members
with central bank officials rather than external candidates is a
“strong signal they will not change their approach,”
Paracuelles said.  The central bank said last week Assistant Governor Pongpen
Ruengvirayudh will replace Suchada Kirakul as deputy governor
starting Oct. 1 when Suchada retires. Assistant Governor
Tongurai Limpiti will take Deputy Governor Sorasit Soontornkes’s
position, ending speculation the government may bring in
external appointees. The monetary policy committee members are
selected by the Bank of Thailand board headed by the chairman.  Pushing Back  The central bank has pushed back on government moves that
threatened its independence before. Last year, the Bank of
Thailand opposed a government plan to shift 1.1 trillion baht
($35 billion) of debt stemming from the 1997 Asian financial
crisis to the central bank, saying it would lead to money-
printing and erode credibility.  The government kept the debt on the finance ministry’s
balance sheet in the end, though the central bank was tasked
with paying the interest and principal.  Thailand’s government last year opposed the central bank’s
plan to switch from using  core inflation  to headline inflation
as guidance for monetary policy. Finance Minister Kittiratt has
also repeatedly called for a weaker baht, and said the monetary
authority doesn’t have a right to argue with him.  Steadying Ship  “The central bank’s independence is quite helpful to
steady the ship,” said Leslie Tang, an economist at OSK-DMG in
 Singapore . “I think it is important also for the government and
the central bank to agree on certain targets and then let the
central bank do its work.”  Members of the central bank’s board and monetary policy
committee met last month to resolve differences after
Virabongsa’s public remarks on inflation targeting, which the
central bank has used since 2000. Prasarn said after the meeting
the policy remains effective and the best option.  Virabongsa also heads a state committee that oversees
planning for the country’s future.  Yingluck has shelved politically contentious legislation to
change the constitution to instead focus on the economy, raising
minimum wages and handing out tax benefits to spur growth as the
nation recovers last year’s floods. Exports may expand 8 percent
to 9 percent this year, below an earlier target of 15 percent as
the European sovereign-debt crisis damps demand, the prime
minister said last week.  Exports Fall  Thai  exports  fell 4.5 percent in July from a year earlier,
the fifth decline this year.  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest
economy expanded 4.2 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, after growing a revised 0.4 percent in the previous
three months.  Further complicating Thailand’s economic policy making is
an array of shifting forecasts from different agencies.  The government’s forecasting agency now predicts gross
domestic product will rise 5.5 percent to 6 percent in 2012 from
a previous range of 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent. It also cut its
export growth estimate to 7.3 percent from 15.1 percent.  The central bank reduced its growth forecast for the year
to 5.7 percent from 6 percent in July and pared its export
growth estimate to 7 percent from 8.3 percent.  Kittiratt last month reduced his ministry’s forecast for
export growth this year to 9 percent from 15 percent. The higher
estimate had been a “white lie” that was necessary to boost
confidence, he said. Former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
criticized Kittiratt for overstating export targets, and said
the finance minister’s statements eroded the government’s
credibility.  Prasarn received a B+ in Global Finance magazine’s annual
ranking of central bank governors that measures areas such as
success in inflation control and resistance to political
interference. That places him higher than peers including Ben S
Bernanke,  Mario Draghi  and Masaaki Shirakawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  