-- Prisoner-Turned-Kingmaker Milne Leads Australia Green Battle
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-09-04T00:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/prisoner-turned-kingmaker-milne-leads-australia-green-battle-1-.html
Christine Milne , whose Australian
Greens party holds the balance of power in the nation’s Senate,
grimaces as she recalls the day an opponent called her a
“political slut” in Tasmania’s state parliament.  “It was a dangerous time,” the former high-school
teacher, who was jailed during a dam protest in the 1980s, said
in an interview in Canberra. “Death threats were fairly common.
There’s a lot to be proud of but it’s been a hard journey.”  Milne, 59, has graduated from imprisoned activist to head
of a party that forced Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority
government to levy a carbon tax, hurting resources companies
that underpin Australia’s growth. After taking over in April
from Bob Brown, leader of the country’s green movement for three
decades, Milne is trying to broaden support for Australia’s
third-biggest party as the  mining bonanza stalls , threatening
the nation’s run of 21 years without recession.  “Following in Brown’s footsteps won’t be easy because he
was able to appeal to the  baby boomers  all the way to Gen Ys,”
said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at
the  Australian National University  in Canberra. The Greens “are
concerned that if they don’t diversify into non-environmental
issues they may become too reliant on the far left. They need to
create new connections.”  Milne’s challenge is underscored by polls showing support
for her party at the lowest in more than three years. The
Greens’ approval rating dropped three percentage points to 8
percent, according to a Newspoll survey published today in the
Australian newspaper.  Old Politics  At the heart of the political maneuvering ahead of an
election that must be held by November 2013 is an  economy  that
has relied for the past decade on  China ’s demand for energy and
minerals. As jobs and investment flowed to the mines in
Australia’s north and west, the currency rose 47 percent in the
period, hurting exporters in the more populous southeast.  “The old political parties grew out of a period when we
regarded the earth’s resources and its ability to absorb waste
as being infinite,” Milne said in her office, beneath a picture
of a Tasmanian tiger, a carnivorous marsupial that became a
conservation symbol after its extinction in the 1930s. “The
economic tools have to change. Economic growth has to be
decoupled from resource extraction, depletion and pollution.”  Gillard turned to the Greens to help form a government in
2010 after the closest elections in seven decades. The price
they extracted for support was a carbon tax, introduced on July
1, that the government forecasts will reap A$24.7 billion ($25.3
billion) in revenue from about 300 of the nation’s biggest
polluters within four years. Opposition leader  Tony Abbott 
called the tax a “ wrecking ball ” for the economy and vowed to
rescind it if his Liberal-National coalition gains power.  Melbourne Seat  Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said on Aug. 23 the
nation’s  mining boom has ended .  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the following day that investment in
the industry would peak in the next two years.  Milne says she’s aware of the challenge of gaining ground
in the lower house, where the party’s sole elected member
represents the constituency of  Melbourne . Australia’s Labor and
Liberal parties have dominated the nation’s politics since the
end of World War II. She also needs to maintain the party’s
“crucial” balance of power in the  Senate , where it holds nine
of the 76 seats.  Abbott’s opposition has a 46 percent approval rating,
compared with Labor’s 33 percent, accord to the Newspoll survey.
The Greens’ 8 percent is the worst since March 2009. The survey
of 1,151 people, conducted Aug. 31-Sept. 2, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Tasmania Politics  Milne’s political opponents point to the island state of
Tasmania, birthplace of both Milne and the Greens, as an example
of what may happen to Australia if her political influence
increases.  The Greens have been in a coalition government in Tasmania
with Gillard’s  Labor party  since April 2010, after gaining 22
percent of the vote. It’s the third time since 1989 the Greens
have shared power in the state.  The former British convict colony, one of the most brutal
in the country at the time, had an unemployment rate of 6.5
percent in July, almost double that of Western Australia.  Western Australian Premier  Colin Barnett  called Tasmania
“Australia’s national park” last year, while federal lawmaker
Don Randall in 2010 said the state was a “leech on the teat”
of the national economy. Tasmania will rely on A$2.88 billion in
 federal grants  this fiscal year to meet government expenditures
for its half a million people.  Small Island  Tasmania has the highest proportion of land in National
Parks in Australia. Two chlorine-based pulp mills and a
hydroelectric dam by Australia’s largest water manager are among
projects that have been blocked by the Greens. About 23 percent
of the state is protected from economic development, according
to government figures.  “Tasmania is a small, peripheral island in a globalized
economy and no one owes it a living,” Tony McCall, a political
analyst for the University of Tasmania and a former adviser to
the Greens in the early 1990s, said in a phone interview from
Launceston. “The state’s high-risk reputation due to stalled
projects makes it one of the last places where international
capital is going to invest.”  Milne says the problems in the nation’s smallest state are
due to failed policies of Labor and Liberal governments, and the
Greens need to sell their economic vision better.  “We’ve got good economic policies but we’re not so well
known for them, nor do people understand how they connect with
our environmental and social policies,” she said.  Rural Idyll  Those  policies  include regulation of chief executives’
salaries, no tax cuts for the rich, government ownership of
“natural monopolies” and eradicating service taxes.  Milne says her connection to the environment came from an
“idyllic” upbringing on the family farm in the rural Tasmanian
community of Wesley Vale. After reading history at the
University of Tasmania, Milne joined a protest to stop
construction of the Franklin Dam, a hydropower project that
would have flooded part of the island’s World Heritage-listed
temperate rainforest.  “Tasmanian politics in the 1970s and onwards was the
forerunner of where the debate would go globally,” said Milne,
who named  Nelson Mandela ,  Martin Luther King  and  Bob Brown  as
her political heroes. “Until then, the view had been that
Tasmania was a commodity ready to be exploited. The debate about
whether or not to dam the Franklin River polarized Tasmania and
that’s continued to this day.”  Police Clashes  More than 1,000 protesters were arrested in clashes with
police, and both Milne and Brown, who led the campaign, spent
time in Risdon Prison in Hobart.  “It was scary,” Milne said of her three days’
incarceration. “I’d come from a conservative rural community.
But still, I realized this is the worst thing that can happen to
you in Tasmania for political activism. I thought -- I can
survive this. I felt empowered.”  Opposition to the dam helped topple the government and in
1983, the new Labor Prime Minister  Bob Hawke  quashed the project
after a High Court battle with the Tasmanian government. Milne
settled back into life as a school teacher and mother of two
until 1987, when plans to build a pulp mill in Wesley Vale,
virtually in her parents’ backyard, revived her protest role.  Milne led the campaign that defeated the mill, the largest
industrial infrastructure project in the southern hemisphere at
the time, and went on to enter the state parliament, holding the
balance of power with Brown and other “Green Independents.”  Shouted Abuse  The Greens broadened their policies to include social
reforms such as decriminalizing homosexuality, a move that
prompted Liberal politician Michael Hodgman to call Milne “the
mother of teenage sodomy.”  “I received shouted abuse across the chamber,” Milne
said. “It was really bullying behavior.”  Milne lost her seat in 1998 after the major parties voted
to decrease the size of the parliament. In 2004, she followed
Brown into the federal arena and was elected to the Senate.  “The word integrity is synonymous in my mind with
Christine,” Brown said in a phone interview from Tasmania.
“The right-wingers constantly abused her and her family. She
has had a lot to put up with but she has prevailed.”  The Greens’ emergence in Australia mirrors gains by
environmental groups in other developed nations. The German
Greens have a presence in all 16 regional assemblies and control
the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg. The European Green Party won 46
seats at the 2009 European Parliament election, its best result.  Strong Intellect  As the new leader of the Australian Greens, Milne says she
wants to develop a more “cabinet-style approach to showcase the
political depth of my team.” She has also tried to improve her
communication skills to get the party’s message across,
University of Tasmania’s McCall said.  “She’s got a very strong intellect which means she’s
terrific at constructing arguments, creating policy and grasping
detail,” said McCall. “She’s not so good on the capacity to
communicate with people who don’t agree with her vision.”  Milne said she wants to broaden support to appeal to small
business-owners and farmers, a strategy that risks alienating
the affluent, professionals in cities like Sydney and Melbourne
who have become the party’s core, said Zareh Ghazarian, a
political analyst in Melbourne at  Monash University .  “Milne may struggle to increase the party’s core
constituency,” Ghazarian said. “There’s a risk that if they
want to attract votes from the political center by becoming more
mainstream, they could alienate followers attracted by socially
progressive, humanitarian values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  