-- Qbotix Sees Tiny Robots Reducing Solar Costs, Boosting Output
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-09-06T11:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/qbotix-sees-tiny-robots-reducing-solar-costs-boosting-output.html
(Corrects to remove reference to  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  in seventh
paragraph of story published Sept. 3.)  Qbotix Inc. , a closely held robotics
company, is developing systems that may cut the cost of energy
from solar farms by as much as 20 percent.  Its robotics technology is an alternative to currently
available dual-axis or single-axis tracking systems, which
rotate solar panels toward the sun to increase energy
production, according to Wasiq Bokhari, Qbotix’s chief executive
officer.  “We are the first company to use mobile, intelligent
robots to operate solar power plants,” he said in a phone
interview.  Qbotix has developed battery-powered robots that ride on a
monorail around arrays of solar panels and link up with each to
mechanically tilt them toward the sun, performing the same
function as standard tracking systems without the need for extra
steel and motors. The systems will cost about the same as
standard single-axis trackers, Bokhari said, without disclosing
the price.  “The benefit we provide is that, without any cost
difference, the project owners can generate 8 to 15 percent more
energy compared to single-axis tracking systems and 30 to 40
percent more energy than fixed-mount systems,” Bokhari said.  The technology may reduce the levelized cost of solar
energy by as much as 20 percent compared to projects without
tracking systems, Qbotix said today in a statement.  Each robot can manage 300 kilowatts of panels and costs “a
few cents a watt,” Bokhari said. Standard single-axis tracking
systems usually cost about 35 cents to 45 cents a watt, and
dual-axis systems cost more, he said.  Prototype Complete  The company completed a grid-connected prototype last year
and operated it for more than nine months “to show that the
system indeed has the cost and reliability benefits that we talk
about,” Bokhari said. The company will begin selling its
“next-generation” systems this month, he said.  Qbotix, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , has raised $7.5
million since 2010 from New Enterprise Associates Inc., Firelake
Capital Management LLC, Siemens Venture Capital GmbH, Draper
Fisher Jurvetson and angel investors, Bokhari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  