-- Quebec Separatists May Regain Power With Minority Mandate
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-09-04T14:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/quebec-separatists-may-regain-power-with-minority-mandate.html
Quebec  voters head to the polls
today in an election that may return the separatist Parti
Quebecois to power in the French-speaking province for the first
time in almost a decade.  Polls last week showed the Parti Quebecois, led by Pauline Marois, leading Quebec Premier Jean Charest’s Liberals and the
nine-month old Coalition Avenir Quebec. While Marois’s PQ may
win the most districts, polls suggest it may not gain a majority
of seats in the province’s legislature.  The lack of a majority for the PQ would probably prevent
Marois from pressing ahead with plans for a referendum on Quebec
separation from Canada that would lead investors to demand
higher yields to hold Quebec debt, said Ed Devlin of Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond fund
manager.  “The probability of a referendum goes up if they have a
majority,” said Devlin, executive vice president and head of
the Canadian portfolio management team at Pimco, adding the
market seems to be pricing in a minority PQ government. “My
sense is that if the PQ wins a minority government, I don’t
think we’ll see any changes in yields.”  A  survey  by pollster Leger Marketing, published Sept. 2 by
Le Journal de Montreal newspaper, gave the Parti Quebecois 33
percent voter support, compared with 28 percent for the
Coalition and 27 percent for the Liberals. The separatists are
one percentage point short of a possible majority, Leger
Marketing President Jean-Marc Leger told the Journal. The
Internet survey of 1,856 people has a 2.3 percentage-point
margin of error.  Early Results  Voting ends at 8 p.m.  New York  time, with results expected
shortly afterward. afterward. More than 5.9 million voters are
registered, 980,000 of whom have already cast ballots in advance
polls, Quebec’s chief electoral officer said in  a statement .
When the election was called, Charest’s Liberals held 64 of the
125 seats in Quebec’s legislature, the Parti Quebecois held 47
and Coalition Avenir Quebec had nine. Option Nationale and
Quebec Solidaire, two other separatist parties, each had one
seat, while two others were controlled by independents and one
was vacant.  The three largest parties all say Quebec should assert
greater control over its economy in the wake of Mooresville,
North Carolina-based  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) ’s unsolicited bid for  Rona
Inc. (RON) , the Quebec home-improvement retailer. The Liberals, the
Parti Quebecois and the Coalition all came out against the
Lowe’s bid.  Zero Deficit  The three also say they want to eliminate the province’s
deficit as soon as next year. Quebec’s most recent budget,
unveiled in March by Finance Minister Raymond Bachand, predicts
 Canada ’s second-most populous province will have a shortfall of
C$1.5 billion ($1.52 billion)  in the 2012-13 fiscal year, which
ends March 31, before reaching balance in 2013-14.  Marois, 63, has pledged to make “zero deficit” a
priority, even with C$992 million in new spending her party’s
platform identifies. Higher mining royalties and new tax
brackets for individuals earning at least C$130,000 a year would
bring the government an additional C$1.4 billion in annual
revenue, according to the party’s financial plan.  Coalition Avenir Quebec is targeting balanced budgets
through 2017-18, starting with a C$263 million surplus next
year. It puts its spending commitments at C$5.7 billion over
five years.  “Nobody has really deviated” from the commitment to
balance the books, said Devlin. “From a bondholder’s
perspective, the differences are very small. That’s why I think
the markets have been so far relatively rational.”  Government Debt  Relative yields for Quebec have tightened one basis point
since the campaign began, while Ontario spreads were unchanged
and British Columbia spreads were two basis points wider.
Spreads on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial
and Municipal Index, which tracks 397 bonds with C$504 billion
outstanding, have narrowed one basis point over that period.  Government debt amounted to about 62 percent of Quebec’s
2011-12 gross domestic product, highest among Canada’s 10
provinces, according to an August report by Toronto-based
credit-rating company DBRS Ltd. Quebec’s debt is rated  A+ by
 Standard & Poor’s , Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and A (high)
by DBRS.  Clean Up  Francois Legault, the 55-year-old leader of the Coalition,
has pledged to “clean things up” through such means as the
elimination of 7,000 government jobs. He has also vowed to cut
taxes for the middle class, reduce hospital waiting times and
ensure that all Quebeckers have access to a family doctor.
Legault, a former Parti Quebecois cabinet minister and Charles Sirois, chairman of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, co-
founded the party in November.  “Mr. Legault is pushing for a more efficient
administration, and that’s one of the issues in this campaign,”
said Jean-Herman Guay, a political science professor at the
University of Sherbrooke.  Charest’s Liberals have been weighed down by protests
against the government’s plan to boost tuition fees, and
allegations of corruption that have made headlines for the last
two years. A 2010 Macleans magazine cover story  called Quebec 
the country’s “most corrupt” province. A commission looking
into the public contracting process opened in May and is set to
resume Sept. 17 after a summer recess.  ‘Fatigue Factor’  With Charest bidding for a fourth consecutive mandate,
“the fatigue factor has to be considered as part of the
reason” the Liberals are trailing, Antonia Maioni, an associate
professor of political science at  McGill University  in Montreal,
said in a telephone interview.  Legault argues that Quebec voters are tired of endless
debates about the province’s place in Canada. He told CBC Radio
Aug. 30 he won’t consider independence for at least 10 years.  Quebec has twice voted in referendums against seceding from
Canada, most recently in 1995. The issue has lost momentum in
recent years, with an Aug. 31 CROP Inc. poll showing support for
sovereignty at 29 percent, while 68 percent said they would vote
’No’ if a referendum were held during a first Parti Quebecois
mandate.  Poll results like these, coupled with a likely Parti
Quebecois minority, are why McGill’s Maioni and Sherbrooke’s
Guay say a referendum is unlikely in the next few years.  “Marois is a pragmatist,” said Guay. “There has to be
genuine enthusiasm among voters for sovereignty for the PQ to
call another referendum. The sovereigntists can’t afford to lose
another one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  