-- Traders Diverge Most in 13 Months From Strategists on Euro
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-09-04T15:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/traders-strategists-divided-most-in-13-months-on-euro-gain-1-.html
With the euro facing one of the most
pivotal months in its 13-year history, traders and strategists
are more divided than at any time since 2011 over whether
officials will be able to keep the currency from tumbling.  At about $1.26, the 17-nation euro is 3.3 percent above the
$1.22 median year-end estimate of more than 50 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg, after the gap expanded to 3.8 percent last week.
The last time the euro exceeded the consensus by that much was
in July 2011, and it tumbled 9.4 percent in the next 10 weeks.  While traders are optimistic that European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  will bolster confidence in the euro with
his plan to buy bonds of Spain and Italy, analysts said those
same measures are more likely to debase the currency. After the
ECB meets this week, Germany’s  Constitutional Court  will rule on
the legality of a bailout fund, Greece’s institutional creditors
will decide if the country merits access to aid that would help
it stay in the European Union, and Dutch citizens get to vote on
parties including a group that wants to exit the bloc.  “The ECB’s approach is obviously an easing approach,”
 Hans Redeker , head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in
 London , said in a telephone interview on Aug. 28. “The central
bank is printing money and increasing the supply of euros, and
this implies that the currency will stay weak.”  Rising Euro  Redeker said the euro will probably drop 5.6 percent to
$1.19 by year-end. An advance to between $1.27 and $1.30 would
provide a good level at which to sell, he said.  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2562 at 11:13 a.m. New York
time after rising to $1.2638 on Aug. 31, the strongest since
July 2. Against a basket of developed market peers, Europe’s
shared currency appreciated 0.4 percent last week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, bringing the monthly
gain for August to 1 percent, its first advance since March.  Not since July 26, 2011, when the difference was 5.6 U.S.
cents, has the euro exceeded year-end 2012 estimates by as much
as it did on Aug. 28. The currency declined from a close at
$1.4511 that day to a low of $1.3146 on Oct 4. As recently as
Aug. 2, traders were more bearish than strategists.  “The longer-term forces acting on the euro still suggest
it is probably going to remain an underperformer,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
New York, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 29. “We are
still looking at a euro-zone economy that is in recession,
compared with the U.S., which is growing slowly.”  Diverging Economies  The euro may climb to as high as $1.30 in late October as
Draghi’s bond-purchase program stabilizes Europe’s financial
markets, and then depreciate to $1.20 in a year as investors
focus more on the economic underperformance relative to the U.S.
and the need for more economic stimulus to boost growth, said
Bennenbroek, whose company was the most-accurate forecaster in a
Bloomberg Rankings survey for the six quarters through June.  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 2.2 percent this
year, according to the median of 79 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The euro-area economy will contract 0.4 percent, a
separate set of forecasts shows.  Draghi gave the currency a boost on July 26 when he said he
would do “whatever it takes” to preserve the monetary union.
He backed that up on Aug. 2, saying the central bank may buy
short-maturity notes issued by euro-area nations, as long as the
region’s bailout fund makes purchases directly from the
countries’ treasuries and ties the aid to conditions.  ‘Heavily Oversold’  Spanish  two-year note  yields fell to as low as 3.08 percent
today from a euro-era high of 7.15 percent on July 25. Similar-
maturity  Italian yields  slid to 2.37 percent from 5.26 percent.  “Before Draghi mentioned these measures, the euro was
heavily oversold,” or below fair value, said Dirk Aufderheide,
who helps oversee $350 billion as head of currencies for DWS
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , according to data on the company’s
 website . “We are expecting a package of decisions, and that
should lead to a reduction of the euro-region break-up premium
and some further appreciation,” he said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 30.  In that case, Europe’s currency may appreciate to $1.28, he
said, and it may fall to around $1.20 if Draghi takes no action.  Pressure on central bankers and lawmakers to come up with a
long-term solution to the sovereign debt crisis is rising. While
the euro is 4.2 percent above the $1.2089 average since its
January 1999 inception, it fell to record lows against the
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars in August.  Most Bullish  “Draghi has committed the ECB to doing what’s necessary to
stop the euro from breaking up,”  Daragh Maher , a currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said in an Aug. 29
interview. “Once you begin to reduce the probability of a
break-up scenario, then all the efforts become euro positive.”  The euro will rise to $1.35 by year-end and $1.37 by March
31, Maher predicts, making HSBC the most bullish of the
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. Current levels “are a buying
opportunity,” he said.  Europe’s financial-market turmoil began in 2009 after
Greece reported a  budget deficit  more than previously published,
before later negotiating two bailouts from the euro zone and
international creditors. Ireland and Portugal also required aid.  Draghi may give details of the latest plan to calm the
regional debt woes at the central bank’s meeting in two days, or
after Germany’s Constitutional Court rules on the legality of
Europe’s permanent bailout fund on Sept. 12.  Breakup Odds  That day, the Netherlands holds elections. Voters will
decide among parties including the Socialists, who oppose
spending cuts, and the  Freedom Party , which is seeking an exit
from the EU. Also, Greece is negotiating for more-lenient terms
for its 240 billion-euro ($302 billion) bailout with the ECB,
European Commission, and the  International Monetary Fund .  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  approves of the ECB
bond-buying program, it has been criticized by Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann, who was quoted in Der Spiegel magazine
as saying the plan may increase governments’ reliance on such
funding and won’t help solve the debt crisis.  ECB council members will have about 24 hours to digest
Draghi’s proposal before they start debating it, three central
bank officials said on Aug. 31. Draghi told lawmakers yesterday
he’d be comfortable buying debt with maturities of up to about
three years and that it wouldn’t constitute state financing,
said Jean-Paul Gauzes, a member of the European Parliament.  Odds on a euro breakup by the end of 2013 rose to 54
percent last week from this year’s low of 35 percent in April,
according to Dublin-based Intrade.com data.  Hedging Bets  “We don’t expect the ECB to answer the expectations at
this meeting,” David Woo, global head of rates and currencies
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 28. “There’s not going to be that
much clarity, which will be a disappointment for the market.”  Woo forecasts Europe’s shared currency will weaken to $1.15
by year-end, among the most-bearish predictions.  Even as they bid up the euro relative to strategists’
forecasts, traders are hedging their bets.  Futures contracts  that the euro will fall against the
dollar have exceeded those betting on a gain every week since
August 2011, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the
currency compared with those on a gain was 101,561 on Aug. 28.  ‘Weak Euro’  European exporters are benefiting from a lower euro.  Merck
KGaA (MRK) , the German drug and chemical maker, said Aug. 14 the
decline helped boost second-quarter revenue, which rose 12
percent and beat analysts’ forecasts. Stuttgart, Germany-based
 Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
reported a 10 percent gain in second-quarter sales, helped by
the  exchange rate .  Unlike the  Federal Reserve , the ECB has offset its 220
billion euros of acquisitions by taking the cash back as
deposits to avoid stoking inflation.  Since the Fed began its unprecedented asset purchase
programs in December 2008, IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  U.S.
Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against the currencies
of six U.S. trading partners, has fallen more than 6 percent.  “There’s likely to be a short-term positive reaction, and
then we’ll return to a weak euro on the weak European growth
story,” Mark Farrington, who oversees $9 billion as head of
currencies at Macro Currency Group, a unit of Principal Global
Investors Europe Ltd., said in an Aug. 20 interview. He
confirmed the comments yesterday. “If the ECB adopts a more
traditional policy response, cutting rates or expanding its
balance sheet aggressively to save the euro from a breakup, then
we will have a much weaker euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  