-- U.S. Yields Rise From Lowest in a Month; Debt Tops $16T
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-04T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/treasuries-pare-losses-after-factory-gauge-declines.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
note yields up from the lowest level in almost a month, amid
bets the  European Central Bank  will announce measures as soon as
this week to ease the euro region’s debt crisis.  Yields pared increases after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly fell in
August, adding to speculation the economy is faltering and the
 Federal Reserve  may buy more bonds. U.S.  total debt  outstanding
rose past $16 trillion. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday the bank’s primary mandate compels it to intervene in
bond markets to ensure the 17-nation currency’s survival.  “Draghi has been very loud and outspoken about his desire
to see bond buying, and that has given the market some hope,
which has weighed on Treasuries some,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “But
until you get an actual program announced and agreed upon, it’s
hard to believe any rhetoric coming out of  Europe .”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.57 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield touched
1.54 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 6, before increasing
to 1.59 percent before the factory data. The price of the 1.625
percent note due in August 2022 declined 7/32, or $2.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 15/32.  Ten-year yields reached a record low 1.38 percent on July
25, and rose to a three-month high of 1.86 percent on Aug. 21.  Thirty-year bond  yields increased one basis point to 2.68
percent after earlier touching 2.65 percent, the lowest since
Aug. 7, and rising to as high as 2.71 percent. The long-bond
yields reached a record low 2.44 percent on July 26, and climbed
on Aug. 16 to 2.98 percent, the highest since May.  Total Debt  Bond yields continued to hover at almost record lows even
as the U.S. Treasury statement and cash balance for Aug. 31
showed  total public debt  outstanding swelled to $16.02 trillion.
The figure, which includes debt held by the public and
intragovernmental holdings, was $9 trillion in 2007.  The Fed bought $6.4 billion of  U.S. government debt  today
in two purchases as part of its effort to cap longer-term
borrowing costs.  Treasuries trimmed losses after the Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S.  factory index  fell to 49.6 in August from 49.8
a month earlier. It was the third straight month of contraction.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a reading of 50,
which is the dividing line between expansion and shrinkage. The
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and
57.3 a year earlier.  No Support  “The data doesn’t support the idea that the economy is
going to be meaningfully different in the second half of the
year,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at the
broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York. “There is still a ton of
uncertainty coming from Europe.”  U.S. government securities were at almost the most
expensive level in a month. The 10-year term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed that includes expectations for
 interest rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.93 percent,
near the most costly since July 31. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. The average this year is negative 0.73 percent.  ECB Purchases  Draghi, mounting his strongest case yet for ECB bond
purchases, told lawmakers in a closed-door session at the
European Parliament in Brussels yesterday the bank has lost
control of borrowing costs in the 17-nation monetary union.
 Bloomberg News  obtained a recording of his comments, some of
which were published by Italian news agency AGI yesterday.  The ECB chief said if the bank buys bonds due in three or
fewer years, they “will easily expire, so there is very little
monetary financing if anything at all that we are doing.”  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer and founder of
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a Twitter
post that Draghi “appears willing to write two- to three-year
‘checks’” to debt-strapped euro-bloc nations. He called such a
move reflationary.  The ECB’s Governing Council is due to consider this week
Draghi’s bond-buying proposal, expectations for which have
already driven down yields in Italy and  Spain . The bank will
announce a policy decision on Sept. 6.  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent this year, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. That compares with a 14
percent  gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, including
reinvested dividends.  Bernanke Speech  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking Aug. 31 at an
economics conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said the costs of
“nontraditional policies” appear manageable when considered
carefully.  Bernanke said he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless
rate he described as a “grave concern.” U.S. payrolls probably
grew at a slower pace in August and unemployment exceeded 8
percent for a 43rd month, economists forecast before Labor
Department data this week.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities from
2008 to 2011 in two rounds of the stimulus strategy known as
quantitative easing. The policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  will meet Sept. 12-13.  The Fed is also in the process of swapping shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years to
help lower long-term borrowing costs.  The central bank bought $1.8 billion of Treasuries today
due from February 2036 to August 2042, and purchased $4.6
billion of  U.S. debt  due from September 2018 to August 2020.  A  measure  of price-increase predictions used by the Fed to
set policy, the five-year, five-year forward break-even rate,
has averaged 2.54 percent this year. That’s the lowest since
2001 for the measure, which gauges expectations for inflation
between 2017 and 2022. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
10-year government notes will yield 1.76 percent by Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  