-- Treasuries Fall, Snapping 2-Day Gain, on ECB Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-04T12:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/treasury-yields-touch-month-lows-before-ism-factory-data.html
Treasury 10-year note yields climbed
from the lowest level in almost a month on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will announce measures as soon as this
week to ease the euro region’s debt crisis.  The 10-year yield earlier fell to a four-week low before
data today that economists said will show manufacturing is
struggling to expand, giving the Federal Reserve ammunition to
boost bond purchases in the form of quantitative easing to spur
growth. ECB President  Mario Draghi  told lawmakers yesterday he
would be comfortable buying government debt with maturities of
as much as about three years to bring down borrowing costs for
nations in distress.  “We’re moving closer to the point where the ECB has to
deliver,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of
Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp. “They
cannot fail the market or there will be a huge disruption. The
market may soften up going into the economic data. People are
waiting to see if the numbers skew themselves in one direction
or another to see if we’ll get QE in September out of the Fed.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points, 0.02
percentage point, to 1.57 percent as of 8:15 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in August 2022 fell 4/32, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 17/32. The rate earlier declined to 1.54 percent,
the lowest level since Aug. 6.  The Fed will purchase six to 30-year securities in two
separate transactions today.  ECB Meets  The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth
and inflation, was negative 0.95 percent, near the most costly
since July 31. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The
average for the year is negative 0.73 percent.  Draghi told lawmakers yesterday that purchasing short-
maturity notes doesn’t constitute state financing, according to
Jean-Paul Gauzes, a member of the European Parliament.  The ECB is scheduled to hold a policy meeting in two days.
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  is meeting in Berlin
with German Chancellor Angela Merkel today as Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  meets French President  Francois Hollande  in
 Rome .  Factory Index  U.S. government bonds have returned 2.6 percent this year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That compares
with a 14 percent  gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
including reinvested dividends.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
for last month is estimated at 50, the dividing line between
growth and contraction and compared with 49.8 in July, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Speaking on Aug. 31 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the costs of “nontraditional policies”
appear manageable when considered carefully. That implies Fed
policy makers “should not rule out the further use of such
policies if economic conditions warrant,” he said.  Comments from policy makers show they are “moving in the
direction of quantitative easing and expansion of the Fed’s
balance sheet in the fairly near-term,” Craig Veysey, head of
fixed income at Principal Investment Management Ltd. in London,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown”
with Linzie Janis. “They are clearly concerned about economic
growth and in particular the impact that’s having on the
unemployment situation.”  Fed Purchases  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  will next
meet on Sept. 12-13.  The Fed is in the process of swapping shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years to
help lower long-term borrowing costs. The central bank is due to
buy as much as $2 billion of Treasuries due from February 2036
to August 2042 and as much as $5 billion of securities maturing
in September 2018 to August 2020 today as part of the program,
according to the Fed Bank of New York  website .  A  measure  of price-increase predictions used by the Fed to
set policy, the five-year, five-year forward break-even rate,
has averaged 2.54 percent this year. That’s the lowest since
2001 for the measure, which gauges expectations for inflation
between 2017 and 2022. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
10-year government notes will yield 1.76 percent by Dec. 31.  The consumer-price index was unchanged in July and June
from a month earlier. It fell 0.3 percent in May, the most since
December 2008, according to the Labor department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  