-- RIM’s Short Interest Hits High Amid Doubts About Comeback
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-04T20:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/rim-s-short-interest-hits-high-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s short
interest has touched a record high, a sign investors are
anticipating disappointing earnings as the wait for a new lineup
of BlackBerry smartphones takes as long as six months.  Short interest  rose to 4.2 percent of shares outstanding on
Aug. 24, according to data compiled by research firm Markit.
Investors taking short positions bet against a stock by
borrowing shares and selling them, aiming to profit by repaying
the borrowed shares at a lower price.  RIM last quarter posted its first operating loss since
fiscal 2004 as it struggles with slumping demand for an aging
lineup of BlackBerry models. Shares of RIM, which reports
quarterly results Sept. 27, have fallen 15 of the past 16
trading sessions.  “People are anticipating the quarter being a pretty lousy
one and probably more writedowns,” said  Eric Jackson , president
of Ironfire Capital LLC, which has shorted RIM in the past. He
currently doesn’t have any position in the stock.  RIM fell 0.7 percent to $6.65 today in  New York , reaching a
year-to-date  decline  of 54 percent. Last quarter’s results
included a pretax charge of $335 million to write down the value
of goodwill. That followed a $485 million writedown three months
earlier.  While the faithful among the 78 million BlackBerry
subscribers may be holding out for new BlackBerry 10 models due
in the first quarter of next year, others have given up waiting
and opted for sleeker touchscreen models from  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   More Losses  Revenue last quarter fell 43 percent as international
markets that had held up better than the U.S. also began to
suffer slowing growth. For the quarter ended Aug. 31, the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company is expected to report a loss of
44 cents a share and a 40 percent drop in sales from a year
earlier to $2.48 billion, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts  project  operating
losses for the next three quarters.  RIM is counting on the new phones, the first built on an
operating system that the company says will offer “true
multitasking” capability that rivals can’t match, to help it
claw back lost market share. Its portion of the global
smartphone market fell to 4.8 percent in the second quarter from
12 percent a year earlier as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform
climbed to 68 percent and Apple slipped to 17 percent, according
to research firm IDC.  Higher Ratio  RIM’s short-interest ratio currently stands at 4.1 percent,
just off the 4.2 percent record high. Apple’s is 0.4 percent,
and Google’s is 0.7 percent, according to London-based Markit.  “We are expecting the next several quarters to be very
challenging,” Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said in
June. RIM doesn’t have a comment on the short interest, said
Nick Manning, a company spokesman.  RIM demonstrated two new BB10 models to developers and the
press in August to build enthusiasm ahead of their debut. While
Chief Marketing Officer Frank Boulben said in July that the
phones may be released as soon as January in some markets, the
company has since said that the debut may come as late as the
end of March.  Either way, that will be after the unveiling tomorrow of
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  phones on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new Windows Phone 8
platform and the introduction of Apple’s newest iPhone, which
two people with knowledge of the plan said will happen on Sept.
12.  Missing Out  The timing of the BB10 debut means RIM will also miss out
on a competitive opportunity if U.S. sales of some Samsung
Electronics Co. handsets are banned. U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh is weighing whether to block some Samsung phone sales after
Apple’s victory in a $1.05 billion jury verdict Aug. 24.  RIM is also under pressure to get the phones out quickly as
operating losses from its devices business eat into its cash
reserves. While RIM had $2.2 billion in cash, including long-
term investments, at the end of last quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Brian Bidulka has warned that number could drop if the
company has to further restructure.  “If we see a big hemorrhage of cash this quarter and we
are still expecting one or two really dire quarters of results
in front of us, once RIM gets below $1 billion in cash,
certainly life becomes much more difficult for the company,”
said Ironfire’s Jackson. Unless a BB10 device ships soon, “it’s
going to be very difficult for RIM in the short term,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  