-- Rio Tinto Plans Job Cuts at Argyle Diamond Mine to Lower Costs
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-09-04T02:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/rio-tinto-plans-job-cuts-at-argyle-diamond-mine-to-lower-costs.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, plans to cut some jobs at the Argyle
diamond mine in  Western Australia  to reduce costs and improve
efficiency amid a plan to sell its diamond businesses.  Some positions at the middle management level may no longer
be needed, Rio spokeswoman Karen Halbert said today by phone
from  Melbourne . She declined to say how many jobs would be cut
or how much the company would save.  Rio said in March it’s considering selling the diamond unit
because the mines no longer fit its strategy. The diamond unit’s
net loss widened to $38 million in the six months ended June 30
from $10 million a year earlier because of one-time charges
related to higher capital cost assumptions to expand Argyle.  “Argyle is facing increasing costs,” Halbert said. “We
are looking at ways to make savings across the business. We
cannot do this effectively without reducing employee costs, and
unfortunately this does mean some roles will no longer be
needed.”  Rio is seeking to shed as many as 80 of the 500 workforce
at Argyle, famous for its rare  pink diamonds , the Age reported
today, without citing anyone. Halbert declined to confirm the
figure.  Mining companies, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest, are shedding less-profitable assets as declining
commodity prices and increasing costs trim earnings. Rio in
August reported a 34 percent drop in underlying profit to $5.2
billion. Sales from Rio’s diamond operations accounted for about
1.3 percent of total first-half revenue, Rio said Aug. 8.  Rio’s diamond unit includes Argyle, 60 percent of the
Diavik mine in  Canada ’s Northwest Territory and 78 percent of
the Murowa operation in  Zimbabwe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  