-- Rolls-Royce Sees Second Year Record Sales on Asia Demand
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-09-05T03:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/rolls-royce-forecasts-second-year-of-record-sales-on-asia-demand.html
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd. forecast
a second year of record sales as growth fueled by Asian wealth
outweighs the economic slump in  Europe .  The Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s ultra-luxury unit is on
track to sell more than the 3,538 vehicles it delivered last
year, when it had the highest sales in its 107-year history and
beat the previous record set in 1978, Chief Executive Officer
Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said in an interview. A slowing China,
which became Rolls-Royce’s biggest market in 2011, won’t prevent
it from posting back-to-back record years, he said.  “What we see particularly in Asia is strong growth for
us,” Mueller-Oetvoes said in an interview yesterday in Bangkok,
where Rolls-Royce plans to open a showroom in the Siam Paragon
shopping mall. “Many of the Asian economies are strong and the
forecast regarding ultra-high net-worth individuals is
positive.”  Rolls-Royce, which makes the $246,500 Ghost  sedan , is
counting on the rising number of millionaires in  Asia  to help
drive demand as the debt crisis dents sentiment among Europe’s
rich. Asia accounts for about 40 percent of the carmaker’s sales
and that share will probably rise, Mueller-Oetvoes said.  Of the 100 top billionaires in the world, 13 are from Asia,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  ranking as of 5:30
p.m.  New York  time yesterday. The Asian billionaires’ combined
estimated net worth has increased 4.3 percent to $196.3 billion
so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Demand  The Asia-Pacific region overtook  North America  with the
most high-net worth individuals in 2011,  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and RBC
Wealth Management said in the  World Wealth Report 2012 .  In  China , the pace of  growth  has decelerated and is no
longer as “explosive” compared with the past few years as the
world’s second-largest economy slows, Mueller-Oetvoes said.  “We all know that the economic development has slowed down
a little bit over the last year, but I mean at the end if you
look at the prognosis it’s still five or six or seven percent
growth,” he said. “I would call it a more consistent, steady
growth pattern in that market now.”  The company sold out of a $1.2 million Year of the Dragon
Phantom model introduced in China earlier this year. Features of
the special-edition Phantom include a gold dragon hand-painted
on the side of each wheelbase, the mythical creature embroidered
on headrests, and hand-stitched cushions for rear passengers.  Among the other regions for Rolls-Royce, the U.S. accounts
for 30 percent of sales, while the  Middle East  and Europe each
account for 15 percent, according to the company.  There is “still some potential” in the U.S. market, while
Europe is a “mixed picture” with the U.K. market still
holding, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  