-- Russia’s Zenit Pays More Than $100 Million for Hulk and Witsel
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-04T10:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/russia-s-zenit-pays-more-than-100-million-for-hulk-and-witsel.html
Russian soccer champion Zenit St.
Petersburg signed Brazilian striker Hulk and Belgian midfielder
Axel Witsel for a combined fee of at least $100 million from
Portuguese clubs on five-year contracts.  Porto said in a filing to the Portuguese stock exchange it
will receive 40 million euros ($50 million) for 85 percent of
the economic rights it holds for 26-year-old Hulk.  Benfica (SLBEN) ,
which is also listed on the Lisbon exchange, said it would also
get 40 million euros for Witsel, 23.  Hulk joins Zenit after winning three Portuguese league
titles, three Portuguese Cups and the 2011 Europa League since
joining Porto for 19 million euros in 2008. Witsel only moved to
 Portugal  from Standard Liege for 8 million euros last season.  Portuguese news agency Lusa cited his agent, Teodoro
Fonseca, said Hulk’s transfer to Zenit was worth as much as 60
million euros. Such a fee would make Hulk the second-most
expensive Brazilian player after Real Madrid paid 65 million
euros for Kaka in 2009, according to Infostrada Sports.  Both players were included in Zenit’s  25-man squad  for
 Europe ’s elite Champions League, where it will face AC Milan,
Malaga and Anderlecht in Group C.  Zenit, bankrolled by  Russia ’s natural-gas monopoly OAO
Gazprom, is top of the country’s championship and has been
linked with bids for a number of other players, including
Manchester United winger Nani.  While Hulk trades Portugal for Russia, an investigation
into his move to  Porto (FCP)  by soccer’s governing body remains on-
going.  The striker, whose real name is Givanildo Vieira de Sousa,
moved to Europe via Rentistas, a Uruguay-based club for which he
never played.  Rentistas got 19 million euros from trading 90 percent of
the rights of Hulk to Porto in two tranches in 2008 and 2011,
according to stock-market filings by the Portuguese team at the
time. Rentistas President Mario Bursztyn said in a Feb. 8
interview the transfer fee in such a deal is redirected to a
company owned by player agent Juan Figer called Lamico. Bursztyn
said the club gets a monthly retainer fee from Figer in return.
Figer follows all the rules of his profession, his spokesman
Jose Aparecida Miguel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net 
Tariq Panja in London at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  