-- Russia’s Micex Declines as Crude Falls on Global Growth Woes
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-04T15:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/russia-s-micex-declines-as-crude-falls-on-global-growth-woes.html
Russian stocks fell as crude oil,
the nation’s chief export earner, retreated, while concern
global growth will slow curbed demand for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,436.52 by the
close in Moscow, after rising as much as 0.3 percent earlier.
OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , a coking-coal producer, slumped 2.6 percent, while
OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, declined 1.1 percent.
United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, rallied
3.4 percent as aluminum rose in  London .  The European Union’s rating outlook was cut to negative by
Moody’s Investors Service ahead of a meeting of regional policy
makers this week. U.S. manufacturing contracted for a third
month in August, a report showed today, while crude dropped 1.1
percent to $95.38 in  New York . Oil and gas contribute about 50
percent to Russia’s state revenue.  “Investors are watching the global markets,” Sergey Kucherenko, who manages about $50 million in the country’s
equities at Nomos Bank in Moscow, said by phone. “European
leaders are battling over a very complicated issue, whether the
 European Central Bank  should offer support for risky assets.”  China should “decisively” expand the strength of its
fine-tuning after changes in the economy and markets, the
official People’s Daily newspaper said in a front-page essay
yesterday. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told
officials yesterday he would be comfortable buying three-year
 government bonds  to cut borrowing costs for nations in financial
distress.  Inflation, Privatization  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  and has
rallied 2.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
9.9 times and a 3.4 percent advance for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  Russia’s inflation accelerated to 5.9 percent in August to
near the upper limit of the central bank’s target as food prices
grew after a three-month drought.  State asset sales planned for this year may be delayed
until next winter or spring, RIA Novosti reported, citing
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov.  Russia  may scrap planned
offerings if market conditions deteriorate, Interfax reported.  “Investors didn’t expect asset sales to start this year
since so little time remains,” Alexey Debelov, the chief
investment officer at the Moscow-based Third Rome, which manages
about $400 million in Russian assets, said by phone. “The
government is going to wait for better market conditions, it’s
not desperate to sell assets.”  Russia in June approved an asset sale plan that includes
stake reductions in OAO Rosneft and Sberbank and targets sales
of 300 billion rubles this year. Sberbank dropped to 93.13
rubles, the lowest level in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  