-- Russian Inflation Quickens to 5.9% in August, Below Forecast
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-09-04T13:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/russian-inflation-accelerates-to-5-9-in-august-below-estimates.html
Russia ’s inflation accelerated in
August to near the upper limit of the central bank’s target as
food prices grew after a three-month drought seared millions of
hectares of cropland and pasture.  Consumer prices rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier, the
highest level since December, from 5.6 percent in July, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. The median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey  was for 6 percent. Prices grew 0.1 percent from a month
earlier, less than the 0.2 forecast in a separate poll.  Breaching the 6 percent inflation target may force the hand
of policy makers in Russia, the last major emerging economy to
keep borrowing costs unchanged this year. A drought since May
has curbed production and affected 5.99 million hectares (14.8
million acres) of plantings in 22 of Russia’s 83 regions, with
20 of them declaring an emergency.  “August’s data suggest that supply-side price pressures
continue mounting on the back of rising food and commodity
prices, which is at least partially being passed on by producers
to consumers,” Johannesburg-based Tradition Analytics said in
an e-mailed research note. “There is scope for CPI growth to
continue edging higher.”  The ruble is the fourth-worst performer of 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the past six months.
The ruble strengthened 0.6 percent to 32.1726 per dollar at 4:44
p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
32.6283 per dollar in three months.  Grain Crop  Russia, the world’s third-largest wheat exporter last
season, cut its grain crop estimate Aug. 31 to between 70
million and 75 million metric tons, down from 94.2 million tons
in 2011. Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said the
government won’t restrict grain exports this year.  Food costs, with a 38 percent weighting in the Russian
consumer-price basket, may stoke inflation further by adding 2
percentage points in the September-March period,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in Moscow, said in
an e-mailed note. Wheat futures have climbed more than 30
percent this year on concern dry weather in Russia and the worst
U.S. drought since 1956 will curb global grain supplies.  Inflation Target  Bank Rossii has sought to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent this year after bringing price growth to a record-low
6.1 percent in 2011. The Economy Ministry last week raised the
inflation forecast for this year to 7 percent from between 5
percent and 6 percent. The central bank has held its refinancing
rate at 8 percent, a quarter-point above the record low, since
December.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy, accelerated to 0.6 percent in August from a month
earlier, more than the 0.5 percent median forecast of nine
economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  “Breaking through the 6 percent threshold is only a matter
of time,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist at ING Groep NV, said
by e-mail before the release. “Everyone but the central bank
has already said making 6 percent inflation this year isn’t
realistic, including the  Economy Ministry . The sooner it does
that and explains its position to the market, the better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  