-- Ryanair’s O’Leary Ready to Drop Crossover Aer Lingus Routes
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-09-04T17:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/ryanair-s-o-leary-ready-to-drop-crossover-aer-lingus-routes-1-.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  could exit all
46 routes from Dublin that overlap with  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  to
help win approval for a takeover bid and said it’s talking with
more than 10 carriers about selling or leasing the slots.  “We have really revolutionary, radical remedies, so we
think it should be and will be approved,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael O’Leary  said today in  London . A similar bid from
Ryanair was blocked by the European Commission five years ago.  Ryanair has also been approached by groups bidding for BAA
Ltd.’s London Stansted airport, the carrier’s biggest base,
after indicating it might be prepared to take a stake of as much
as 24.99 percent, O’Leary said at a press conference.  European Union regulators last month began a full probe of
Ryanair’s 694 million-euro ($873 million) bid for Aer Lingus, in
which it already has a 29.8 percent stake. An initial
examination showed the two airlines were direct rivals on a
large number of European routes, the EC said Aug. 29.  Ryanair,  Europe ’s biggest discount airline, would withdraw
Aer Lingus planes from the Dublin-London Heathrow route, freeing
up room for network operators such as Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd. and  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s British
Airways to fly to Dublin, O’Leary said. Slots could also be made
available at Paris Charles de Gaulle, he said.  ‘No Interest’  In many cases, the Irish carriers offer similar trips using
different airports. Ryanair flies between Dublin and Stansted,
while Aer Lingus favors the long-haul links of Heathrow, a hub
to which O’Leary said he has “no interest in flying.”  Ryanair hasn’t talked about its bid with other Aer Lingus
shareholders, including the Irish government, which is planning
to auction its 25 percent holding, or  Etihad Airways , which owns
3 percent, O’Leary said.  “The real danger is that our package is so radical that
they may block it because they might find difficulty getting
another merger through,” he said.  Ryanair fell 1 percent to 4.16 euros, paring the advance
this year to 15 percent. Aer Lingus rose 0.3 percent to 1.053
euros, for a gain this year of 66 percent.  European Commission regulators set a Jan. 14 deadline to
rule on the Ryanair bid. The offer has lapsed and O’Leary says
he’ll re-bid if the EU approves the deal.  Stansted Revival  Aer Lingus has said that reasons for preventing a takeover
are “even stronger than before” because it competes on more
routes to and from Ireland than it did five years ago. Irish
politicians have also criticized the takeover approach.  EU regulators blocked Ryanair’s bid for Aer Lingus in 2007
saying a combination would allow the discount airline to
dominate 35 routes and control 80 percent of the market in
Dublin. Ryanair lost a 2010 appeal of the merger ban.  At Stansted, O’Leary said a buyer should be able to revive
passenger numbers that have fallen for the past five years in
contrast to airports including Heathrow, Edinburgh, Glasgow and
Birmingham within four or five years by cutting charges.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s plans for a new London airport
in the Thames estuary are “pie in the sky, dreamed up in a pub
on a Friday night,” O’Leary said.  The simplest solution would be to build a second runway at
Stansted, where a public inquiry had already been held and
planning consent granted, followed by a third strip at Heathrow
and finally by a second at Gatwick, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  