-- Salfacorp Gains Most in Year After Profit Rises: Santiago Mover
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-04T16:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/salfacorp-gains-most-in-year-after-profit-rises-santiago-mover.html
Salfacorp SA (SALFACOR) ,  Chile ’s biggest
construction and engineering company, posted its best four-day
rally in a year after a jump in profit allayed concern about
debt levels.  Salfacorp rose 4.6 percent to 1,010 pesos at 1:19 p.m. in
Santiago, bringing the gain over the past four trading sessions
to 13 percent, the biggest since August 2011.  Second-quarter net income rose 13 percent from a year
earlier to 4.12 billion pesos ($8.6 million), led by real-estate
sales, the company reported Aug. 29 after the close of trading.
Before the announcement, Salfacorp had been the worst performer
among members of the Ipsa stock index in the past 12 months,
with a 43 percent drop.  “There was uncertainty on how the company was going to
perform and its second-quarter results dispelled that,” Javier Gunther, an analyst at Santiago-based brokerage IM Trust, said
in a phone interview. “Salfacorp also showed an improvement in
leverage ratios.”  Salfacorp’s ratio of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, over net financial
costs rose to 3.22 times at the end of the second quarter from
3.05 times at the end of the previous quarter, according to
filings sent to Chile’s securities regulator. Bond covenants
require Salfacorp to keep a ratio of at least 3 times.  Fitch Ratings  cut its rating for Salfacorp to BBB from BBB-
in April, citing an increase in debt levels due to recent
acquisitions. Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital said Aug.
31 that Salfacorp’s underperformance created a buying
opportunity and “compelling entry point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  