-- Santarus Can Pursue Some Patent Claims Over Zegerid Copy
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-09-10T16:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/santarus-can-pursue-some-patent-claims-over-zegerid-copy.html
(Corrects sales figure in fourth paragraph of story
published Sept. 4.)  Santarus Inc. (SNTS)  rose the most in two
years after it won a U.S. appeals court ruling that lets it
pursue efforts to block  Par Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX)  from selling
generic versions of the heartburn medicine Zegerid until 2016.  The court reversed a lower court’s findings that aspects of
two patents on the drug are invalid, and remanded the case for
further proceedings. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit also ruled today that three other Zegerid patents are
invalid. The  decision  was posted on the court’s website.  Santarus rose 88 cents, or 14 percent, to $7.06 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading of 2.2 million
shares, more than four times the three-month daily average. It
was the biggest one-day jump since Sept. 9, 2010. Par rose 5
cents to $49.85 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Zegerid, which combines the compound omeprazole with
antacids, generated $43.2 million in sales last year, more than
a third of the $118.8 million in revenue for San Diego-based
Santarus, said Martha Hough, a company spokeswoman. The company
said it would seek an order halting further sales of Par’s
generic product plus cash compensation for any lost sales.  “We believe Par has no meritorious basis to further
dispute infringement or validity,” Santarus Chief Executive
Officer Gerald Proehl said in a statement. “We plan to
aggressively pursue all remedies available to us.”  The case’s two remaining patents, which expire in 2016,
cover ways that the medicine, known as a proton pump inhibitor,
can be absorbed into the bloodstream without being broken down
by stomach acid. The formula allows the drug to be administered
to patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules or tablets.  Licensing Agreement  Par, based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey , didn’t appeal the
finding that it infringed the patents, according to the opinion.
It focused its arguments on claims the patents were invalid and
unenforceable.  Santarus stopped promoting Zegerid after losing the lower-
court ruling in April 2010 and began selling an unbranded
version of the medicine, according to its annual report. Zegerid
also is sold over the counter in a lower-dosage form under a
licensing agreement with Merck & Co.  The patents, including one of the two revived today, also
are the subject of a case Santarus filed against  Cadila
Healthcare Ltd. (CDH) ’s Zydus unit that was put on hold pending the
outcome of the Par appeal, and a suit filed against Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. last month.  The case is Santarus Inc. v. Par Pharmaceutical Inc.,
2010-1360 and 2010-1380,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is Santarus Inc. v.
Par Pharmaceutical Inc., 07cv551, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  