-- Schneider Said to End Exclusive Talks With Avago on CST
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-09-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/schneider-said-to-end-exclusive-talks-with-avago-on-cst.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the French
maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, ended exclusive
talks to sell its sensors unit to semiconductor maker  Avago
Technologies Ltd. (AVGO) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The discussions broke down last week because Avago wasn’t
interested in some of the French plants of the Custom Sensors &
Technologies unit, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Schneider will
continue talks with potential buyers for the whole unit, the
people said.  Schneider picked Avago’s bid over a joint offer from
private equity firms  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and PAI Partners SAS,
which was about 10 percent below the Avago bid, two people with
knowledge of matter said in August. The division may fetch about
$1 billion, they said last month.  CST, based in Moorpark,  California , makes sensors that
react to changes in pressure or temperature and are used in
industries including transport, aeronautics, construction,
energy and manufacturing.  Schneider, based near Paris, last year suspended a plan to
sell the asset because a lack of debt financing would have
limited the amount of potential offers, people familiar with the
matter said at the time.  Global Recession  Veronique Roquet-Montegon, a spokeswoman for Schneider,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Schneider first considered a sale of the division before
the 2008 global recession, people familiar with the plan said
last year.  In 2010, the last year for which Schneider published
earnings details for CST before folding the unit into its
industry unit, the business had an operating margin before one-
time items of 16.4 percent on 433 million euros ($543 million)
of sales.  Created through acquisitions in the last decade, CST
employs about 4,700 people and had $660 million in revenue last
year, according to its website.  In 2005, Schneider bought the sensors maker BEI
Technologies Inc. for $562 million, a year after purchasing
Solectron Corp.’s Kavlico unit, which makes measurement and
control systems. It bought French sensor maker Crouzet in 2000.  Avago, based in  Singapore , was created in 2005 as a spinoff
from scientific-analysis equipment-maker  Agilent Technologies
Inc. (A) , which itself was spun off in 1999 from Hewlett-Packard.
KKR & Co. and  Silver Lake Partners  bought Avago and took it
public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  