-- Sears Escapes Distressed Class in Cash Quest: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-09-04T21:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/sears-escapes-distressed-class-in-cash-quest-corporate-finance.html
Sears Holdings Corp.’s bonds
returned almost three times the average of its peers this year
as the retailer sold assets and bolstered cash balances after
debt fell to distressed levels at the end of 2011.  The notes due in 2018 of the company controlled by hedge
fund manager  Edward Lampert  returned 25 percent this year,
compared with 9.2 percent for firms ranging from Claire’s Stores
Inc. to J.C. Penney Co. in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
High Yield Super Retail index. Cash from operations on a 12-
month trailing basis rose to the highest level in six quarters.  Sears is working toward reducing debt and controlling costs
after posting a $2.4 billion fourth-quarter loss in January, the
largest in at least nine years. The  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-
based retailer had a narrower loss in the second quarter, helped
by reduced inventory costs as Chief Executive Officer Lou D’Ambrosio worked to stay in line with demand as sales slip at
department stores catering to middle-income Americans.  “A liquidity crunch is not an issue at Sears for the
moment,” said Melissa Weiler, a  money manager  who helps oversee
$10 billion at Crescent Capital Group LP, which doesn’t own
Sears debt. “For years, consumers have gone to Sears for their
appliances and tools, and they certainly have  brand recognition 
for these types of products in particular.”  Distressed Levels  Spreads on Sears’s $987 million of 6.625 percent second-
lien notes due October 2018 narrowed to 757.9 basis points, or
7.579 percentage points, more than comparable-maturity
Treasuries Aug. 31, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Those
spreads widened to 1,068 basis points on Dec. 31. A spread above
1,000 basis points is considered distressed.  “We improved our profitability position as we reduced
expenses and expanded margin rate through more effective
promotional design,” Chris Brathwaite, a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mail. “We lowered inventory, reduced debt
and enhanced our liquidity.”  Standard & Poor’s  revised its outlook on Sears’s CCC+
rating to stable from negative on Aug. 17, citing the company’s
ability to pursue asset sales in order to improve the amount of
cash on its balance sheet relative to uses, analysts Ana Lai and
David Kuntz wrote in the note.  Sears, which will be removed from the S&P’s 500 Index after
the close today because it has too few available shares, has $81
million of its $5.4 billion in bonds and loans maturing in 2012
and 2013, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Maturities
are “manageable” until its asset-based revolving credit
facility matures in 2016 and its second-lien notes come due in
2018, the S&P analysts wrote.  Sears’s CDS  Credit-default swaps tied to Sears Roebuck Acceptance Corp.
increased 0.2 percentage point after news of the S&P removal
before falling back the same amount to 20.8 percent upfront the
next day, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That means investors pay $2.08
million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million
of Sears’s debt from losses for five years.  The swaps, which typically climb as investor confidence
deteriorates, pay the buyer face value if Sears fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Sears’s shares  dropped 8 percent on Aug. 30 before closing
at $52.75 Aug. 31. The stock is up 66 percent this year after
falling 56 percent in 2011.  Implied Rating  The swap prices imply the debt is rated Caa1, the seventh
step of speculative grade, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital
markets research group, one level below the company’s actual B3
rating at Moody’s Investors Service, Bloomberg  data  show.
Moody’s downgraded the credit two levels on Jan. 4 and kept a
negative outlook, reflecting “persistent negative trends in
sales, which continue to significantly underperform peers” as
the retailer doesn’t invest enough in its stores and service,
according to analysts Scott Tuhy and  Kendra Smith .  Sears is spinning out about 1,238 stores to generate cash,
potentially raising $346.5 million, the company said in August.
The retailer also said it expects to have $100 million
outstanding under an asset-backed line of credit, from which it
will fund a cash dividend. Sears’s loss in the second-quarter
narrowed to $132 million from $146 million a year earlier,
helped by reduced inventory costs.  Gross margin  widened to 26.7
percent of sales in the quarter, from 25.7 percent a year
earlier, boosted by lower cost of sales.  Asset Sales  Sears is working to gain shoppers by offering promotions
tied to its credit-card and layaway programs, and by adding
features such as mobile checkout, Chief Financial Officer Rob Schriesheim said Aug. 16 in a telephone interview.  Executives have said they’d consider more asset sales.
While D’Ambrosio told shareholders at the company’s annual
meeting in May that selling its Lands’ End clothing brand
wouldn’t be difficult, Schriesheim said there is “nothing
imminent planned.”  “ Sears Holdings ’ recent measures to monetize assets and
reduce inventory reassured trade creditors and vendors and
ensures sufficient liquidity for the near to intermediate
term,” Evan Mann, an analyst at debt-research firm Gimme Credit
LLC wrote in an Aug. 22 note. “While current liquidity, the
ability to monetize assets, and support from Eddie Lampert buys
the retailer time, we are skeptical” about its longer term
prospects,’’ he wrote.  Bond Prices  Sears was founded as a catalog company in 1893 and went
public in 1906. Lampert, who founded his hedge fund ESL Partners
in 1989, bought the debt of Kmart Corp. and then swapped it for
stock in a bankruptcy reorganization in 2003. At the same time,
Lampert’s funds were also building a 15 percent stake in Sears,
Roebuck & Co. by purchasing shares on the open market, and Kmart
acquired Sears in 2005 to form  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)   The company’s 6.625 percent bonds due in October 2018 rose
to 90.8 cents on the dollar Aug. 31, from 76 cents on Jan. 3,
Trace data show. The notes are less than 1 cent below this
year’s high on July 11.  The debt yields 8.6 percent, which is down from 11.9
percent in January. While Sears has been “slower to respond
than they needed to be,” if the business model were “to
continue to be streamlined, it could be successful,” Crescent
Capital’s Weiler said.  “It really comes down to how fast management is willing
and able to adapt its strategy,” she said. “Early movers are
the ones that take market share, and in retail this is critical
since buzz and a store’s aura play such a key role in consumer
behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  