-- Seattle 1962 World’s Fair Shows Olympic Cities How to Win
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/seattle-1962-world-s-fair-shows-olympic-cities-how-to-win.html
The exuberant  London  Olympics made
me want to revisit the 1962 World’s Fair in  Seattle , the city
where I grew up.  The Space Needle, Monorail and Bubblelator of “Century
21” not only pointed to an exciting technology-driven future.
The fair did what great urban spectacles like the Olympics are
supposed to do: It put the city on the map, jump-starting a
half-century of transformation.  The history of Olympic bids and World’s Fairs is littered
with costly failures. Beijing’s Olympics site is dominated by
the spectacular empty husk of the Birds Nest stadium. Athens’s
stunning venues by  Santiago Calatrava  attract aficionados of
ruin porn.  Hoping to avoid such fates, London focused its Olympics
planning on revitalizing an ignored swath of its East End. The
costs rose, however, to as much as 9.3 billion pounds ($14
billion) from 3.4 billion pounds.  Cities are reassessing Olympics bids. Recession-wracked
 Madrid , looking longingly on Barcelona’s 1992 success, promises
a shoestring games if it’s selected for 2020.  I thought about what Seattle did right -- for about $500
million in today’s dollars -- as I walked the 74-acre fair site.
The iconic Space Needle still dominates the city, with an
athletic design that sums up the era’s faith in the futuristic
with purposefully elegant engineering.  Science Pavilion  The fair’s centerpiece was the science pavilion, boxlike
exhibition structures arranged around a sparkling pool from
which elegant fretwork arches rise. It showed visitors the
degree to which the city was evolving from hick timber town to
engineering hub. ( Boeing Co. (BA) , which dominated Seattle’s economy
in the 1960s the way cars dominated  Detroit , had inaugurated its
707 -- the plane that ushered in today’s era of mass air
transportation -- in 1958.)  The much-modernized Pacific Science Center remains one of
the best designs of architect Minoru Yamasaki in his signature
Modernist Gothic style. He would find global fame designing  New
York ’s World Trade Center.  I walked past the  Seattle Repertory Theater  and the  Seattle
Opera , both founded the year after the fair’s success allowed
Seattle to chase big-city cultural dreams.  A distinctive arena with angular columns holding up a
handsome cable-suspended roof has served well for hockey and
basketball, though San Francisco hedge-fund manager Christopher
Hansen now seeks to replace it.  Talented Locals  The fair was charmingly modest, and lucky to get far better
architecture from talented locals (Victor Steinbrueck, Paul
Thiry) than  New York City ’s overblown extravaganza of 1964. It
was said to have made money.  The site still hosts numerous festivals and celebrations.
 Frank Gehry  designed the Experience Music Project for  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Paul Allen . It showcases a strange amalgam of
rock-music history and science-fiction memorabilia. This past
spring a collection of Dale Chihuly glass art opened in a
greenhouse-style pavilion erected at the base of the Space
Needle.  Ten million people visited the fair in what was then an
unpretentious middle-class city. A lot of them liked the
mountains, picturesque bays and slow pace. There was a civic-
builder class preparing the city for the future with
regionalized planning and sewers that cleared up the crown jewel
of Lake Washington.  Seattle also had a powerful engine of innovative growth in
the form of Boeing, and a growing customer-focused retail chain
called  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  So people came.  Fledgling Companies  Seattle looked like a write-off around 1970, though, when
Boeing was forced to lay off two-thirds of a workforce of about
80,000. And yet those who stayed and worked had the skills to
take on new challenges a decade later when fledgling companies
like Microsoft,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  were ready
to grow fast.  Almost everyone who was around then recognizes the fair as
a turning point. It was an expression of civic energy and an
emerging urban identity. The fair didn’t invent that identity,
it proclaimed it to a world that didn’t know.  Barcelona hosted the most successful recent Olympics, but
it spent big on transformative infrastructure, as London did.  The lesson of Seattle’s budget World’s Fair is a subtle
one. If a city doesn’t have an economy and amenities to draw
people, neither the glitziest fair pavilions nor the most
glamorous stadiums will make a difference.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 