-- Sharp Rises Most in 5 Months as Decline May Be Overdone
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-04T03:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/sharp-rises-most-in-5-months-as-decline-may-be-overdone.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  rose the most in more
than five months in  Tokyo  trading, reversing three consecutive
days of declines, after a technical indicator showed the drop
may be overdone.  The  stock  jumped as much as 11 percent, headed for the
biggest increase since March 28, before trading hands at 202
yen, up by 8.6 percent, as of 1:38 p.m. local time. It had the
 biggest  gain by percentage on the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Sharp is rebounding from a 19 percent  three-day  decline
triggered by credit ratings cuts and a Nikkei newspaper report
the company offered to lower the price of shares it plans to
sell to Foxconn Technology Group. The three-day decline pushed
Sharp’s 14-day  relative strength index , which shows how rapidly
prices advanced or dropped, to 38 yesterday. A level of 30 is
taken by some technical analysts as an indication that a
security’s price may climb.  “The fact that there wasn’t a bad report on Sharp this
morning is good news for the stock,” said Hideki Yasuda, an
analyst at Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo. “One day the market
sees possibilities that Sharp will be rescued. Another day
they’ll say Sharp will struggle, depending on news headlines.”  Taipei-based Foxconn and Sharp are renegotiating terms they
agreed in March on the proposed sale of a 9.9 percent stake in
the Japanese television maker at 550 yen apiece.  Sharp is seeking to raise  cash  and cut costs as it faces a
total 706 billion yen ($9 billion) in bonds, commercial paper
and borrowings maturing within one year. The company will cut
5,000 jobs, its first  workforce reduction  since 1950, as part of
plans to reduce fixed costs by 100 billion yen, it said last
month.  Rating Cut  Standard & Poor’s  last week lowered its long-term rating on
the Osaka-based electronics maker by two levels to BB+, the
highest non-investment grade, saying it suffers from weak  cash
flow  and deteriorating market conditions. Sharp, which has the
biggest percentage decline on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  this
year, was kept on a negative ratings watch.  Standard & Poor’s also cut Sharp’s short-term rating to
“B,” the highest non-investment grade, and said that may be
cut further.  “The stock is going up and down like a roller-coaster,
reacting to news headlines every day,” Yasuda said. “It’ll
probably remain volatile.”  Terry Gou, the billionaire founder of Taipei-based Foxconn,
left  Japan  last week without announcing the conclusion of a deal
to invest in Sharp. The two companies started renegotiations
after Sharp widened its full-year loss forecast eightfold last
month, causing its share price to slump.  Foxconn plans to proceed with its investment in Sharp “at
the most appropriate time and most appropriate price” because
it’s looking at the long-term prospects, Gou said Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  