-- Sharp Is Said to Seek Syndicated Loan After Yen Borrowings
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-09-05T03:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/sharp-said-to-be-seeking-syndicated-loan-after-yen-borrowings.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, is in talks with potential lenders for a
syndicated loan, a person with knowledge of the matter said,
declining to be identified because the negotiations are private.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Sharp’s two main lenders, provided the company with
210 billion yen ($2.7 billion) of loans during the past two
months, according to another person with knowledge of the
matter. The Osaka-based company obtained a short-term facility
of about 60 billion yen in July and an approximately 150
billion-yen credit last month, the person said.  Sharp, which widened its full-year  loss forecast  eightfold
last month, is seeking to raise cash and cut costs as 706
billion yen of its bonds, commercial paper and borrowings mature
within a year. Foxconn’s billionaire founder Terry Gou ended a
visit to  Japan  last week without announcing the conclusion of a
deal to invest in Sharp, which is cutting 5,000 jobs after a
stronger Japanese currency and slumping global TV demand led to
a record loss last fiscal year.  “We cannot comment on the amount of money we borrow from
each bank,”  Miyuki Nakayama , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for
Sharp, said by phone yesterday when asked about the loans and
extra financing. “We believe financial institutions, including
our main banks, are considering a lending plan for us.”  Ratings Cut  Sharp  rose  2.9 percent to 215 yen as of 12:09 p.m. in Tokyo
trading. Shares of the company, Japan’s biggest liquid-crystal
display maker, have declined 68 percent this year, the second-
biggest percentage loser on the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index. (MXAP)   Standard & Poor’s  lowered Sharp’s long-term rating last
week by two levels to BB+, the highest non-investment grade,
saying the maker of Aquos televisions suffers from deteriorating
market conditions and weak  cash flow . The rating company also
cut Sharp’s short-term rating to B, the highest non-investment
grade. It kept the company on a negative ratings watch.  Foxconn Group, through its two Taipei-listed units, Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics, and Foxconn Technology Co., a maker
of computer cases, agreed in March to buy 9.9 percent of Sharp
for 67 billion yen in a sale of new shares.  Selling Holdings  Sharp has tumbled since Foxconn proposed paying 550 yen per
share in March, prompting the renegotiations. Foxconn Group
plans to proceed with its investment “at the most appropriate
time and most appropriate price” because it’s looking at
Sharp’s long-term prospects, Gou said Aug. 5.  Hon Hai, maker of Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone, is Sharp’s
largest supplier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp said last month it may sell stock holdings if Foxconn
invests less money than it said in March. Sharp cut its stake in
Pioneer Corp. to 9.2 percent from 14.28 percent and pledged 15
million Pioneer shares each to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. as collateral, the panel maker
said in a Sept. 3 filing to Japan’s  Finance Ministry .  “Terms and conditions of the deal remain uncertain,” S&P
said Aug. 31.  The ratings company will continue to monitor the Foxconn
alliance talks and may downgrade Sharp further if its prospects
for recovery or relationships with credit banks and strategic
partners worsen, S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  