-- Sony to Incorporate Its Game, Audio Expertise Into Smartphones
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-09-04T07:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/sony-to-incorporate-its-game-audio-expertise-into-smartphones.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to draw on its
skills in video games, cameras and audio players in developing
smartphones and tablet computers as the company tries to narrow
the gap with Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   “We’re going to promote mobile product development that
will use our expertise,” Kunimasa Suzuki, an executive vice
president overseeing mobile products, told reporters in Tokyo
today, without giving specific details. “We are strong in
digital imaging and game players and also have audio products.”  Sony, whose Xperia handsets don’t rank among the top five
brands globally, is trying to expand share in a smartphone
market that Bloomberg Industries estimates at $219 billion.
Boosting mobile-device sales will help Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  as he takes steps including 10,000 job cuts this
fiscal year to stem four consecutive annual losses.  “Even though Sony has been slow to expand in smartphones,
there are still chances to catch up with competitors, given the
market has plenty of room for growth,” Keita Wakabayashi, an
analyst at Mito Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before Suzuki’s
comments. “Sony needs to use its experience in making a range
of popular products such as games and audio players to come up
with smartphone models that can attract more customers.”  Sony rose 1.6 percent to close at 890 yen in Tokyo trading,
narrowing its  loss this year  to 36 percent.  Suzuki today reiterated Sony’s target to sell 34 million
smartphones this fiscal year, and to generate 1.8 trillion yen
($23 billion) in revenue from mobile devices such as tablets and
smartphones in the year starting April 1, 2014.  Profit Goal  The company plans to turn its mobile-phone business
profitable in the year beginning April 1, 2013, Shiro Kambe, a
spokesman, said Aug. 2, without specifying how much the unit
loses.  Sony is moving its mobile-phone division’s headquarters to
Tokyo from Lund,  Sweden , after buying out Ericsson AB’s half of
their 10-year-old venture for 1.05 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
in February.  Sony had a 3.5 percent share of the global smartphone
market in the second quarter, according to  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. Samsung topped the rankings with
a 29.7 percent share, followed by Apple with 18.8 percent.  The Japanese electronics maker needs to strengthen product
development and marketing to survive in the industry dominated
by Apple and Samsung, said Suzuki, who was promoted as part of a
new  management  team Sony unveiled in March.  “If we follow through what we have started, we will be
able to achieve a certain target,” he said, without providing
specific details. “It’s not possible that only two companies
will survive in an industry that’s grown significantly.”  Smartphone Target  Sony’s full-year sales target for smartphones trails
Samsung’s quarterly sales of the devices, which allow users to
perform a range of functions including reading books online and
shooting high-definition photos.  Samsung’s second-quarter smartphone shipments more than
doubled to 50.5 million units, a record volume for a single
vendor, even as global sales grew at the slowest pace in almost
three years, researcher  Strategy Analytics  said in July.  “How Samsung is making money at its smartphone operation
suggests there is similar potential for Sony,” Wakabayashi of
Mito Securities said. “It may be the only realistic area that
can drive Sony’s growth, as there is little sign for the TV
market to recover and other electronics businesses are also grim
in terms of profit.”  In April, CEO Hirai listed three areas of electronics
businesses that he would focus on: mobile devices, games and
digital imaging. The emphasis on the three core businesses
follows 714 billion yen of losses at Sony’s TV business in the
past eight years as demand for its Bravia models slumped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  