-- South Korean Bond Yields Rise From Record Lows, Won Drops
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-04T08:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/south-korean-bond-yields-fall-to-record-lows-won-drops.html
South  Korea ’s bond yields climbed
from record lows as Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said the
nation may avoid using active monetary and fiscal policies to
spur growth, weakening bets for an interest-rate cut.  The government plans to announce economic support measures
next week without increasing this year’s budget, Bahk said at a
conference in  Seoul  today. It favors boosting consumption
through deregulation rather than by implementing expansive
monetary and fiscal policies, he said. Yields fell to all-time
lows earlier after data released in the past week showed exports
contracted for a second month, boosting speculation the central
bank will lower borrowing costs for a second time this year.  “The market was full of rate-cut expectations recently,
but Bahk’s comments today made investors put more weight on the
possibility of a rate-hold,” said Lee Gil Won, a Seoul-based
bond trader for  Shinhan Bank . “We still have more than a week
before the central bank’s next policy meeting, so it’ll be a
wait-and-see mode until then.”  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.85
percent in Seoul, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. It touched
2.82 percent earlier, the lowest for a benchmark five-year  note 
in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to August 2000.  Three-year debt futures declined 0.09 to 106.26 and the
one-year interest-rate swap was little changed at 2.83 percent.  The  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark rate unchanged last
month after unexpectedly lowering it by 25 basis points to 3
percent in July. The central bank’s next policy meeting is
scheduled for Sept. 13.  Won Drops  South Korea ’s overseas  sales  fell 6.2 percent last month
from a year earlier and factory output declined 1.6 percent in
July from the previous month, according to official data.  The won weakened 0.2 percent to 1,133.19 per dollar in
Seoul, after touching the highest level in more than a week of
1,129.73 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, slid 28 basis points to 7.39 percent. The
 Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares fell 0.3 percent.  “We saw more of importers buying the dollar to settle
bills than exporters selling the greenback,” said Han Sung Min,
a Seoul-based currency trader at Busan Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  