-- Southern Copper Delays Bond Sale After Ruling Upheld
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-04T19:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/southern-copper-delays-bond-sale-after-ruling-upheld.html
Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , the largest
producer of the metal in  Peru  and  Mexico , postponed a planned
bond sale after the  Delaware   Supreme Court  upheld a $2.03
billion judgment against parent company Grupo Mexico SAB.  Southern Copper had planned to sell 10- and 30-year bonds
as soon as this week, according to people familiar with the
transaction who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  A lower Delaware court ruled last year in a lawsuit filed
by the Grupo Mexico unit’s shareholders that it overpaid for a
99 percent stake in Minera Mexico. The Court of Chancery in
Wilmington held in October that the 2005 transaction was unfair
and based on a flawed analysis.  Shareholders claimed in the so-called derivative suit that
the subsidiary paid too much because the company’s directors and
financial adviser  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  failed to derive a
true value for Minera, instead relying on a relative analysis
when comparing the two companies.  The unit paid $3.75 billion for Minera, higher than a
previous valuation of $3.1 billion. The court said  Grupo Mexico 
must return $1.3 billion in shares plus interest to Southern
Copper, formerly Southern Peru, for forcing it to overpay for
the Mexican mining company.  ‘Aggressive Controller’  “A focused, aggressive controller extracted a deal that
was far better than market,” Chancery Judge Leo Strine wrote in
his ruling last year. The analysis “obscured the actual value
of what Southern Peru was getting and that was inclined toward
pushing up, rather than down, the value in the negotiations of
what Grupo Mexico was seeking to sell.”  In its decision Aug. 27, Delaware’s high court upheld
Strine’s ruling, and a total judgment of $2.03 billion plus
attorney fees of more than $304 million.  Southern Copper and Grupo Mexico officials didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Southern Copper shares fell 0.9 percent to $32.24 at 2:55
p.m. in  New York  trading. Grupo Mexico dropped 0.3 percent to
39.44 pesos in Mexico City.  Goldman Sachs and a special committee of Southern Copper
directors made “strenuous efforts” to justify the Minera deal
by optimizing Minera’s cash flows, discounting the fact that the
Mexican company had trouble paying its bills, and agreeing to
pay a special dividend, Strine said in his decision.  Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally  declined to comment
on the ruling in an e-mail.  At the time of the transaction, Minera Mexico held the
world’s second largest copper reserves after  Chile ’s state-owned
Codelco. Minera was experiencing strikes at its Cananea and La
Caridad units in Sonora state, Mexico’s largest copper mines,
and had a net debt of $1.06 billion.  The case is In Re Southern Peru Copper Shareholder
Derivative Litigation, CA961, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York
at   vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  