-- Spanish, Italian Notes Jump on ECB Bets; Portugal’s Bonds Rise
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-09-04T16:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/spain-2-10-year-yield-spread-widens-to-record-343-basis-points.html
Spanish and Italian notes advanced
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  was reported
saying he would be comfortable buying three-year debt to lower
borrowing costs for nations in financial distress.  Spain’s two-year yields declined to a five-month low while
Italian rates fell for an eighth day on speculation a bond
purchase plan will be announced at an ECB policy meeting this
week. Longer-maturity bonds underperformed, with the extra yield
investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year securities instead of
two-year notes reaching a record.  Portuguese two-year  yields
fell by the most in four weeks, reaching the lowest level since
March 2011. Austria sold five- and seven-year notes.  “We can expect the short end to perform pretty well, the
comment that the ECB can go up to three years was positive
news,” said Allan von Mehren, chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Copenhagen. “There’s still a lot of uncertainty about the
whole underlying structure of the project and that’s going to
make it difficult for yields in the longer end to come down
significantly.”  Yields on Spanish two-year notes dropped 43 basis points,
or 0.43 percentage point, to 3.08 percent at 5 p.m. London time,
the lowest since April 9. The declines widened the  difference  in
yield between two-year securities and 10-year bonds to as much
as 356 basis points, the most since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 1993. The five-year average is 171 basis points.  Italy ’s two-year note yields fell 26 basis points to 2.37
percent, with the  spread  over 10-year rates reaching 338 basis
points, the most on record.  Portuguese Volatility  Volatility on Portuguese government debt was the highest
among developed markets, followed by  Spain  and Italy, according
to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-
year securities, and credit default swaps.  Portugal ’s two-year note yields declined as much as 84
basis points to 4.67 percent. That’s the biggest drop since Aug.
6, and the lowest rate since March 9, 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Draghi may unveil the central bank’s bond-purchase strategy
at a policy meeting on Sept. 6. He told lawmakers in a closed-
door meeting yesterday that purchasing short-dated bonds doesn’t
constitute state financing, according to Jean-Paul Gauzes, a
member of the European Parliament.  ‘Legal Framework’  “He thinks it’s not a violation of the treaty and you can
do it under the current legal framework,” Gauzes said. “He
said for example three years is OK, 15 years, no.” Gauzes
released a statement later saying that Draghi hadn’t set out any
future ECB operations on bond markets.  Spanish and Italian notes have rallied since Draghi said on
July 26 that he would do “whatever it takes” to preserve the
monetary union. Spain’s two-year yields dropped over the past
month amid speculation the Frankfurt-based central bank will
outline measures to stem market turmoil. The two-year rate
reached a euro-era high of 7.15 percent on July 25.  The euro area’s 17 national central bank governors will be
sent a list of options for the bond-buying program today, three
central bank officials said on Aug. 31, on condition of
anonymity because the plans aren’t public.  ‘Some Disappointment’  “It may well be that we don’t get all the details on
Thursday, which will cause some disappointment for markets,”
Craig Veysey, head of fixed income at Principal Investment
Management Ltd. in  London , part of Sanlam Group, which oversees
$72 billion, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
Countdown with Linzie Janis. “There’s still considerable risk
with regard to longer-dated investments in the likes of Italy
and Spain.”  German  10-year bond yields  were little changed at 1.39
percent, after reaching 1.43 percent, the most since Aug. 23.  Yields on Greek bonds due in February 2023 dropped as much
as 124 basis points to 21.69 percent, the least since May 7. The
nation sold 1.1375 billion euro of six-month bills today.  Austria issued 660 million euros of the June 2019 notes at
an average yield of 1.344 percent, the Federal Financing Agency
said on its website. It also sold 550 million euros of debt
maturing in September 2017, at a record-low auction yield of
0.829 percent.  The Netherlands plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds
maturing in September 2015 tomorrow, the Dutch State Treasury
Agency said in a statement on its website. The nation plans to
auction at least $2 billion of the securities, which will have a
coupon of 0.25 percent, the agency said.  German  government bonds  returned 3.8 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Italy’s rose 11 percent and Spain’s fell 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  