-- Spanish Unemployment to Swell as Public Jobs Vanish: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-09-04T09:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/spanish-unemployment-to-swell-as-public-jobs-vanish-euro-credit.html
Jerez de La Frontera, a Spanish town
of 214,000 in southern Andalusia, is negotiating with unions to
fire 13 percent of the 2,000 government workers who absorb 80
percent of its budget. “It’s not easy because these are people
and families,” said deputy mayor Antonio Saldana.  With a quarter of  Spain’s workforce  already jobless, Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s efforts to retain investor confidence
by shaving more than two-thirds off the nation’s budget deficit
by 2014 will worsen the highest  unemployment rate  in the
European Union.  Ten-year yields  at 6.86 percent mean “we can’t
finance ourselves,” Rajoy said on Sept. 1.  “There’s going to be less hiring and more firing for the
spending cuts to be made,” said  Ricardo Santos , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in  London  who sees unemployment climbing to 27
percent next year from 24.6 percent currently. “The more
unemployment persists, the more difficult it’ll be for the
government to meet budget goals and implement reforms.”  Television stations, airports, hospitals, schools, fire
brigades and social services from  Spain ’s southernmost tip to
the Balearic islands in the east are reducing headcount as Rajoy
tasks regions and municipalities with shouldering 60 percent of
the cuts needed to reduce the budget shortfall to 2.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the next two years.  Junk Threat  The euro area’s fourth-largest economy may lose access to
markets after  shrinking  for a fourth quarter, and economists
forecast Spain will miss its deficit target this year.  The 10-year borrowing cost was at 6.68 percent as of 11:36
a.m. in Madrid, which compares with a 2012 low of 4.85 percent
at the start of February, and a 2011 average of 5.45 percent.
Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 30 it may downgrade the
sovereign’s debt to junk should it seek further aid from
European rescue funds.  Weeks after clinching as much as 100 billion euros ($126
billion) in loans for the nation’s banks, Rajoy said he may
request a second bailout once the European Central Bank details
a proposed debt-purchase plan. The budget plan he sent to the
European Commission last month shows reducing public wages is
key to one-third of cuts worth 151 billion euros, or 15 percent
of annual gross domestic product, by 2014.  Current Spending  “Given the levels of deficit we have reached, the
government has to dig into current expenditure because reducing
public investment and increasing taxes aren’t enough anymore,”
said Sara Balina, an analyst with Madrid-based consultant firm
Analistas Financieros Internacionales, or AFI, that counts
public administrations among its clients.  Registered unemployment  rose in August for the first time
in five months as the country’s peak tourism season started
coming to an end, the Labor Ministry said today.  The number of people registering for jobless benefits rose
38,179 from July to 4.63 million That compares with an increase
of 51,185 in the same month last year.  State employment has doubled in 30 years in Spain compared
with a 50 percent increase in the private sector, according to a
report published in December by the business lobby CEOE. By
shedding 200,000 jobs, local governments would be eliminating
positions created between 2009 and mid-2010 to counter the
recession, AFI’s Balina said.  “It’s obvious the world of public employees in Spain needs
to become smaller and that’ll create unemployment, it can’t be
helped,” said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, a professor of economics at
IESE business school in  Madrid . “Obviously the plans aren’t
very explicit because the political cost will be very high. The
measures are very controversial and will generate a lot of
opposition.”  Idle Youth  Spain’s jobless rate will rise to 26.1 percent in 2013,
according to the median of nine forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.
More than half of the country’s under 25-year-olds are out of
work. According to data from the Budget ministry and National
Statistics Institute, about 700,000 of the public sector’s 3
million employees have a contract that can be terminated. That
compares with a current total of 5.7 million jobless in Spain.  The Balearic islands will more than halve the number of
companies it controls to 75, said Mabel Cabrer, spokeswoman for
the ruling PP party in the regional parliament. Scrapping
structures such an institute for culture and a foundation for
sustainable development cuts about 800 jobs and saves 200
million euros a year for the region that had created more firms
than any other.  “All these companies meant more jobs, more spending,”
Cabrer said. “It was completely unsustainable when our tax
receipts were falling.”  ‘Dire Picture’  By not renewing temporary contracts and not replacing civil
servants that retire, the islands have reduced public sector
jobs by 1,252 since July 2011, after a 26 percent increase
between 2007 and 2011 when the private workforce shrank by about
the same amount, she said.  “Unemployment is consistent with a dire picture of
domestic demand,” said Guillaume Menuet, a senior economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, who sees the public sector accounting
for half of a 1.5 percentage point unemployment jump between
2013 and 2014. “There’s just not enough momentum in the economy
to generate any employment so Spain needs more financial
assistance, that is the bottom line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  