-- Swaps Rebound as RBI Seen Reluctant to Cut Rates: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-09-04T04:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/swaps-rebound-as-rbi-seen-reluctant-to-cut-rates-india-credit.html
India ’s  interest-rate swaps  are
rebounding from a 14-month low, signaling that investors are
scaling back expectations of further rate cuts in 2012 after
growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy unexpectedly quickened.  The fixed payment to lock in one-year rates has climbed 34
basis points to 7.82 percent since June 12, when it touched the
lowest level since April 7, 2011. Similar contracts declined 29
basis points in  Brazil  and rose 18 basis points in  Russia .  Growth last quarter rebounded from a year of declines,
allowing central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to focus on
curbing the fastest inflation among the largest  emerging markets 
after a poll showed households expect prices to surge. Eight of
11 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict the  Reserve Bank 
of India will keep borrowing costs unchanged at 8 percent at its
Sept. 17 policy review, while two forecast a 25 basis point
reduction and one expects a 50 basis point cut.  “We don’t expect any rate cuts in 2012,”  Anubhuti Sahay ,
a Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Inflation is still elevated and
the RBI’s priorities are well outlined. We expect a 25 basis
point rate cut in the first quarter of 2013.”  Gross domestic product rose 5.5 percent in the three months
ended June 30, the statistics office reported on Aug. 31,
exceeding the 5.2 percent gain predicted in a Bloomberg survey.
The $1.8 trillion economy expanded 5.3 percent in the previous
quarter, the slowest pace in three years.  Worst Inflation  Subbarao cut the RBI’s benchmark repurchase rate by 50
basis points in April after growth slowed for the fourth
straight quarter. The rate at which the monetary authority lends
to banks overnight was kept unchanged at the central bank’s
reviews in June and July on concern inadequate rainfall will
fuel the worst  inflation  rate among the so-called BRIC economies
comprising Brazil, Russia, India and  China .  Consumer  prices  in India rose 9.86 percent in July, faster
than the 1.8 percent in China, 5.2 percent in Brazil and 5.6
percent in Russia, data compiled by Bloomberg show. India’s
benchmark Wholesale Price Index rose 6.87 percent and has
remained above the RBI’s 5 percent comfort level since December
2009.  The central bank in July raised its inflation forecast for
the year ending March 31 to 7 percent from 6.5 percent, and
reduced its GDP growth estimate to 6.5 percent from 7.3 percent.
The revised prediction matched the previous year’s  expansion .  ‘Out of Hand’  An RBI survey of households in 12 cities across India in
June and published on the central bank’s website on July 30
found that respondents expected prices of goods and services
they consume to rise at a 12.8 percent pace in a year.  “With growth picking up, it’s safe to assume  interest
rates  will be on hold for some time,” Ritesh Jain, the Mumbai-
based head of investment at Canara Robeco Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees the equivalent of $1.4 billion, said in an
interview yesterday. “The primary concern is inflation as it
seems to be getting out of hand.”  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds has
climbed 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 8.22
percent from this year’s low of 8.04 percent on June 13, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The notes offer an  extra  yield of
665 basis points over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries compared
with a 98 basis-point premium for Chinese debt.  Growth may slip again as factory output slows and a revival
in monsoon rains points to a possible moderation in inflation,
according to  Barclays Capital . That may allow the central bank
to reduce borrowing costs in its Oct. 30 review.  Monsoon Revival  Manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in nine months
in August, a private survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed yesterday. The purchasing managers’ index fell
to 52.8 from 52.9 in July. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  India’s June-September monsoon, which brings more than 70
percent of annual rainfall, was 12 percent below a 50-year
average as of Sept. 2, the government-run weather bureau said. A
revival in rainfall last month has helped narrow the deficit
from 29 percent at the end of June. The nation’s more than 235
million farmers depend on rains to irrigate crops.  “The PMI slowdown will get reflected in future GDP numbers
and central bank may cut rates by 100 basis points by March
2013,” Kumar Rachapudi, an interest-rate strategist at Barclays
Capital in  Singapore  said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The improvement in the monsoon will help curb inflation.”  Growth Forecasts   Rachapudi predicts  India’s economy  may expand 5.8 percent
in the fiscal year ending March 31, below the RBI’s revised
forecast of 6.5 percent and the 6.7 percent rate predicted by
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Economic Advisory Council.  The 10-year bond yield may drop 72 basis points to 7.5
percent by the end of October if the repurchase rate is cut by
50 basis points then, he said. The benchmark yield was little
changed today.  Prime Minister Singh’s ability to stimulate growth by
increasing spending is restrained by his government’s pledge to
reduce debt and pare its  budget deficit  to 5.1 percent of GDP
this fiscal year from 5.8 percent in the previous 12 months.  Slower growth has increased India’s bond risk. The cost of
insuring the debt of government-controlled  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
which some investors consider a proxy for the sovereign, climbed
63 basis points in the past 12 months to 340, according to data
provider CMA.  Bond Risk  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to debt agreements. An increase signals worsening
perceptions of creditworthiness. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The rupee has depreciated 4.2 percent to 55.4150 per dollar
this year, the second-worst performer among the 11 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Indonesia ’s rupiah has declined
5.4 percent.  “The central bank’s room to cut rates this month is fairly
limited,”  Gaurav Kapur , senior economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Mumbai, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Any stimulus in the current environment may lead to
more consumption and spur inflation rather than boosting
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  