-- Syrian Army Hits Aleppo; Car-Bomb Explodes Near Damascus
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-09-04T06:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/syrian-army-hits-aleppo-car-bomb-explodes-near-damascus.html
Syrian warplanes bombarded targets
in the city of Aleppo and surrounding regions, as a car-bomb
exploded in Jaramana near the capital, Damascus.  Government forces killed 250 people across the country
yesterday, including 62 in Aleppo, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed statement. A total
of 60 were in Daraa, including 43 people found in a mass grave
in al-Hirak town, and 36 in and around Damascus, the LCC said.  Forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad have struggled to
maintain security in the capital after rebels pushed into
neighborhoods in July. A bomb attack in Damascus that month
killed key members of Assad’s military establishment, including
his brother-in-law, Major General Assef Shawkat and Defense
Minister Dawoud Rajhah.  The town of al-Bab in Aleppo province came under aerial
attack and several neighborhoods inside Aleppo city were also
targeted, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The group reported five
people killed and at least 27 injured by the Jaramana bomb, and
said there was fighting in the mountains near Latakia.  The battle for control of Aleppo, Syria’s biggest city, and
Damascus intensified last month as United Nations monitors
pulled out of the country after failing to implement a cease-
fire negotiated by envoy  Kofi Annan . Syria will cooperate with
Annan’s successor, Lakhdar Brahimi, Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi told state television yesterday.  No Dialogue  The success of Brahimi’s effort to find a political
solution will depend on Qatar,  Saudi Arabia ,  Turkey  and the
U.S., all of which have backed the opposition fighting to remove
Assad, Zoubi said. There will be no dialogue with rebels until
they put down their weapons, he said.  Security forces killed 16 people execution-style in the
Damascus neighborhood of Qabun, al-Jazeera reported, citing
activists. Troops loyal to Assad stormed the village of Faraya
in Hama and killed 21 people, most of them with knives,
according to the LCC.  More than 23,000 people have died since the uprising
against Assad began in March 2011, according to the Observatory.  The U.K.-based Syrian Observatory and the LCC, a network of
activists within the country, are among several groups opposed
to Assad’s government. Due to restrictions on journalists
entering and traveling within  Syria , Bloomberg was unable to
independently verify their reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  