-- U.K. Construction Shrinks Amid Plunge in Orders, Markit Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-04T09:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/u-k-construction-shrinks-amid-plunge-in-orders-markit-says.html
The U.K.  construction  industry
unexpectedly shrank in August as new orders dropped at the
fastest pace since April 2009, Markit Economics said.  An index based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to
49 from 50.9 in July, Markit and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in a statement on Markit’s website
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12
economists was for a reading of 50, the dividing line between
growth and contraction.  The report adds to evidence that the recession extended
into the third quarter, with data yesterday showing Markit’s
manufacturing index held below 50 for a fourth month. The Bank
of England will probably decide at its policy meeting this week
to continue the 50 billion-pound ($80 billion) program of gilt
purchases it started in July.  “U.K. construction firms are suffering a prolonged
downturn in new work and there is little evidence to suggest an
imminent rebound in output levels,” Tim Moore, senior economist
at Markit, said in the statement. “A construction decline for
2012 overall is statistically baked in the cake.”  The pound pared some of its gains against the dollar after
the report, falling as much as 0.1 percent. It traded at $1.5894
at 10 a.m. in  London , little changed from yesterday.  The decline was biggest in residential construction, and
civil engineering activity contracted for a third month, the
report said. Commercial construction fell for the first time in
2 1/2 years.  Persimmon Plc, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market
value, said Aug. 21 the housing market “remains constrained by
the reduced availability of mortgage credit” and will “remain
challenging reflecting the wider issues within the economy.”  Olympics Distraction  U.K. retail sales fell in August for the first time in four
months as the 2012  Olympic Games  distracted Britons and kept
shoppers away from London, the British Retail Consortium said
today. Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by
value, dropped 0.4 percent from a year earlier, the London-based
trade group said.  The  Bank of England  will probably hold its target for bond
purchases at 375 billion pounds, according to the median
estimate of 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Policy
makers will also hold the key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent, according to all 51 economists in a separate poll. The
decisions will be announced at noon on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  