-- U.K. Services Surge Indicates GDP Rebound as BOE Officials Meet
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/u-k-services-growth-accelerated-more-than-forecast-in-august.html
U.K.  services growth  accelerated
more than economists forecast in August, suggesting the economy
may be recovering from a slump and adding to the case for the
 Bank of England  to refrain from expanding stimulus tomorrow.  A  gauge  based on a survey of  purchasing managers  surged to
53.7, the highest in five months, from 51 in July, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said in  London  yesterday. Economists had forecast an increase to
51.2, according to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  poll . A reading above 50 indicates growth.  The report came on the eve of the Bank of England Monetary
Policy Committee’s monthly two-day meeting and indicated the
economy may be strengthening after a 0.5 percent slump in the
second quarter. While a separate gauge this week showed U.K.
construction unexpectedly shrank last month, a  manufacturing
index  increased more than economists had forecast.  The improvement “makes it even more likely that the MPC
will leave policy unchanged,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. The surveys suggest the
economy “may just about be clawing its way out of recession,”
she said.  Redwood is one of 38 out of 39 economists in a Bloomberg
survey who predict the Bank of England will maintain its current
bond-buying target at 375 billion pounds ($596 billion)
tomorrow. The central bank is due to complete its current 50
billion-pound round of purchases in November.  ‘Confidence’  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said the manufacturing and
services reports “reinforce confidence” that third-quarter
gross domestic product will recover after the  second-quarter
slump . It forecasts 0.5 percent growth and said risks around
this “have now shifted from the downside to the upside.”  Still, CIPS noted in yesterday’s report that the
environment is “challenging.” Nomura International Plc said
the surveys don’t change the broader economic picture and it
expects an additional 25 billion pounds of bond purchases to be
announced in November.  CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said that while
confidence at services companies rose to a three-month high in
August, it remains “historically subdued.” The survey also
showed that backlogs of work fell for a fourth month and
employment increased the slowest since February.  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said the slow pace of
hiring indicates that companies expect conditions “to remain
very tough in the coming months.”  “The big question is whether the expansion can be
sustained,” he said. “Any economic growth after the third
quarter rebound is likely to be lackluster at best unless demand
picks up meaningfully in the autumn.”  Olympic Effects  The Markit report showed that input-price inflation at
services companies accelerated to a four-month high and output
prices increased for the first time since April.  There was anecdotal evidence that the London  Olympic Games 
had a mixed effect, according to the report, with some
respondents saying it had a positive impact and others saying
travel disruption restricted activity.  Separate data yesterday showed that U.K.  retail sales  fell
in August for the first time in four months as the Olympics
distracted Britons and kept shoppers away from London. Sales at
stores open at least 12 months, measured by value, dropped 0.4
percent from a year earlier, the  British Retail Consortium  said.  The services report was due to be published today at 9:30
a.m. Markit issued it yesterday afternoon after it was
inadvertently released early by Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  