-- U.S. Corn Harvest Accelerates Before Rain; Soy Ratings Unchanged
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-09-04T20:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/u-s-corn-harvest-accelerates-before-rain-soy-ratings-unchanged.html
U.S. farmers were able to accelerate
the corn  harvest  last week ahead of heavy rains from the
remnants of Hurricane Isaac, which may have arrived too late to
help the drought-damaged crop. Soybean  conditions  were
unchanged.  About 10 percent of the corn was harvested as of Sept. 2,
compared with 6 percent a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a  report . About 41 percent of the crop
was rated mature, up from 26 percent a week earlier and the
prior five-year average of 16 percent. Parts of the Midwest
received as much as 6 inches of rain the past four days,
according to World Weather Inc.  “Corn is maturing very quickly and not much weight can be
added to the kernels from the recent rains,” Emerson Nafziger,
an agronomist at the  University of Illinois  in Urbana, said in a
telephone interview. The crop may have suffered further damage
because corn stalks are weak and susceptible to being blown over
by strong winds and heavy rain, he said.  Through Aug. 31, corn futures surged 44 percent since the
end of May as the drought tightened its grip on the Midwest,
prompting the  United Nations  last month to predict higher global
food costs.  About 30 percent of the nation’s soybeans, which are
harvested later than corn, were rated good or excellent as of
Sept. 2, unchanged from a week earlier, the USDA said.
Approximately 19 percent of the plants were dropping leaves, a
sign of maturity, up from 8 percent a week earlier and 9
percent, on average, during the prior five years.  “Only a very small portion of the crop was able to take up
the water to benefit yields,” Nafziger said. “There’s unlikely
to be many positive yield surprises this year” from late-season
rain, he said.  Crop ratings are the worst for this time of year since
1988, when corn production plunged 31 percent from a year
earlier and soybeans declined 20 percent. This year, output of
the grain will fall 13 percent to 10.779 billion bushels, the
smallest since 2006, the USDA said Aug. 10. The soybean harvest
may be 12 percent smaller at 2.692 billion bushels. The
government will update its crop forecasts on Sept. 12.  About 50 percent of the nine-state  Midwest  region was in
severe to exceptional drought as of Aug. 28, compared with 51
percent a week earlier and less than 1 percent a year earlier,
according to the U.S. Drought Monitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 