-- U.S. $1 Billion Debt Relief Plan for Egypt Not New Funds
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-04T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/u-s-1-billion-debt-relief-plan-for-egypt-not-new-funds.html
The Obama administration is going
forward with a plan announced last year to provide  Egypt  with a
$1 billion aid package, including debt relief, to help the
country’s economy, U.S. officials said today.  The delay in disbursing the funds has been due to the time
needed for Egypt’s new government to establish itself, according
to Patrick Ventrell, the State Department’s acting deputy
spokesman.  “As Egypt and other countries go through these
transitions, getting these countries back on their feet
economically is very important to their stability, their
security, their forward progress, also on the political side,”
he told reporters at the State Department.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s victory and the rise of
the Muslim Brotherhood party has presented a dilemma for the
U.S., which has been wary of helping an Islamist group with
militant elements versus taking the risk that others, such as
Iran, might step in to fill any void left by the U.S.  Egypt is a strategic ally to the U.S., which uses the  Suez
Canal , a crucial gateway for the oil shipments, for transit of
its nuclear submarines to the  Persian Gulf . Egypt also grants
the U.S. military over-flight rights and is  Israel ’s partner in
the Camp David peace accords.  The Obama administration is ready to act on a first phase
of direct assistance, and the full $1 billion will become
available over time in consultation with Congress, according to
a White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss sensitive negotiations. The official offered no details.  Aid Efforts  The U.S. is coordinating aid efforts with other major
industrialized nations and the International Monetary Fund.
Egypt hopes to reach an agreement on a $4.8 billion
 International Monetary Fund  loan by December, Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil said August 22, having raised its request from
$3.2 billion.  Qandil said today that the requested $4.8 billion IMF loan
would help the country cut its borrowing costs as the government
targets economic growth of 5 percent this fiscal year.  The State Department said today that Deputy Secretary of
State Tom Nides will lead a trade delegation of more than 100
U.S. business executives, representing more than 50 companies,
to Cairo starting Sept. 8.  The U.S.-Egypt Business Council, part of the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, asked participating executives to be “able to
discuss their substantive, ongoing or potential, plans for
investment and trade with Egypt,” according to the group’s
website.  Trade Delegation  The delegation is being led by Lionel Johnson, U.S. Chamber
vice president for  Turkey ,  Middle East  and North Africa Affairs;
G. Steven Farris, council chairman and chairman and chief
executive officer of the  Apache Corporation (APA) ; and Gamal Moharam,
chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt, according
to a Chamber of Commerce statement.  Ventrell said the U.S. aid under discussion doesn’t
represent “new money” to be sought from Congress. He said
Egypt faces a $12 billion financing debt.  “Clearly Egypt needs to get its feet back on the ground
economically,” Ventrell said. “Economic recovery is something
at the top of their agenda.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  laid out details of the
$1 billion package in a visit to Egypt in July. At the time,
officials said the money could be used for short-term funding
and for a debt swap that would back job-creation efforts. During
the visit, she also discussed a U.S.-Egypt Enterprise Fund
capitalized at $60 million in its first year that will invest in
small- and medium-sized businesses to create jobs.  Corker’s Support  On the July visit, during which Clinton met Mursi for the
first time, she also announced $250 million in loan guarantees
for small businesses, the trade visit that Nides is leading and
the Obama administration’s plans to support the country’s
pursuit of loans from groups such as the IMF.  The U.S. is also looking at ways to provide direct
financial aid, Ventrell said.  Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , a member of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee who met with Egyptian
officials last week, said today that the U.S. talks focus on
using “existing funds” to aid Egypt’s transition to democracy,
“which is in the interests of the U.S. and other countries in
the region.”  “While the story is still being written on what Egypt’s
new government will ultimately look like and many risks remain,
our priority should be on helping them now to minimize the risk
that they will move away from moderation in the future,” Corker
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  