-- S&P 500 Trims Loss Amid Speculation Europe to Take Steps
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-09-04T20:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/u-s-stock-futures-little-changed-before-ism-factory-data.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell, after trimming steeper declines, as speculation European
leaders will announce new steps to tame the debt crisis tempered
concern the economic recovery is slowing.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   climbed  1.5 percent amid speculation the company
is close to introducing a new iPhone with a larger screen and
thinner body.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  added 3.4 percent after the shares
were upgraded at CLSA Ltd. Netflix Inc. slumped 6.4 percent as
Amazon.com Inc. reached a deal with pay-television channel Epix.
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  fell 1.8 percent to a record low after Morgan
Stanley cut its price forecast on the company’s shares.  The S&P 500 lost 0.1 percent to 1,404.94 at 4 p.m. New York
time, trimming a drop of as much as 0.7 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average retreated 54.90 points, or 0.4 percent, to
13,035.94. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5.6
billion shares, or 7.3 percent below the three-month average.  The European Central Bank’s plans “to stabilize Europe
takes the big-event risk off the table,”  Frank Ingarra , who
helps manage $1.4 billion at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“Everyone is kind of digesting and getting back to the game
today,” he said. As speculation about Europe swirls, he said,
“people are happier that it’s happening now and willing to go
long equities.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the bank’s primary mandate
compels it to intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of
interest rates and ensure the euro’s survival. Draghi “appears
willing to write two- to three-year ‘checks’” to debt-strapped
euro-bloc nations in a reflationary move, Bill Gross, co-chief
investment officer and founder of Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in a Twitter post.  Bond Plan  Draghi is due to distribute his bond-purchasing plan to
national banks after he was said to tell officials he would be
comfortable buying three-year government bonds to lower
borrowing costs.  Equities fell earlier as the Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S. factory  index  showed U.S. manufacturing shrank
for a third month in August in the longest decline since the
recession ended in 2009. A report over the weekend showed
China’s manufacturing contracted at the fastest pace since March
2009.  “Economic data continues to be soft all over the world and
that’s just the basic reality,” John Kattar, chief investment
officer at Eastern Bank Wealth Management in Boston, which
manages $1.7 billion, said in a telephone interview. “But more
important than that is speculation on what the ECB is going to
do this week and what the Fed is going to do next week,” he
said, referring to policy meetings by the ECB and the Federal
Reserve.  Jackson Hole  The S&P 500 rose 2 percent in August, capping its longest
monthly rally since March, amid expectations global central
banks would stimulate the economy. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said on Aug. 31 at an annual forum in Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
that he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless rate he
described as a “grave concern.” Payrolls probably grew at a
slower pace in August and unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a
43rd month, economists said before a report this week. The
Federal Open Market Committee meets Sept. 12-13.  Apple climbed 1.5 percent to $674.97 today. The world’s
most valuable company sent out invitations to a Sept. 12 product
event in San Francisco, where it’s expected to unveil a
redesigned iPhone. “It’s almost here,” Apple said in the
invitation, whose image includes a ‘5’ in shadow, possibly in
reference to the new product’s name.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley added 3.4 percent to $15.51. The stock’s
rating was boosted to buy from outperform at CLSA by equity
analyst  Michael Mayo . The 12-month share-price estimate is $23.  GameStop Corp. (GME)  advanced 7 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
to $20.41. The electronic game and software company was raised
to buy from neutral at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  rallied 15
percent to $58.78 after agreeing to  buy   Medicis (MRX)  Pharmaceutical
Corp. for $2.6 billion. Canada’s largest publicly traded
drugmaker said yesterday it will pay $44 in cash for each share
of Scottsdale, Arizona-based Medicis. Medicis surged 38 percent
to $43.65.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  rose 2.2 percent to 25.65, leading
consumer staples in the S&P 500 to a 0.4 percent increase. The
maker of Hebrew National hot dogs and Orville Redenbacher’s
popcorn was raised to overweight, the equivalent of buy, from
neutral at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Caterpillar Drops  Commodities and industrial companies fell the  most  among
the 10  S&P 500  groups.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest
maker of construction and mining machines, dropped 3.1 percent
to $82.66 for the biggest retreat in the Dow.  Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc. (CLF) , the largest U.S. iron-ore producer, slipped 6
percent to $33.68.  Alpha Natural Resources (ANR)  Inc. fell 6.9 percent to $5.53
while  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  dropped 3.4 percent to $20.90. The
companies were cut to hold from buy at Dahlman Rose, which
lowered its outlook for metallurgical coal used in steelmaking.  Netflix Inc. slumped 6.4 percent to $55.93. Amazon.com
reached a deal with Epix to add movies such as “The Hunger
Games” to the roster of films available through Amazon Prime
Instant Video, ratcheting up competition with Netflix.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  slid 6.4 percent to $13.28. The maker of
graphics processors was cut to neutral from positive at
Susquehanna Financial Group LLP.  Facebook, Jabil  Facebook Inc. fell 1.8 percent to a record low of $17.73.
Morgan Stanley, a lead underwriter of the company’s initial
public offering, cut its price forecast on concern that the
social network is struggling to reach mobile users with ads.
 Scott Devitt , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York, expects
Facebook shares to reach $32 in the next 12 months, down from
his previous projection of $38. Facebook has lost more than half
its value since its May IPO.  Jonathan Golub , chief U.S. equity strategist of UBS AG,
lowered his estimates for S&P 500  profits (SPX)  in 2012 and next year,
citing a weaker outlook for the world’s largest economy, slower
growth overseas, a strengthening dollar and difficult operating
environment for financial companies. His projection for combined
earnings by companies in the benchmark equity index this year is
now $102.50 a share, down from $103.50. He cut his estimate for
profit in 2013 to $107 from $110.  Profits are moving U.S. equity prices more than any time
since the bull market began 3 1/2 years ago, rewarding investors
for picking stocks based on company data instead of following
the herd rocked by Europe’s crisis and the slowing U.S. economy.  Daily Swings  Companies in the S&P 500 rose or fell an average of 4.4
percent the day after releasing results since July, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time they moved more was in
the second quarter of 2009. Daily swings in the benchmark gauge
narrowed to 0.4 percent last month from 2.2 percent a year ago,
as economic and policy changes battered investors. More than 475
S&P 500 stocks moved in the same direction in six of the first
nine days of August 2011, with all 500 down on Aug. 8.  Bulls say lockstep moves are diminishing because investors
are changing their behavior, making choices based on corporate
results at a time when analysts estimate profits for companies
in the S&P 500 will rise almost 10 percent a year through 2014.
Bears say the focus on  earnings  won’t bring back individuals who
have drained more than $420 billion from U.S. equity mutual
funds over the past four years even as stocks rallied 108
percent since March 2009 and net income was unchanged in the
second quarter.  “I’m not saying it’s an easy job to be a stock picker in
this environment, but it’s certainly easier,” Sandy Lincoln,
the Chicago-based chief market strategist with BMO Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $100 billion, said in an Aug.
28 interview. “Stock selection does have the opportunity here
to finally show a face with a smile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  