-- U.S. August ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-09-04T14:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/u-s-august-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .
August Manufacturing ISM Report On Business; PMI at 49.6%; New Orders
and Production Contracting; Employment and Inventories Growing;
Supplier Deliveries Faster
Business Wire
TEMPE, Ariz. -- September 04, 2012
Economic activity in the manufacturing sector contracted in August
for the third time since July 2009; however, the overall economy grew
for the 39th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply executives in
the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.
The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair
of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee. “The PMI registered 49.6 percent, a decrease of 0.2
percentage point from July’s reading of 49.8 percent, indicating
contraction in the manufacturing sector for the third consecutive
month. This is also the lowest reading for the PMI since July 2009.
The New Orders Index registered 47.1 percent, a decrease of 0.9
percentage point from July, indicating contraction in new orders for
the third consecutive month. The Production Index registered 47.2
percent, a decrease of 4.1 percentage points and indicating
contraction in production for the first time since May 2009. The
Employment Index remained in growth territory at 51.6 percent, but
registered its lowest reading since November 2009 when the Employment
Index registered 51 percent. The Prices Index increased 14.5
percentage points from its July reading to 54 percent. Comments from
the panel generally reflect a slowdown in orders and demand, with
continuing concern over the uncertain state of global economies.”
PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, eight are reporting growth in
August in the following order: Printing & Related Support Activities;
Primary Metals; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Paper Products;
Chemical Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The eight
industries reporting contraction in August -- listed in order -- are:
Textile Mills; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Furniture & Related
Products; Computer & Electronic Products;  Electrical Equipment ,
Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal
Products; and Machinery.
WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …  “Internal indicators and feedback from sales channels are
indicating a slowdown in demand for capital equipment.”
(Machinery)  “Business continues to be very solid, but there is now a slowing
of incoming orders.” (Fabricated Metal Products)  “Incoming orders have slowed somewhat, but indications are that
there will be a stronger fourth quarter.” (Plastics & Rubber
Products)  “Business is slow right now. Companies seem to be holding onto
their money.” (Computer & Electronic Products)  “We can sense, feel and see headwinds with customer orders,
especially  Europe  related.” (Apparel, Leather & Allied Products)  “New orders and backlog remain flat.” (Miscellaneous
Manufacturing)  “Auto industry slowing a bit in the second half [of the year].”
(Transportation Equipment)  “U.S. drought severely impacting raw materials prices.” (Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products)  “Lackluster demand continues in all regions of the world, and is
supporting much lower raw materials prices in the second half of
2012.” (Chemical Products)
COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price
Caustic Soda; Corn (2); Corn Products; Corrugated Boxes; Freight
Rates; Fuel; Lead Batteries;  Natural Gas  (4); Plastic Components;
Steel -- Carbon Sheet (3); and Steel -- Hot Rolled (2).
Commodities Down in Price
Aluminum; Copper (3); Nickel; PET; Polypropylene Resin (3); Stainless
Steel (2); Steel (6); and Steel -- Cold Rolled (3).
Commodities in Short Supply
No items are reported in short supply.
Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed is
indicated after each item.
AUGUST 2012 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES
PMI
Manufacturing contracted in August as the PMI registered 49.6
percent, a decrease of 0.2 percentage point when compared to July’s
reading of 49.8 percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates that
the manufacturing economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent
indicates that it is generally contracting.
A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time, generally
indicates an expansion of the overall economy. Therefore, the August
PMI indicates growth for the 39th consecutive month in the overall
economy, but indicates contraction in the manufacturing sector for
the third time since July 2009, when the PMI registered 49.2 percent.
Holcomb stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the
overall economy indicates that the average PMI for January through
August (52.2 percent) corresponds to a 3.2 percent increase in real
gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for August
(49.6 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 2.4 percent
increase in real GDP annually.”
New Orders
ISM’s New Orders Index registered 47.1 percent in August, which is a
decrease of 0.9 percentage point when compared to the July reading of
48 percent. This represents a contraction in new orders for the third
time since April 2009, when the New Orders Index registered 46.8
percent. A New Orders Index above 52.3 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Census Bureau’s series
on manufacturing orders (in constant 2000 dollars).
The four industries reporting growth in new orders in August are:
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Printing & Related Support
Activities; Primary Metals; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.
The 11 industries reporting a decrease in new orders during August --
listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Furniture & Related Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Transportation
Equipment; Machinery; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Paper Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Computer & Electronic
Products; and Chemical Products.
Production
ISM’s Production Index registered 47.2 percent in August, which is a
decrease of 4.1 percentage points when compared to the 51.3 percent
reported in July. This indicates contraction in production for the
first time since May 2009 when the Production Index registered 43.9
percent. An index above 51.2 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial
Production figures.
The four industries reporting growth in production during the month
of August are: Printing & Related Support Activities; Primary Metals;
Computer & Electronic Products; and Paper Products. The seven
industries reporting a decrease in production in August -- listed in
order -- are: Textile Mills; Furniture & Related Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Machinery; Fabricated Metal Products; and Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products. Seven industries reported no change in production in August
compared to July.
Employment
ISM’s Employment Index registered 51.6 percent in August, which is
0.4 percentage point lower than the 52 percent reported in July. This
is the 35th consecutive month of growth in the Employment Index. An
Employment Index above 50.5 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)
data on manufacturing employment.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine reported growth in
employment in August in the following order: Printing & Related
Support Activities; Primary Metals; Petroleum & Coal Products; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; and Miscellaneous
Manufacturing. The five industries reporting a decrease in employment
in August are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Furniture & Related Products; Computer
& Electronic Products; and Chemical Products.
 Supplier Deliveries 
The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing organizations
was faster in August as the Supplier Deliveries Index registered 49.3
percent, which is 0.6 percentage point higher than the 48.7 percent
reported in July. This is the seventh consecutive month supplier
deliveries have been faster than the previous month, following 31
consecutive months in which supplier deliveries slowed. A reading
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries.
The six industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in August --
listed in order -- are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Furniture & Related Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; and
Primary Metals. The five industries reporting faster supplier
deliveries in August are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; and Fabricated Metal Products. Seven industries
reported no change in supplier deliveries in August compared to July.
Inventories(b)
The Inventories Index registered 53 percent in August, which is 4
percentage points higher than the 49 percent reported in July. This
month’s reading indicates that respondents are reporting inventories
are growing for the first time since September 2011, when the
Inventories Index registered 52 percent. An Inventories Index greater
than 42.8 percent, over time, is generally consistent with expansion
in the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall
manufacturing inventories (in chained 2000 dollars).
The nine industries reporting higher inventories in August -- listed
in order -- are: Primary Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Machinery; Chemical Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Furniture &
Related Products; Paper Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
and Transportation Equipment. The five industries reporting decreases
in inventories in August are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Textile Mills; Computer & Electronic Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components.
Customers’ Inventories(b)
The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 49 percent in August,
which is 0.5 percentage point lower than in July when the index
registered 49.5 percent. Customers’ inventories have registered at or
below 50 percent for 41 consecutive months. A reading below 50
percent indicates customers’ inventories are considered too low.
The six manufacturing industries reporting customers’ inventories as
being too high during August -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; Fabricated
Metal Products; and Primary Metals. The eight industries reporting
customers’ inventories as too low during August -- listed in order --
are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Wood Products; Furniture & Related
Products; Transportation Equipment; Machinery; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Computer & Electronic Products; and Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products.
Prices(b)
The ISM Prices Index registered 54 percent in August, which is an
increase of 14.5 percentage points compared to the July reading of
39.5 percent. This is the first month the index has reflected an
increase in the price of raw materials since April 2012 when the
Prices Index registered 61 percent. This is also the largest month-
over-month increase since September 2005, when the index increased
15.5 percentage points from August 2005. In August, 23 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices, 15 percent reported paying
lower prices, and 62 percent of supply executives reported paying the
same prices as in July. A Prices Index above 49.4 percent, over time,
is generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, seven reported paying increased
prices during the month of August in the following order: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Furniture & Related Products; Chemical
Products; Paper Products; and Primary Metals. The four industries
reporting paying lower prices during August are: Petroleum & Coal
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Machinery; and Computer &
Electronic Products. Seven industries reported no change in prices
paid in August compared to July.
Backlog of Orders(b)
ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 42.5 percent in August,
which is 0.5 percentage point lower than the 43 percent reported in
July. Of the 84 percent of respondents who reported their backlog of
orders, 16 percent reported greater backlogs, 31 percent reported
smaller backlogs, and 53 percent reported no change from July.
The three industries reporting increased order backlogs in August
are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Primary Metals; and Plastics
& Rubber Products. The 10 industries reporting decreases in order
backlogs during August -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Furniture & Related Products;
Transportation Equipment; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated
Metal Products; Paper Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
and Chemical Products.
New Export Orders(b)
ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 47 percent in August, which
is 0.5 percentage point higher than the 46.5 percent reported in
July, and represents the third month of contraction in the index
since June 2009, when the index registered 49.5 percent. Prior to
this current three-month period of contraction, the New Export Orders
Index had registered 50 percent or above for the past 35 consecutive
months.
The five industries reporting growth in new export orders in August
are: Fabricated Metal Products; Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Computer & Electronic Products; and Chemical
Products. The eight industries reporting a decrease in new export
orders during August -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Transportation Equipment; Machinery; Paper Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; and Apparel, Leather & Allied Products.
Imports(b)
ISM’s Imports Index registered 49 percent in August, which is 1.5
percentage points lower than the 50.5 percent reported in July. This
month’s reading reflects the first month of contraction in imports
since November 2011 when the Imports Index also registered 49
percent.
The eight industries reporting growth in imports during the month of
August -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Chemical Products; Primary Metals; Machinery; and Computer &
Electronic Products. The seven industries reporting a decrease in
imports during August -- listed in order -- are: Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Petroleum & Coal Products; Paper
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Furniture & Related
Products; Transportation Equipment; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products.
(b) The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.
Buying Policy
Average commitment lead time for  Capital Expenditures  increased 15
days to 124 days. Average lead time for Production Materials
increased 1 day to 55 days. Average lead time for Maintenance, Repair
and Operating (MRO) Supplies increased 1 day to 27 days.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of manufacturing
supply managers based on information they have collected within their
respective organizations. ISM makes no representation, other than
that stated within this release, regarding the individual company
data collection procedures. Use of the data is in the public domain
and should be compared to all other economic data sources when used
in decision-making.
Data and Method of Presentation
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data compiled
from purchasing and supply executives nationwide. Membership of the
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is diversified by NAICS,
based on each industry’s contribution to gross domestic product
(GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey Committee responses are divided
into the following NAICS code categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Textile Mills; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood
Products; Paper Products; Printing & Related Support Activities;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated
Metal Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry, sporting
goods, toys and office supplies).
Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current month
compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators measured
(New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders, Imports,
Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories, Customers’ Inventories,
Employment and Prices), this report shows the percentage reporting
each response, the net difference between the number of responses in
the positive economic direction (higher, better and slower for
Supplier Deliveries) and the negative economic direction (lower,
worse and faster for Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index.
Responses are raw data and are never changed. The diffusion index
includes the percent of positive responses plus one-half of those
responding the same (considered positive).
The resulting single index number for those meeting the criteria for
seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production, Employment and
Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted to allow for the
effects of repetitive intra-year variations resulting primarily from
normal differences in weather conditions, various institutional
arrangements, and differences attributable to non-moveable holidays.
All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by the U.S. Department
of Commerce and are subject annually to relatively minor changes when
conditions warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries (seasonally
adjusted), and Inventories.
Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators and are
convenient summary measures showing the prevailing direction of
change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above 50 percent
indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining. A PMI in
excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time, indicates that the
overall economy, or gross domestic product (GDP), is generally
expanding; below 42.6 percent, it is generally declining. The
distance from 50 percent or 42.6 percent is indicative of the
strength of the expansion or decline. With some of the indicators
within this report, ISM has indicated the departure point between
expansion and decline of comparable government series, as determined
by regression analysis.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent out to
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the first part of
each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on information for
the current month. ISM receives survey responses throughout most of
any given month, with the majority of respondents generally waiting
until late in the month to submit responses in order to give the most
accurate picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the first business day of the following month.
The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed in the order of
most growth to least growth. For the industries reporting contraction
or decreases, those are listed in the order of the highest level of
contraction/decrease to the least level of contraction/decrease.
Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting the current
month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number of days ahead for
which commitments are made for Production Materials; Capital
Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies,
expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days), 30 days, 60 days, 90 days,
six months (180 days), a year or more (360 days), and the weighted
average number of days. These responses are raw data, never revised,
and not seasonally adjusted since there is no significant seasonal
pattern.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published monthly by the
Institute for Supply Management, the first supply institute in the
world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and serve the supply
management profession and is a highly influential and respected
association in the global marketplace. ISM’s mission is to lead the
supply management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has been
issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-year
interruption during World War II.
The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is
posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the first business day of
every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).
The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the September
2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Monday, October 1,
2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management          http://www.ism.ws   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  