-- Lufthansa Cabin Crew Expand German Strikes in Pay Dispute
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-09-04T16:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/lufthansa-cabin-crew-expand-german-strikes-in-pay-dispute.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, canceled at least 385 flights today as
cabin crew expanded  strike action  to three German airports in
their second walkout of a 13-month wage dispute.  Flight attendants  went on strike this morning in  Frankfurt 
and Berlin, and this afternoon in Munich, the Unabhaengige
Flugbegleiter Organisation union said in a statement. Cologne-
based Lufthansa operates about 1,800 flights a day globally.  While largely affecting services within Europe, the
cancellations also hit trips to  Los Angeles ,  Chicago , Tokyo and
Mexico City and will extend into tomorrow. Flight attendants in
Frankfurt first walked off the job for eight hours on Aug. 31 in
the dispute over pay increases and wage scales as Lufthansa
implements a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.9 billion) savings program.  “We regret that it had to come to this escalation,” the
union said in the statement. “However, the negotiations have
reached a point where it left us no alternative but to strike.”  Lufthansa has already announced plans to scrap as many as
4,500 administrative and catering jobs from its 120,000-strong
global workforce. Contract talks with the UFO collapsed on Aug.
28, with the union outlining plans for short-term strikes that
could be followed by unlimited walkouts.  Time Lag  Walkouts today were scheduled to span 5 a.m. until 1 p.m.
local time in Berlin, 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Frankfurt and 1 p.m.
to midnight in Munich, UFO said in separate statements.  Around 43,000 passengers had been affected as of 6 p.m.,
Lufthansa spokesman Christoph Meier said by telephone. The
carrier usually transport 180,000 passengers each day, he said.  “The operation as a whole is not back to normal yet as
Munich is still on strike, and because there is of course a time
lag in getting things back,” Meier said.  An extension of the action across  Germany  would cost
Lufthansa 12 million euros a day, according to Peter Oppitzhauser, a Zurich-based analyst at  Credit Agricole . That
would amount to 2 percent of full-year operating profit, based
on the analyst consensus figure, he calculates.  Lufthansa  fell  1.3 percent to 9.67 euros in Frankfurt. It
has added 5.3 percent in 2012 for a value of 4.43 billion euros.  UFO wants a 5 percent raise on a one-year contract
backdated to April 1, and contends that Lufthansa’s most recent
pay proposal amounts to a 1.5 percent annual increase that would
erode wages by 1,300 euros a month after inflation.  ‘Stand Still’  Lufthansa said on Aug. 28 that its raise totals 3.5 percent
over time and that all flight attendants would get higher pay.  The union says it also opposes a Lufthansa call for flight
attendants assigned to Berlin, where the airline is expanding,
to work 9 percent more hours than elsewhere for the same wages,
and has objected to the use of temporary workers.  If Lufthansa declines talks “then at some stage in the
next few days we will say that Germany will stand still for 24
hours,” with strikes extended nationwide, UFO head Nicoley
Baublies said in an interview with the N24 television station.  There is also no agreement about whether, after 2013, staff
could be transferred to new low-cost divisions on less lucrative
contracts, according to UFO.  Frankfurt was Europe’s third-busiest airport in the 12
months through May, behind  London Heathrow  and Paris Charles de
Gaulle, according to trade group  Airports Council International .  Lufthansa ranks second in Europe to  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  by
traffic, or the number of passengers times the distance flown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  