-- Hungary Surprise Rate Cut Sends Yield to Year-Low
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-05T15:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/hungary-surprise-rate-cut-sends-yield-to-year-low-before-auction.html
Hungary ’s  borrowing costs  tumbled to
the lowest level in a year before a bond auction tomorrow as
investors bet on further interest-rate cuts after the central
bank’s surprise reduction last week to fight recession.  Yields on three-year government forint bonds dropped to
6.732 percent on Sept. 3, the lowest since September 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors demanded 6.75
percentage points more to hold Hungarian debt rather than
similar-maturity German bunds on Sept. 3, the narrowest spread
since the end of October. The Debt Management Agency is offering
45 billion forint ($200 million) of debt due in 2015, 2017 and
2022, according to data from the agency on Bloomberg.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut rates by 25 basis points to
6.75 percent on Aug. 28, citing Hungary’s slide into its second
recession in three years. Rate reductions may continue as the
four Monetary Council members appointed by Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s government outvote central bank President Andras Simor
and his two deputies, according to Peter Attard Montalto at
Nomura International Plc. Traders are betting on additional cuts
of as much as 50 basis points before year end, according to
forward rate agreements.  “The rate cut lifted the  bond market ,” Sandor Jobbagy, a
Budapest-based analyst at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank unit,
wrote in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The move also
strengthened expectations for further easing this year.”  Economic Contraction  Hungary’s economy  contracted  0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months and shrank 1.2 percent
from the year-earlier period, the central statistics office in
Budapest said on Aug. 14. The data show that the economy is in
recession and the slowdown in export demand hurts the growth
outlook, the Monetary Council said in a statement on Aug. 28.  The nation’s benchmark rate is still the highest among
central bank benchmarks in the European Union, helping to prop
up the forint as the government struggles to obtain a bailout
from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union 10
months after requesting the aid.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on interest costs in
three months fell six basis points to 6.39 percent yesterday,
the lowest since September 2011. The FRAs traded 50 basis points
below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating
expectations for a half-percentage point cut in the benchmark
rate.  ‘Extremely Slowly’  Orban’s government held a first round of talks with the IMF
and EU in July after delays caused by a dispute over legislation
threatening the independence of the central bank. A separate
plan to tax the bank’s transactions approved in July risks
complicating the negotiations on a credit line again,  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in
a research report yesterday.  IMF-EU negotiations “will proceed extremely slowly, but
this should not stand in the way of the rate cutting cycle in
the near term, which will be favored by a weak economy,”
 Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based economist at Bank of America
Corp., wrote in an e-mailed report Sept. 3. “We expect a
further 75 basis points of easing by year end,” Tenconi wrote.  The Monetary Council voted to ease rates by a “tight”
margin even as Hungary faces delays in meeting inflation goals,
Simor said Aug. 28. Of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey, 17
said the bank would leave rates unchanged while Lars Christensen
from Danske Bank A/S predicted the cut.  Rising Inflation  Hungarian inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to
5.8 percent in July from 5.6 percent in June, moving further
from the central bank’s 3 percent target. The pace may slow to
the goal in 2014, Simor said in July.  The government doesn’t comment on central bank decisions,
the  Economy Ministry ’s press office wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg yesterday. Simor declined
to answer reporters’ questions last week in Budapest on the
breakdown of the Monetary Council’s vote, ahead of the
publication of the meeting’s minutes on Sept. 12.  “The impact of each individual rate decision can only be
grasped in a very limited way,” the central bank wrote in an
emailed response to questions from Bloomberg yesterday.
“ Monetary policy  mostly takes its effect over a time horizon of
four to eight quarters. It’s only possible to assess their
impact after analyzing money and capital markets and changes in
the real economy taken together.”  Hungary will continue aid talks with the EU and IMF this
month, Zoltan Csefalvay, a state secretary at the Economy
Ministry, said yesterday in an interview in Krynica, southern
 Poland , without specifying a date.  Definite Bailout  Hungary will “definitely” obtain a  credit line  from the
IMF by the end of 2012, Antal Rogan, who heads the ruling Fidesz
party’s lawmakers in parliament, said in an interview published
in Magyar Nemzet today. The Cabinet may have to look for new
sources to replace revenue from the tax on central  bank
transactions  as the bank’s losses may have to be reimbursed by
the state in the following year, Rogan added.  The government is working on its responses to IMF and EU
policy proposals made following a week of negotiations in July,
Orban told reporters in Budapest today.  The forint weakened 0.3 percent to 285.25 per euro by 4:23
p.m. in Budapest, extending its slide since Hungary’s rate cut
on Aug. 28 to 2.6 percent and paring its gains this year to 10
percent, the most worldwide after the Chilean peso. The zloty
has gained 6.7 percent in 2012 and the koruna advanced 3.2
percent.  The forint weakened after Bruxinfo reported today that the
European Commission may start a legal case against Hungary
because of the country’s financial transaction tax.  Hungary’s 3-year bond yields were little changed at 6.804
percent today.  ECB Decision  Hungary’s debt agency raised more than planned at its last
auction on Aug. 23 as borrowing costs dropped to an 11-month
low. Hungary’s three-year yields have fallen 3.6 percentage
points from a 2 1/2 year high of 10.3 percent on Jan. 4. That
narrowed the yield premium over Czech notes of the same maturity
to 610 basis points from 830 in January, according to generic
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank  will announce its interest rate
decision after Hungary’s auction tomorrow, which may damp
demand, CIB’s Jobbagy said.  For Hungary “our base case is for 25 basis points of rate
cuts in the rest of this year, which will depend on the speed of
IMF talks and developments in the euro area crisis,” Jobbagy
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  