-- Valerie Jarrett Says Obama Will Work With Business on Tax Reform
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-04T14:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/valerie-jarrett-says-obama-will-work-with-business-on-tax-reform.html
Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to
President  Barack Obama , said that the president will work with
the business community to overhaul the  tax code  in his second
term.  “Let’s broaden the base, let’s reduce the rate,” Jarrett
said at a Bloomberg breakfast at the Democratic National
Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. “That means we are
going to close some loopholes, but that’s going to benefit the
broader business community.”  “The long term sustainable growth rests with the private
sector,” she said. “The president knows that.”  Jarrett spoke about a range of issues Obama has dealt with,
as well as his re-election campaign. She acknowledged the
president’s frustration with Republicans, while insisting that
he will continue to try work with them.  “He’s never going to give up on that,” she said. “It’s
what the American people expect of their president.”  “We’ve had four tough years,” she said, citing comments
made by Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  that denying
Obama a second term was his single most important goal.
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, made the comment in 2010.  “It’s been difficult to get Republicans to the table,”
Jarrett.  Asked to list her regrets in the first term, she said Obama
and his team should have “spent more time outside of Washington
in that first year.”  Jarrett said a better job of energizing Democrats
nationally would have helped the party avoid its losses in the
2010 congressional elections, which included Republicans taking
control of the House.  Obama “didn’t appreciate early on how important it was to
tell” his side of the story, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  