-- Venezuela Inflation Slows Further as Chavez Eyes Votes
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-09-04T19:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/venezuela-inflation-slows-for-9th-month-as-chavez-eyes-votes-2-.html
Venezuela ’s inflation rate slowed
for a ninth-consecutive month in August, as the government
ramped up imports of food goods to avoid shortages ahead of
elections in October.  Consumer prices rose 18.1 percent in August from a year
ago, according to the central bank’s national price index,
trailing the 18.8 percent  median estimate  of seven economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 1.1 percent last month from
July, central bank President Nelson Merentes said today.  “It looks like we’ll be able to close the year below our
inflation target of 20 percent to 22 percent,” Merentes said
during a press conference in Caracas. “We want to get to a
single digit as soon as possible.”  President  Hugo Chavez , who is seeking to extend his 13
years in power in elections scheduled for October, tightened
price controls this year on 19 consumer care products in a bid
to slow inflation while ramping up imports to mitigate
shortages.  “This all seems to be geared for elections in October,”
David Rees, an  emerging markets  economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London , said in a phone interview. “If  oil prices  were
to keep rising there will be less pressure to pull back but I’m
assuming that there’ll be a reversal in the supply of foreign
currency after the election.”  Food prices, which account for 37 percent of the inflation
index, rose 0.5 percent in August. Alcoholic beverages and
tobacco and entertainment pushed consumer prices higher in
August, rising 4.9 percent and 2.7 percent respectively, the
bank said today.  Dollar Sales  An increase in dollar sales to importers has allowed the
government to ramp up purchases of goods abroad and slow price
gains by increasing supplies. Imports rose 26.8 percent in the
first half, according to the central bank, after the bank-
administered  currency market  known as Sitme increased
allocations by 32 percent to $5.16 billion in the first half of
2012 from the same period a year earlier.  Cadivi, the government exchange board, increased dollar
allocations by 20.2 percent to $8.2 billion in the second
quarter of the year from the first three months.  Annual inflation fell below 20 percent for the first time
in July since the national index was created in December 2008 to
replace the Caracas index.  Toothpaste, Bleach  Consumer companies including Procter & Gamble Co,  Colgate-
Palmolive Co. (CL)  and Johnson & Johnson have had to reduce prices on
products such as toothpaste, toilet paper and bleach after
Chavez installed price caps in April to slow inflation. Chavez,
who insists he’s recovered from a battle with cancer to contest
the October vote, has said that the price caps are necessary to
combat what he’s called “capitalist speculation.”  Venezuela has the third-highest annual inflation rate of
102 economies tracked by Bloomberg after Belarus and  Iran .  In January, Chavez threatened to nationalize companies that
fail to comply with the price controls. The government already
regulates the price of hundreds of basic food goods.  Inflation is likely to rise again following elections as
the government devalues the bolivar in order to narrow its
deficit, according to Bank of America Corp. and Nomura
Securities International Inc. Venezuela will weaken the official
rate to 6.2 bolivars per dollar from 4.3 in the first quarter of
2013, according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg in July.  Economic Growth  While a surge in  government spending  helped Venezuela’s
economy grow 4 percent in 2011 after two years of recession, the
government missed its target of reducing inflation to between 23
percent and 25 percent. Consumer prices rose 27.6 percent last
year.  The economy, which depends on oil for 95 percent of export
revenue, expanded 5.4 percent in the second quarter of 2012 from
a year earlier. Merentes said today the economy will grow more
than 5 percent this year.  The government has boosted spending ahead of elections on
social programs and raised the minimum wage by 32 percent. The
number of bolivars circulating in the economy has increased 56
percent during the last 12 months to 550 billion bolivars ($128
billion), according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices in Caracas rose 1 percent in August, the
central bank said.  Annual inflation  in Caracas slowed to 18.6
percent, the lowest since November 2007. The bank’s scarcity
index, which measures the availability of goods in stores, fell
to 13.7 percent in August from 14.2 percent in July.  South America ’s largest oil producer hasn’t had single
digit inflation since 1986, according to the central bank’s
Caracas price index.  “We’ve perforated the floor of 20 percent annual
inflation,” Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said today at the
press conference. “We’re not trying to implement a shock
strategy to control prices, we’re focusing on providing a
greater number of services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  