-- Venezuela’s Amuay to Return to Full Operations in ‘Days’
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-09-04T20:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/venezuela-s-amuay-processing-crude-as-some-units-remain-offline.html
Venezuela’s Amuay  oil refinery , the
country’s largest, will return to full capacity in “days”
after restarting some distillation units following a fatal gas
explosion on Aug. 25, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said.  “We’re in the midst of our safe restart protocol and
currently processing 264,000 barrels a day,” Ramirez said today
at an oil conference in Puerto La Cruz. “In the next few days
we’ll have normalized our operations.”  A gas leak just after midnight on Aug. 25 caused an
explosion at Amuay that engulfed homes, businesses and  storage
tanks  in flames, killing 42 people. President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered an investigation into the accident and vowed to replace
or repair the more than 1,000 damaged residences near the plant.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state oil company, has
resumed three crude distillation units, the Caracas-based
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The facilities
break down crude into components that can be converted into
fuels in other units. Amuay has restored almost a third of its
daily crude processing capacity of 645,000 barrels.  “This is an important development taking into account the
circumstances surrounding the shutdown of the refinery,”
Ramirez, who is also president of PDVSA, as the  oil company  is
known, said in the statement.  Careful Inspection  PDVSA is “carefully inspecting” the main units and lines
running to storage tanks that crossed the area of the fires to
make sure there isn’t damage before proceeding with a full
restart, Ramirez told reporters today at the conference.  The refinery’s main processing units were taken offline as
a precaution and were undamaged from the explosion and fires
that burned for four days at storage tanks, PDVSA has said.
While nine storage tanks were damaged, the company has enough
inventory to meet internal and external obligations, it said.  PDVSA has 10 days of fuel inventories as its other
refineries make up for Amuay’s reduced output, Ramirez said
today. While PDVSA continues to import gasoline components
including MTBE because of shortfalls in domestic supplies, the
state company doesn’t import finished gasoline, he said.  October-delivery gasoline rose 2.06 cents to $2.9522 a
gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange as U.S. Gulf Coast
refineries came back online after Hurricane Isaac, boosting
supply. Prices climbed 6.6 percent last month.  ‘Huge Relief’  Amuay’s shutdown has tightened the global supply of oil
products, Maria van der Hoeven, head of the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency , told reporters in  New Delhi  today.  Once Amuay is completely restarted it will be a “huge sigh
of relief to the region,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  About 1.4 million barrels of refined products including
gasoil,  jet fuel  and  fuel oil  have been shipped from the Amuay
dock since the accident, Ramirez said in the statement.  Amuay forms part of the Paraguana refining complex in the
western state of Falcon along with the Cardon and Bajo Grande
plants. Paraguana is the second-largest refining complex in the
world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In a teleconference to PDVSA workers yesterday Ramirez
denied that a lack of maintenance was behind the gas leak and
explosion and said that $4.4 billion has been invested in
maintaining units at the Paraguana complex since 2007. Amuay was
opened in 1950, according to Jesus Luongo, a plant manager.  “We’re assuming our responsibilities, investigating, and
fulfilling our duties until we can guarantee a return to
normality in our operations,” Ramirez said in a separate
statement.  The Amuay blast was among the world’s deadliest at an oil
refinery. Fifteen workers were killed at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Texas City
refinery in 2005 while more than 50 people died in a fire at
Hindustan Petroleum Corp.’s refinery in Visakhapatnam, India, in
1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  