-- Veolia Rises on Report of Transdev Interest: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-04T16:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/veolia-rises-on-report-of-transdev-interest-paris-mover.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the biggest
water utility, rose the most in three weeks in Paris trading on
a report that French state-controlled subway and rail companies
are interested in Veolia’s transport business.  The Paris transit system Regie Autonome des Transports
Parisiens, or RATP, and the national rail company Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, or SNCF, are in talks to
acquire the Transdev assets,  Le Figaro  reported, citing RATP
President Pierre Mongin.  Veolia climbed as much as 5.2 percent and closed 2.8
percent higher, the biggest gain since Aug. 16, at 8.659 euros.
The shares are worth about a third of the 24.26 euros reached on
Feb. 17, before a reorganization plan was announced five months
later.  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot is restructuring
Veolia by selling assets, cutting debt and curbing the global
reach of the utility in a bid to boost profit. Frerot fought off
a bid to oust him earlier this year and has overseen the sale of
the U.K. regulated water, U.S. waste management and Baltic waste
businesses.  Frerot has said he wants out of the transport business
since a plan for an initial public offering of Transdev was
shelved.  Selling Veolia’s stake in the Transdev unit it jointly owns
with  France ’s state-controlled Caisse des Depots et
Consignations has proved more difficult. Frerot said on Aug. 2
that a potential acquirer’s bid was rejected.  The RATP and SNCF have “agreed” to acquire some of the
assets, Le Figaro quoted Mongin as saying yesterday at RATP’s
results news conference.  A spokeswoman for Veolia wasn’t available for immediate
comment. RATP and SNCF officials didn’t return phone calls.  Frerot last month declined to reveal the names of “new
partners” that could be taking part in talks on Transdev and
said he didn’t know whether a deal could be reached by the end
of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  