-- Virginia Leads Swing States at Risk Over Cliff: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-09-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/virginia-leads-swing-states-at-risk-over-cliff-bgov-barometer.html
For some swing-state voters, the
presidential election may come down to who they want holding the
net if their economies go over the fiscal cliff.  The BGOV Barometer shows that the battlegrounds of
Virginia,  Colorado  and  Pennsylvania  are among 19 states and the
 District of Columbia  that depended on U.S. government contracts
for more than 3 percent of their 2011 gross domestic product.
The states are vulnerable to $1.2 trillion in automatic 10-year
budget reductions, called sequestration, that will begin in
January if Congress and the White House fail to agree on a
deficit-reduction plan.  President  Barack Obama  and his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney , need the 42 electoral votes represented by Virginia,
Colorado and Pennsylvania as they compete for the 270 it takes
to win. Their lines of attack on the automatic cuts, which along
with tax increases make up the fiscal cliff, may help determine
the outcome in those swing states.  “It’s going to increasingly become an issue in this
election,” said  Todd Harrison , a senior fellow at the Center
for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in Washington. “Both
sides want to run against sequestration.  “Maybe that’s what this boils down to,” Harrison said in
an interview. “Whose approach do you prefer for avoiding
sequestration?”  The government spent more than $500 billion on federal
contracts in 2011. Agencies awarded $58.9 billion in orders that
year for work performed in Virginia.  ‘Tentacles Everywhere’  Federal awards represented 14 percent of the economy in the
state, home to the Pentagon and headquarters of top federal
contractors such as McLean-based  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  The company was the
top recipient of awards in Virginia, receiving $3 billion for
work in the state. SAIC performs computer and engineering
services for agencies including the  Department of Defense .  Federal awards support economies outside the state, so a
contract in Virginia might have implications for a lawyer or
consultant in Ohio or Texas, Ric Brown, the state’s finance
secretary, said in an interview. “It has tentacles
everywhere,” he said.  Contractors performing work in Colorado won $10.2 billion
in U.S. awards last year, which represented 3.8 percent of the
state’s economy.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,
Maryland, won the most in contracts, $2.41 billion, for work in
the state. The company is the No. 1 U.S. defense contractor.  ‘Held Hostage’  Agencies last year awarded $17.7 billion in contracts for
work in Pennsylvania. The state relied on the awards for 3.1
percent of its economy. Bechtel Group, based in  San Francisco ,
was the top recipient of contracts in the state with $1.99
billion in awards.  The three swing states also have direct federal employees
and military bases that require additional government funding.
Nevada, Florida, Wisconsin, Ohio and Iowa -- swing states with
69 electoral votes -- may be less vulnerable because they
derived less than 3 percent of their economy from federal
contracts.  Even so, any state that counts on federal dollars is “held
hostage by federal policy makers and the dysfunction about
reaching a compromise or consensus on the budget at the federal
level directly impacts the states,” David Adkins, executive
director of the nonpartisan Council of State Governments in
Lexington, Kentucky, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  