-- Vodafone, Telefonica U.K. Venture Said to Win EU Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-04T10:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/vodafone-u-k-venture-with-telefonica-said-to-win-eu-approval.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
O2 unit and Everything Everywhere Ltd. are set to win
unconditional European Union approval for a joint venture to
create a U.K. mobile-phone payment platform, according to two
people familiar with the decision.  The European Commission has told the companies that it may
approve the deal as soon as this week, said the people who asked
not to be identified because the decision isn’t yet public. The
regulator didn’t send out a formal statement of objections
earlier this year setting out potential concerns with the deal,
the people said.  Regulators extended their investigation in April, saying
the companies may be able to block competitors from offering
their own “mobile wallet” services to U.K. customers or to
“degrade the quality” of services to make them less
attractive.  The U.K.’s three largest mobile operators sought EU
approval for the joint venture to help banks and advertisers
access services that will allow customers to buy items from
groceries to clothes with their smartphones. After losing out to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in offering online application
stores, the companies want to accelerate the development of
additional services to drive revenue and boost smartphone sales.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in
Brussels, declined to comment on the transaction.  Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere, owned by  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , declined to comment before the
EU decision is public.  Market Exclusion  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three unit last year raised
concerns with the EU over its potential exclusion from the U.K.
mobile-phone payment venture set up by its bigger rivals.
In the U.S., the country’s largest wireless carrier  Verizon
Wireless  last year blocked Google’s competing mobile-payment
system from the Galaxy Nexus smartphone from Samsung Electronics
Co., citing security issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 