-- Wal-Mart Investor Bribe-Claim Suits to Be Led by Pensions
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-09-05T14:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/wal-mart-investor-suits-over-bribes-to-be-led-by-pension-funds.html
(Corrects to refer to company employees rather than
directors in second paragraph of story published Sept. 4.)  Wal-Mart Stores (WMT)  Inc. investors’
lawsuits over the retailer’s handling of allegations that it
paid bribes in  Mexico  will be led by three pension funds,
Delaware court filings show.  Pension funds from  New York ,  California  and Indiana have
agreed to serve as co-lead plaintiffs in cases accusing Wal-Mart
employees of bribing Mexican officials to help fuel the
company’s growth in the country, lawyers for the funds and Wal-
Mart said in a Delaware Chancery Court filing.  “The moving parties have conferred and agree, subject to
this court’s approval, that the actions should be consolidated
for all purposes into a single consolidated action,” according
to the Sept. 3 filing.  Both U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said this year that they
had started probes of the bribery allegations, first reported by
the  New York Times. (NYT)   Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  is the country’s
largest private employer, with more than 209,000 employees.
Twenty percent of Wal-Mart’s more than 10,000 stores worldwide
are in Mexico, following growth in the past 10 years.  David Tovar , a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the naming of the co-lead
plaintiffs.  Building Permits  The Times reported that officials of Wal-Mart’s Mexican
unit paid bribes to win government building permits for stores.
Once the allegations came to light, company officials failed to
act on the results of an internal probe or inform authorities
about the allegations, the  California  pension fund said in the
suit.  The funds, which include the California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the  New York  City Employees’ Retirement
System and the Indiana Electrical Workers Pension Trust Fund,
contend that Wal-Mart officials may have violated the U.S.
 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  of 1977 and other anti-bribery
statutes in connection with the alleged payments to Mexican
officials.  The  Indiana  fund has sued to force Wal-Mart to hand over
records about internal probes of the bribery allegations and
contends that the company had been “woefully deficient” in
producing documents.  Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine declined at a hearing in
July to name a lead plaintiff in the suits, urging the investors
to work together.  One of the cases is California State Teachers’ Retirement
System v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., CA No. 7490, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 