-- Wells Fargo Has Biggest Risk Appetite, CreditSight Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-04T21:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/wells-fargo-has-biggest-risk-appetite-creditsight-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the  U.S. bank 
with the biggest market value, takes greater risk on its
investments in stocks and bonds than competing lenders,
according to a CreditSights Inc. report.  Wells Fargo’s $227 billion  portfolio  of securities marked
for sale yielded 3.97 percent at the end of June, the most among
17 of the largest U.S. banks measured by CreditSights, according
to a Sept. 3 report from the New York-based financial-research
firm. The company’s investments appear to have more credit and
interest-rate risk than rivals, CreditSights said.  “Wells Fargo’s all-in securities yield of nearly 4 percent
seems indicative of a higher risk appetite,” CreditSights
analysts including Peter Simon wrote in the report.  Faced with sluggish loan growth and more deposits, U.S.
banks are searching for ways to generate revenue. While some
lenders have stayed in short-term, low-risk securities such as
Treasuries, others such as San Francisco-based Wells Fargo have
added to holdings with higher  interest rates  and longer
maturities, according to the report.  After adding to higher-yielding asset classes in recent
quarters, Wells Fargo held 16 percent of its securities
portfolio in municipal bonds at the end of June. That’s above
the upper threshold of 10 percent viewed as an “appropriate
level,” according to CreditSights, which called the figure “on
the high side but still manageable.” The  prevailing level  at
most banks is 6 percent to 8 percent, CreditSights said.  The bank, run by Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58,
also increased the duration of its investments, a reflection of
how long the debt will be outstanding. The weighted average
expected maturity of 5.2 years at midyear was the longest of any
bank that discloses the measure and was up from 4.9 years at the
end of 2011, CreditSights said. The figure reached 6.1 years in
2010.  “Wells Fargo was comfortable in taking some incremental
credit risk in order to preserve its net interest income stream
in the current environment,” the analysts wrote.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment
on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 