-- Who-Built-It Debate Pits the U.S. Against Europe
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-09-04T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/who-built-it-debate-pits-the-u-s-against-europe.html
“We Built It.” That was the
Republicans’ rebuke last week to President  Barack Obama ’s line,
“You didn’t build that.” The Democrats will respond this week at
their convention.  These phrases don’t imply anything about concrete policy,
yet the debate reflects a deep ideological divide that goes back
150 years. And the battle over the relative roles of social
collaboration and individual initiative is not limited to the
U.S. -- it has played out in  Europe , as well.  The president’s defenders claim the Republicans took his
words out of context. But if you read the  official transcript ,
Obama’s comments taken as a whole are a coherent statement of a
communitarian worldview that emphasizes the power of social
influences and the positive role of government.  On substance, both sides are right. Individual
entrepreneurs build their own businesses with sweat,
perseverance and ingenuity. But every successful entrepreneur
also owes much to others, for no great invention since the dawn
of time has been a solo achievement.  James Watt built the separate-condenser steam engine, but
he was helped by colleagues such as Joseph Black of the
University of Glasgow; an ingenious partner, Matthew Boulton;
and a supplier of cast iron, John “Iron-Mad” Wilkinson.  Sergey
Brin  didn’t invent  Google Inc. (GOOG)  single-handed. He had a partner,
 Larry Page , investors such as Andreas von Bechtolsheim, and
excellent teachers such as Terry  Winograd.   Collaborative Benefits  But the collaborative nature of invention and
entrepreneurship implies little about government policy. It
certainly doesn’t suggest that marginal tax rates should be
higher. Many people who helped Brin are quite wealthy. Should
Brin repay his debt to Page by voting to increase Page’s taxes?  Obama is right that American entrepreneurs benefit from the
rule of law, decent infrastructure and research funded by the
federal government. But this observation also has limited policy
bite. Entrepreneurs’ use of existing roads doesn’t imply that we
should build more roads, or that entrepreneurs can’t pay for
highways and bridges with tolls and gas taxes.  The Republican “We Built It” mantra is similarly free from
logical implication. The phrase recognizes the importance of
entrepreneurial energy, but that doesn’t mean the public sector
should shrink or that marginal tax rates can’t be a bit higher.  Both parties are counting on voters to rely on ideology
more than facts. The Republicans are trying not only to defeat
Obama but also to ensure the survival of their worldview. In a
global  opinion poll , only 36 percent of Americans agreed with
the statement that “success in life is pretty much determined by
forces outside our control,” compared with 72 percent of
Germans, for example. Across countries, believing success
reflects luck, rather than hard work, is robustly correlated
with more income redistribution and a larger welfare state.  Eight years ago, I  wrote  a book with my colleague  Alberto Alesina  on why the U.S. has a vastly smaller welfare state than
Europe’s. Using history and statistics -- world survey averages
from the last two decades of the 20th century -- we argued that
American exceptionalism could be traced to two primary causes:
political institutions and ethnic fragmentation. Both were
ideological in nature.  More ethnically homogeneous places such as Scandinavia have
more-generous safety nets, and the U.S. is remarkably
heterogeneous. Across the U.S., before the 1996 welfare reform,
states with more black residents provided less-generous welfare
payments (even controlling for state income). Dartmouth College
economist Erzo Luttmer  found  that individuals who live near poor
people of the same race support more redistribution, while those
who live near poor people of a different race support less
redistribution.  Racial divisions  in the U.S. helped
conservatives defeat populists a century ago and helped  Richard
Nixon  take the South and the White House in 1968.  American Institutions  Yet American diversity can explain only part of the limited
welfare state. The nation’s institutions help explain the rest.
The U.S. has a majoritarian government, embodied in its powerful
chief executive, while systems with proportional representation
typically have more redistribution. Proportional representation
tends to help parties, such as Europe’s Social Democrats, which
specialize in advancing the economic interests of the poor.  The American system also has checks and balances, such as
the  Supreme Court  and the Senate, that have historically limited
attempts to expand the welfare state. President  Franklin Roosevelt  first battled a Republican Supreme Court, and then
faced a conservative congressional coalition. Obama had only two
years of undivided government. European governments typically
face far fewer constraints. America’s more conservative
political institutions are no accident. Its founders feared
 ochlocracy  and wanted to check the current whims of the people.  A century ago, Europe was more conservative than the U.S.,
both in its institutions and in its policies. Kings and courts
ruled  Germany , Austria-Hungary and  Italy , and the franchise was
often limited. Over the 20th century, however, after world wars,
old governments fell and were replaced with new constitutions,
often written by  Social Democrats . These constitutions had left-
leaning provisions, such as proportional representation.  As European politics lurched leftward, so did European
ideology. Schools during the age of conservative monarchs such
as Germany’s Kaiser and the second Napoleon taught that hard
work brought prosperity. When Social Democrats took power, they
conquered classrooms, dominated political discourse, and taught
that society and luck, not individual effort, determined
success. Meanwhile, the U.S. retained its 19th-century
institutions and its older ideology.  Poverty Trap  After decades of indoctrination, 60 percent of Europeans,
but only 29 percent of Americans,  believe  that the poor are
trapped in poverty. Fifty-four percent of Europeans, but only 30
percent of Americans, think that luck determines income. Sixty
percent of Americans, but only 26 percent of Europeans, believe
that the poor are lazy. Across countries, there is no
correlation between the actual hours worked by the poor and the
belief that the poor are lazy. The American poor work far harder
than their European counterparts.  The European worldview complements a large welfare state,
just as the American worldview supports smaller government. When
voters believe that the poor are trapped, they are more likely
to think that redistribution is just, and when voters believe
that the poor are lazy, welfare seems to be rewarding bad
behavior.  Obama’s “you didn’t build that” line was hardly a full-
fledged statement of the European worldview. He didn’t imply
that the poor were trapped or that luck determines income. But
his statements did move away from a full-throated belief that
effort alone engenders success.  Contrary to Republican claims that he only follows polls,
Obama was trying to change American opinion. That challenge led
to the Republican response: America remains the land of
opportunity.  I wish the president would make the case for specific
spending proposals, rather than making empty claims that
businesses benefit from some public services. I would prefer the
Republicans to explain how they will cut taxes and balance the
budget, instead of extolling the virtues of the American
entrepreneur. But as long as we base our votes on ideology,
rather than facts, politicians will continue giving us ideology.
As Cassius says in Shakespeare’s “ Julius Caesar ,” “The fault,
dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are
underlings.”  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the right way to  bring
manufacturing back  and on breaking  South Africa’s circle of
strife ; Clive Crook on why Fed independence is  essential and
indefensible ; Ezra Klein on  whether you’re better off  than four
years ago;  Michael Kinsley  on how Republicans  don’t really care
about jobs ;  Peter Orszag  on moving health care  from quantity to
quality ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on the roots of the  Harvard
cheating scandal ; Arun Sundararajan on  Facebook’s winning
business model .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 