-- You Pick: a Strong Recovery or an Accountable Fed?
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-09-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/you-pick-a-strong-recovery-or-an-accountable-fed-.html
At last week’s conference of central
bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , the main topic of conversation
was off the  program .  In the margins of the meeting, many of the bankers  talked 
about the threat to their independence posed by meddling
politicians. Nobody presented a paper on the subject, because
it’s a tough one for the professionals to air in public.  I understand the reticence. Whether or how to impose
democratic accountability on central banking has become the most
important question in political economy, not just in the U.S.
but also in  Europe  and around the world. Unfortunately, the
answer that’s emerging is unfit for public consumption. We can
have proper checks and balances or good central banking, it
seems, but not both.  The idea that central banking could be kept above politics
was never really plausible, but for a long time central bankers
could get away with pretending otherwise.  An independent central bank can promise to keep inflation
low more credibly than a bank directed by a  finance ministry  --
i.e., by politicians tempted to pump up the economy for short-
run electoral purposes. The credibility of the promise shifts
expectations in the economy, which makes the promise easier to
keep. That’s the case for independence. Crucially, you could
also argue (as long as you didn’t stop to think about it) that
merely keeping inflation low could be done without straying into
contested political terrain.  Unavoidable Politics  That was always a dubious proposition. Even a narrow-
purpose central bank -- one with a simple anti-inflation mandate
-- must decide how hard to lean against a boom and how urgently
to fight a recession. In other words, it has to weigh control of
inflation against stability in jobs and the real economy, and
that question is unavoidably political.  This trade-off was a matter of great controversy during the
early 1980s when  Paul Volcker , the Fed chairman, drew praise and
blame for inflicting a recession on the  U.S. economy  to get
inflation down. For the next 25 years, the question was mostly
set aside. That changed when the recession forced central banks
to innovate. Suddenly, the issue of independence is the elephant
in the room.  First, the traditional tools of monetary policy stopped
working. Once the  Federal Reserve , the  Bank of England , the
 European Central Bank  and others had cut short-term  interest
rates  to zero, they had to deliver further monetary stimulus in
unorthodox ways -- for instance, by expanding their balance
sheets through quantitative easing. This takes risk onto the
public sector’s books and, depending on what kind of assets the
banks buy, channels support to particular economic sectors. It’s
at least as much a fiscal as a monetary operation.  Second, as John Cochrane of the  University of Chicago 
 pointed out  recently, the Fed (like many other central banks)
has been given new regulatory powers. Regulation is not a value-
free process that can be left to disinterested technocrats --
least of all if it’s used to advance goals such as more lending
to small businesses or easier refinancing for distressed
mortgage borrowers. Wider regulatory powers are another move
deeper into political territory.  Cochrane highlights the problem but doesn’t say what should
be done about it. Because he’s leery of central-bank activism,
he leaves readers thinking that the Fed needs to be reined back.
I disagree. I’m for central-bank activism. I think we would be
in much worse trouble if the Fed hadn’t grown out of its usual
role and acted as it has, and I wish that it and the ECB would
act even more boldly. I can’t pretend, though, that this would
be constitutionally kosher.  Government Failure  Something no central banker with an eye to keeping his job
can say, but which is nonetheless true, is that the U.S. and
Europe are suffering a systemic failure of democratic
government. Central banks are encroaching on the politicians’
terrain out of necessity. They are doing what elected
politicians should be doing, because the politicians refuse to.  Under today’s conditions, with short-term interest rates at
zero, countercyclical fiscal policy has to be granted a bigger
role than usual. (There’s a strong, though admittedly not
universal, consensus among economists in support of this view.)
This role has two equally important dimensions, as Fed chief  Ben S. Bernanke  keeps saying, albeit in prudently elliptical terms.
Budgetary stimulus should be maintained or increased in the
short term, and public debt should be contained and reduced
(under the terms of a plan announced right now) in the medium
term.  The Fed, Bernanke never tires of  observing , can’t do it
all. The point is, at the moment he has no choice but to try.
Washington’s political paralysis makes intelligent use of fiscal
policy impossible, so monetary policy must do everything.  Fiscal policy is paralyzed in Europe, too, though for
different reasons. The sticking point there is not an
ideological quarrel about the proper role of government, but a
fight between the European Union’s stronger, better-run
economies on one side and its weaker, badly run economies on the
other, about who helps whom and to what degree. Really, it’s a
fight about what “Europe” means. The upshot is the same: fiscal
paralysis and bitterly contested demands for the central bank to
fill the vacuum.  Conservatives in the U.S. are very different from
conservatives in Europe (who themselves differ a lot from
country to country), but they have this much in common: They
want the Fed and ECB to stay out of politics and concentrate on
keeping prices stable. In a better world, where the elected
branches of government did their jobs, that would be excellent
advice. The world we have is one of acute political dysfunction,
so it’s a formula for catastrophe. Already the pressure has
slowed the banks’ response to the current emergency, and if the
critics prevail they’ll make things even worse.  You can have textbook checks and balances, with all
political actors held accountable to voters and independent
agencies held to a narrow technical mandate. Or you can have an
economy on the path to recovery. Reluctantly, I’ll take the
latter.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the right way to  bring
manufacturing back  and on breaking  South Africa’s circle of
strife ;  Edward Glaeser  on how Europeans might view  the “who
built it” debate ; Ezra Klein on  whether you’re better off  than
four years ago;  Michael Kinsley  on how Republicans  don’t really
care about jobs ;  Peter Orszag  on moving health care  from
quantity to quality ; Naomi Schaefer Riley on the roots of the
 Harvard cheating scandal ; Arun Sundararajan on  Facebook’s
winning business model .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 