-- Yuan Forwards Gain Most in Three Months on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-09-04T09:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-04/yuan-forwards-gain-most-in-three-months-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Yuan  forwards rose the most in three
months on speculation policy makers from Brussels to Beijing
will bolster efforts to spur economic growth.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  told lawmakers
in Brussels yesterday he would be comfortable buying short-dated
bonds to contain the region’s debt crisis, said Jean-Paul
Gauzes, a member of the European Parliament. China may draw up a
five-year plan for domestic trade soon,  Shanghai  Securities News
reported today, citing assistant commerce minister Fang Aiqing.
The nation aims to boost retail sales to 32 trillion yuan ($5.1
trillion) by 2015, the report said.  “Any signs of a more stable Europe will support the yuan
as it’s an important trading partner for China,” said Banny Lam, chief economist at CCB International Securities Ltd. in
Hong Kong, a unit of China’s second-largest bank. “There’s hope
that stimulus measures could come into effect in the fourth
quarter, bolstering China’s growth.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.19 percent
today, the most since June 6, to 6.4355 per dollar as of 4:38
p.m. in  Hong Kong . The contracts traded 1.37 percent weaker than
the spot rate in Shanghai, the data show. The discount was 1.65
percent yesterday, the widest since March 2009.  The yuan fell 0.1 percent to close at 6.3473 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It rose to 6.3310 earlier, the strongest level since May 23. The
yuan’s loss for this year narrowed to 0.84 percent.  The People’s Bank of China raised the yuan’s reference rate
by 0.02 percent today to 6.3402 against the greenback, while the
 Dollar Index  fell 0.07 percent. The local currency is allowed to
trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the daily fixing.
The spot rate closed at a stronger level than the fixing
yesterday for the first time since April.  Clinton in China  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visits China today
and tomorrow for talks with President  Hu Jintao  and Vice
President and heir apparent Xi Jinping to discuss maritime
conflicts, as well as global security concerns, including Iran
and North Korea’s nuclear programs.  “Clinton’s visit is likely to focus on geo-political
issues rather than  exchange rate ,” said Lam. “China has strong
reasons for not allowing rapid yuan appreciation as economic
growth has slowed.”  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was little changed
at 6.3480 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was steady at 1.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  