-- ‘Goodbar’ Screams, Sontag Thinks at Radar Fest: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-10T21:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/-goodbar-screams-sontag-thinks-at-new-york-s-radar-fest-jeremy-gerard.html
The free earplugs offered as you
enter the  Public Theater ’s Martinson Hall for “Goodbar” is a
challenge meant to separate the fearless from the timid.  That’s as good a metaphor as any for the Public’s
invaluable  Under the Radar  festival, now in its 12th two-week
season of presenting avant-garde works from around the world.  “Goodbar” is a screechy riff on Judith Rossner’s 1975
novel, “Looking for Mr. Goodbar,” based on the true tale of a
shy teacher who frequents singles bars at night and winds up
murdered.  The story’s sanctimony is pumped up even more than the
volume in this performance -- a “concept album” (remember
those?) created and staged by a band called Bambi and a
collaborative called Waterwell, all tricked out in multimedia
garb.  The story is narrated by the teacher, Theresa (played by
Bambi’s lead singer, Hanna Cheek), and an all-purpose predatory
male (Kevin Townley, who looks like Boy George with too much eye
shadow, if that’s possible).  Against a backdrop of Theresa’s increasingly sordid
encounters, they duetize songs as crude as they are loud.  ‘Sontag: Reborn’  Susan Sontag talks to herself in the fascinating “Sontag:
Reborn,” another multimedia foray, though of a far more
intimate and revelatory nature.  In a mere 80 minutes, the young Sontag is seen writing at
her desk, in the process of inventing herself as an iconoclastic
cultural critic. Her older self watches and occasionally
comments, courtesy of a scrim showing Sontag’s languorous image,
aswirl in cigarette smoke, face framed by the signature skunk’s-
tail hair.  On the stage, Moe Angelos, who adapted Sontag’s early
journals, plays the critic as her esthetics and her sexuality --
equally complex; equally expansive -- come into focus.  She wants to hold forth on everything intellectually and
experience everything physically -- even the dulling of her
marriage to Philip Rieff.  “It is useless for me to record only the satisfying parts
of my existence,” the young Sontag writes. “There are too few
of them anyway,” the knowing, elder Sontag retorts. The
elegantly simple staging is by Marianne Weems; the ectoplasmic
video is by Austin Switser.  ‘Lick But Don’t Swallow’  “Lick But Don’t Swallow!” is a coarsely amusing feminist
satire that might easily have been time-warped in from the
1970s. It’s performed in Turkish, with supertitles, though I
could have used the earplugs at this one.  On the stage at La MaMa, where several of the festival
shows are playing, a fleshy woman in red bustier and black
stockings languishes on a daybed, facing away from the audience.
She seems to be facing some sort of heavenly tribunal.  She must return to Earth and change someone -- anyone --
from bad person to good within 24 hours to get her wings and
return for eternal happiness. Naturally, she’s sent down in the
person of a porn star on a film set.  As she is variously mounted and otherwise engaged (there is
no nudity in the show), she pleads the case of starving African
children, abused women and other social tragedies, much to the
consternation of both the director and her co-star.  A troupe called Biriken created “Lick!” in collaboration
with Ayca Damgaci, the wholly convincing actress who stars.
There are subtitles but you don’t really need them. Agitprop
rarely requires translation.  Under the Radar runs through Jan. 15. Information: +1-212
539-8500;  http://www.undertheradarfestival.com .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 