-- ‘Volatility’ in Capital Gains Casts Doubt on California Tax Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/-volatility-in-capital-gains-casts-doubt-on-california-tax-plan.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
proposed sales- and income-tax increases are likely to raise $2
billion less than projected, largely because of “volatility”
in taxes on capital gains, the state’s fiscal analyst said.  Brown’s five-year boost in income-tax rates and four-year
increase in sales taxes would generate about $4.8 billion in the
next fiscal year, less than the $6.9 billion Brown estimated in
his budget last week, according to a  report  yesterday from the
Legislative Analyst’s Office.  The “highly volatile” nature of income on capital gains
complicates attempts to forecast the effects of Brown’s tax
plan, which would raise rates on the top 1 percent of earners,
the report said.  “The administration assumes more income, from more
filers,” Jason Sisney, the analyst who wrote the report, said
by telephone yesterday. “ Capital gains  are a big part of
that.”  H.D. Palmer, spokesman for the Finance Department, said the
volatility could cut both ways.  “There are some people who say our estimates are
conservative,” Palmer said in a telephone interview. “We don’t
include anything about a potential IPO by Facebook, for
example.”  The world’s most-used social-networking site, headquartered
in  Menlo Park ,  California , is examining a $10 billion offering
in 2012, a person with knowledge of the matter said in November.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, wants to raise income taxes
on individuals making at least $250,000 a year to 10.3 percent
from 9.3 percent. For those earning $300,000 to $500,000, the
rate would climb to 10.8 percent. For single filers with income
above $500,000, it would jump to 11.3 percent. Californians with
income of more than $1 million are now taxed at 10.3 percent.  Sales Tax  The governor also wants to boost the state retail-sales tax
rate to 7.75 percent from 7.25 percent. He wants voters to
approve the increase in a November election.  If the tax fails, the state would cut $4.8 billion from
public schools, the equivalent of slicing three weeks from the
academic year, Brown said Jan. 5.  Brown’s administration already plans to use $500 million
from auctioned carbon allowances under the state’s new cap-and-
trade program to help balance the budget, Palmer said yesterday.  If Brown’s tax measure passes yet fails to yield the
projected revenue, schools wouldn’t necessarily be cut, Palmer
said. State budget analysts revise their economic forecasts each
May, he said.  Marginal Tax Rates  Brown’s budget estimates assume that reductions in marginal
tax rates shepherded by President  George W. Bush  in 2001 and
2003 will be allowed to expire at the end of this year, Palmer
said. The legislative analyst, by contrast, predicts the cuts
will be extended by one year, Sisney said.  Under Brown’s scenario, many higher-income earners would
accelerate their capital gains into this year to take advantage
of the lower tax rate, Palmer said. If the drop in rates is
extended another year, the affected taxpayers likely would defer
gains until 2013, Sisney said.  In 2008, about 63 percent of earnings reported by
Californians making $500,000 or more came from capital gains and
other non-wage income, according to the legislative analyst’s
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  