-- La Nina Seen Near Peak as Dryness Parches Argentine Corn, Soybean Fields
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-10T10:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/la-nina-seen-near-peak-as-dryness-parches-argentine-corn-soybean-fields.html
A La Nina weather event that brought
dry weather to  Argentina  and rains to  Southeast Asia  may be
nearing its peak, said  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology.  While the system remains established over the Pacific Basin,
strength indicators have weakened slightly from last week, the
 bureau  said on its website today. Dryness has parched corn and
soybean fields in South America while rains have flooded rubber
and palm plantations in  Thailand  and  Malaysia .  Corn futures have climbed 13 percent in  Chicago  since Dec.
15 on concern that the lack of rain would cut production in
Argentina, the second-biggest corn shipper after the U.S.
Soybeans and wheat have rallied 11 percent since the middle of
last month. Argentina is the third-largest grower of  soybeans 
and  Latin America ’s biggest wheat producer.  “Forecast models surveyed by the bureau suggest this La
Nina event is at or nearing its peak, although it is likely to
persist for the majority of the north Australian wet season,”
the bureau said. The 30-day Southern Oscillation Index, used to
gauge its strength, was plus 17.5 through Jan. 7, from plus 23
in December, the highest monthly value since April, it said.  Corn for March delivery advanced 0.2 percent to $6.53 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 6:15 p.m. Singapore time,
extending yesterday’s 1.3 percent rise.  Hot, Dry Weather  The dry weather in Argentina may cause more damage than the
2008-2009 drought that was the worst in 70 years, said the
Argentine Association of Regional Consortia for Agricultural
Experimentation, a farming group, on Jan. 6. Hot, dry weather
reduced output in the U.S. to the lowest level in three years in
2011, helping corn post a third annual advance.  Argentina’s soybean crop  plunged  31 percent in 2008-2009 to
32 million metric tons, the lowest in seven years, while corn
 output  slumped 30 percent to 15.5 million tons, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . Soybeans for March delivery were
little changed at $12.325 a bushel in Chicago today.  Without losses in South America, the global corn deficit
was expected to narrow to 1 million tons before the next
Northern Hemisphere harvest, from 15.8 million tons a year
earlier, according to USDA data. That projection assumed that
Argentina’s  harvest  will soar to 29 million tons from 22.5
million tons a year earlier.  Argentina’s corn output could be as low as 22 million tons
because of La Nina, Martin Fraguio, executive director of the
Maizar association, which represents corn farming groups in
Argentina, said Jan. 5.  USDA Estimates  The next USDA outlook scheduled for release Jan. 12 will
probably show a “lowering in global corn and soybean production
on dry weather causing crop damage in  South America , as well as
the potential for a further lowering in U.S. corn yields,”
 Barclays Capital  said in a report yesterday.  Palm oil output in Malaysia, the second-largest producer,
dropped to a nine-month low in December when the nation’s main
growing regions were flooded. Output fell to 1.49 million tons
from 1.63 million tons in November, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board
said. Palm oil futures were unchanged at 3,215 ringgit ($1,025)
a ton in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  La Nina is expected to persist until the middle of this
year, causing higher-than-normal rainfall in Thailand, according
to the Thai Meteorological Department. Rubber futures in  Tokyo 
have climbed 3.6 percent this month on concerns rains will
disrupt latex tapping.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  