-- La Polar’s $1 Billion Fraud Fading as Chilean Rival Ripley Posts Rebound
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-10T19:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/la-polar-s-1-billion-fraud-fading-as-chilean-rival-ripley-posts-rebound.html
Ripley Corp SA (RIPLEY) ,  Chile ’s third-
largest department-store chain, is rebounding as investors seize
on record-low valuations and concern fades that a credit fraud
at rival  Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  will erode the industry’s profits.  Ripley has surged 27 percent from a  one-year low  in
October, the biggest rally among Chilean retailers in that
period. The stock plunged 38 percent in the four months after La
Polar said it hid $1 billion of customer loan delinquencies, a
cover-up that has led to the trial of four former executives and
prompted the government to seek tighter lending rules.  With shares trading at 16.4 times trailing earnings,
Ripley’s  valuation  is 16 percent below that of companies in the
benchmark IPSA index. That’s less than the record 19 percent
discount on Sept. 30. The rebound shows that concern the
government’s move to lower maximum interest rates banks and
department stores charge consumers in response to La Polar’s
case would reduce Ripley’s profit is easing, said Carles Gaju, a
 fund manager  at Bice Inversiones Adm. General de Fondos SA.  “The market has paid too much attention to potential
changes to the maximum rate,” said Gaju, who manages the  Bice
Chile Activo mutual  fund, the third-best performing Chilean
equity mutual fund, with a 17 percent decline in the last 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The effect of
lower rates will be less than what the market was thinking. The
announcements scared retail investors and that created
opportunities.”  Polar Tumbles  Financial services account for 11 percent of Ripley’s total
revenue, according to data posted on the website of Chile’s
securities regulator. This compares with 7 percent at  SACI
Falabella (FALAB)  and 3.5 percent for  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD) , the country’s two
biggest retailers by market value and sales, respectively,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Falabella trades at 22
times profit, while Cencosud fetches 24.  La Polar shares tumbled 90 percent after directors said on
June 9 that the company had been secretly restructuring terms of
clients past due loans as a way to cap provisions and boost
profits. The retailer has since filed for  bankruptcy protection 
and received approval from creditors to restructure debt to
continue its operations in Chile and  Colombia . Former Chief
Executive Pablo Alcalde, one of the four standing trial, says he
was unaware of the fraudulent lending and accounting practices.  Ripley, which also has operations in  Peru , fell as much as
41 percent in the last 12 months before paring losses to 24
percent. Since hitting a one-year low on Oct. 4, Ripley has
risen 27 percent, outperforming Falabella’s 8.6 percent gain and
Cencosud’s 17 percent.  Ripley fell 1.6 percent to 495 pesos at 2:54 p.m. in
Santiago today after rising as much as 1.2 percent.  Rate Ceiling  Since the La Polar fraud case, the government submitted a
bill to lower the ceiling on consumer loan rates and announced
the creation of a consumer protection agency specifically
tailored for the financial services industry.  Chilean law allows banks and credit-card operators to
charge a maximum 51.4 percent a year for peso loans of up to 90
days worth less than 200 unidades de fomento, the local
inflation-adjusted accounting unit, or roughly $8,700, according
to data on the banking regulator website.  The finance ministry’s bill submitted in September would
set a ceiling of 1.35 times the average market interest rate on
such loans, from 1.5 times, or the average plus 12 percentage
points, whichever is lower. The maximum annual rate may fall to
below 40 percent, officials have said.  Security Stake  Fondo Mutuo Security Acciones (SEACCCII) , the best performing Chilean
equity mutual fund in the fourth quarter with a 12 percent gain,
managed by a unit of Grupo Security SA, increased its investment
in Ripley to 5 million shares in December from 87 shares in
October, according to data on the securities regulator’s
website. Cristian Ureta, the fund’s manager, didn’t respond to
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Ripley doesn’t say how much the 11 percent in revenue it
derives from financial services contributes to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
Veronica Perez, an analyst at the brokerage unit of Banco de
Credito & Inversiones, or BCI, said in an interview.  By comparison, for Cencosud, which has stores in five Latin
American countries,  banking and credit-card  operations accounted
for 3.5 percent of 2010 sales and 22 percent of profit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Financial services
accounted for 6.2 percent of Falabella’s 2010 sales, the data
show. Falabella doesn’t provide a breakdown for net income.  Most Affected  Empresas Hites SA (HITES) , another department-store chain, would be
most affected by the new rate limits, according to a BCI study
published Sept. 22, as the new ceiling could push the average
rate it charges to about 31 percent per year from 39 percent.
Ripley may see a fall in the average rate to 26 percent from 32
percent, according to BCI. Hites shares fell 53 percent in 2011.  Ripley declined to comment for this article, according to
an external public relations representative.  Slower consumption growth may also hurt Ripley this year,
BCI said in the note. Chile’s economy is expected to grow
between 3.75 percent and 4.75 percent this year, after expanding
about 6.2 percent last year, according to the most recent
estimates from the central bank.  Ripley lags larger peers in efficiency indicators, posting
return on common equity of 8.52 times at the end of the third
quarter compared with 17.9 for Falabella and 10.7 for Cencosud.  “Ripley’s quality of earnings is quite different than
Cencosud and Falabella,” said Eric Conrads, who manages $1.2
billion in Latin American stocks at ING Groep NV in  New York .
“It’s also much more affected by the sensitivity to the Chilean
economy.”  ‘A Bet’  For Bice’s Gaju, lower profitability and performance
indicators at Ripley mean the company has room to improve. He
added Ripley shares even after the company reported on Nov. 25
third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates. The
Chile Activo Fund held 2.2 million Ripley stocks as of December,
according to data on the website of Chile’s securities
regulator, up from 1.8 million in August and 1.3 million in May.  “Buying Falabella is to play it safe,” he said. “Ripley
is a bet, but it’s a bet that may double its Ebitda by 2016.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  