-- Lack of Breadth Casts Doubt on Stock Rally: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-01-10T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/lack-of-breadth-casts-doubt-on-stock-rally-technical-analysis.html
Last week’s stock rally was driven
by fewer industry groups, casting doubt on the prospect of
further gains in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to
Bruce Bittles of Robert W. Baird & Co.  Among 75 industry groups in the S&P 1500, 52 percent were
in an uptrend last week, compared with 56 percent in the
previous week, according to the Milwaukee-based firm’s analysis
of 10-week and 40-week averages. The contraction in breadth
suggested a lack of support from stocks to propel the  S&P 500 
higher, said Bittles, chief investment strategist at Baird.  “Breadth is becoming more problematic,” Bittles wrote in
a note yesterday. “Absent a significant broadening in rally
participation, the ability of the major indexes to move
significantly higher is likely limited.”  The  S&P 500  climbed 1.6 percent last week, the second-best
start in the past six years after a 2.4 percent gain in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark index
rallied as much as 17 percent from the 2011 low as better-than-
forecast economic data boosted optimism that the world’s largest
economy can weather  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The gain has brought the S&P 500 above both its 10-week and
40-week average, driving the index toward the top of a trading
range it has been stuck in since August. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , a gauge of market fear, fell
to 20.63 on Jan. 6, the lowest level since July.  An index for financial shares, the second-biggest industry
group in the S&P 500, has remained below its 40-week average
since the end of May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Russell 2000 Index, a measure for small-cap stocks, is also
below the average.  ‘Increasingly Vulnerable’  “The lack of broad market participation suggests that
stocks could be increasingly vulnerable if optimism continues to
build as we move through the first quarter,” Bittles said.  U.S. individual investors were most bullish on U.S.
equities last week since February, according to a weekly survey
by the  American Association  of Individual Investors. The
percentage of investors who were optimistic on U.S. equities
increased to 48.9 percent from 40.6 percent the previous week.  Optimism is considered a contrarian indicator because
investors may have bought shares and have less money to invest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  