-- Ackman Canadian Pacific Proxy Fight Pivots on Ex-CEO’s Work at Rail Rival
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-01-10T21:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/ackman-canadian-pacific-proxy-fight-pivots-on-ex-ceo-s-work-at-rail-rival.html
William Ackman ’s plan to wage a
proxy fight to install a new chief executive officer at  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  pivots on the legacy of the CEO who once
led the carrier’s larger rival.  New directors “supportive of a change in leadership”
would back the hiring of Hunter Harrison, the retired  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR)  chief, Ackman said yesterday in an
interview. His Pershing Square Capital Management LP is Canadian
Pacific’s biggest shareholder.  Harrison, 67, more than tripled net income during seven
years running Canadian National with an approach known as
“precision railroading.” Ackman has put the retired CEO at the
center of his turnaround plan for Canadian Pacific, the least-
efficient major railroad in  North America .  Half of Ackman’s argument to investors “is going to be
what these guys have done wrong” at Canadian Pacific, Chris Wetherbee, a Citigroup Global Markets Inc. analyst in New York,
said in an interview. “Half of it is what they could probably
do better by instilling some of the virtues that Hunter has done
with the precision railroading” at  Canadian National .  The gap between Ackman and the board at Calgary-based
Canadian Pacific widened yesterday after Chairman John Cleghorn
released a letter rebuffing the idea of ousting CEO Fred Green,
55. Ackman responded in the interview that he would seek a proxy
fight and that Harrison would be CEO “once we are successful.”  ‘Team Player’  “We are fully, we are unanimously behind our CEO Fred
Green and his management team,” Cleghorn said in a telephone
interview. Green, who became CEO in May 2006, has “been in the
company for a long time. He grew up in the company, and he’s a
real team player. He’s been a great recruiter.”  Ed Greenberg , a railroad spokesman, said the company had no
further comment on Ackman’s plans. Harrison has declined to
discuss Ackman’s campaign at Canadian Pacific.  Given  “the globalization of our markets and definitely
the fact that Canadian and American businesses are ever
increasingly joined by the hip, it’s not unusual for an American
shareholder to take an activist stance in a Canadian
corporation,” said  Michael Schafler , a partner at Toronto law
firm Fraser Milner Casgrain LLP.  Ackman Targets  Ackman invests in companies he deems undervalued and seeks
changes to improve shareholder returns. Canadian Pacific’s U.S.
shares fell 0.2 percent to $67.63 at the close in New York. They
have gained 9.3 percent from Oct. 27, the day before Pershing
disclosed its initial stake. The hedge fund’s holding is 14.2
percent, according to a Dec. 13 filing.  The stock probably will be volatile until May, when
 Canadian Pacific  shareholders may vote, because the proxy battle
looks poised to drag on until then,  Jason Seidl , a New York-
based analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co. said in a note to clients
yesterday.  Ackman said last week he turned down the railroad’s offer
of a seat for him on a board that now has 15 members and asked
that Harrison and a nominee whom he hasn’t identified become
directors. He told the Wall Street Journal yesterday he will
hold a meeting for shareholders next month.  When Harrison retired from Canadian National at the end of
2009, the operating ratio, a measure of efficiency, had been cut
to 67.3 from 76 at the  end of 2002 , filings show. Canadian
Pacific’s ratio was 75.8 in 2011’s third quarter, and 77.6 for
all of 2010, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  Before running Canadian National, Harrison led Illinois
Central Corp., which was bought by the larger carrier in 1998.  ‘Compelling Credentials’  He “brings compelling credentials,” Fadi Chamoun, a
Toronto-based analyst with BMO Capital Markets, wrote in a note
to clients. Making him CEO “could fuel the current momentum in
the share price even further,” Chamoun wrote. He and Seidl are
among 16 analysts  rating  Canadian Pacific as hold, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Six say buy and one says sell.  Harrison helped champion the concept of so-called precision
railroading, with trains at set times and trip plans for each
car or container to ensure reliable deliveries. Maintaining
freight schedules has long been an industry challenge.  He “is intimately familiar with  Canada ’s customers, unions
and relevant regulations,” Ackman wrote in a letter to Cleghorn
last week. “He can hit the ground running and effect the
transformation faster, better and with less risk than any
alternative candidate.”  Railroad Response  Canadian Pacific’s board “carefully considered” and
unanimously turned down Ackman’s proposal to change leadership,
Cleghorn said in the letter to railroad shareholders.  Switching CEOs now would jeopardize a multiyear plan to
strengthen Canadian Pacific’s performance, and neither Pershing
Square nor Harrison has a detailed strategy to attain the goal
of improving the operating ratio, Cleghorn wrote.  Ackman has advocated cutting the operating ratio to 65 by
2015. Cleghorn responded that no railroad has ever posted that
rapid an improvement from where Canadian Pacific started, saying
that New York-based Pershing failed “to take into account the
structural differences that exist between CP and its peers.”  Canadian Pacific’s network  runs through the Canadian
Rockies and the U.S. Upper Midwest.  Canadian National ’s track
system includes lines in the eastern portion of the country,
where elevations are lower, and into the southern U.S.  ‘Solid’ Plan  Canadian Pacific’s plan to lower its operating ratio to the
low 70s in the next three years is “solid,” Cleghorn said.  “Management is committed to it, and we think it would be
highly disruptive to change all that, to just change at the top
for the sake of it, given our unique railroad and
circumstances,” Cleghorn said in the interview.  North American railroads have seen showdowns before with
activist shareholders. An alliance led by TCI Fund Management
LLP won four seats on  CSX Corp. (CSX) ’s board in 2008 to press for
bigger returns to investors. Those directors still were only a
third of the total, and TCI sold its 4.5 percent stake in 2009.  Citigroup’s Wetherbee, who has a neutral rating on Canadian
Pacific, said “it could be a bit of a challenge” for Ackman’s
Pershing to go beyond winning some board seats and get enough
control to install a new CEO.  What Ackman may be able to do is argue that the railroad’s
plan hasn’t been “effectively implemented” and that he can
“leverage the plan that’s in place but with better executors,
guys who are more proven,” Wetherbee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  