-- Actelion CEO Says Macitentan Lung Drug Has ‘Very High’ Chances of Success
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-01-10T23:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/actelion-ceo-says-macitentan-lung-drug-has-very-high-chances-of-success.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ’s experimental drug
macitentan has a “very high” probability of success in a
clinical trial that will be critical for the company’s future,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel said.  Data from a late-stage trial of the medicine, a successor
to Actelion’s top-selling lung drug Tracleer, will
“realistically” be released in the second quarter, Clozel said
in an interview yesterday in  San Francisco .  “What is important for us is to do everything in order for
the trial to succeed,” such as monitoring the quality of data
collection, Clozel said. “We are working on making this thing
work.”  Actelion, based in Allschwil,  Switzerland , needs macitentan
to help bolster earnings after Tracleer begins to lose patent
protection and faces competition from cheaper generic drugs in
2015. Efforts to reduce reliance on the lung therapy, which last
year accounted for almost 90 percent of  sales , faltered over the
past months after several clinical trial setbacks.  Clozel juggled in 2011 with shareholder unrest and
speculation that the company may be taken over.  Elliott Advisors
(UK) Ltd. , which pushed for a sale of Actelion, failed in May to
oust the CEO from the board and to replace other directors. The
hedge fund has since cut its stake to less than 3 percent,
according to a Sept. 28 stock exchange filing.  Market Dominance  Tracleer, which generated 1.64 billion Swiss francs ($1.57
billion) in  sales in 2010 , has dominated the market for
pulmonary arterial hypertension since it was approved in 2001.
The condition causes high  blood pressure  in the artery that
moves blood from the heart to the lungs and can be fatal.  Management is working to prepare Actelion for the aftermath
of the macitentan trial results, Clozel said during an interview
at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco.  “There are big chances that macitentan works so we are
trying to prepare its future launch,” he said. Should the
experimental drug fail, the company’s board would be forced to
consider “all options,” he added, declining to elaborate.  “It’s our job to say ‘What happens if it doesn’t work?,’”
Clozel said. “We have to be ready. We are preparing some plan
B. This is my job and the board’s job. All the options will have
to be evaluated.”  Clozel, a former scientist with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , founded
Actelion in 1997 with his wife Martine and three other
executives to develop medicines that had been abandoned by
Roche.  Profit Target  Shares in the company fell the most in more than three
weeks yesterday to 32.60 Swiss francs after Actelion said in a
statement that it missed its 2011 profit-growth target because
of a charge for late payments from southern European health-care
providers.  The charge, of as much as 35 million euros ($45 million),
is a “fair estimate” of amounts Actelion is owed by public
hospitals and other institutions mainly in Spain,  Italy ,
 Portugal  and  Greece , Clozel said during the interview.  “We are well paid in many of these countries, but some
hospitals, some places, for example some provinces in  Spain ,
just don’t pay as well as they should pay,” he said. “The
general managers are trying to get paid, we are in discussions
with all these hospitals.”  Actelion is still supplying these countries with
treatments, Clozel said.  The Swiss drugmaker is “always” pursuing opportunities to
acquire other companies or license products, Clozel also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in San Francisco at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  