-- Madeira’s Missing Yachts a Lesson on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-01-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/madeira-s-missing-yachts-fall-victim-in-portugal-to-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
On the western shores of Madeira,
waves crash onto the walls of the  Marina do Lugar de Baixo ,
sending white spray into the air above the dock built for 291 of
the world’s finest yachts. All the berths are empty eight years
after the boat landing opened.  The European Union, which gives  Portugal  more handouts for
development than Greece, partly funded the 44 million-euro
($56.1 million) marina. The site is currently closed and under
further construction as the Atlantic surf on the Portuguese
island has proved to be too dangerous for the yachts.  “This marina is probably the single-biggest white elephant
project on the island and a hallmark of the government’s
overspending spree,” Edgar Silva, leader of Madeira’s Coligacao
Democratica Unitaria opposition party, said in a Jan. 4
interview. “A complete waste of everyone’s money.”  For politicians, policy makers and investors looking for a
place that encapsulates the European debt crisis, few do it
better than Madeira, where loans and subsidies turned the island
into one of Portugal’s richest regions from its poorest. The
local government spent money it didn’t have to build the
trappings of an economic boom that never was.  Madeira’s debt  was 6.33 billion euros as of June 30, or 123
percent of the island’s economy in 2009, according to the
Ministry of Finance in Lisbon. While that ratio was less than
 Greece ’s 162 percent, it compared with Portugal’s nationwide
figure of 100 percent.  Glut of Money  Madeira received  323 million euros  of EU funds and money
transfers from the government in 2010, said a report by the
court of auditors. The amount was more than three times the
average of the country’s municipalities on the mainland.  Portugal is due to get 21.5 billion euros from the EU
between 2007 and 2013, making it the biggest euro-region
recipient after Germany and  Italy , according to a list of pre-
allocated EU Structural and Cohesion Funds compiled by Bruegel,
 a Brussels-based research company .  “It seemed there was no bottom to the EU funds coming
in,” said Michael Blandy, chairman of the 200-year-old  Blandy
Group , a Madeira-based company with interests ranging from
hotels to shipping and wine. “There was no plan in the work
that was done to make the island sustainable.”  The  Portuguese government  said Sept. 30 that Madeira’s debt
had ballooned to an unsustainable level and that the island’s
semi-autonomous administration had hidden part of the debt from
the government in Lisbon.  Deficit Revision  As a result, Portugal’s National Statistics Institute
revised the country’s 2010 budget deficit to 9.8 percent of
gross domestic product from 9.1 percent. Shut out by financial
markets, Portugal, whose economy has grown by an average of less
than 1 percent a year for the past decade, last year followed
Greece and Ireland in asking for a bailout.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is now cutting state
salaries, increasing taxes and selling government-owned
companies to comply with terms agreed in May of the 78 billion-
euro rescue from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  The government is pushing for similar measures on Madeira.
It has also signaled an end to a series of tax incentives for
the island’s International Business Center, a kind of tax haven
that has for decades attracted thousands of companies.  Hundreds of them left last year, according to Francisco
Costa, president of Sociedade de Desenvolvimento da Madeira, the
company that runs the business center. A subsidiary of Swatch
Group was among the companies to leave the island, Beatrice Howald, a spokesman for the Swiss watchmaker said on Dec. 9.  Errant Behavior  In November, the IMF said in a report that the adjustment
program for the “troubled autonomous region of Madeira will
provide an opportunity to signal that errant fiscal behavior at
the regional and local levels will no longer be tolerated.”  Madeira is run by Alberto Joao Jardim, the 68-year-old
president of the semi-autonomous government since 1978, who said
in an interview last month that hiding Madeira’s debt was
necessary to develop the island.  “Madeira today is completely different,” said Jardim,
speaking Dec. 6 on the sidelines of a parliamentary session in
Madeira to discuss the region’s 2012 budget. “If I hadn’t done
things during this period, they would never get done.”  Home of Ronaldo  Asked if he had any regrets about the state of Madeira’s
finances, he said: “none.”  Three weeks later, under threat from the government in
Lisbon to come up with an austerity plan for Madeira or lose
regional subsidies, Jardim announced a plan to cut public
workers salaries and raise taxes in what he said was the only
way “possible” to guarantee the future of the island’s
autonomy from the mainland.  Madeira, known for its fortified wine and as the birth
place for Real Madrid soccer star  Cristiano Ronaldo , runs an
independent budget and has its own government and parliament,
though the region cannot override the authority of the
government in Lisbon.  Jardim, a populist who has often clashed with the
government, has transformed Madeira into the second-wealthiest
region after Lisbon in terms of  GDP (GDDBPORT)  per capita from one of the
poorest, according to the National Statistics Institute. He used
the island’s ultra-peripheral status within the EU to tap into
billions of euros in EU funds and subsidies from Lisbon.  Jardim’s Tenacity  “In some ways, one has to admire the tenacity of Alberto
Joao Jardim in that he has known how to access those funds,”
said Blandy, whose company was founded by his forebear John Blandy in 1811.  In addition to the marina, the so-called white elephants on
Madeira include an abandoned heliport, deemed too dangerous for
landings, shopping malls and industrial parks, according to
Silva, 49, who wrote a report in 2011 on spending on the island.
He estimates the Marina do Lugar de Baixo cost 100 million
euros, more than twice the sum claimed by Jardim’s government.  While locals can see the fruits of Madeira’s development,
they are also aware of the consequences as Portugal grapples
with its part in  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Austerity is a very risky recipe, but the alternative is
not sustainable and puts the country’s credibility into
question,” said Jose Berardo, 67, who left Madeira at the age
of 18 to work in  South Africa . He later set up an office in
Lisbon to buy stakes in some of Portugal’s biggest publicly
traded companies, including  Banco Comercial Portugues. (BCP)   Island Roads  When Portugal joined the European Community in 1986, a trip
from Madeira’s airport to the island’s capital of Funchal took
almost an hour through a narrow and winding road, said Tito
Cantado, 62, a  taxi driver  for the past three decades. Drivers
now cover the 12-kilometer stretch of modern highway that cuts
through a handful of hills through an extensive network of
tunnels in less than 15 minutes.  “The road was so narrow that traffic would come to a
standstill if a truck happened to come in the opposite
direction,” Cantado said. “We have lived above our means ever
since we joined the EU. Now we must pay the price.”  Tourism accounts for about 30 percent of the island’s GDP,
while the Madeira International Business Center makes up 20
percent, according to Miguel  Albuquerque , the mayor of Funchal.  A few miles up the coast from the capital, a handful of
poles in the water is all that remains of the docking system
designed to accommodate yachts that stop in Madeira on their way
from Europe to America, or vice versa. The regional government
is planning to spend another 20 million euros on the failed
marina, Diario de Noticias da Madeira, which is partly owned by
the Blandy Group, reported on Dec. 30.  “Madeira clearly shows that despite the fact that Portugal
is a unitary and small state, it still has a tough time
controlling costs,” said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at New
York-based  Eurasia Group . “In the end, this is about regaining
investor credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  