-- Lagarde to Meet With Merkel as Pressure Rises to Complete Greek Debt Swap
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-01-10T17:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/lagarde-to-meet-merkel-as-pressure-rises-to-finish-debt-swap.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
will meet in Berlin tonight as pressure grows to complete a
Greek debt swap needed to put a rescue plan in place.  The deal, hammered out by European Union leaders, Greek
officials and the nation’s creditors on Oct. 26, called for
bondholders to accept a 50 percent cut in the face value of
their Greek debt, with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to
120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  More than two months after the accord was announced,
creditors and authorities still need to agree on the coupon and
maturity of the new bonds to determine the total losses
investors would suffer. The IMF has sought a lower coupon than
the range offered by investors to ensure  Greece  meets the
deficit targets amid a worsening economic outlook. Failure to
complete the voluntary swap threatens to further undermine
confidence in the EU’s crisis leadership and deter investors
from  Asia  and the U.S. from buying Europe’s debt.  “All non-European investors except a few bargain hunters
will keep clear of investing in the euro area,” said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-based  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset
Management, which oversees $72 billion.  Sarkozy Talks  Merkel meets with Lagarde at 8 p.m. in Berlin to discuss
Greece. No press conference is planned. Lagarde, a former French
finance minister, will then travel to Paris to meet with
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , his office said in a statement today.  “The voluntary restructuring of Greece’s debt must be
moved forward,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin yesterday after
talks with Sarkozy. “In our view, the second Greek program,
including the debt restructuring, has to be carried out quickly
now because otherwise it won’t be possible to pay out the next
tranche for Greece.”  The meetings reflect stepped up activity to resolve the
matter.  Charles Dallara ,  Institute of International Finance 
managing director and co-chairman of the creditors’ steering
committee taking part in discussions on Greek debt swap, will be
in  Athens  later this week to continue talks on a plan.  “It is important to build on the progress so far to move
the negotiations for a voluntary agreement forward as rapidly as
possible,” the Washington-based IIF, which represents more than
450 global financial institutions, said in an e-mail statement.  Losses Spreading  Investors should brace for the prospect that bondholder
losses could spread to other rescued nations,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
Chief Economist  Willem Buiter  said yesterday.  In Ireland, “there clearly will be a need for either some
form of official concessions on the terms and conditions of its
financing” or other private-sector involvement in a debt
restructuring, Buiter told reporters in Dublin yesterday.
 Portugal  may also have to engage in a restructuring of its
sovereign debt, he said.  There’s no point in speculating about a second aid program
for Ireland when the first one is “delivering,” European
Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels
today.  EU officials have emphasized that Greece’s circumstances
are unique and don’t presage bondholder losses in other nations
that seek assistance. The swap proposed to investors would slice
100 billion euros from the 205 billion euros of privately owned
Greek debt. The new bonds will be backed by 30 billion euros of
incentives, in the form of high-quality collateral issued by the
euro area’s rescue fund.  Greek Deficit  After two years of wage cuts and tax increases, the IMF
estimates Greece’s 2011  deficit  at about 9 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with 10.6 percent in 2010. The
economy probably shrank about 6 percent last year, according to
the latest IMF estimates, compared with a forecast of 3.8
percent in June.  Further delays in completing and implementing the debt swap
and rescue plan may have greater consequences for the rest of
the euro zone than Greece itself.  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
and corporate debt fell as investors pared bets the region’s
crisis is worsening. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index
of credit-default swaps on 15 governments declined 15 basis
points to 368 at 4:30 p.m. in  London , the first decrease in
seven days. A decline signals improvement in perceptions of
 credit quality .  About ‘Trust’  “Government debt markets are about trust,” European
Central Bank council member  Athanasios Orphanides  wrote in a
Jan. 5 Financial Times column. A “collective failure of euro-
zone decision-makers” has been a prime cause of the contagion
that drove up borrowing costs across the region, he said.  When policy makers began efforts to have private investors
share the cost of debt crisis losses, they intended to curb
moral hazard in borrowing nations, he wrote. The move also made
clear to potential lenders that “euro-zone sovereign debt
should no longer be considered a safe asset with the implicit
promise that it would be repaid in full,” Orphanides wrote.  Winning support from banks seeking to limit their losses
will be easier than roping in hedge funds and other speculators
who bought securities at distressed levels. For example,
investors who purchased Greek bonds at 35 cents or 40 cents on
the euro will want an agreement that allows them to profit from
the swap.  Hedge Funds  For that reason, the final deal may have to incorporate a
net-present-value loss of less than 60 percent to gain the
participation needed to avert default and a series of lengthy
legal battles, people familiar with the talks have said.  The net present value loss faced by participants in a Greek
debt swap may “of course” exceed 50 percent,  Frank Vogl , a
spokesman for the IIF, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Vega Asset Management LLC resigned this month from a
committee of Greek creditors negotiating the debt swap with
European authorities because the Madrid-based hedge fund refused
to accept a net present value loss exceeding 50 percent,
according to a Dec. 7 e-mail sent to other panel members, which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘Legal Options’  “Vega needs to start considering all available legal
options to refuse and challenge any exchange” that leads to a
loss of more than 50 percent, Vega wrote in the e-mail. Vega
Chief Executive Officer  Ian Shackleton  declined to comment on
the hedge fund’s resignation from the committee.  New bonds may be sweetened with warrants that allow
investors to receive a larger payment if Greece grows faster
than expected. Such warrants would improve the potential returns
for creditors, without locking Greece into higher payments if
the economy continues to struggle.  Both sides have agreed that the new bonds should be
governed by  English law  and that private bondholders should have
the same seniority after the swap as the IMF and the European
Financial Stability Facility, people familiar with the
discussions have said. The sides have also agreed that the deal
should include collective action clauses that would ensure
lenders participate in the swap, the people said.  Talks between Greece and private creditors are proceeding
at a satisfactory pace with discussions focused on what coupon
the new bonds will carry, Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis said in an interview on Real FM Radio today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  