-- Air France Talks on Airbus A350 Order Drag Out on Engine Dispute
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-10T15:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/air-france-talks-on-airbus-a350-order-drag-out-on-engine-dispute.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group said it’s still
negotiating an order for 25 Airbus SAS A350 aircraft, in a deal
being complicated by a maintenance dispute with  Rolls-Royce Plc (RR/) ,
while  Boeing Co. (BA)  clinched its own accord with the airline.  Europe’s biggest airline announced plans in September to
order 25 Airbus A350s and an equal number of Boeing 787s worth
about $12 billion at list prices. The airline said today that it
had completed the contract with Boeing last year, while talks
continue with Airbus and U.K.-based Rolls-Royce, the only
provider of engines for the A350 wide-body jet.  Air France had aimed to seal both contracts by the end of
last year, and the company said resolving engine maintenance was
the last remaining “significant” issue to tackle. Rolls-Royce
has balked at Air France’s request to overhaul the Trent engines
as part of the Airbus deal.  A Rolls-Royce spokesman said the company wouldn’t provide
comment on commercial discussions. Air France spokesman Jean-
Charles Trehan said “discussions are ongoing with Airbus and
Rolls-Royce” to finalize the contract. Airbus also said
discussions are continuing and and that the planemaker doesn’t
publicly talk about negotiations with customers.  The French airline doesn’t service any Rolls-Royce
turbines. Air France’s fleet is equipped solely with engines
from GE or its joint ventures with  Safran SA (SAF) , and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney , according to data from
aviation research firm Ascend. GE lets Air France Industries
service its existing models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  