-- Airlines May Book Windfall Gains on EU CO2 Plan, Study Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-10T10:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/airlines-may-book-windfall-gains-on-eu-co2-plan-study-shows-1-.html
U.S. airlines may post windfall
gains of as much as $2.6 billion after their inclusion in the
European Union emissions trading system, according to an
academic study that contradicts the aviation industry’s cost
estimates.  Flights to and from European airports became a part of the
bloc’s carbon program at the beginning of this year. The first
expansion of the EU emissions cap-and-trade system abroad has
drawn fire from countries outside the continent, and the U.S.
aviation industry estimated it would cost the nation’s carriers
$3.1 billion in the nine years through 2020.  “We find that the scheme would only have a small impact on
U.S. airlines and emissions, and that aviation operations would
continue to grow,” according to a study by scientists from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and Muenster University in
 Germany . “If carriers pass on all additional costs, including
the opportunity costs associated with free allowances, to
consumers, profits for U.S. carriers will increase.”  The EU emissions trading system, known as the ETS, imposes
pollution quotas on more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers. Emitters that produce less carbon dioxide than
their quota can sell surplus allowances, and those exceeding
their limits must buy additional permits or pay a fine of 100
euros ($127) per ton of CO2.  Cost-Free Allowances  In their first year in the ETS, international carriers will
be given emission permits making up 85 percent of the industry
cap and will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at auction.
The European plan favors most-efficient carriers, which are due
to receive proportionally more cost-free allowances based on
benchmarks published by the commission last year.  The inclusion of airlines in the EU carbon cap-and-trade
will cost the industry 3.5 billion euros and may increase ticket
prices by an average of 3 percent, aviation information provider
OAG said in a report yesterday, assuming a price level of 30
euros per allowance.  EU permits for delivery in December rose 4.1 percent to
7.08 euros on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as of 9:26 a.m. in
 London . The contract has fallen 52 percent in the past year.  “Windfall gains from free allowances may be substantial
because, under current allocation rules, airlines would only
have to purchase about a third of the required allowances,”
according to the study, published in the Journal of Air
Transport Management. “However, an increase in the proportion
of allowances auctioned would reduce windfall gains and profits
for US airlines may decline.”  $3 Fee  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  added last week a $3 one-
way fee on flights from the U.S. to Europe, matching an earlier
charge by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , as carriers tack on the costs of
new European emissions rules.  Should airlines pass on all costs associated with carbon-
dioxide allowances, the windfall gains for U.S. carriers will be
around $2.6 billion in the period from 2012 to 2020, according
to one scenario in the study. Its authors assumed a carbon price
of 15 euros a metric ton in 2010 and increasing by 4 percent
each year.  “Full cost pass-through of EU ETS costs has been observed
in some electricity generation markets and in oil refining,”
the report’s authors said.  Windfall Gains  Under two other scenarios analyzed by the scientists, one
assuming that airlines are only able to pass on the costs of
allowances purchased and another in which they are unable to
pass on any costs, there will be no windfall gains and the U.S.
airline profits will decrease, the study showed.  The EU set the 2012 aviation emissions cap at 214.8 million
metric tons for 30 nations in the so-called European Economic
Area that participate in the EU ETS carbon-trading program: 27
EU nations as well as Iceland, Norway and  Liechtenstein . The
limit from 2013 onwards is 210.3 million tons.  This year’s cap is valued at around 1.52 billion euros at
today’s prices, with airlines set to receive permits valued at
1.29 billion euros for free and to buy allowances worth 228
million euros at auctions.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ewa Krukowska} in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  