-- Taiwan Inc. Backs Ma Re-Election in Push for China Business
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-11T04:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/taiwan-inc-backs-ma-re-election-bid-in-push-for-china-business.html
Taiwanese tycoon Douglas Hsu made no
secret of his desire for President Ma Ying-jeou to win a second
term this week as he cut the ribbon in opening his $6.7 million
Mega City department store in Taipei.  “Change isn’t good,” Hsu, chairman of Far Eastern Group,
said in an interview at the ceremony last week, speaking over
blaring music as a high school marching band passed by. “The
present policy is a soothing, consistent, continuous
development,” he said, ahead of the Jan. 14 election.  Hsu, who crafted a deal to sell a stake in Far EasTone
Telecommunications Co. Ltd. to the mainland’s  China Mobile Ltd. (941) 
a year after Ma took office, is joined by executives including
the chief of Apple Inc. supplier Foxconn Technology Group in
publicly backing Ma. With opposition candidate Tsai Ing-wen
advocating a more cautious approach to China, the group says any
policy change might disrupt the flow of Chinese tourists and
limit access to 1.3 billion potential customers on the mainland.  Ma’s moves to sign  trade  agreements and ease restrictions
on air, sea and postal links saw outbound investment to China
rise 22 percent from a year ago to $12.4 billion in the first 11
months of 2011. The mainland overtook  Japan  as Taiwan’s biggest
source of overseas tourists in the same period, with 1.6 million
visitors, 69 percent more than a year earlier, according to
 Tourism Bureau Data .  Asset Protection  “Executives will do whatever possible to protect their
assets, and they’ve concluded that regime change isn’t good for
business,” said Alexander Huang, a professor of strategy and
war-gaming at Tamkang University’s Graduate Institute of
International Affairs and Strategic Studies. “They may not want
to antagonize China, which could affect their business” by
declaring support for Tsai, he said.  The  Taiwan Stock Exchange ’s Taiex Index has tracked the
performance of the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of equities under Ma,
whereas it lagged behind under predecessor Chen Shui-bian, who
advocated independence. Since Ma took office in 2008, the
Taiwanese gauge is down about 24 percent, against the 26 percent
drop for the MSCI measure. Under Chen, the Taiex was up 1.9
percent while the Asia Pacific index climbed 35 percent.  Samuel Yin, chairman of Ruentex Group, which has textile
factories and retail stores in China, took out half-page ads in
 Taiwan ’s business newspapers in support of Ma.  “We know deep inside that only when there is cross-strait
peace can the economy develop and people live and work,” one ad
said. “Taiwan cannot again bear the uncertainty and the
breakdown in cross-strait relations.”  Beijing Warning  China regards Taiwan, ruled separately since a civil war
ended in 1949, as its own territory and criticized a push by the
DPP’s Chen to seek sovereignty during his tenure from 2000 to
2008. Beijing has warned that relations would suffer if Tsai
wins.  Closer ties under Ma allowed China and Taiwan to sign an
economic cooperation agreement in 2010 and paved the way for
Cathay Financial Holding Co. Ltd. and Fubon Financial Holding
Co. Ltd., Taiwan’s largest listed financial-services companies,
to expand business there.  Ma’s promises to support businesses with land distribution
spurred Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou to announce a research and
development hub in the south of Taiwan. He also plans a factory-
automation center in central Taiwan, marking the company’s
largest local investment in new facilities in at least a decade.  “The global economy is very unstable right now, and
changes come quick,” Gou said at a groundbreaking ceremony for
a cloud-computing center with Ma in December. “The previous
financial tsunami brought one-meter waves, and now we’ve got ten
meter waves, so we need a skilled, experienced helmsman.”  Past Precedent  A relative lack of public support in the business community
for Tsai, the chairwoman of the  Democratic Progressive Party ,
may stem from China having linked the political stance of
executives to their ability to invest in China in the past,
Huang said.  China’s state-run People’s Daily ran an editorial in 2004
saying the country didn’t welcome investment from Taiwanese
businesses that “use money made on the mainland to support
independence.” The story singled out Hsu Wen-long, then
chairman of Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp., who was an adviser to
then-President Chen.  “Hsu donated money to the DPP, which got him labeled as
pro-independence,” Huang said.  Tsai Concern  In her campaign, Tsai pledged to address Taiwan’s wealth
gap and says closer economic links with China could result in
Taiwan bartering away its autonomy.  “A lot of these executives have business interests in
 China , so their support for Ma isn’t surprising,” said Hsiao Bi-khim, a DPP spokeswoman. “They may also be getting pressure
from China to show their support.”  Tsai recognizes the importance of Taiwan’s economic
relationship with China and won’t turn her back on the mainland
if she’s elected, said Tang Ching-ping, a political science
professor at National Chengchi University in Taipei.  “Tsai has appealed a lot to the working class who want the
government to do more to help the average citizen, and this has
helped boost her support,” Tang said. “She’s also very
pragmatic on China.”  Former Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui today publicly
endorsed Tsai, taking out a half-page advertisement in major
newspapers asking people to vote for her. Lee resigned as
chairman of Ma’s Kuomintang party in 2000 at the end of his two
terms and infighting helped end 50 years of Nationalist rule.  “China must realize that it’s not dealing with a party,
it’s facing the Taiwanese people,” Lee said in the statement.  Widening Lead  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls
10 days prior to presidential elections.  Far Eastern Group Chairman Hsu says the improved ties with
China create new opportunities. Along with plans to open more
malls in Taiwan, the company’s parent aims to invest $500
million in China.  “The world’s all connected together, and the market of 1.3
billion is over there, so where am I going to go?” he said. “I
used to be envious of my colleagues in the States and  Europe 
because they have such huge markets. Now they turn around and
say to me: ‘Hey, I am envious of you.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  