-- Alex DeCroce, New Jersey Assembly’s Republican Leader, Dies at Statehouse
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-01-10T18:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/alex-decroce-new-jersey-assembly-s-republican-leader-dies-at-statehouse.html
Alex DeCroce, the highest-ranking 
Republican in the lower house of the  New Jersey  Legislature 
and a mentor to Governor  Chris Christie , collapsed and died 
last night at the Statehouse. He was 75.  DeCroce, the Assembly minority leader who represented 
Morris County for 23 years, was found in a first-floor mens 
bathroom after lawmakers finished their final voting session
of the legislative year. A cause of death hasn’t been issued,
State Police Captain Frank Davis said today in an interview.  DeCroce was to have appeared at the Trenton War Memorial
today for the Legislature’s reorganization with members elected
in November, and then at Christie's State of the State address
in the Assembly chamber. Christie, a first-term Republican who
said DeCroce helped give him his start in politics, postponed
the speech after his mentor’s death. Lawmakers were sworn in 
at scaled-back ceremonies in the Statehouse.  A trooper who responded at 11:20 p.m. to a report of an
unconscious man found DeCroce slumped over, not breathing and
without a pulse, Davis said. State police used an external
defibrillator and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
Assemblyman Herb Conaway Jr., a Burlington County Democrat and
doctor who had served with DeCroce since 1998, pronounced
DeCroce dead at 11:30 p.m., Davis said. The Mercer County
Medical Examiner’s Office removed the body from the Statehouse.  Leadership Post  Conaway told reporters today at the Statehouse that DeCroce
wasn’t feeling good prior to his death. Some lawmakers reported
that “he didn’t seem himself and he wasn’t feeling well,”
Conaway said.  Assemblyman Jon Bramnick, a Republican from Westfield, told
reporters that DeCroce wasn’t feeling well yesterday and had
been working more than 12 hours. He called DeCroce a friend and
“one of our most dedicated public servants.”  “He was a model statesman who led our caucus with grace
and integrity,” Bramnick said in a statement. “Alex was a
mentor to many of us, and his wisdom and kindness made this
state a better place.”  First appointed to the Assembly to fill a vacancy in
January 1989, DeCroce was elected to a full term that November,
and won the leadership post in 2003. Assemblyman John Wisniewski, chairman of the Democratic State Committee, said
DeCroce was the longest-serving member of the Assembly at the
time of his death.  Victims’ Rights  At the start of his legislative career, DeCroce
successfully sponsored a proposal for a constitutional
amendment, ratified by voters in 1991, to update crime victims’
rights, said  Brigid Harrison , a professor of politics and law at
 Montclair State University . Democrats at the time controlled the
Legislature and the governor’s office.  “That made Republicans stand up and take notice” of
DeCroce, Harrison said in a telephone interview.  In the most recent legislative session, DeCroce was sponsor
of a bill to update victims’ rights.  Democrats have controlled both of New Jersey’s legislative
houses since the 2001 elections, according to Derek Roseman, a
spokesman for Senate President  Stephen Sweeney . Christie was the
first Republican elected New Jersey governor since 1997.
Democrats in the reorganized Legislature will lead the Senate,
24-16, and the Assembly, 48-32.  Pensions Bill  DeCroce was among the Republicans who voted for changes to
pensions and health benefits for New Jersey’s public employees,
a bill that Christie signed June 28. Christie has said the
changes, including a later  retirement age  and higher employee
contributions, will save taxpayers $120 billion over 30 years.  Last month DeCroce issued a statement urging Democrats to
support limits on payouts to public workers for unused sick and
vacation time, a taxpayer liability of $825 million, according
to the Christie administration. The legislative session expired
without approval of the bill.  DeCroce also was a sponsor of legislation to renew New
Jersey’s Transportation Trust Fund, the state’s main financing
source for roadwork, whose bonds are backed by sales and fuel
taxes. The $900 million the trust receives each year goes
entirely to paying $12.5 billion in debt.  Sponsorship of those bills is “sometimes a heavy lift,”
said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New
Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.  “People have to figure out where the money’s coming
from,” Dworkin said in a phone interview. “You have to get
both parties behind it.”  Born in Morristown  DeCroce is survived by his wife, Betty Lou DeCroce, deputy
commissioner in the state Department of Community Affairs. He
also has three children and two grandchildren, according to a
 biography  on the the Assembly Republicans’ website.  Born June 10, 1936, in Morristown, DeCroce graduated from
Boonton High School and attended  Seton Hall University  in South
Orange. He married the former Betty Lou Bisson in 1994,
according to the biography.  DeCroce was a member of Morris County’s governing body from
1984 to 1989. He also served on the county’s elections and
taxations boards, and as chairman of the County College of
Morris board of trustees.  DeCroce was president of a real-estate company, ERA Gallo &
DeCroce in Parsippany-Troy Hills, where he lived. His late
business partner, Dean A. Gallo, also had been Republican
minority leader in the Assembly before he won election to
Congress in 1984. Gallo died in 1994 of cancer.  ‘Dear Friend’  Rather than update the Legislature on the condition of the
state, a requirement of the New Jersey constitution, Christie
planned to make public remarks about DeCroce to lawmakers in the
Assembly chamber at 1 p.m., said  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman
for the governor. No new date was immediately set for the State
of the State speech.  Christie, in a statement, called DeCroce “a dear friend,
colleague and mentor” for almost 20 years.  “He was one of the most kind, considerate and trustworthy
people I have ever had the pleasure to know,” Christie said.
“He was an enormously accomplished legislator and a tremendous
servant to the people of New Jersey.”  The last time a New Jersey governor postponed a State of
the State speech was in 1996, when Republican Governor Christine Todd Whitman rescheduled because of a blizzard.  The Assembly began today’s swearing-in ceremony with a
moment of silence for DeCroce. Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a
Democrat from  East Orange , called DeCroce “a great friend and
leader.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  