-- Aluminum Prices May Climb to Six-Month High This Quarter
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-01-11T06:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/aluminum-may-rise-to-six-month-high-this-quarter-on-demand-vedanta-says.html
Aluminum prices may rise to as much
as a six-month high by the end of the quarter as processing
companies replenish inventory to meet a rebound in demand, said
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ,  India ’s biggest producer.  Prices may climb to as much as $2,300 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange by March 31, Mukesh Kumar, chief operating
officer of the London-based company’s Indian unit, said in an
interview. Aluminum, used to make autos and aircraft, ended
yesterday at $2,164 and last closed above $2,300 on Sept. 21.  A rise in manufacturing indexes in  China  and India may spur
sales of cars and consumer appliances, leading to higher demand
for aluminum. Prices may be boosted by a global supply shortage
in the first half as smelters idle as much as 15 percent of
capacity following the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and
China’s measures to control inflation.  “Soon the processing companies will start buying and this
will support prices,” Kumar said by phone yesterday. “Demand
in India is likely to surge this quarter, as contractors of
government projects race to meet deadlines for the fiscal
year.”  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , India’s second-largest aluminum
producer, and  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. , a unit of
Vedanta Resources that owns Bharat Aluminium Co., rose to their
highest in four weeks.  Shares Gain  Hindalco gained as much as 5.2 percent to 129.50 rupees and
traded at 129 rupees as of 12:19 p.m. in Mumbai, while Sterlite
climbed as much as 4.2 percent to 99.90 rupees and traded at
99.55 rupees. National Aluminium Co., the nation’s largest
state-owned producer, rose as much as 2.1 percent to 57.85
rupees, the highest in almost two months, and traded at 57.30
rupees.  India’s government plans to double its spending on public
works and utility projects to $1 trillion in the five years
ending March 2017, aiming to achieve economic growth of 9
percent. The economy will expand about 7 percent in the year
ending March 31, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on Jan. 8,
less than his December prediction of 7.5 percent.  The billionaire Anil Agarwal-controlled Vedanta group,
comprising Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. and Sterlite, produced more
than 637,000 tons of aluminum in the year ended March 31, about
40 percent of India’s total output. Unprofitable Vedanta
Aluminium, which is coping with rising costs of alumina and
power at its annual 500,000 ton smelter in eastern India, plans
to maintain production, anticipating a revival in prices this
quarter, Kumar said.  Bauxite is turned into alumina that is in turn refined into
aluminum. About four tons of the mineral is used to produce a
ton of metal.  Indexes Gain  Manufacturing from the U.K. to India improved in December,
suggesting production is weathering strains from  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Purchasing manager indexes for the U.K.,  Switzerland ,
China, India and  Australia  rose last month, while German
unemployment fell more than expected as exports of cars and
machinery boomed. U.S. manufacturing growth accelerated more
than economists forecast to the fastest pace in six months.  Aluminum prices are expected to rise this year and next,
Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co., told Bloomberg
Television on Jan. 9. More than 40 percent of global capacity is
running at a loss and output cuts are likely to continue,
lifting prices, he said.  “The price outlook is bullish as recent data show a
revival in manufacturing activities in China and India and
expectations of better buying in the U.S.” said Ravi Bhushan, a
base-metals trader on the  Multi Commodity Exchange  in Mumbai.
“Prices have started to look up in the New Year and the trend
should continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  