-- Amazon Is First Big Retailer to Back Hollywood Film Format
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-11T07:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/amazon-com-joins-ultraviolet-plan-to-offer-films-on-tablets.html
Hollywood’s effort to sell digital
copies of movies got a boost when  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest
online vendor, agreed to use the industry’s common system for
storing and streaming films.  Amazon is working with an unnamed studio to offer movies in
the UltraViolet format, Bill Carr, the Seattle-based company’s
executive vice president for digital media, said yesterday at
the Consumer Electronics Show in  Las Vegas . Amazon is the first
major retailer to commit to using the platform.  Amazon’s participation may speed adoption of Ultraviolet,
the Hollywood-led initiative to allow consumers to purchase a
title from any retailer, store it in a central online account
and stream it to a variety of gadgets, from televisions to Blu-
ray players to mobile devices like Amazon’s Kindle Fire.  “The best movie and TV service for consumers is the one
that provides them with the broadest choice possible,” Carr
said.  UltraViolet aims to promote home-video sales, which are
more profitable to studios than rentals. The system has
struggled to attract users since its debut in October because no
major retailers were promoting it and consumers have been
confused about how to register and access movies they purchased.  Courting Amazon  Studios have been courting Amazon since October, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ,
owner the CinemaNow website, and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , owner of
Vudu.com, are members of the UltraViolet consortium, although
neither website has begun using the system.  During a panel discussion with studio executives yesterday,
Amazon’s Carr touted UltraViolet’s potential to reach a range
of devices.  “We’re very excited about the additional possibilities
from a customer’s point of view that UV enables,” Carr said.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said it will make Blu-ray players
equipped with an application that will load digital copies of
older DVDs and Blu-ray discs into the UltraViolet system for a
“nominal” fee. The stored movies would be accessed through
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Flixster movie site.  Warner Bros .,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures and  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Pictures have released DVDs and Blu-ray discs that
can be registered for viewing through UltraViolet.  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s
Paramount Pictures has said it plans to release titles.  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  isn’t an UltraViolet member.  The service has attracted 750,000 households since it was
introduced in October, the Digital Entertainment Content
Ecosystem LLC, the consortium backing the platform, said
yesterday in a statement.  Consumer electronics companies including Samsung,  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  also are members of the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  