-- Angolan Banking System Ready for Influx of Oil Dollars, CEO Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-01-10T12:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/angolan-banking-system-ready-for-influx-of-oil-dollars-ceo-says.html
Angolan banks are preparing to
handle hundreds of millions of dollars from foreign  oil
companies  operating in the African country when a law requiring
them to use local lenders comes into effect later this year.  Emidio Pinheiro, the chief executive officer of Banco
Fomento Angola, the country’s second biggest private bank,
expects oil companies to start using local banks to pay part of
their taxes and suppliers by the end of June.  “It’s a very significant challenge for the financial
system,” Pinheiro said in a phone interview from Luanda. “I
believe we will be ready for it.”  In the past, oil companies weren’t required to use banks in
Angola,  Africa ’s biggest producer of crude after  Nigeria , as
lenders couldn’t handle such transactions, Agencia  Angola  Press
reported on Oct. 26, citing a proposal of the new oil law.  The law, approved by parliament in Luanda on Nov. 29, will
be phased in so that Angolan banks can adjust to it, Pinheiro
said.  The southern African country, which emerged from a civil
war in 2002, is adopting measures to increase transparency in
the banking sector, said Pinheiro.  Last year, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos signed into
law a bill designed to prevent  money laundering  and the funding
of terrorist activities. The country ranked in the bottom 15 of
183 countries in a  Transparency International  corruption study
last year.  “Such laws will bring more credibility to Angola’s economy
and create a more business-friendly environment,” said
Pinheiro.  Booming Economy  Angola is attracting more foreign companies as its economy
booms. Gross domestic product is is expected to grow 10.8
percent this year, up from an estimated 3.7 percent in 2011,
according to the  International Monetary Fund.   “There is a lot of interest in Angola from foreign
investors, mainly because the country’s energy sector remains
robust,” he said. “There is also interest in farming and other
industries.”  About 21 banks operate in Angola, including  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK) , Africa’s largest lender. Banco Fomento Angola, which
is controlled by  Banco BPI SA (BPI) ,  Portugal ’s third-biggest publicly
traded lender, accounted for more than 60 percent of BPI’s nine-
month net income last year,  according to BPI.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  