-- Lanxess Chief ‘Confident’ About 2012, Bolstered by Brazil, China
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-10T17:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/lanxess-chief-confident-about-2012-bolstered-by-brazil-china.html
Lanxess AG (LXS)  Chief Executive Officer
Axel Heitmann said he’s confident about prospects in 2012, with
markets like Brazil promising “serious” double-digit growth
for the synthetic-rubber maker.  Demand for Lanxess’s energy-efficient compounds and
plastics, used in tires and car parts, will be untouched by any
slowdown in countries in  China , Heitmann said in an interview in
 New York . New factories coming on stream in  Asia  will give a
boost to Lanxess’s earnings toward the 2015 goals, he said.  “There won’t be a slowdown for these technology-driven
products in China,” the CEO said.  Heitmann is expanding capacity in  Latin America  and Asia to
maximize growth. The company remains interested in acquiring
small- to medium-sized companies valued at as much as 1 billion
euros ($1.2 billion),  he said in the interview.  Lanxess shares rose to the highest price in almost five
months after Bank of America recommended the stock.  Heitmann said the company’s preference is for organic
growth over purchases.  The supplier of materials to tiremakers including Pirelli &
C. SpA typically targets markets where it can hold a leading
position. The product of a spinoff by  Bayer AG (BAYN)  in 2005, the
Leverkusen-based company spent about 420 million euros on
acquisitions last year.  Lanxess’s biggest purchases to date are Petroflex, a
Brazilian maker of synthetic rubber for tires, tubing and
plastics bought for $413 million, and DSM Elastomers BV,
acquired for 310 million euros.  The company made an unsuccessful 1.1 billion-euro approach
for Taminco, a chemicals maker owned by CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., according to people with knowledge of the situation.
Taminco, which makes amine-derived additives used in crop
protection, foods and consumer goods, would have diversified
Lanxess’s portfolio that’s 50 percent dependent on the auto
industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  