-- Apple Acquires Flash Part Maker Anobit
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-01-10T23:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/apple-says-it-has-acquired-israel-based-anobit-technologies.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it acquired Anobit
Technologies Ltd., an Israeli company that makes a flash-memory
drive part for the iPhone and iPad, confirming a press report
from last month.  The deal helps Apple secure  supplies  of a key component for
its top-selling devices. Anobit makes high-performance
controllers used to optimize the memory capabilities inside
products such as the iPhone and iPad. Apple is the world’s
largest buyer of NAND flash memory, accounting for about 23
percent of consumption last quarter, according to a Jan. 6
report from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, said today that the purchase had been made, while
declining to elaborate. The statement confirmed a December
report from in the Israeli newspaper Cacalist.  “Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time
and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans,” Dowling
said in a telephone interview.  The Anobit deal, whose cost Apple wouldn’t disclose, is the
company’s first acquisition in Israel, where  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have established
operations.  Israel, with a population similar in size to Switzerland’s
at 7.7 million, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside  North America  after
China. Israel is also home to the largest number of startups per
capita in the world.  Research Center  Microsoft opened a research and development center in
Israel in April 2006, according to the Redmond, Washington-based
software maker’s website. Intel, which began operations in
Israel in 1974 with five employees, has 6,600 workers in the
country, according to the chip manufacturer’s website.  Anobit had raised $76 million from investors, including
 Battery Ventures  and Pitango Venture Capital, before today’s
announcement, according to an online fact sheet. The Israeli
company says its memory signal processing technology uses
proprietary signal-processing algorithms to improve the
performance of flash-memory chips.  While Apple didn’t acknowledge buying Anobit until today,
Israel’s prime minister’s office welcomed the company to the
country in a Dec. 20 post on Twitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net 
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  