-- Apple Moves a Step Closer to Offering IPhone to China Telecom Subscribers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T07:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/apple-moves-a-step-closer-to-offering-iphone-to-china-telecom-subscribers.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  moved a step closer to
accessing 33 million potential iPhone customers in  China , as
regulators approved specifications for a device that would run
on the network of  China Telecom Corp. (728)   The China Radio Management Office granted Apple’s
application for a handset that operates on the CDMA2000 network
standard, the regulator said in a statement posted on its
website this week. The wireless standard is the third-generation
network technology used by Hong Kong-listed China Telecom,
China’s third-largest carrier.  Adding the standard would almost double Apple’s access to
existing mobile services subscribers able to get the iPhone
through a contract with a Chinese carrier. The Cupertino,
California-based company would still need to get a license from
China’s Telecommunications Equipment and Certification Center
before it could sell the device.  “This is good for Apple as it means they’ll have a new
market for the product,” said Tam Tsz-wang, who rates China
Telecom shares “buy” at DBS Vickers Securities in  Hong Kong .  The iPhone is now available with a service contract only
through China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the nation’s second-
largest carrier, which had 36.5 million 3G subscribers at the
end of November. China Telecom had 33.4 million 3G mobile
subscribers in the same period.  Apple’s Retail Network  The iPhone model for China Telecom would probably be based
on technology similar to the iPhone version for Verizon Wireless
users in the U.S., Tam at DBS Vickers said.  China Telecom rose 2.4 percent to HK$4.31 as of 2:59 p.m.
in Hong Kong trading, while the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
gained 0.7 percent. The stock has climbed 4.1 percent in the
past 12 months.  China Unicom (762)  fell 2 percent to HK$16.38.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, and
Jacky Yung, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for China Telecom, both
declined to comment on the timeline for the carrier’s
introduction of the iPhone.  More than 2.2 million iPhones were shipped in China in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with 300,000 a year earlier,
according to research company Gartner Inc. Apple ranked third in
China’s smartphone market in the three-month period, trailing
Nokia Oyj and Samsung Electronics Co., according to Gartner.  Sales of iPhones through unauthorized channels, or the so-
called gray market, in China have dropped as Apple expanded its
local retail network, according to Sandy Shen, an analyst at
Gartner in  Shanghai .  Apple has a network of more than 200 “Apple Premium
Resellers” in the country that are focused on the company’s
products, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in October.
Combined with other types of resellers and China Unicom, there
are 7,000 points of sale for the iPhone in China, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  