-- Arctic Air May Grip Canada Sparing U.S. Next Week, Forecasts Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-10T14:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/arctic-air-may-grip-canada-sparing-u-s-next-week-forecasts-say.html
A mass of cold Arctic air may
descend on western  Canada  and brush the northern Great Plains
next week while temperatures in the rest of the U.S. remain
seasonal or higher than usual.  Temperatures as much as 15 degrees Fahrenheit (8.3 Celsius)
below normal will sweep across Calgary and Saskatchewan,
dropping into Montana and North Dakota, according to 6- to 10-
day forecasts from Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  and MDA EarthSat Weather.  “The models are in general agreement that a very strong
Arctic air mass pools in Western Canada around days 5-6,” Roger
said in an analysis. “But they disagree strongly on where to
send it.”  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants 
consume about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according
to Energy Department data.  Colder-than-normal air may also reach northern  New England 
in the period from Jan. 15 to Jan. 19.  MDA , in Gaithersburg,
Maryland, predicts that lower temperatures may settle as far
south as Boston. Rogers and Weather Derivatives say Boston’s
weather will be nearer to seasonal.  The Great Plains and northern parts of Washington, Idaho
and Montana may reach normal levels of heating demand from Jan.
11 to Jan. 17, said Weather Derivatives’  David Salmon  in Belton,
Missouri.  Heating Demand  Much of the rest of the country will still be using less
heating supply than normal for this time of year, he said.  Average heating degree days in the U.S. have failed to
reach normal levels for 11 straight weeks, Salmon said.  Yesterday, in its weekly forecast, the U.S. Climate
Prediction Center said heating degree-days values across the
U.S. may be 155, 54 lower than normal and 85 below last year.  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses.  In their 11- to 15-day forecasts, both Rogers and MDA call
for the Northeast to be seasonally cold from Jan. 20 to Jan. 24.
They disagree on how much of the South will have warmer-than-
normal temperatures.  MDA limits the warmer air to a region from Arizona to
Alabama, while Rogers predicts higher temperatures may spread
into the southern Rocky Mountains and Ohio Valley.  Weather Derivatives doesn’t issue an 11- to 15-day
forecast.  The normal average temperature in  New York  for Jan. 17 is
33 degrees, according to MDA. The average is 29 in  Boston , 24 in
Chicago, 43 in Atlanta, 42 in Seattle, 53 in Houston, and 55 in
 Burbank ,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  