-- Areva Says Banks Trim Loans for Offshore Wind Farms on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-01-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/areva-says-banks-trim-loans-for-offshore-wind-farms-on-crisis.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , which is bidding with
other companies to build five offshore wind farms in  France 
needing 10 billion euros ($12.8 billion) of investment, said
banks are lending less because of the financial crisis.  “Where we used to have 15 banks around the table,”  Areva (AREVA) 
now has to invite about 30 banks “to convince everyone to bring
a share to the financing,” Philippe Kavafyan, vice president of
Areva Wind France, said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Paris today. “The banks right now are of course
living through a financing crisis.”  Areva’s wind unit is part of a group led by Spanish utility
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and France’s Eole-Res SA that is bidding for two
sites in Brittany, and is part of a group led by  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) 
bidding for three farms off the Normandy coast, Kavafyan said.
Areva is the world’s biggest supplier of nuclear fuel and
services.  France, which has no offshore wind power yet, proposes to
install 6,000 megawatts, or about 1,200 wind turbines, by 2020
to boost clean energy. Bids are due today for the first round of
five zones with a combined capacity of 3,000 megawatts, which
will require about 10 billion euros of investment, according to
the government.  Winning bids will be preselected in April this year with a
final decision in 2013 after the companies have confirmed
funding. The wind farms are scheduled to come into service from
2015 to 2020.  Prototype Testing  For four sites, Areva’s 5-megawatt wind turbines will
compete against 6-megawatt turbines developed by  Alstom SA (ALO) ,
which has been picked as sole supplier for today’s tender by a
group led by Electricite de France SA’s renewable energy unit.
Alstom has said it will start testing prototypes of its offshore
turbine this year, with full production starting in 2014.  “Our technology has been prototyped for the last seven
years onshore, and in the last two years we have operated units
offshore” in a 30-megawatt farm that faces “pretty challenging
conditions” in the  North Sea , Kavafyan said.  Areva has also been picked to install 120 turbines in two
wind farms in the North Sea over the next two years, said
Kavafyan. In addition,  Areva (AREVA)  has been chosen for two more
projects, and another 120 turbines, to be supplied by the
company’s German plant, and bank financing is now being
completed, he said.  “That will put us in a unique position to bring to our
customers and bankers a very good level of risk-mitigation as
far as technology and reliability is concerned” for the French
projects, he said.  German Plans  If picked for French offshore farms, Areva has said it will
build an assembly plant in the French harbor of  Le Havre , which
could also be used to supply U.K. wind farms across the Channel.  “Iberdrola and Eole-Res have a potential 10-gigawatt
pipeline in the U.K.,” Kavafyan said. “Only a share of that
would be an ambitious goal for us” and “there’s more to come
with the ambitious plan of the German government.”  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy, plans to install 10,000
megawatts of offshore  wind turbines  this decade.  “Banks are interested in the French offshore projects,
which are very solid, but there’s European competition so at
this time of crisis they might prefer to finance shorter
projects like those in Germany,” said Barthelemy Rouer, a
Paris-based analyst at Wind Prospect Group, a consultant on wind
projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  