-- Argos Proves Loser in U.K. as Wal-Mart Gains With Amazon: Retail
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-10T11:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/argos-proves-loser-in-u-k-as-wal-mart-gains-with-amazon-retail.html
Terry Duddy has described the U.K.
retail market as “challenging” in every results statement
since he led the separation of  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  from former
parent GUS Plc in 2006.  With the  shares  losing four-fifths of their value since
then, analysts like Credit Suisse’s Assad Malic in London say
it’s time for a change of plan.  The owner of the Argos catalog retailer and Homebase chain
has the “most vulnerable business model” in European retailing
this year, Malic said. “Management need to present a more
credible strategy this year, which looks to address some of the
structural problems around Argos’s positioning.”  U.K. retailers from  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) 
turned to discounting to drive holiday sales amid weak consumer
demand. Home Retail, which  employs  more than 53,000 people, may
say this week that Argos’s same-store sales fell for an eighth
straight quarter, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Argos has been hurt by dwindling household incomes and
competition from supermarkets including Tesco and Web retailers
such as Amazon.com Inc. Duddy may need to consider closing some
of the chain’s 750 stores, according to  Chris Walker , a retail
analyst at Nomura.  Home Retail ’s market capitalization has dropped to 720
million pounds ($1.1 billion) from about 3.7 billion pounds
since the spinoff. That’s led to media speculation that the
company may be a takeover target. Net income in the year ending
Feb. 28 will probably fall 58 percent to 74 million pounds,
based on estimates from 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Falling Sales  At Argos stores, shoppers choose from a catalog listing
more than 22,000 products, including budget televisions, video
games and furniture, and have items brought out from a storeroom
or delivered. Customers can also order by phone or online, with
more than 35,000 items available on the website.  “Fundamentally, it’s not moved with the times,” Richard Black, who oversees the U.K. equity income fund at Legal &
General in  London , said in a phone interview. “For us to own
it, we would need at the very minimum a strategy to improve the
sales performance, and protect and grow the margin. With
management, we’ve found it very difficult to get an idea what
their strategy is to reverse that decline.”  Same-store sales at Argos probably fell 9 percent in the
third quarter, according to the median  estimate  of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would likely be the worst
performance of the larger listed U.K. retailers outside of Kesa
Electricals Plc’s Comet chain.  Lowest Recommendations  Home Retail shares ended 2011 as the third-worst performing
stock in the U.K.  FTSE 350 General Retailers Index , falling 56
percent compared with the index’s 12 percent decline. The  Milton
Keynes , England-based retailer has the lowest consensus analyst
 recommendation  and price-to-earnings ratio of 18 U.K. retailers
with market capitalizations of more than 500 million pounds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chris Wermann, director of corporate affairs for Home
Retail, declined to comment for this story.  “The performance is disappointing, obviously,” said Cato Stonex, a partner at fund manager Taube Hodson Stonex Partners,
which owns 5.14 percent of the stock, Bloomberg data show. “We
believe the groundwork has been laid for improved performance
once the cycle turns and consumers feel slightly more
confident.”  Sixteen out of 26 analysts monitored by Bloomberg rate the
stock a “sell,” compared with five analysts who have it as a
“buy,” and five “hold” recommendations.  Homebase Performance  Home Retail is due to report sales for the 18 weeks through
Dec. 31 on Jan 12. Same-store sales at the Homebase home-
improvement unit probably fell 1 percent, the estimates show.  After Next Plc and John Lewis Partnership Plc reported
stronger holiday sales last week, statements due from other
retailers this week may not be as positive, said Richard Cathcart, retail analyst at Espirito Santo in London.  Marks & Spencer , the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer,
today reported a 1.8 percent decline in U.K. same-store revenue
at its general merchandise unit, missing the median estimate for
a 0.5 percent drop.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , Britain’s second-largest
department-store chain, said same-store sales were unchanged.  Tesco, the U.K.’s biggest retailer, is due to issue an
update on Jan. 12 and may report a 0.6 percent drop in same-
store sales, excluding fuel and value-added tax, for the six
weeks through the first week of January, analyst estimates show.  Home Retail’s Duddy has headed the business since 1998,
when it was part of GUS. Prior to that, he held various
positions at Dixons Group Plc, the biggest U.K. electronics
retailer, including managing director of the PC World chain. He
owns about 0.3 percent of Home Retail shares.  Asda Campaign  In addition to his responsibilities as CEO, Duddy is also
overseeing Argos after Managing Director Sara Weller left the
chain last year for personal reasons.  “Most people want someone with a bit of online or
multichannel experience and someone who can look at the cost
base and reposition the business,” said Nomura’s Walker, who
has had a “reduce” recommendation on Home Retail since 2010.  Argos was targeted by Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda
supermarket chain in a holiday advertising campaign that
compared prices on toys. In response, Argos, the biggest toy
retailer in the U.K., offered 50 percent discounts on 1,000
items, which analysts said may hurt profitability.  “That is now the big risk given how promotional Christmas
was,” said  Simon Irwin , an analyst at  Liberum Capital . He
estimates margins may narrow as much as 1.5 percentage points.  “Of the big ones, Home Retail is definitely going to be
the most dire,” Irwin said. “The real issue is the lack of
plan. Home seems to be the rabbit in the headlights.”  ‘Big Cost Base’  According to Legal & General’s Black, Argos’s “very
large” liabilities on store leases are also a concern. The
operating lease charge was 366 million pounds in the last year,
according to a first-half statement in October.  Nomura’s Walker said Duddy should consider scaling back the
number of outlets to contain costs.  “It’s a big cost base; you should be looking to reduce
that store portfolio over time,” he said. “Management still
think each store is contributing and profitable,” which isn’t a
“cash positive” decision, he said.  Home Retail had net cash of 200.5 million pounds at the end
of the first half ended Aug. 27, and isn’t indebted like
retailers such as  HMV Group Plc. (HMV)   Adding more branded items that shoppers recognize at Argos
may help improve its fortunes, according to  John Guy , an analyst
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The chain sells 1,500 own-
brand items such as Chad Valley toys, Alba consumer electronics,
Bush televisions, and Hygena and Schreiber furniture.  “Argos needs to shift the product mix; people don’t buy
electronics that are own-brand as much these days,” Guy said.
“The emphasis continues to shift in favor of branded goods with
more males than females making the final purchase decisions.
Own-labels aren’t selling as well as they used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  