-- Marks & Spencer Gets Boost as Retailer Maintains Outlook After Sales Gain
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-10T16:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/marks-spencer-gets-boost-as-forecast-held-after-sales-gain-on-food-unit.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, reported increased holiday
sales led by gains in its food unit and maintained the full-year
profit outlook as cost reductions offset discounts on apparel.  Revenue at U.K. stores open a year or more rose 0.5 percent
in the 13 weeks ended Dec. 31, the London-based company  said
today . Same-store sales at the food unit gained 3 percent,
beating the 2 percent median estimate. U.K. general-merchandise
sales fell 1.8 percent, missing the median  estimate  of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a 0.5 percent decline.  Marks & Spencer gets almost half its revenue from food,
where sales were buoyed by increased purchases of party products
and desserts, Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said. The
company, which operates more than 700 stores in the U.K. and
serves 21 million shoppers a week, increased discounting over
Christmas with offers such as 25 percent off knitwear.  “This marginal increase in fortunes should restore some
confidence” in Marks & Spencer shares, said  Richard Hunter ,
head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers. “M&S also
pulled the rabbit out of the hat with its food offering.”  The  shares  rose 3 percent to 317.7 pence, giving the
company a market value of about 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion).  Weaker Margins  Competitor  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  also advanced after reporting
holiday sales that beat analyst estimates and saying it expects
pressure from commodity costs will ease. Debenhams stock climbed
9 percent t0 62 pence.  Marks & Spencer said  gross margins , or profit as a
percentage of sales, will be lower than its previous prediction
for “broadly flat” profitability. That will be offset by
additional cost savings, it said, without being more specific.  The retailer joined competitors such as Debenhams and House
of Fraser in running promotions in advance of the holiday,
offering 25 percent off items such as cashmere knitwear.  “We have seen a very strong response from that,” CEO
Bolland said on a call with journalists today. “It’s a
different strategy from before, but it has worked for us.”  Clothing revenue was up 1.1 percent over the 13-week
period, though sales of items for the home slumped 13 percent as
the retailer stopped selling technology products, M&S said.  Olympic Games   Average selling prices for clothing rose as customers
bought more expensive products, though the volume of apparel
sold declined, Bolland said.  Sales of party food increased 8 percent, while seasonal
desserts such as salted caramel profiteroles had “record
sales” of 16 million packs, the CEO said.  “Customers protected their Christmas spend and came to M&S
for everything they needed for a Christmas at home,” he said.  Marks & Spencer is “very positive” on the outlook for
summer, when the U.K. will host the Olympic Games and celebrate
Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee, Bolland said.  “We’re very much part of events, so we look forward to
summer,” he said. “For the rest, it’s going to be a difficult
year like 2011 was for customers, because customers are
realistic about it and they’re prepared for it.”  On Jan. 4,  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing
retailer, said November and December had been “disappointing”
and warned of slack profit growth next year as the euro-debt
crisis and a credit squeeze restrict  consumer spending .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  