-- As Head of Bain, Romney Was Creator and Destroyer of Jobs: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-10T00:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/as-head-of-bain-romney-was-creator-and-destroyer-of-jobs-view.html
In the past week, the Republican
primary campaign for president has turned to the question of
 Mitt Romney ’s record as a businessman. Romney, the front-runner,
is campaigning on his experience at Bain Capital LLC, which he
evidently regards as more relevant than his experience as
governor of Massachusetts.  He says he demonstrated an ability to “create jobs” at Bain
-- 100,000 of them. His opponents, particularly  Newt Gingrich ,
have challenged this claim, saying that Bain actually destroyed
more jobs than it created as it went about the business of
buying and selling companies or pieces of companies.  Whether Romney is being frank about his history at Bain is
a valid question because of what it may reflect about his
honesty and character, more than what it says about his business
skills. The notion that being a businessman in  Massachusetts  or
 Utah  is better training for a president than being a politician
in  Washington  is one of the more tiresome conceits of American
politics.  That said, it’s still worthwhile to know how well Romney
did at Bain. The Wall Street Journal on Monday  reported  on a
study of 77 businesses that Bain had invested in from 1984 (when
Romney joined the firm) to 1999 (when he left it). The study
looked at what happened to these companies eight years after
Bain got involved. It found that 22 percent of them had either
gone bankrupt or otherwise closed their doors, and an additional
8 percent had lost all of Bain’s investment. Although not all
the bankruptcies resulted in shuttered companies, jobs were
surely shed.  There is no scientific way to evaluate this record. The
Journal indicates, via quotation from various experts, that
Bain’s win-loss record is fair-to-poor, compared with that of
other private-equity players. However, it appears that Bain took
on riskier investments, so while its failures were bigger, so
were its successes. Bain objects to the study, saying that the
Journal blames Bain for business disasters that occurred after
Bain had sold its stake. But if the question is whether Romney
created jobs at Bain, what happened after Bain finished its
handiwork can be as relevant as what happened when it was still
involved.  Romney deserves credit for more than doubling the return of
his investors. If he wins the Republican nomination for
president, we’ll be arguing for months (probably with
insufficient evidence on either side) about whether he was as
good for employees.  The history of the small companies bought and sold,
financed and milked, by Bain is like the history of small
businesses in general. You would think, from the way politicians
from both parties carry on, that small business is
simultaneously a mighty engine of American prosperity and a
delicate flower that will wither in the slightest chill. In
truth, small businesses create jobs when they start up or
expand, and they destroy jobs when they shrink or close. They do
both at a rapid clip.  President  Barack Obama  wants to raise taxes on people with
incomes of more than $200,000 or $250,000 a year. It’s no
argument against this that many small businesses make more than
$250,000 a year. An owner whose small business makes more than
$250,000 a year can afford to pay more taxes just like someone
who makes more than $250,000 in salary. Small businesses deserve
our admiration, and so do owners and investors -- people like
Mitt Romney -- if the businesses succeed. What they don’t
deserve is special treatment.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 