-- Aussie, Kiwi Strengthen Versus Yen After Merkel, Sarkozy Meeting
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-01-10T02:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/aussie-kiwi-strengthen-versus-yen-after-merkel-sarkozy-meeting.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars strengthened against the yen as Asian stocks rose for a
second day after the leaders of Germany and  France  made progress
on plans that seek to solve  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The so-called kiwi rose to the highest in more than one
month against the greenback as the leaders of Europe’s two
largest economies said the new budget rulebook for nations in
the euro area may be ready a month ahead of schedule, spurring
investor appetite for riskier assets. Gains in the South Pacific
currencies were limited before a report forecast to show export
growth in China was the slowest in two years.  “There’s a little bit of improved risk sentiment out
there,” said Andrew Salter, a currency strategist at  Australia 
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “The market
underestimates the determination of European leaders to find a
solution.”  Australia’s dollar advanced 0.4 percent to 78.99 yen as of
1:07 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday in  New York . It climbed 0.4
percent to $1.0282.  New Zealand’s currency earlier touched 60.88 yen, the
highest since Dec. 5, before trading at 60.87, 0.6 percent above
yesterday’s close. It advanced 0.7 percent to 79.24 U.S. cents.
It earlier reached 79.26, the highest since Nov. 14.  Australia’s government bonds declined, pushing the yield on
the 10-year security up three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 3.77 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 0.8 percent.  ‘Major Challenge’  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Berlin yesterday to discuss how to
implement the new “fiscal compact” agreed to at a Dec. 9
summit of European leaders.  “This is a major challenge constitutionally for the
European Union to change its states’ budgetary processes, so
this will take time,” said ANZ’s Salter. “We wouldn’t be
strong sellers at current levels of Aussie and kiwi. If the
Aussie were to rally into $1.04, we would recommend to our
clients to sell into that.”  Merkel said Greece would be the focus of talks today in
Berlin with International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde . “We want  Greece  to stay in the euro,”
Merkel said at a joint press conference with Sarkozy yesterday
following their meeting.  Building Approvals  The Aussie maintained its advance after a report showed
Australian  home-building approvals (AUBAC)  advanced more than economists
had forecast in November. The number of permits granted to build
or renovate houses and apartments gained 8.4 percent from
October, when they fell a revised 10 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast for a 6 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey.  Australian and New Zealand dollar gains were limited ahead
of a report that may indicate China’s export-driven economy is
slowing. Excluding distortions in January and February each year
related to the Lunar New Year, overseas shipments probably
increased in December by the least since export growth resumed
in December 2009, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The median estimate is for a 13.4 percent gain.  “In terms of Aussie and kiwi, we’re watching what happens
in  China  as a guide,” said Emma Lawson, a currency at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “A big surprise today would be
if trade data come in better than expected, although the market
would take it quite negatively in Aussie and kiwi if it comes in
a lot worse than expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  