-- Austria 5-Year Borrowing Costs Rise Amid Hungary Crisis
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-01-10T16:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/austria-bonds-roiled-by-hungarian-turmoil-leave-dutch-debt-favored-at-sale.html
Austria ’s borrowing costs rose at a
sale of five-year notes today amid an economic crisis in
Hungary, while yields fell for the Netherlands, which also
auctioned debt.  Austria issued 660 million euros ($843 million) of 4
percent notes due in September 2016 at an average yield of 2.21
percent, the Federal Financing Agency said today. That’s up from
1.96 percent at the previous sale of the securities on Nov. 8.
Yields fell at a 10-year sale. The Dutch State Treasury sold
about 3.11 billion euros of 0.75 percent April 2015 debt at a
yield of 0.853 percent.  “The Austrian auction went OK,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“The size wasn’t a huge amount, which helped. The Dutch auction
went well.”  Austrian bonds have underperformed their Dutch counterparts
this year on concern the nation’s financial institutions, which
have lent the most to Hungarian borrowers, will be hurt after a
confrontation between  Hungary ’s premier and the central-bank
chief caused negotiations on an international bailout to be
suspended last month. The euro-bloc members, both rated AAA, are
also at risk of a slowdown in economic growth as the region’s
sovereign debt crisis chokes expansion.  Yields on  Austrian 10-year bonds  rose to 120 basis points
above those of similar-maturity Dutch securities at the end of
last week, from 72 basis points on Dec. 30. Austrian debt lost
2.4 percent this year through Jan. 9, compared with a 0.2
percent decline for the Netherlands, indexes by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies show.
Hungary’s bonds lost 0.4 percent.  Austrian Claims  Austria’s claims on Hungarian households, companies and the
public sector stood at $41.6 billion at the end of June,
compared with $23.4 billion for Italian lenders, according to
the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements.
Erste Group Bank AG owns Hungary’s second-biggest lender, with
Raiffeisen Bank International AG owning the country’s fifth-
largest.  “Austria has come under pressure, largely reflecting
exposure to Hungary, which is under increased solvency
pressure,”  Padhraic Garvey , global head of developed-country
debt and rates strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in a
phone interview on Jan. 6. “The link between the two comes
through Austrian banks’ exposure to Hungary. Investors will have
a choice: they can buy the rich Dutch bonds or the cheap
Austrian bonds.”  Ten-Year Bonds  The Austrian government issued 660 million euros of 3.65
percent bonds maturing in April 2022 at 3.322 percent, down from
3.528 percent at a sale on July 5. Today’s rate was higher than
the 2.992 percent average yield at an auction on Nov. 8 of 3.5
percent bonds due September 2021.  The Dutch 0.75 percent 2015 notes haven’t been previously
sold. The government issued equivalent-maturity bonds on Oct.
25, when it sold 1.02 billion euros of 3.25 percent securities
at a yield of 1.404 percent.  The yield on the Austrian 10-year bond fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.22 percent at 4:33 p.m.
 London  time. Its high  last year  was 3.88 percent on April 11,
and it dropped to as low as 2.48 percent on Sept. 23. The
similar-maturity  Dutch (GNTH10YR)  yield ranged between 3.77 percent and
2.10 percent. It rose three basis points today to 2.26 percent.  Maturing Debt  “I don’t see the danger of Austria going belly up,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London. “Austria’s rating is at risk, but that applies
to every other euro country.”  Governments of the world’s leading economies have more than
$7.6 trillion of debt maturing this year, with most facing a
rise in borrowing costs. Led by  Japan ’s $3 trillion and the
U.S.’s $2.8 trillion, the amount coming due for the Group of
Seven nations and  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  is up from
$7.4 trillion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  At $428 billion, Italy has the most coming due this year in
the euro region, followed by France at $367 billion and  Germany 
at $285 billion, year-end data show. Austria is at $23.6
billion, while the Netherlands has about $82 billion, the
figures show.  Bond Sales  Austria plans to increase bond sales as much as 50 percent
this year, Martha Oberndorfer, who heads the country’s debt
agency, said last month at a presentation to the nation’s
primary dealers. The  debt agency  will issue 20 billion euros to
24 billion euros of bonds this year, up from about 16 billion
euros in 2011, according to the presentation. Including
instruments such as treasury bills, private placements and
loans, total issuance will be 27 billion euros to 30 billion
euros, compared with about 21 billion euros last year.  In an investor note dated Jan. 4, analysts at ING forecast
total euro-region issuance will be 956 billion euros this year.
Germany,  Italy  and Spain also auction bonds this week, while
 Greece  sold six-month bills today.  Fitch Ratings  cut Hungary’s long-term foreign-currency
ratings by one level to BB+ on Jan. 6 after similar reductions
by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service, saying there
remained doubts whether the nation will submit to conditions for
aid from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Orban Interview  The risk of the country failing to reach an agreement sent
the forint last week to a record low against the euro and lifted
the government’s borrowing costs to the highest since 2009.
Talks on Hungary’s second bailout in four years broke down last
month as the government refused to alter a central-bank law that
the EU said threatens the monetary authority’s independence.  Hungary is ready to accept “any kind” of credit line that
strengthens the country’s market financing, Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said in an interview on Jan. 8 with state news
service MTI.  Austria and the Netherlands are also at risk of being
downgraded by S&P, which said on Dec. 5 that it might cut the
rankings of 15 euro members, including the six AAA states, as
the debt crisis had raised “systemic stress” in the region.  An economic slowdown in Austria this year will be more
abrupt than forecast earlier as government budget cuts push up
unemployment and delay a rebound in the production of goods and
services until 2013, the Wifo research institute in Vienna said
Dec. 21. Gross domestic product is expected to rise 0.4 percent,
the group said, down from a September prediction of 0.8 percent
growth, and 1.8 percent in July.  Economies in the region are slowing as a solution to the
sovereign-debt crisis, which prompted Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to seek international bailouts, eludes policy makers.  IMF Forecasts  The IMF will make a “fairly substantial” cut to its
forecast for global economic growth this year, Olivier Blanchard, the body’s chief economist, said on Jan. 6. In
September, the Washington-based fund lowered its forecast for
global growth to 4 percent in 2012 and warned of “severe”
repercussions if  Europe  failed to contain its debt crisis.  The Dutch economy, the fifth-largest in the euro area,
probably fell back into a recession in the second half of last
year as the crisis intensified, the country’s central bank said
in December. The economy is set to shrink 0.5 percent in 2012
after expanding 1.5 percent last year, the Bureau for Economic
Policy Analysis CBP said Dec. 13. The  finance ministry  raised
this year’s borrowing requirement on Jan. 4 to 101.5 billion
euros from a December forecast of 99.6 billion euros. About 60
billion euros of that will be covered by bond issuance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  