-- Combs Hands Gains to Buffett by Raising Bets When Picks Slip
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-01-10T14:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/berkshire-s-combs-hands-gain-to-buffett-by-increasing-bets-when-picks-slip.html
Todd Combs,  Warren Buffett ’s
apprentice stock picker at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , posted gains
on his first equity bets at the company by buying when markets
fell and increasing stakes in investments that declined.  Purchases of seven stocks by Combs in the nine months ended
Sept. 30 advanced almost 14 percent as of Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was
little changed last year. Combs’s results were propelled by a 51
percent surge in holdings of  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s
second-biggest payments network, and a 28 percent advance in an
investment in retailer Dollar General Corp.  Combs followed the example set by Buffett, who invested in
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. at the depths of the 2008 credit crunch
and advised shareholders in 1998 to “ rejoice  when markets
decline.” The portfolio manager hired by Buffett in 2010 added
shares of Intel Corp.,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and Dollar General on
Aug. 8 last year as the  S&P 500  had its biggest decline of 2011.  “Those are very Buffett-like tenets of  value investing :
Buy when the markets are fearful,” said  Tom Lewandowski , an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co. who has a “buy” rating on
Berkshire. “So I’m not surprised to see that Todd was buying.”
Aug. 8 was the first trading day after S&P downgraded the U.S.  Buffett, 81, has said he’ll focus on managing Berkshire’s
largest stockholdings and count on Combs and Ted Weschler, who
was hired to join the Omaha, Nebraska-based firm this year, to
take stakes of about $200 million.  Buying Stocks  Combs spent about $1.24 billion accumulating positions in
seven companies in first three quarters of 2011, according to
the data from filings distributed by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners. The holdings of CVS, Intel,  Dollar
General (DG) , MasterCard,  Visa Inc. (V) ,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and
DirecTV were valued at about $1.41 billion at year-end.  “I’d give him an excellent grade,” said  David Kass , a
professor at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School
of Business. “He is very much demonstrating what you might
expect a value investor like Warren Buffett to do.”  MasterCard was acquired by Combs at an average cost of
about $246.74 in January and April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. MasterCard, based in Purchase,  New York , surged to
 $372.82  by year-end.  An initial stake in Dollar General was acquired through
June 27 at an average price of $33.39. Combs bought a second
batch of shares through Aug. 8 at $31.29, and a third through
Aug. 29 at $31.69. He paid an average of $32.07 for about 4.5
million shares. Dollar General ended the year at $41.14.  Next Generation  Combs bought about 3.5 million shares of CVS, the largest
U.S. provider of  prescription drugs , through Aug. 8 at a cost of
about $36.15 a share, the data show. He added 2.2 million shares
less than a month later at an average of $34.05. The stock ended
the year at $40.78 in New York trading.  Combs is part of a second generation of Berkshire leaders
who will collectively assume the responsibilities that Buffett
has held through his four decades as chairman, chief executive
officer and head of investments. He joined Berkshire as
Buffett’s longtime backup stock picker, Lou Simpson, retired.
Combs made the equity investments through Berkshire’s Geico
Corp., the car-insurance subsidiary whose portfolio previously
was overseen by Simpson.  Berkshire’s biggest stock bet of 2011 was made by Buffett,
who wagered more than $10 billion on  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  Berkshire’s top stake is a holding of Coca-Cola
Co. valued at more than $13 billion. Combs was assigned to
oversee as much as $3 billion and can make trades without
consulting Buffett.  ‘Bigger Things’  “Any time there’s a $200 million purchase or something
like that, that’s very likely to be Todd or Ted,” Buffett said
Nov. 14 in a televised CNBC interview. “That’s not me because I
look at bigger things.”  Buffett didn’t respond to an interview request e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer . Combs declined to comment.  Combs came to Berkshire from Castle Point Capital
Management LLC, where he oversaw shares of financial-services
companies including MasterCard. The former hedge fund manager,
who was 39 when Buffett announced the hiring in October 2010,
has a bachelor’s degree from  Florida State University . Combs
also has a master’s in business administration from  Columbia
University , where Buffett studied.  Berkshire added four companies to the portfolio in the days
through Aug. 8, spending about $125 million each on CVS,  Intel (INTC) ,
General Dynamics and DirecTV. Berkshire added about $75 million
of shares in each company in purchases through late August or
early September.  ‘A Great Time’  “It was a great time for him to step in, in retrospect,”
said  Patrick Wang , an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. who has
an “equalweight” rating on Intel shares. “There were a lot of
questions about whether stocks would work” in early August.  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, was one of
Weschler’s stock picks at his Charlottesville, Virginia-based,
Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC. Berkshire said in September it
was hiring Weschler, a marathoner who also invested in W.R.
Grace & Co. and made a gain trading Bank of America Corp.
shares.  “I found it fascinating that Todd Combs purchased
 DirecTV (DTV) ,” said Kass. “It sort of implies that Todd Combs is in
agreement with Ted Weschler” on the stock, he said.  The purchase dates and prices, detailed in NAIC statements,
aren’t included in quarterly filings to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. When stakes are built across multiple days,
the NAIC allows companies to consolidate acquisitions under the
date of the last purchase. The NAIC tracks securities held by
regulated insurance companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 