-- MBIA Reaches Settlement with BNP Paribas in New York Restructuring Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-10T23:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/mbia-reaches-settlement-with-bnp-paribas-in-new-york-restructuring-lawsuit.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  settled
litigation challenging the bond insurer’s restructuring,
according to the  New York  Department of Financial Services.  BNP, which was among banks that sued MBIA, is withdrawing
from two lawsuits in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan,
according to court filings today. David Neustadt, a spokesman
for the Department of Financial Services, said the companies
reached a settlement.  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, was sued by a group of
financial institutions after the 2009 split of its main bond-
insurance unit into two businesses. They claim the restructuring
was intended to defraud policyholders and rendered MBIA
Insurance Corp. insolvent.  The New York State Insurance Department, which approved the
split, was sued with MBIA in a separate proceeding. The
insurance department is now part of the Department of Financial
Services.  Cesaltine Gregorio, a spokeswoman for Paris-based BNP,
declined to comment on the agreement.  Marc Kasowitz , an attorney
for MBIA, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  A group of plaintiffs have withdrawn from the cases,
including  Wells Fargo & Co. , Credit Agricole SA, HSBC Bank USA.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Bank of America Corp. , Societe Generale SA,
UBS AG and Natixis remain plaintiffs in the cases, according to
today’s court filings.  “We are pressing forward until the policyholders receive
full satisfaction from the court, MBIA or the Department of
Financial Services,” the bank policyholder group said in an
emailed statement.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009,
and ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York State
Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 