-- Blackstone Joins DDR to Acquire 46 U.S. Shopping Centers for $1.43 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/blackstone-joins-ddr-to-buy-46-shopping-centers-in-u-s-for-1-43-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  DDR Corp. (DDR) 
agreed to purchase 46 U.S. shopping centers from an affiliate of
Israel’s  Elbit Imaging Ltd. (EMIT)  for $1.43 billion amid an
improvement in retail leasing.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII, a fund managed by the
New York-based private-equity firm, will own 95 percent of a
venture formed to buy the properties, with the rest owned by an
affiliate of DDR, a Beachwood, Ohio-based real estate investment
trust, according to a statement yesterday.  The retail centers are being sold by  EPN Group , an
affiliate of Tel Aviv-based Elbit. The purchase price includes
assumed debt of $640 million and at least $305 million of new
financing, according to the statement. DDR also will invest $150
million in preferred equity in the venture and provide leasing
and management services.  U.S. shopping centers had their first net gain in occupied
space in four years in the fourth quarter as  consumer confidence 
and job growth began to strengthen,  Reis Inc.  said earlier this
week. Landlords have struggled since the recession that ended in
2009 after weak sales drove more than a dozen retailers to file
for bankruptcy protection and online stores captured more sales.  The properties that Blackstone and DDR are buying have 10.6
million square feet (984,800 square meters) of space and are 90
percent leased, according to yesterday’s statement. The 10
largest tenants by base rent at the centers, located in 20
states, include  TJX Cos. (TJX) ,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  PetSmart Inc. (PETM)   DDR will have the right to make the first offer to acquire
10 of the properties under certain conditions, which it didn’t
specify. The company owns stakes in and manages 538 discount
shopping centers with 134 million square feet of space in 41
states, Puerto Rico and Brazil.  ‘Future Access’  “This transaction enables the retention of significant fee
income and enhances our current ownership and future access to
prime assets,” Daniel B. Hurwitz, DDR’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  For Blackstone, the acquisition is the latest in a series
of retail-property purchases. The firm agreed last year to buy
585 U.S. shopping centers from Australia’s Centro Properties
Group for about $9.2 billion. In December, Blackstone bought 36
shopping centers, mainly in Atlanta and in Tampa and Orlando,
Florida, for $473 million from  Equity One Inc. (EQY)  Blackstone
invested $500 million in  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  in 2010
as part of the mall owner’s emergence from bankruptcy.  A dearth of retail construction has kept vacancies from
increasing for most of the past two years, according to Reis.
About 4.9 million square feet of new shopping center space was
completed last year, compared with 4.5 million finished in 2010,
which was the lowest figure in Reis’s 31 years of data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  