-- Bob Evans Inviting Takeover Via LBO as Cheapest U.S. Restaurant: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-10T21:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/bob-evans-inviting-takeover-via-lbo-as-cheapest-u-s-restaurant-real-m-a.html
There may never be a better time for
private equity buyers to profit from sausages and family dining.  Bob Evans Farms Inc. (BOBE) ’s equity and net debt was valued at 6
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization yesterday, making it the cheapest U.S. restaurant
chain with a value greater than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With Bob Evans projected to post record
 profit  next year and holding only $97.5 million in net debt, the
Columbus, Ohio-based owner of the namesake restaurants may lure
bids from leveraged buyout firms, said Miller Tabak & Co.  Tracing its roots to a diner near the founder’s  farm  in
1948, Bob Evans is now grappling with rising pork prices and
falling revenue at its Mimi’s Cafe chain, offsetting higher
sales of sausages and side dishes to grocery stores. A private
equity buyer could sell the Mimi’s Cafe unit and renovate more
of Bob Evans’s 564 locations, according to Miller Tabak, or sell
some of its real estate, said Capstone Equities LLC. An LBO firm
may pay a 20 percent premium, said Morgan Keegan & Co., or about
$1.2 billion, exceeding the 5.7 percent gain analysts  estimate 
in the next 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s viewed as a company that’s undervalued,” Destin Tompkins, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Morgan Keegan,
said in a telephone interview. “They have a lot of different
business lines and they own a lot of real estate, so there would
be some options for a private equity owner to try to monetize
some of their assets. It’s entirely possible that management is
a little bit more open-minded to a sale process at this point.”  Scott Taggart, a spokesman for Bob Evans, declined to
comment on market speculation.  Today’s Trading  Bob Evans (BOBE)  rose 0.9 percent to $34.74 in  New York  today. The
company, which first sold shares to the public in  1963 , climbed
 20 percent  in the last two years through yesterday, trailing the
31 percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s 400 Consumer
Discretionary Index .  In the year ended April 2011, Bob Evans’s food product
sales to grocery stores grew 1.8 percent to $333.6 million,
while restaurant sales fell 3.8 percent to $1.36 billion, led by
declines at Mimi’s, according to a  regulatory filing . Restaurant
sales have dropped for three straight years.  The company’s enterprise value of $1.11 billion yesterday
represented 6 times its Ebitda in the last 12 months, the lowest
multiple among 15 U.S. restaurants with market capitalizations
of more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
industry traded at a median of 9.8 times Ebitda.  ‘Enormously Undervalued’  At its closing price of $34.44 yesterday, Bob Evans traded
at a 37 percent discount to its sales, the second cheapest in
the group after  Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. (CBRL)   “We think it’s enormously undervalued,” Josh Zamir,
managing principal at Capstone, a New York-based private equity
firm that owns shares of Bob Evans, said in a phone interview.  Bob Evans rose 1.6 percent to a five-month high on Jan. 6
after DealReporter, citing people it didn’t identify, said the
company may be a target for private equity and may start a sale
process soon.  While Bob Evans is projected to reach record  net income  of
$77.9 million in fiscal 2013, the company’s 6.2 percent
operating margin in the last 12 months is the lowest in the
industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A private equity buyer may seek to sell the Mimi’s Cafe
chain, according to Stephen Anderson, a New York-based analyst
at  Miller Tabak . The company’s 145 Mimi’s Cafes, French-themed
diners where a meal averaged $11.27 in fiscal 2011, have been a
drag on Bob Evans’s valuation, he said in a phone interview.  ‘On the Block’  “Private equity might give them the opportunity to do some
more cost reductions and maybe get rid of Mimi’s Cafe,”
Anderson said. “It’s becoming more likely than not that Mimi’s
will be on the block.”  Zamir said Mimi’s may fetch about $200 million. Bob Evans
bought the chain in 2004 for $182 million.  “The present management is diverting a significant amount
of their efforts on Mimi’s, which we think is a distraction,”
Zamir said. “At some point you just have to throw in the towel
and let someone else either buy it or take it over.”  As a private company, Bob Evans could close underperforming
locations and renovate more restaurants to drive traffic and
sales, Anderson said. The company already plans to remodel all
Bob Evans locations, where a meal averages $8.45 a person,
within five years, Chief Executive Officer Steven Davis said on
a Nov. 16 conference call.  Selling Real Estate  A buyout firm should also consider selling Bob Evans’s land
and buildings and then renting space back, said Zamir, whose
firm Capstone specializes in real estate. Bob Evans’s real
estate may be worth as much as $850 million, he said.  “They could take on debt to make the acquisition and then
sell off a bunch of real estate to pay down the debt,” Zamir
said.  Bob Evans had $1.18 billion in land and buildings as of
April, according to its annual  regulatory filing . The company
owned about 86 percent of the real estate for its Bob Evans
chain as of then, filings show.  Any buyer would be entering an industry that’s faced
declining revenue. Sales at full-service restaurants in the
U.S., including casual-dining chains such as Bob Evans, fell 1.3
percent to $166 billion in 2010 from a year earlier, according
to data from Chicago-based industry tracker  Technomic Inc.  Sales
at limited-service chains rose 1.9 percent in the same period.  ‘Treading Water’  “The whole family dining segment has been a mixed bag in
recent years,” Anderson said. “Bob Evans has been treading
water in this kind of environment.”  Still, Bob Evans’s food products division, which sells
refrigerated entrees and frozen breakfast sandwiches in grocery
stores, is growing faster than the restaurants and its product
lineup could be expanded, said Morgan Keegan’s Tompkins. Because
the  stock  currently undervalues the food products, selling the
business is also an option for a private equity buyer, he said.  Bob Evans’s  management  may be willing to sell the whole
company for a 20 percent premium, said Tompkins. That would
equate to $41.33 a share based on yesterday’s closing price. As
a standalone public company, analysts project the stock will
reach only $36.40 in the next 12 months, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a lot of value to be unlocked,” Michael Glickstein, chief investment officer for New York-based G Asset
Management, which owns shares of Bob Evans, said in a phone
interview. “Unlocking value with the real estate is one step.
Another is achieving the right valuation for the high-growth
food products business, and another step would be to sell or
separate Mimi’s, the underperforming business that’s dragging
the whole valuation of the company down. It would be attractive
to private equity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 