-- BOE Stimulus Expansion May Not Be Enough to Revive U.K. Recovery, BCC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/boe-stimulus-expansion-may-not-be-enough-for-recovery-bcc-says.html
More Bank of England stimulus may
not be enough to revive U.K. economic growth and the government
must improve companies’ access to credit to aid the recovery,
the British Chambers of Commerce said.  The BCC forecasts policy makers will increase their target
for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds ($77 billion) to 325
billion pounds in the first quarter. Still, Chief Economist
 David Kern  said “this will not achieve its full potential in
supporting growth unless supplemented by the early introduction
of a sizable and effective credit-easing program.”  Britain’s economy probably stagnated in the fourth quarter,
and U.K.  banks (F3BANK)  expect to tighten criteria on loans this year
because of strains in funding markets related to the euro-area
debt crisis, which may further impede investment and economic
growth. The Bank of England is in the last of a four-month round
of bond purchases and some policy makers have indicated more
stimulus may be needed.  “A new recession is not a foregone conclusion,” John
Longworth, director general of the London-based BCC, said in an
e-mailed statement today. “However, action is needed urgently
to tackle short-term stagnation and a lack of business
confidence, damaged by the ongoing  euro-zone  crisis.”  The Monetary Policy Committee will maintain its  bond-
purchase target (UKAPTARG)  at 275 billion pounds on Jan. 12, according to
all but one of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It will
also keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent, according to a separate survey of 53 economists.  Economic Outlook  The BCC said  U.K. growth (UKGRABIQ)  will probably stagnate until the
middle of 2012, “with one quarter very likely in negative
territory.” A survey it published today showed manufacturing
failed to expand in the fourth quarter, while the services
industry had “minimal growth.”  An index of domestic factory sales fell to the lowest since
the third quarter of 2009, while a gauge of domestic sales at
services companies remained “very weak.” Measures of
manufacturing export sales and orders dropped to their lowest
since 2009. The employment outlook also fell, according to the
survey of 7,852 companies between Nov. 14 and Dec. 5.  Longworth said authorities should focus on measures such as
increasing the flow of credit to businesses. If the
implementation of the government’s credit-easing program “takes
much longer, the economy would be better served by the creation
of a full-blown” bank dedicated to lending to small and medium-
sized companies, he said.  “Recession is still avoidable, but risks of a setback have
increased,” Kern said. “The worsening international situation
and the growing risks facing the euro zone will cause U.K.
exporters difficulty.”  The  Bank of England  raised its target for bond purchases by
75 billion pounds to 275 billion pounds in October as the
economic outlook deteriorated. The purchases are due to be
completed in February.  While some officials have said more stimulus may be needed,
they noted in the minutes of their  December meeting  that market
capacity “made it difficult to increase the monthly rate of
purchases substantially above what was already under way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  