-- Boeing to Build MAX Next to Current 737 With Efficiency Push
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-10T22:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/boeing-will-build-max-model-alongside-current-737-jet-in-efficiency-drive.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  plans to build its new
737 MAX, an upgrade of the world’s most  widely flown jet ,
alongside the current model in an effort to almost double output
in the same space through efficiencies.  A MAX assembly line probably will be placed between two
lines used for the current 737 NG by clearing room in Boeing’s
narrow-body plant near Seattle, Tommy Wilson, a  Machinists 
business representative for 737 final assembly, said today.  “We’ve got plenty of room to put stuff here,” Wilson said
in an interview after an event marking a recent production boost
to 35 jets a month from 31.5. The space now holds engines, tail
parts and other items that are installed on 737s moving down the
adjacent line. Those can be shifted within the complex, he said.  Beverly Wyse, the 737 program chief, said the planemaker
seeks to set a production plan for the MAX within two years
after agreeing to build the plane at its current factory near
 Seattle  during Machinists union contract negotiations last
month. Designers are still working on the final configuration of
the aircraft.  Boeing opted for the upgrade last year rather than an all-
new successor to the 737 NG amid questions about manufacturing
capabilities and competitive pressure from Airbus SAS’s upgraded
A320neo.  Smooth Increase  Boeing’s goal of capturing more than half a market for
23,000 narrow-body jets over the next 20 years means 737 output
would have to reach 60 planes a month, Wyse said. The Chicago-
based  company  may boost production of the NG beyond the 42 a
month planned in 2014, she said. The goal is for MAX production
to start in 2016, Wilson said. First delivery to customers is
planned in 2017.  The increase to 35 of the current jets a month -- a record
-- was the smoothest in Boeing’s history, Wyse said. The company
has worked to avoid the meltdown in the late 1990s when it tried
to double overall production and ended up having to shut
factories for a month when suppliers couldn’t keep up.  Wyse said extra employees are being hired earlier this time
and given more training than in the past, and Boeing is working
more closely with suppliers to ease pinch points.  The MAX and the NG versions of the 737, which will co-exist
for several years at least during a transition period,
“potentially” could be built along the same line, Wyse said.
Boeing now builds 20 737s a month on one line and 15 on the
other, a rate that will increase to 21 on each. The rate for the
MAX hasn’t yet been determined, she said.  Moving Line  The union’s Wilson said the planes aren’t that different,
so the new line for the MAX will be very similar to the existing
ones, where aircraft are tugged along a center line from one end
of the factory to another.  “We’ll take our learning and make some adjustments” to
create an even more efficient line for the MAX, said Cristian
Ofsthus, senior manager for the 737’s wing-body join work.  The moving line is one of the improvements Boeing has
implemented to boost production within existing space. Workers
today showed off other advances, including a new door handle
developed by Fred Siebert, design engineer, about six months
ago.  Boeing had been scrapping about half of the handles from a
British supplier because of bubbles in the finish on the parts,
designed in 1987, he said. Customers inspecting planes in the
factory would reject the handles, forcing the planemaker to halt
the moving line to replace them. Siebert said he developed a new
handle with fewer parts and no worrisome finish, speeding up the
work and saving money.  `Moving Faster'  Work done in between the existing assembly tracks “might
not have to move at all, if we can get these lines moving
faster,” said Bill Nyland, a program manager for the propulsion
and floor-covering value-stream teams.  Wilson said there’s room to move work around within the
factory and in adjacent buildings in the Boeing narrow-body
complex in Renton, on the shores of Lake  Washington . The company
will try not to move the assembly line for the U.S. Navy’s P-8A,
a submarine hunter that’s based on the 737 and is finished in a
building next to the main factory, Wyse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Renton, Washington, at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  