-- Bonds to Fund Projects in Asia as Loans Fall, HSBC Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-11T06:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/bonds-to-fund-asian-projects-as-loans-fall-hsbc-s-williams-says.html
Asian infrastructure companies may
sell dollar bonds to finance projects as bank regulations and
tightening liquidity complicate loans that dominated funding for
the past 15 years, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “We will see a shift into project bonds because the
investor base that used to exist, the project-finance lending
banks, are going to find life a lot more difficult,” said
Stephen Williams, the head of global capital markets for the
Asia-Pacific region at HSBC. Financial institutions increasingly
find it difficult to lend at long maturities, due to the so-
called Basel III rules on capitalization, Williams said in an
interview at his offices in Hong Kong.  The Philippines may tender $3.2 billion for infrastructure
this year, the government said last week.  Indonesia  will invest
1,786 trillion rupiah ($194 billion) in roads, ports and power
plants under its 2011-2025 development plan. Companies borrowed
$138 billion from banks to finance projects in  Asia  since 2001,
compared with $910 million raised through three dollar bonds
since 1997, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and figures
from HSBC. In the U.K., 57 bond sales brought in more than 14
billion pounds ($21.7 billion) to fund projects since 1996.  Such notes use cash flows generated by specific projects to
pay bondholders’ interest and principal. Asian companies issued
five dollar securities to support projects between 1995 and 1997,
HSBC data show, before sales stalled in 1997 during the Asian
financial crisis.  ‘Quite Exciting’  “The project-bond market could be quite exciting going
forward and we’ll hopefully see at least one deal this year,”
Williams said.  Some companies are scaling back loan operations. IFC
Development Ltd. reduced a planned HK$17 billion ($2.19 billion)
loan to HK$5 billion due to tightening market liquidity, a
person familiar with the matter said in October. Societe
Generale SA is also reviewing its shipping and aircraft
financing units, four people with knowledge of the matter said
that same month.  The regulations, which are being phased in by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  ahead of a January 2019
deadline, require lenders to hold more assets as a buffer
against potential loan defaults.  HSBC relocated Andrew Yau from  London  last year to meet
anticipated demand for project bonds in Asia. Yau joined
Benjamin Gilmartin in Hong Kong as part of the bank’s structured
finance team, which includes eight others focused on
infrastructure in London.  Asian Growth  The Asian Development Bank expects the economies of  China ,
Hong Kong, Indonesia,  Malaysia , the Philippines,  Singapore ,
South Korea,  Taiwan  and  Thailand , to grow 7.2 percent in 2012,
according to a December report.  China  cut reserve requirements  last month to encourage
growth even as Zhang Jianhua, head of the research bureau at the
People’s Bank of China, estimated today that inflation would
remain around four percent this year. The Manila-based lender
forecasts the euro region’s gross domestic product will expand
0.5 percent.  “Asian governments will look at the global macro
environment and probably try to play closer to home by making
their companies more competitive and enriching their domestic
populations so they consume more,” said Williams. “One of the
ways they can do this is with infrastructure spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  