-- Boston Fed Directors Sought Discount-Rate Cut, Minutes Show
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2012-01-10T23:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/boston-fed-directors-sought-cut-in-discount-rate-minutes-show.html
Directors at one Federal Reserve
regional bank called last month for lower emergency-borrowing
costs for financial institutions to align  interest rates  inside
and outside the U.S.  Members of the Boston Fed’s board of directors on Dec. 8
urged a quarter-percentage point discount- rate  reduction, to 0.5
percent, “as a technical adjustment to better align the rate
with the recently reduced” cost on the dollar swaps with other
central banks, according to Fed minutes released in Washington
today, which summarize regional-bank discussions.  It was the first time since December 2008 that a
regional Fed board requested a cut in the discount rate. The
Fed’s November decision to lower the interest rate on the swap
lines by a half-point made it cheaper for banks abroad to borrow
dollars than U.S. institutions could do at home. Ten regional
Fed banks sought no change in the discount rate, while the
Kansas City Fed repeated its request for a quarter-point rise.  “Although the outlook had improved somewhat, directors
expected that growth would continue to be gradual and uneven
over the coming quarters,” the Fed minutes said, citing
directors in favor of no interest-rate change. “Conditions in
the labor and housing markets were still a source of concern,
despite some hiring activity and positive reports about sales
and construction in the multifamily sector.”  Under the swap lines, the Fed lends money to counterparts
including the  European Central Bank (FESLECB) , who then make dollar loans
to banks in their jurisdiction. Since the Fed and other central
banks on Nov. 30 announced the interest-rate cut in a
coordinated move, Fed swap-line loans have surged to $99.8
billion from $2.4 billion.  Lending Peak  On Jan. 4, banks had no outstanding borrowing in primary
credit from the Fed’s discount window. Lending peaked at about
$111 billion in October 2008.  Today’s report shows concerns about the economy among most
Fed directors, who consist of bankers, corporate executives and
community leaders. Central bank policy makers led by Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  are debating whether to try additional steps to
lower borrowing costs and reduce joblessness faster.  “Many directors indicated that uncertainty about global
financial markets, the economic outlook, and U.S. regulatory and
fiscal policies was contributing to ongoing caution and
restraint on the part of consumers and businesses,” the minutes
said.  Two Meetings  The minutes covered two meetings in November and December
to discuss the Fed’s discount rate, which is charged on
emergency loans to banks. The Fed’s Board of Governors kept the
rate unchanged.  A separate set of minutes for the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Dec. 13 discussion about monetary policy was
released last week. The FOMC next meets in  Washington  on Jan.
24-25.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that advises on discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the Fed board,
which consists of the central bank’s five Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  