-- Brazilian Real Touches One-Month High on Speculation China to Spur Growth
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-10T18:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/brazilian-real-touches-one-month-high-on-speculation-china-to-spur-growth.html
Brazil ’s real advanced to the
strongest level in a month as speculation China may act to spur
domestic demand drove up commodity prices and boosted global
growth optimism.  The real gained 1.7 percent to 1.8024 per dollar at 4:28
p.m in  Sao Paulo , from 1.8332 yesterday. It earlier touched
1.7950, the strongest level since Dec. 8.  Brazil’s real outperformed major currencies and emerging-
market peers today after import growth in China, Brazil’s
biggest trading partner, fell to a two-year low in December,
spurring bets the government will use monetary easing to boost
domestic demand. Commodities rose as investors wagered that
Brazilian exports such as  iron ore  and sugar will benefit from
stimulus in  China .  “China gave the signal that it’s going to stimulate the
economy,” Felipe Brandao, emerging-markets strategist at ICAP
Brasil, the third-largest currency broker on the BM&F Bovespa
exchange, said in a telephone interview. “The markets are more
optimistic this year with the expectation of an accord in  Europe 
and the  U.S. economy  gaining confidence.”  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration
estimates the real will strengthen beyond 1.80 per dollar this
year, a government official with knowledge of internal
discussions on the issue said yesterday.  The government expects the euro region to start recovering
from its current crisis in the second half of 2012, which will
help weaken the dollar against other currencies, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the government
doesn’t officially forecast currency moves.  Interest-Rate Futures  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts fell as
traders speculated inflation will slow this year, giving the
central bank more room to lower borrowing costs. The yield on
the contract due in January 2013 fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 10.00 percent, the lowest level in more
than two weeks.  “The inflation numbers are getting weaker,”  Newton Rosa ,
chief-economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The central bank’s scenario is being
confirmed.”  Economists covering Brazil lowered their 2012 inflation
forecast for a sixth straight week in a report released
yesterday. Consumer prices will increase 5.31 percent this year,
according to the median forecast in a Jan. 6 central bank survey
of about 100 economists, from a forecast of 5.32 percent the
previous week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  