-- Brown Sees $500 Million Cap-and-Trade Fees for California Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-01-10T10:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/brown-sees-500-million-cap-and-trade-fees-for-california-budget.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown 
plans to use half of the revenue from the nation’s first state-
run cap-and-trade air-pollution program to help ease a $9.2
billion deficit in the most populous U.S. state.  Brown estimates the state will take in about $1 billion in
the year beginning July 1 under the landmark legislation, which
allows industry to buy and sell carbon credits to reduce
 greenhouse gases . The 73-year-old Democrat wants to use about
$500 million on environmental programs now financed through the
general fund, said H.D. Palmer, a Finance Department spokesman.  “There would be an offset to the general fund to the
degree that these fees are and can be used for programs
currently being funded by the general fund on greenhouse gas
emissions,” Palmer said in a telephone interview yesterday.  California  will auction tradable allowances that permit
industries such as power generators and oil refiners to release
carbon into the atmosphere if they can’t meet requirements to
lower their pollution to 1990 levels. Brown is seeking to boost
general-fund spending by 7 percent to $92.6 billion while asking
voters to raise income and sales taxes to ward off further cuts
to schools.  Freeing up that money also could help ease strains on the
budget if voters reject his tax proposal or revenue falls short
of expectations. The state’s Legislative Analyst’s Office said
yesterday that Brown’s tax increases, proposed Jan. 5, would
raise $2 billion less than the $6.9 billion he projects.  Ceiling on Emissions  California regulators in October approved the design of the
cap-and-trade program, so named because it will put a ceiling on
 carbon emissions  and allow companies to trade pollution permits
to comply. Known as  AB 32 , it is the first mandatory regulation
of its kind in the U.S.  Emission reductions will be enforced by decreasing the
number of allowances over time. Allocations will start at 90
percent of industries’ recent levels and gradually shrink, from
a peak of 394.5 million tons in 2015 to 334.2 million in 2020.  Large industrial sources such as  power plants  and oil
refineries must hold a permit for every ton of carbon they
release beginning Jan. 1, 2013. Transportation-fuel distributors
will follow in 2015.  Once the state knows how much the auctions will generate,
Brown will submit a plan on how he wants to spend the money to
the Legislature for approval. Democrats control both the Senate
and Assembly. In his  budget , Brown said he will use the money on
clean energy, as well as environmental and natural-resource
protection programs, and alternative-energy infrastructure.  ‘Some Flexibility’  “We have some flexibility there,” said  Stanley Young ,
spokesman for the  California Air Resources Board , which
administers the carbon-trading program. “We’ll be consulting
with the Department of Finance and the governor’s office on our
options.”  The California Manufacturers and Technology Association
opposed the law and is part of a group monitoring how cap-and-
trade is implemented. Dorothy Rothrock, a lobbyist for the
association, said the money shouldn’t be used to balance the
general fund.  “AB 32 and cap-and-trade is not intended to be a revenue
source for the state of California,” she said. “We are very
concerned that the governor’s budget doesn’t respect the
limitations that need to apply to monies raised under the cap-
and-trade program.”  Futures Down  Futures for California carbon allowances were trading at
$13 a ton yesterday, according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Green
Exchange in  New York , down from a high of $23.50 on Sept. 7.  Brown is working to gather enough signatures to put an
initiative on the November statewide ballot asking voters to
raise income taxes on individuals making at least $250,000 a
year to 10.3 percent from 9.3 percent. For those earning
$300,000 to $500,000, the rate would climb to 10.8 percent. For
single filers with income above $500,000, the tax would rise to
11.3 percent. Californians with income of more than $1 million
are now taxed at 10.3 percent.  He also wants to boost the statewide retail-sales tax to
7.75 percent from 7.25 percent. The higher income and sales
levies would expire after five years.  If voters reject those taxes, Brown’s budget proposes to
cut $4.8 billion from schools, the equivalent of taking three
weeks from the academic year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  