-- BTG Pactual Said to Offer to Purchase $555 Million Stake in Hypermarcas
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-01-10T20:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/btg-pactual-said-to-offer-to-purchase-555-million-stake-in-hypermarcas.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian
bank owned by billionaire  Andre Esteves , offered to buy 1
billion reais ($555 million) of shares in  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  to join
a group with a controlling stake in the consumer-goods maker, a
person close to the talks said.  The investment, which would be made in the secondary-
market, would represent about 96 million shares of Sao Paulo-
based Hypermarcas’s stock at yesterday’s closing price of 10.39
reais. Controlling shareholders are considering the offer, which
wouldn’t raise new capital, according to the person, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private.  Hypermarcas rose 2.8 percent to 10.68 reais at 6:10 p.m. in
 Sao Paulo  after climbing as much as 6.5 percent. The stock has
dropped 64 percent from a record high of 29.49 reais on Oct. 11,
2010. About 59 percent of Hypermarcas’s 627 million shares
outstanding are available to trade in the public market,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Others investors, including Brazilian private-equity firm
 GP Investments Ltd. (GPIX)  and  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG Capital,
also saw an opportunity and have approached Hypermarcas about
joining the controlling block, the person said.  Diapers, Condoms  Hypermarcas, which produces goods including diapers and
condoms, reported a 24 percent drop in third-quarter earnings on
Nov. 7 after imposing sales terms that prompted some
distributors to pare orders and as demand slowed in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy. The company, which had its  credit
rating  cut by Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 8, lowered its
full-year earnings forecast for the second time since August.  Officials at BTG Pactual and Hypermarcas declined to
comment on the bank’s proposal, according to external press
officers who asked not to be identified in accordance with
company policy. An official at GP Investments declined to
comment, as did  Owen Blicksilver  at TPG Capital.  Sonia Racy, a columnist for O Estado de S. Paulo, reported
last week that BTG Pactual was in talks to join Hypermarcas’s
controlling block, without saying where she got the information.
Since then the shares rallied about 14 percent.  Yields on Hypermarcas’s dollar bonds due in 2021 have
fallen 52 basis points since Jan. 2 to 7.83 percent, including a
drop today of 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  