-- Bullish Bets on HDFC Futures Climb to Record on Earnings Outlook
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-01-11T08:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/bullish-bets-on-hdfc-futures-climb-to-record-on-earnings-outlook.html
Bullish bets on  Housing Development
Finance Corp’s (HDFC)  futures are at a record high on optimism India’s
largest mortgage lender will withstand a slowdown in  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy better than other financial companies.  Open interest, or the number of outstanding contracts held
by traders, totaled 24,093 at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Mumbai 
yesterday, the highest level since the futures started trading
in 2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  HDFC may report tomorrow a 16 percent increase in profit to
10.3 billion rupees ($198 million) in the three months ended
December, according to the  median estimate  of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Quarterly earnings have climbed an average 18
percent during the past five years,  missing  analysts’ forecasts
just four times in the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 India ’s economy will grow about 7 percent in the year ending in
March, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said Jan. 8, less than a
December prediction of 7.5 percent.  “HDFC is the least vulnerable among finance companies in
the current weak environment and is expected to maintain its
high-growth trajectory,” Vaibhav Agrawal, vice president of
research at Angel Broking Ltd., said by telephone from Mumbai.
“HDFC shares are less volatile and the company’s bad-loan risk
is less than its peers.”  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast profit that ranged
from 9.6 billion rupees to 11.5 billion rupees.  Bad Debts  Moody’s Investors Service in November cut the outlook for
India’s banking industry to “negative,” saying a slowdown in
the economy and record increases in borrowing costs will boost
bad loans. Still, combined gross non-performing assets at the
nation’s mortgage providers at the end of September were 1
percent of total debt, compared with 2.4 percent at  State Bank
of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest commercial lender, Emkay Global
Financial Services Ltd. said in a Jan. 6 report.  “There’s heightened risk given what’s going on and so it
becomes even more important to concentrate on the right types of
businesses,” Hugh Young, who helps manage $70 billion in Asian
equities at  Aberdeen Asset Management (ADN)  Asia Ltd., told Bloomberg
UTV on Jan. 9. “Companies like HDFC come out very strongly in
that area.” Aberdeen  held  103,051,139 shares, or 7 percent of
the lender’s capital, as of a June filing, according to
Bloomberg data.  HDFC shares gained 0.7 percent to 689 rupees at 1:38 p.m.
local time, the highest price since Aug. 1. The stock fell 10
percent last year, less than the 32 percent slump in the BSE
India  Bankex Index. (BANKEX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  