-- Buyout Firms Campaign to Curb Fallout From Romney Private-Equity Bashing
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/buyout-firms-campaign-to-curb-fallout-from-romney-private-equity-bashing.html
The buyout industry, seeking to
contain damage as Mitt Romney draws criticism over his role at
 Bain Capital  LLC, plans to counter perceptions that firms profit
at the expense of workers, according to a person familiar with
the plans.  The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry’s
lobby group in Washington, is starting a web-based campaign at
the end of the month aimed at political commentators with
testimonials of people who say private equity has helped their
business, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t yet public. Member firms, which include
 Blackstone Group (BX) ,  Carlyle Group  and KKR & Co., have been
highlighting  job creation  in press releases.  “The worst images of private-equity firms are that they
are job killers,” said Nela Richardson, a senior economic
analyst for Bloomberg Government. “To turn this image around
the private-equity industry must showcase their ability to
transform insolvent and weak companies into job creators.”  The firms are pushing to limit the fallout from Romney’s
bid to become the Republican candidate in this year’s
presidential elections. Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
this weekend likened buyout firms to looters, the first time the
field of a half-dozen contenders has taken aim on this issue at
Romney, winner of the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses and a favorite to win
in  New Hampshire .  The charges will be amplified in  South Carolina , the next
primary state, with a 30-minute, independently produced
television advertisement bought by a political-action committee
run by his former aides called “Winning Our Future” and funded
by supporters, according to  Rick Tyler , an adviser to the PAC
and onetime Gingrich campaign spokesman. The trailer for the ad
calls Romney a corporate raider and says he’s akin to others on
Wall Street motivated primarily by greed.  Lost Homes  A preview of the film, entitled “When  Mitt Romney  Came to
Town,” juxtaposes images of Romney next to a corporate jet and
his $12 million beach house in  La Jolla , California, with
vignettes of workers in Marion, Indiana, describing how they
lost homes and livelihoods after Romney’s firm bought office
supply products company Ampad Corp.  The private equity council has studied commercials used to
disparage Romney in 1994 during his failed attempt to unseat
then-Massachusetts senator Edward Kennedy. Kennedy supporters
that year ran television ads that featured workers who had
recently been fired from office supply manufacturer SCM Office
Supplies Inc., after Bain-controlled Ampad bought it.  Lobbying Push  “He just wants to take money out of your pocket and put it
in his,” says a person in one of the ads, who was portrayed as
a recently-fired SCM employee.  Firms including Blackstone and KKR formed the council in
2007 after recognizing the importance of influencing policy in
 Washington  as lawmakers proposed tax increases on private-equity
managers. The industry has so far managed to avoid a higher tax
on its profit-based compensation, so-called carried interest.  The council is also concerned about private equity being
conflated with investment banks and other financial institutions
that have come under criticism for doling out rich bonuses after
receiving bailouts from U.S. taxpayers in the financial crisis.
The council has been meeting with political commentators and
pundits to explain the differences between private-equity firms,
which take client cash and borrowed money to take companies
private with the aim of selling them later for a profit, and the
rest of Wall Street.  ‘Gordon Gekko’  “There is a lot of misinformation being spread, purely for
political purposes and on both sides of the aisle, as it
pertains to private equity,” Steve Judge, the group’s interim
president and chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. “While the business model has evolved over time, the
fact of the matter is private equity provides capital and
operational expertise to companies that are often
underperforming or on the brink of failure.”  One anti-Romney advocacy group, Americans United for
Change, has sought to tie Romney to  investment banking . It
released a web-based advertisement titled “It’s Morning Again
on  Wall Street ,” linking Romney and fictional movie character
Gordon Gekko whose mantra was “greed is good” in the 1987
movie “Wall Street.” The ad is set in 2013.  “This year more investment bankers will take home billion-
dollar bonuses than ever before in our nation’s history,” says
the narrator. “This afternoon corporations will lay off
thousands of employees so investment bankers at firms like Bain
Capital and Gekko & Company can loot them.”  Buyout firms are trying to avoid the same taint the oil
industry endured during former President  George Bush ’s election
campaign in 2000 when his Democratic opponent  Al Gore 
highlighted Bush’s cozy relationship with the oil and gas
industry.  Even before the attacks against Romney, firms started to
highlight their track record in creating jobs, a message that
resonates with the public pension plans that are among the
largest investors in private equity. Blackstone in October
announced that one of its portfolio companies put 500 union
workers back on the job when it opened an  oil refinery  that had
been shut by the previous owner. Carlyle yesterday announced a
deal to provide financing for the construction of a clean-energy
project, a project that will create 400 jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  