-- Cadres Abused Power With Land Sales: China Official
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T04:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/cadres-abused-power-with-land-sales-china-official.html
Land seizures in the southern
Chinese town of Wukan that led villagers to kick out local
leaders stem from “abuses of power” by Communist Party cadres,
an essay in the state-controlled People’s Daily said.  “The Wukan incident reflects the fact that some local
party organizations are weak and lax, relations with the masses
are tense, and some cadres at the grass roots have lost their
sense of purpose,” Li Song, head of the party’s discipline
committee in the southern city of Huizhou, wrote in the essay,
published today.  Li wrote that the “abuse of power, law and discipline
violations” over land acquisitions and contracts were serious
and “damage people’s rights.” The essay in the official party
mouthpiece follows broader Communist Party efforts to stem anger
caused by land seizures, which are used by local governments as
a source of revenue.  Villagers in Wukan, 131 kilometers (81 miles) west of
Huizhou, had a two-week standoff with local officials last month
sparked by the death in police custody of one of their
representatives. The villager, Xue Jinbo, was chosen to
negotiate with authorities over the land seizures, which
involved the sale of a locally owned pig farm to a real-estate
developer.  Li’s comments come after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in
December that  China (PRCH)  “can no longer sacrifice farmers’ land
ownership rights,” the Xinhua News Agency reported.  Strikes, demonstrations and other protests in  China  doubled
to at least 180,000 in 2010 from 2006, according to Sun Liping,
a sociology professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University. Land
disputes are the leading cause of social unrest, according to an
official study published in June.  Zhu Mingguo, deputy secretary-general of the Communist
Party’s Guangdong province committee, called the protesters’
demands in Wukan “reasonable” and agreed to release villagers
held in police custody, Xinhua reported Dec. 21. He acknowledged
party committees and government organizations in Wukan made
“some mistakes,” which will be fixed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  