-- Cameron Proposals Won’t Curb Executive Pay, Occupy London Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-10T14:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/cameron-proposals-won-t-curb-executive-pay-occupy-london-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
proposals to curb executive pay are not enough, the Occupy
London movement participants said at a rally today in the
capital’s  Canary Wharf  district.  Cameron said on Jan. 8 that the current system of executive
pay is wrong as it allows for failure to be rewarded and
promised shareholders a binding vote on compensation decisions.
Participants in today’s debate held by Occupy London outside the
Financial Services Authority building said the prime minister’s
suggestions will have little impact on executive pay levels.  “Giving shareholders a binding vote over executive pay
won’t make a difference,” Gordon Kerr, head of banking
consultancy Cobden Partners, said in an interview at the event.
“Cameron’s comments were sensible, but they’re trivial details
in a complex process.”  A study by the High Pay Commission, a pressure group that
pushes for curbs on top earners, found British directors’
salaries increased by 64 percent over the past decade, while the
average year-end share price of  FTSE 100 companies  fell 71
percent. U.K. unemployment is  at a 17-year high .  “Cameron has addressed the peripheral issues but not the
fundamental one of changing the metrics to decide what is fair
pay for executives,” Peter Dombi, a private investor, said in
an interview at the event. “Even if there is more transparency,
the committees that decide pay will look at the market rate, not
the company’s good performance, and that’s not right.”  The Occupy movement began in the U.S. with hundreds of
protesters camping in Zuccotti Park in lower  Manhattan  to
complain about bankers’ pay, bailouts and cuts in  government
spending . The protests have since spread to four continents.  “We must connect the owners of capital with those that
reap the rewards of that capital,” said  Steve Baker , a member
of Parliament for Cameron’s Conservative Party. “People should
be rewarded for success rather than for a loss or failure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  