-- Cameron Willing to Appear at Leveson Media Ethics Inquiry
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-10T13:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/cameron-willing-to-appear-at-leveson-media-ethics-inquiry.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
willing to appear before the Leveson inquiry into media ethics,
which he set up in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal at the
News of the World newspaper, his spokesman said today.  The judge-led inquiry wants to call Cameron to ask him
questions over his relationship with  Rupert Murdoch  and other
senior executives at News Corp., the  Times newspaper  reported,
citing an unidentified person close to the inquiry.  “If he was asked to attend, he would,” Cameron’s
spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in  London  today. “We
haven’t received any request, but when the prime minister
announced we were setting up the inquiry he made very clear it
would have the ability to call politicians, including serving
politicians and past prime ministers.”  The inquiry doesn’t comment on potential witnesses until
there is “a formal list,” spokesman John Toker said.  The probe was established in July last year in response to
revelations that the News of the World used a private detective
to hack the phone of a murdered schoolgirl after went missing in
2002. New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  closed the 168-year-old tabloid
in an attempt to contain public outrage over the scandal.  Cameron employed  Andy Coulson , a former editor of the News
of the World who had resigned over phone hacking, as his
director of communications after he left the newspaper in 2007.
Coulson quit the government in January 2011. He has denied
wrongdoing.  Murdoch, 80, told lawmakers in testimony last year that he
wasn’t responsible for the scandal and that he’d “lost sight”
of the News of the World.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  