-- Top Hedge Fund Returning 45% Under Julian Robertson’s 36-Year-Old Disciple
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-01-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/chase-coleman-channels-ancestor-stuyvesant-with-45-robertson-like-return.html
Charles Payson Coleman III, known as
Chase, is as close as one gets to American aristocracy.  A descendent of Peter Stuyvesant, the last Dutch governor
of New York, Coleman was raised in Glen Head, a posh enclave on
New York’s  Long Island . He went to  Deerfield Academy  in
Massachusetts and then, like his father and grandfather,
attended Williams College, where he played lacrosse. He
graduated in 1997 and went to work as a technology analyst for
Julian Robertson, a godfather of the hedge-fund industry, at
Tiger Management LLC, Bloomberg Markets reports in its February
issue.  Coleman had a connection at Tiger. He had grown up with
Robertson’s son, Spencer, who lived in nearby Locust Valley.  Soon after Robertson, 79, closed his fund in 2000, he
handed his son’s former playmate more than $25 million to
manage. Coleman was 25 at the time. That made him one of at
least 30 so-called Tiger cubs -- fund managers who are Tiger
Management alumni. There are another 40-odd so-called Tiger
seeds -- funds backed by Robertson dollars.  Coleman and his Tiger Global LP, along with a half dozen
others, are both.  Chase Coleman has been handed a lot in his life, and he’s
made good with the gifts. He took his Robertson stake and built
a $10 billion firm, partly by investing in Internet companies
before they sold shares to the public. These days, he owns,
among other things, a stake of undisclosed size in social
networking phenomenon  Facebook  Inc. and another in  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,
creator of the Mafia Wars and FarmVille online games.  Zynga raised more than $1 billion in a Dec. 15 initial
public offering.  45 Percent  Coleman’s flagship $6 billion Tiger Global fund returned 45
percent in the first 10 months of 2011, putting it at the top of
the Bloomberg Markets list of the 100 best-performing hedge
funds managing $1 billion or more. He manages the fund with
Feroz Dewan, a Princeton University-educated engineer and
mathematician.  “I have known Chase since he was a small boy,” Robertson
wrote in a statement. “He’s a great competitor and an immensely
gifted portfolio manager. I would always bet on Chase.”  Joining the Tiger team takes more than good breeding and
connections. Robertson used to give prospective hires a written
test to gauge their intelligence, competitiveness and ability to
work on a team. Tiger Management, which still exists to invest
money for Robertson’s family and a few outsiders, uses a similar
exam to find managers to seed, a person familiar with the test
says.  Robertson Acolytes  Tiger cubs learned at the right hand of Robertson, who
vetted almost every idea before it became a trade, the person
says. Robertson prized on-site research and once sent a
commodity analyst to Brazil to estimate the number of coffee
bushes under cultivation in the eastern state of Bahia before
betting that the commodity’s price would decline.  Most of the Tiger seeds are housed in Tiger Management’s
offices on the 47th and 48th floors of 101 Park Ave. in midtown
Manhattan. Robertson is the landlord, charging each fund rent.
He also takes an ownership stake, which entitles him to a cut of
the hefty fees that hedge-fund managers charge investors.  Managers of the seed funds meet periodically to discuss
ideas, says a person familiar with the meetings. Robertson also
encourages managers to share their wealth through the  Tiger
Foundation , which gives money to organizations helping needy
families in  New York .  Beat Masters  In topping the Bloomberg Markets ranking, Coleman, 36, beat
such veterans as Peter Brown and  Robert Mercer , two former
International Business Machines Corp. language recognition
specialists who are co-chief executive officers of Renaissance
Technologies LLC. Renaissance Institutional Equities is No. 2
among large funds.  The $7 billion fund returned 33.1 percent for the 10
months. The East Setauket, New York-based firm is famed for its
quantitative Medallion Fund, now run almost exclusively for
employees, which returned more than 35 percent annualized over a
20-year span.  Renaissance founder  Jim Simons , who is a former code
breaker and head of Stony Brook University’s math department,
remains chairman of the firm. In December, the school announced
that Simons, together with his wife and the  Simons Foundation ,
had given $150 million to the school, the largest donation in
the history of the State University of New York, of which Stony
Brook is a part.  Dalio Most Profitable  Bridgewater Associates’  Ray Dalio , who runs the largest
hedge fund firm, had the No. 3 fund, Pure Alpha II, which ran up
a 23.5 percent gain. Dalio has three funds in the top 12, and
his $53 billion Pure Alpha II fund is also the most profitable,
earning $2.48 billion for its managers in 2011 through Oct. 31,
according to Bloomberg data.  Ken Griffin’s Citadel fund, with a 17.7 percent return, was
the second most profitable, at $2.1 billion.  Last year’s No. 1 fund, Don Brownstein’s Structured
Servicing Holdings LP, rose 13.5 percent and is ranked No. 17,
after gaining 51 percent in 2010. His firm, Structured Portfolio
Management LLC, had a second fund in the large-fund list, SPM
Core, at No. 13, with a 15.7 percent return, plus two funds in
the top 20 of the Bloomberg Markets ranking of the top 50 mid-
size funds.  Coleman, Brownstein and Dalio earned their double-digit
returns during a generally abysmal year for the hedge-fund
industry. Just 21 of the top 100 funds scored returns of more
than 10 percent in 2011.  Average Fund Drops  Hedge-fund managers, among the highest-paid workers on Wall
Street, saw their funds fall an average of 2.8 percent through
Oct. 31, according to Bloomberg  data . A Bloomberg  index  of U.S.
Treasury notes and bonds returned 8.5 percent, besting all but
the top 26  hedge funds  in the Bloomberg Markets ranking.  Even the anemic  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , which returned
1.3 percent, including dividends, beat the average hedge fund.  Some big names flamed out in 2011.  John Paulson , who made
billions betting against mortgage securities in 2007, lost 44
percent through October in his flagship Advantage Plus fund.  Other titans that tripped: James Dinan’s York Investment
Ltd., down 7 percent; Leon Cooperman’s Omega Overseas Partners,
off 3 percent; and London-based William de Winton’s Lansdowne
Global Financials fund, which plunged 17 percent.  The results show that the golden age for hedge funds is
over, says Brad Alford, head of Alpha Capital Management in
Atlanta, whose two mutual funds have outperformed the average
hedge fund return this year.  “In difficult markets, investors expect that hedge funds
will protect their capital,” Alford says. “Now we see that they
aren’t smarter than anyone else.”  Going Private  Coleman’s Tiger Global bucked the gloomy trend partly by
behaving as much like a venture capital fund as a hedge fund.
Coleman uses a group of private-equity funds to buy into private
companies, according to filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The hedge fund gets some of the
investments.  Coleman declined to be interviewed for this story, says
 Carolyn Sargent , a Tiger spokeswoman.  As of December, Tiger Global owned 4.8 million shares --
both Class A and Class B -- of  LinkedIn Corp (LNKD) ., the professional-
networking site that sold shares in May. Tiger got at least
930,000 of those shares for $21.50 in mid-2010, a year before
the company went public, according to a person familiar with the
purchase.  Shares of Mountain View, California-based LinkedIn traded
at $63.55 on Jan. 9.  Russian Bets  Coleman also bought pre-IPO shares of  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s
most popular search engine, which did a $1.3 billion IPO in May.
Tiger Global owned 54.1 million of its New York-listed shares,
or 38 percent of the Netherlands-based company, as of Sept. 30,
a stake it acquired before the IPO.  Mail.ru Group (61HE)  Ltd., another Russian Web portal, went public
in  London  in November 2010, raising $1 billion. Tiger owned 10.8
million shares before the sale and unloaded about half of them
in the IPO.  Like Robertson, Coleman is skilled at finding both good
stocks to buy and dogs to bet against, according to investors.
In 2011, Coleman made much of his profit shorting stocks that
fell, investors say.  Coleman’s fund is one of three Tiger cubs that made the top
25 in the Bloomberg Markets ranking. Philippe Laffont’s New
York-based Coatue Management LLC ranked No. 10, with a return of
16.9 percent. Laffont, who worked for Robertson at Tiger before
starting Coatue in 1999, also invests in technology. Apple Inc.,
Google Inc. and mobile-phone-chip maker Qualcomm Inc. were among
his largest holdings as of Sept. 30.  Short China  New York-based Tiger  Asia  Management LLC, managed by Bill Hwang, ranked No. 24, with a return of 8.6 percent. Hwang, like
Coleman, worked for Robertson and then got seed money from him.
In 2011, Hwang bet on a decline in Chinese shares, according to
people familiar with his portfolio. It was a good call.  The
Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was down 12 percent in
the first 10 months of 2011, after a loss of 14 percent in 2010.  The Tiger diaspora is large and growing. John Thaler,
founder of JAT Capital Management LP, worked with Tiger
Management alumnus Chris Shumway for five years, learning
Robertson’s methods secondhand. JAT Capital Offshore Ltd. was
No. 3 on the Bloomberg Markets list at the end of September,
with a 30-plus percent return, when a rally in U.S. stocks
lifted shares that Thaler had expected to fall, a person
familiar with the fund says.  JAT ended up with a 12.7 percent gain and a No. 19 ranking.  Tiger Makeover  Coleman & Co. are restoring the luster to the Tiger name.
Robertson’s funds notched average annual returns of 32 percent
from 1980 to Aug. 31, 1998. They were then tarnished when he
made a series of bad currency bets. He lost $600 million when
Russia defaulted on its debt and devalued the ruble. Tiger
Management funds overall hemorrhaged about $2 billion on Oct. 7,
1998, when the dollar suffered its biggest one-day loss against
the yen since 1973.  Unsentimental Tiger investors asked for their money back
and, coupled with losses, cut Robertson’s assets under
management to $6 billion from $22 billion in just 18 months.  Robertson returned all investor money in 2000 and went
south to build and operate golf courses in New Zealand, where he
spends six months of every year.  Robertson, a canny stock picker, was more aggressive than
most in shorting stocks he thought were doomed to fall, former
investors say. In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and
sells them, hoping to buy them back at a lower price, return the
shares to the lender and pocket the difference.  Robertson’s Guts  “Julian always doubled up,” says Mark Yusko, CEO of Morgan
Creek Capital Management LLC in Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
which invested in Tiger Management and is an investor in Tiger
Global. “When a short was going down, he pressed it, and when a
long was going up, he pressed it.”  Coleman is pressing his bet on private technology
companies. Last year, he asked investors for permission to lift
them to 15 percent of the fund from 10 percent, one investor
says.  Yuri Milner, the Russian entrepreneur who started Mail.ru
and bought a $200 million stake in Facebook in May 2009, just
before Tiger Global, says Coleman is “a visionary guy. I have
learned a lot from Tiger.”  One lesson: Go global. Many of Tiger’s private investments
are in Brazil,  China  and  India , and many of those are similar to
what has worked in the U.S.: social-networking, shopping and
Groupon Inc.-like deal sites. As of mid-December, Tiger Global
owned stakes in Peixe Urbano, a Brazilian deal site similar to
Groupon; MakeMyTrip Ltd., an Indian online travel site; and
Vostu, a Brazilian video-game portal.  ‘Whacked’  Coleman has taken his biggest hits in the broader market.
His worst years were 2008, when he lost 26 percent, and 2009.  “Chase got whacked in the head with a two-by-four in 2009,”
Yusko says.  Coleman was short financial stocks and mortgage companies
because his research told him they were money losers, Yusko
says. Then the government banned short selling in many stocks
and bailed out the banks. Tiger Global ended the year up just
1 percent.  That same year, by contrast, David Tepper’s Appaloosa
Investment LP I gained 117 percent through September buying bank
stocks and bonds and was No. 1 in the Bloomberg Markets large-
fund ranking.  ‘Chase is Done’  “There were folks in 2009 who said Chase is done, he’s
gotten too big and he’s lost his nerve,” Yusko says.  Yusko visited Coleman in Tiger Global’s offices, and
Coleman told him he had decided to refocus his investing where
he had an edge: in technology. He would lighten up on finance,
an industry susceptible to government meddling.  “I admire him for that decision,” Yusko says.  Coleman supports Republican political candidates who take a
dim view of regulation. He gave $30,800 to the National
Republican Senatorial Committee on May 24, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics. He also gave at
least $5,000 to Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney.  Coleman’s roots are more Nelson Rockefeller than Sarah Palin. His paternal grandmother, born Louise Stuyvesant
Wainwright and known as Mimi, was a trustee of Hofstra
University in Hempstead, New York, where she helped establish a
law school, according to her 1996 New York Times  obituary . She
was also chairwoman of Planned Parenthood of  New York City .  Coleman’s father, Charles Payson Coleman Jr., is a partner
at corporate law firm  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP (1146L)  in New
York, where his main clients are airlines. Chase’s mother, Kim,
owns an interior design firm.  ‘Born Rich’  In 2005, Coleman married Stephanie Ercklentz, one of 10
scions featured in the 2003 documentary “Born Rich,” made by
Johnson & Johnson heir Jamie Johnson. He interviewed his friends
for the film. Stephanie’s grandfather, Enno Ercklentz, was a
German banker who became a chemical magnate after moving to the
U.S. in 1926, according to his 1987 New York Times  obituary .  In the film, Stephanie said she had never dated outside her
plutocratic social circle.  “I would, but he’d have to understand the fact that I love
going shopping,” she says on camera. “Some guy might get mad at
me for being stupid and spending all this money for, like, a
Gucci purse.”  The couple was married in the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea
in Palm Beach,  Florida . Photos from the ceremony and reception
were splashed on the New York Social Diary, a  website  that
chronicles the doings of the 1 percent.  Hearst House  In 2008, the Colemans paid $36.5 million for two apartments
in a building on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. The seller was
Veronica Hearst, widow of Randolph Hearst, son of newspaper
titan William Randolph Hearst, property records show.  Coleman started working at Tiger after graduating from
Williams. When Robertson closed his funds, Coleman was among the
first managers whom Robertson seeded with cash, along with Tiger
Asia and Tiger Consumer, a person familiar with the matter says.  Coleman called his fund company Tiger Technology
Management. He changed the name to Tiger Global in 2005 before
making his ill-fated plays on non-technology companies.  Tech entrepreneurs praise Coleman for his willingness to
make quick decisions about large investments. Ilja Laurs,
founder of San Mateo, California-based GetJar Inc., a site that
distributes applications for mobile phones, says Tiger studied
his company for less than a month before putting up most of a
$25 million funding round in February.  “That was a total surprise because I didn’t think any
investor was capable of moving that fast,” Laurs says.  Investing with Accel  Tiger Global was confident in GetJar partly because  Accel
Partners , an early investor in Facebook, had already bought in,
Laurs says. Tiger has followed or invested alongside Accel in at
least six companies.  Kevin Hartz, co-founder of Eventbrite Inc., a  San Francisco 
startup that lets promoters of concerts and other events
publicize shows, register attendees and sell tickets online,
says Coleman and his crew are no less skilled at finding
promising startups than the venture capitalists on Sand Hill
Road in Menlo Park,  California . Tiger Global in May stumped up
the biggest portion of a $50 million investment in Eventbrite.  “During the great downturn and dot-com crash, they were
aggressively following a thesis that the consumer Internet was
going to grow and that an enormous part of that would happen
outside the U.S.,” Hartz says. “They were absolutely right.”  Risky Startups  Investing in startups is risky because many have untested
business models and well-funded rivals, says Peter Sims, a
former venture capitalist and author of “Little Bets: How
Breakthrough Ideas Emerge From Small Discoveries” (Free Press,
2011).  “Tiger is aggressive,” Sims says. “This is a cyclical
market, and they could get burned easily.”  New York-listed Yandex traded at $18.73 on Jan. 9, down
from its May IPO price of $25.  Mail.ru fell 14 percent in the first 11 months of 2011,
dropping in November after a ban on divesting the shares
expired, freeing Tiger and other pre-IPO investors to sell.  Tiger Global is also the biggest holder of Beijing-based E-
Commerce China Dangdang Inc., China’s largest online bookseller,
with 4.4 million shares as of Sept. 30, according to SEC
filings. Shares of New York-listed Dangdang traded at $4.97 on
Jan. 9, down 70 percent from the $16 at which it first sold
shares in December 2010. In August, the company said it lost 6
cents a share in the second quarter of 2011, triple the 2 cent
loss forecast by analysts.  New Network  Declines aside, Coleman is a force in the VC community,
says Brian Sharples, CEO of HomeAway Inc., which owns VRBO.com
and other sites that list vacation homes for rent. Tiger
invested $50 million in  HomeAway (AWAY)  before its June IPO and then
bought shares afterward, Sharples says.  Coleman’s investment gave Sharples the opportunity to
attend the annual Tiger Global Internet Conference, where the
hedge fund’s corporate flock gathers once a year. The 2011
conference was at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in New York in
October.  “I’ll bet more than 50 percent of the people there were
from out of the country,” Sharples says. “Tiger Global’s network
is so powerful now that just being able to go to that thing is a
cool advantage of being part of their portfolio.”  A member of the old boys network by birth, Chase Coleman
has forged a new one from the band of Internet startups that
have earned millions for his investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 