-- Chelsea’s Lampard May Return to West Ham, Express Reports: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-10T10:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/chelsea-s-lampard-may-return-to-west-ham-express-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Lampard Return?  Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  may finish his career back
at his first club, West Ham, should the east  London  team win
promotion to the Premier League,  the Express said .  Lampard wants to start more games at Chelsea and will move
after the season if he isn’t a regular in the starting lineup,
the newspaper reported.  The 33-year-old, who left the Hammers in 2001 to join
Chelsea, is prepared to take a pay cut, the Express said.  Hughes Spending Spree  Mark Hughes has told Queens Park Rangers he needs to spend
30 million pounds ($46.5 million) to lift the club clear of
relegation trouble in the Premier League should he be appointed
manager,  the Express reported .  Aston Villa striker  Darren Bent  and Chelsea forward Didier Drogba are targets for Hughes, while he is also interested in
Blackburn defender Chris Samba, the newspaper said.  Giggs Approach Rejected  Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson rejected an
approach from the Football Association of Wales to appoint  Ryan Giggs  as manager of the Welsh national team,  according to the
Mirror.   Ferguson wants Giggs, 38, to concentrate on his playing
career at the Premier League champion, the newspaper said.  United Targets Defender  United may strengthen its defense with a move for Greek
fullback Vasilis Torosidis, who plays for Olympiakos,  the Mail
reported.   The club sent scouts last weekend to watch the 26-year-old,
who has a 6 million-pound buyout clause but may be available for
a lower fee, the newspaper said.  Stoke Striker Trial  Stoke is giving a trial to VVV-Venlo’s 6-foot-8 Nigerian
striker Michael Uchebo,  the Mirror said . Uchebo, 21, is out of
contract at the end of the season and could join this month for
1 million pounds, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 