-- China Money Rate Drops on Speculation PBOC Will Add Liquidity
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T09:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/china-money-rate-drops-on-speculation-pboc-will-add-liquidity.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped on
speculation the central bank will add cash to the financial
system to meet a seasonal pickup in demand for funds before the
weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, which commences Jan. 23.  The People’s Bank of China added 51 billion yuan ($8.1
billion) to the financial system last week, helping alleviate a
cash squeeze during the nation’s peak month for loan demand. The
central bank  said  Jan. 6 it was suspending bill sales until
after the holiday and may offer reverse-repurchase contracts to
ensure sufficient supply of cash.  “Expectations for reverse-repurchase contracts are
increasing following the central bank statement,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst at China Merchants Bank Co. in Shenzhen.
“The seven-day repo may have small declines before the Lunar
New Year.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 43 basis points to 4.08 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate has
declined 151 basis points this year.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell eight basis
points to 2.99 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Feasts, Loans  Demand for cash climbs as households exchange gifts and
money over the Lunar New Year break, and families buy new
clothes and get together for meals. Money supply also tends to
be strained at the start of each year as banks seek to utilize
fresh annual credit targets. New loans exceeded 1 trillion yuan
in January during each of the last two years, the only months
since the start of 2010 that the threshold was breached.  China will introduce sovereign-debt futures and options,
 Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, said in a statement posted on the commission’s
website. He didn’t specify when the bond derivatives would be
introduced.  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bond due June 2016
declined was unchanged at 3 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 