-- China to Halt Stem-Cell Trial Applications in Effort to Tighten Regulation
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-01-10T09:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/china-to-halt-stem-cell-trial-applications-in-effort-to-tighten-regulation.html
China  will halt new applications for
clinical trials of stem-cell products until July 1 as part of a
year-long campaign to regulate the development of the industry,
a Ministry of Health spokesman said.  The  Ministry of Health  and  State Food and Drug
Administration  are overseeing the effort, Deng Haihua, the
Ministry of Health’s spokesman,  said  in a webcast by
China.com.cn posted on the government website today. Medical
institutions that have approved studies under way shouldn’t
alter them nor charge volunteers for tests, Deng said. Trials
that haven’t been approved should be stopped, he said.  China has adopted a four-way approach to build its stem-
cell industry since 2007, including permissive policies on  stem
cells , recruiting back Chinese expatriates into local research,
and providing annual funding of about $320 million, said Ipshita
Chakraborty, a Calcutta-based industry analyst for  Frost &
Sullivan . A more stringent regulatory system will allow Chinese
institutions to sell products overseas, Chakraborty said in a
telephone interview.  “One industry shortcoming for a long time was a lack of a
globally compliant regulatory system,” said Chakraborty, who
tracks technology and investment opportunities in the stem cell
space for the  Mountain View , California-based consulting
company. “The regulatory system is the most important, so if
they focus on that, that’s good news for them: they’re putting
focus on their investment in the right direction.”  Stem cells have the ability to become any type of cell in
the human body, and researchers around the world are studying
them to see whether they can cure disease. The potential of
Chinese stem-cell research is high, Chakraborty said.  “There’s a body of research that is more than enough to
commercialize,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  