-- China Import Growth Misses Estimates as Export Gains Slow; Surplus Widens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T05:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/china-import-growth-misses-estimates-as-export-gains-slow-surplus-widens.html
China ’s import growth fell to a two-
year low in December, underscoring a slowdown in the fastest-
growing major economy that deepens risks for the global outlook.  Imports (CNFRIMPY)  rose 11.8 percent from a year before, less than all
21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, a
government report showed today in Beijing. The moderation caused
the  trade surplus  to increase to $16.5 billion in the month, as
exports advanced 13.4 percent in December.  Signs of domestic demand moderation bolstered forecasts for
monetary easing -- spurring a gain in local stocks -- as Europe
veers toward a recession and the  International Monetary Fund 
prepares a “substantial” cut to its global growth forecast. The
widening surplus may give U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner ammunition to renew pressure for a stronger yuan on a
visit to Beijing today.  “China will be asked to step up and shoulder more
responsibility, together with the U.S., to ensure the world does
not fall into a recession again,” said Liu Li-Gang, an
economist in Hong Kong at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. who previously worked at the  World Bank . “If the yuan were
to depreciate this year, China’s exchange-rate policy will be
accused of a ‘beggar thy neighbor policy.’”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks climbed 2.2 percent
as of 1:44 p.m. local time, rising on speculation the central
bank may add to last month’s cut in banks’ reserve requirement
ratio. Qu Hongbin, HSBC Holdings Plc’s chief China economist,
today predicted three reductions in the next six months.  Yuan Policy  The yuan was little changed at 6.3127 per dollar today. It
has appreciated about 8 percent since Premier  Wen Jiabao  allowed
greater fluctuation in June 2010 as the global recovery
strengthened. The U.S. Treasury Department said last month the
yuan is substantially undervalued and the U.S. will “press for
policy changes that yield greater exchange-rate flexibility.”
Geithner starts a two-day visit to Beijing today.  Slower import growth in China is bad news for  Australia ,
which counts on the nation as its biggest export destination and
last week reported that its trade surplus unexpectedly narrowed
as shipments of resources slowed. The Philippines today said its
exports slid 19.4 percent in November from a year earlier.  The euro region’s danger of a recession may be reinforced
by a report today showing industrial production in  France  fell
0.2 percent in November from a month earlier, according to the
median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Improvement  By contrast, U.S. data have signaled improvement. Job
growth picked up in December and  consumer credit  jumped by $20.4
billion in November, reports in recent days showed. A release
today may indicate a monthly gain in wholesale inventories in
November, with restocking forecast to add to gross domestic
product.  The IMF is scheduled to release revised global projections
Jan. 24 or Jan. 25.  Olivier Blanchard , the Washington-based
fund’s chief economist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
last week that with European growth “very close to zero at this
point,” there would be a “substantial” cut to the most recent
2012 global expansion estimate of 4 percent.  Weakening import growth may undermine China’s ability to
lead the recovery as it did after the 2008 crisis. The nation’s
expansion may slide to 7.7 percent this quarter, the slowest
pace in three years, according to a UBS AG forecast.  “There will be a ripple effect on the rest of the world,
particularly those who rely on China’s imports, such as
commodity exporters,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “This reinforces our view
that China’s GDP growth will be below 8 percent in the first
quarter.”  Fourth Quarter  The government may say on Jan. 17 that fourth-quarter
Chinese growth slowed to 8.7 percent, according to the median
estimate of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s trade surplus compared with $14.5 billion the
previous month and the median estimate of $8.8 billion in a
Bloomberg survey.  Imports rose the least since gains resumed in November 2009.
The slowdown may have been driven by lower prices, said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays Capital .
“Chinese demand is moderating but at a rather steady pace and
has remained robust by international standards,” she said.  China’s Vice Commerce Minister Zhong Shan warned yesterday
the country’s external trade environment may be “grimmer” this
year as demand weakens and global competition intensifies, the
official Xinhua news agency reported. Exports of labor-intensive
goods are slowing “relatively quickly” and China is losing
market share in  Japan , the European Union and the U.S., he said.  Adidas Shift  Sportswear producers including Adidas AG are moving some
production to Central America to be closer to the U.S. market
and as labor costs in China rise. Adidas, the world’s second-
biggest sporting goods maker, plans to increase its production
in the region fivefold by 2015, the company said last month.  The government’s fine-tuning policies may intensify in
response to the data, said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at
ING Financial Markets in  Singapore .  “The slowdown in export growth is compounding the impact
of tight financial policies, especially housing policies, to
dampen domestic spending,” Condon said. “Another reserve-ratio
cut appears imminent and the slower pace of yuan appreciation
looks set to persist.”  China’s central bank lowered the required reserve ratio for
banks for the first time in almost three years in December to
encourage lending, shifting its stance from fighting inflation
as price pressures eased.  Meantime, policy makers may also curb gains in the yuan
even with pressure from abroad for it to strengthen.  The currency may see at best “minimal appreciation”
against the dollar in the first quarter and at most a 2 percent
advance for the full year, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB, said in a Jan. 4 report.  For 2011, China’s  trade surplus  narrowed 14.5 percent to
$155 billion, the customs bureau said today. That’s the third
straight annual decline since a record $298 billion in 2008.
Full-year exports rose 20.3 percent to $1.9 trillion and imports
climbed 24.9 percent to $1.7 trillion.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Ailing Tan in Singapore,
Zheng Lifei in Beijing and Lily Nonomiya in  Tokyo . Editors:
Chris Anstey, Brendan Murray  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  