-- China’s Wen to Visit Persian Gulf as U.S.-Iran Tensions Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T09:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/chinese-premier-wen-jiabao-to-visit-saudi-arabia-uae-qatar.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  will
visit  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Qatar from Jan.
14 to Jan. 19,  China ’s foreign ministry said today.  Wen will attend a conference in Abu Dhabi and make a speech
about China’s energy policy, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in a  statement  on the ministry’s website. Wen will
hold talks with leaders of the three nations during his six-day
visit and “promote the development of China-Arab relations and
relations with the Islamic world,” Liu said.  The announcement comes as U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner arrives in Beijing today to press Chinese leaders to
pressure Iran’s nuclear program by cutting oil imports. China is
 Iran ’s biggest oil customer, accounting for 22 percent of its
crude exports during the first half of last year, according to
U.S. government statistics.  “China will try to find out what the three countries are
thinking about Iran,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at
the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis, said in a phone interview from Dubai. “China will
want to make sure that it will receive needed energy supplies if
there is a conflict.”  The U.S. tightened economic sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear program on Dec. 31, and the European Union is weighing a
ban later this month on purchases of Iranian crude. Iranian Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27 that his nation
would block oil shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz  if
sanctions are imposed.  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said yesterday
that energy cooperation with Iran should not be linked to its
nuclear program.  “The regular economic and trade relations and energy
cooperation between China and Iran has nothing to do with the
nuclear issue,” Cui told reporters in Beijing. “We should not
mix issues with different natures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  