-- China May Ease Property Curbs Mid-Year to Prevent Price Collapse, UBS Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T07:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/china-may-ease-property-curbs-this-year-to-prevent-collapse-ubs-says.html
China  will probably ease property
curbs as early as the middle of the year to prevent a collapse
of the housing market as the measures may boost supply to the
highest in a decade, according to UBS AG.  “The gap between supply and demand will reach the peak,
and the supply will be 1.5 or even 1.6 times demand, and it will
be a disaster for developers,” Chen Li, head of China equity
strategy at UBS, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Their  cash flow  will be exhausted to zero by the end of this
year if they cannot get any financing. No one can afford that.”  China’s  home prices  fell for a fourth month in December
after the government reiterated plans to maintain curbs that
include higher down-payment and mortgage requirements, according
to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  Housing values dropped in 60 out of 100
cities tracked by the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner,
including the 10 largest cities such as Shanghai and Beijing.  The government said last month at an annual economic
planning meeting that it won’t back away from real-estate
industry curbs this year that are damping home sales and pulling
down prices. The nation’s financial center of Shanghai and some
other Chinese cities have also said they will continue to impose
the home purchase restrictions this year.  “If you assume the property policy keeps stable in the
coming year, that means by the end of the year the inventory of
property will reach a new peak, around 10 years or even 20
years,” Chen said.  Second-Half Rally  Chen said the stock market may rally in the second half
after the government relaxes its property curbs, which may boost
property shares. The  gauge  tracking real estate stocks on the
 Shanghai  Composite Index climbed 3.4 percent at the close, the
most since Oct. 28. The benchmark measure gained 2.7 percent.  China’s property market isn’t in a bubble as the ratio
between home prices and personal incomes are in a “healthy”
range, according to Eva Lee, a property analyst at UBS. Housing
prices are 7.5 times income, while those in  Singapore  and  Hong
Kong  about 12 times, Lee told reporters in Shanghai.  The easing of housing curbs will aim to help homebuyers
instead of speculators or those purchasing the properties for
investment, she said, adding that there won’t be a “blanket
loosening.”  China’s home sales are expected to fall 5 percent in 2012,
Lee said. The decline will be led by the so-called first and
second-tier or more affluent cities, where housing transactions
may decrease by 15 percent, she said.  The government has said it will continue to increase the
supply of social housing. It plans to start the construction of
7 million homes this year, compared with 10 million in 2011. The
completion will at least keep pace with last year’s 5 million
units, People’s Daily reported earlier this year.  --Stephen Engle and Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  