-- People’s Daily Goes Private as Communist-Backed Web Portal Seeks China IPO
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-01-10T09:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/china-party-affiliated-site-seeks-shanghai-ipo.html
People.cn Co. , controlled by the
Chinese Communist Party’s newspaper publisher, aims to sell
shares in an initial public offering as state media companies
seek stock listings to compete with private rivals.  The owner of websites including  people.com.cn  may offer
69.1 million shares, or a 25 percent stake, in the proposed
sale, according to a  filing  to the China Securities Regulatory
Commission yesterday. The company, a unit of the People’s Daily,
didn’t disclose pricing details of the planned listing on the
Shanghai exchange.  People.cn plans to use proceeds from the offering to fund a
527 million yuan ($83.5 million) spending program to upgrade
networks and content, more than a decade after online rivals
 Sina Corp. (SINA)  and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  went public in the U.S. People’s
Daily, founded in 1948, is the official newspaper of the ruling
Communist Party.  “They need to tap  capital markets  to compete,” said Vivek
Couto,  executive director  at industry consultant Media Partners
Asia Ltd. in Singapore. China’s central government is “broadly
supportive” of moves by state media companies to obtain stock
market listings, he said.  The IPO application from People.cn will be reviewed on Jan.
13, the regulator said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Citic Securities Co. is managing the offering, according to
the filing.  Website Rankings  People.com.cn was the 50th most-popular website in China on
Aug. 22, according to the filing, which cited data from
Chinarank.org.cn. The website of New York-listed Sina was ranked
fourth on that day, while Sohu’s was placed seventh, according
to the filing.  China Xinhua News Network Co., a television company
controlled by China’s official Xinhua News Agency, last month
completed acquisition of a controlling stake in Hong Kong-listed
Tsun Yip Holdings Ltd.  During China’s Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and 1970s,
editorials in the People’s Daily were considered authoritative
statements of government policies. The newspaper’s header was
handwritten by former Chinese leader  Mao Zedong , and it has an
average daily circulation of 2.3 million copies, according to
its website.  Other Shareholders  People.cn also controls other websites including
globaltimes.cn and sportsonline.com.cn, according to its filing.  State-owned carriers  China Mobile Communications Corp. (941) ,
China United Network Communications Group, and China
Telecommunications Corp. are among shareholders in People.cn,
according to the filing. Parent People’s Daily owns about 80
percent of the unit’s stock, according to the document.  Revenue rose 75 percent to 331.7 million yuan in 2010 from
190 million yuan a year earlier, according to the filing. Profit
more than tripled to 81.6 million yuan in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  