-- Chrysler May Lose Hybrid Competitiveness Without U.S. Loan
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-10T15:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/chrysler-may-lose-hybrid-competitiveness-without-u-s-loan.html
Chrysler Group LLC risks losing
ground against competitors in making hybrid and electric
vehicles if it doesn’t receive the U.S. Energy Department loan
it applied for, two automotive analysts said.  The agency’s decision on the automaker’s request for a $3.5
billion loan has probably been held up because of a change in
ownership that gave  Fiat SpA (F)  a majority stake last year, said
U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat who helped set
up the loan program.  “We’re continuing to talk,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu
told reporters today before touring Chrysler’s display at the
North American International Auto Show in  Detroit .  The Energy Department has awarded $8.4 billion since 2009
as part of a $25 billion Advanced Technology Vehicles
Manufacturing loan program. Recipients include  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,
which sells the Leaf plug-in car;  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , with an
electric Roadster; and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which yesterday showed
off two hybrid versions of its Fusion sedan in Detroit.  Chrysler must “be able to offer more” to compete in the
realm of hybrid and electric vehicles, Lacey Plache, chief
economist for auto researcher Edmunds.com, said in an interview
at the show. “It really is a critical juncture. What I’m seeing
today is everybody’s really trying to cover all their bases.”  Nissan’s $1.4 billion loan helped it accelerate plans to
bring Leaf production to the U.S., Tracy Woodard, the
automaker’s U.S. government affairs director, said in an
interview yesterday.  Electric Fiat  Chrysler plans to introduce an all-electric Fiat 500 in the
U.S. around the start of next year, Timothy Kuniskis, head of
the Fiat brand for  North America , said in an interview. The
company also has said it will start selling natural gas-powered
vehicles by 2017 and is testing electric- and natural gas-
powered pickups.  Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said
yesterday that regulators reduced the amount of financing being
considered in their latest discussions with the company. The
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker is weighing whether to
continue pursuing the loan if it’s offered too little, he said.  Chrysler most recently met with the Energy Department on
Jan. 6 about the request, said  Gualberto Ranieri , a Chrysler
spokesman.  Under Review  Chu declined to comment on whether Chrysler will get a
loan, the timing of a decision or the amount being discussed.  “Chrysler is one of the manufacturers, as well as Ford and
GM, that is rebounding,” Chu said. “I’m happy with that.”  The Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing loan program
is under review by the White House following the failure of
solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which received a loan guarantee
from another Energy Department loan program. The agency said
last week it was rescinding a conditional commitment to lend OAO
Severstal,  Russia ’s second-largest steelmaker, $730 million to
expand high-strength steel production in Dearborn, Michigan.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which sells the plug-in hybrid
Chevrolet Volt, a year ago rescinded its application from the
Energy Department’s vehicle  program .  Chrysler’s “alternative vehicle work is definitely behind
Ford’s and GM’s,” Michael Omotoso, LMC Automotive’s forecaster
of hybrid and electric vehicles, said in a telephone interview.  Internal-Combustion Efficiencies  Most consumers aren’t willing to pay a premium for hybrid
models, about a decade after they were introduced in the U.S.
market, even with  oil prices  at close to $100 a barrel, said
Reid Bigland, president of Chrysler’s Dodge brand. Chrysler’s
revival of the Dodge Dart won’t have a hybrid version when it
begins production in the second quarter.  The fuel-economy advantage of hybrids “is continuing to
shrink because of the efficiencies with the internal combustion
engine” through turbochargers and advanced transmissions,
Bigland said in an interview. “The pure economics are a tough
case.”  Chrysler’s strategy of boosting its fuel economy through
improvements to the internal-combustion engine is “smart” for
the company, which has paid back the money it borrowed from the
 U.S. Treasury  during the 2009 auto bailout, Omotoso said.  “Sergio Marchionne is very cost-conscious,” Omotoso said
of Chrysler’s CEO. “Chrysler’s probably in the weakest
financial position of the Big Three” U.S. automakers.  Chrysler can also license hybrid and electric technology
from a company such as Tesla, which already has investments from
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Omotoso said.  Executive Skepticism  Auditor and consultant KPMG LLP said Jan. 5 that 65 percent
percent of auto-industry executives it queried for an annual
survey said they expect electrified vehicles will account for
less than 15 percent of global annual auto sales through 2025.  While that skepticism is “well justified,” automakers
still will need to embrace hybrids and electric vehicles to meet
U.S.  fuel-economy  standards, Marchionne said.  Marchionne a year ago called the loans important to the
“long-term stability of Chrysler.” He said yesterday that
borrowing from the U.S. would probably impair the company’s
ability to “refinance itself” for the term of the loans.  Chrysler is generating cash at a faster pace than set in
its November 2009 business plan, he said. The company probably
generated more than $1 billion in  cash flow  for 2011, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  