-- ClearEdge Weans Austria City From Gas With Top Fuel Cell Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-10T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/clearedge-weans-austria-city-from-gas-with-top-fuel-cell-order.html
ClearEdge Power Inc., a closely held
maker of stationary fuel cells, agreed to provide 50 megawatts
of its systems to an Austrian energy company, the largest sale
of such devices to date.  Gussing Renewable Energy GmbH will pay about $500 million
for the fuel cells as part of an effort to curtail its use of
natural gas to produce electricity, Hillsboro, Oregon-based
ClearEdge said today in a statement.  Gussing, based in the Austrian city of the same name, also
operates two gasification plants that convert organic materials
into biogas that can be used to power the fuel cells, said
Russel Ford, ClearEdge’s chief executive officer.  “There will probably be a bit of a mixture to begin with,
but ultimately the goal is to get away from the Russian pipeline
essentially and bring energy independence in  Austria ,” Ford
said in a telephone interview.  ClearEdge is to deliver by 2015 enough of its  polymer
electrolyte membrane  fuel cells to produce 8.6 megawatts of
capacity. About 25 percent percent of them will run on biogas,
Ford said.  Another 8 megawatts of capacity is due by 2016 and the
balance of the order by 2020, when Gussing expects all of them
to be fueled by biogas, Ford said.  ClearEdge’s fuel cells primarily use natural gas to produce
heat and electricity, according to its website. This is the
company’s first sale in  Europe .  The largest stationary fuel-cell order prior to this was
Bloom Energy Corp.’s sale to Delmarva Power & Light Co. of about
30 megawatts of its systems over 21 years, Ford said. Delaware
regulators announced  approval  of the contract in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  