-- Climate Talks Should Fix CO2 Price, Not Cap, Neuroscientist Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-10T11:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/climate-talks-should-fix-co2-price-not-cap-neuroscientist-says.html
United Nations climate envoys should
set a carbon price rather than fix a global cap on greenhouse-
gas emissions, cutting the complexity of international
negotiations, said a neuroscientist.  Developing nations may accept a  global harmonized carbon
price  as long as they receive the money from setting that amount
as well as a portion of funds raised by developed nations that
have mostly caused climate change, said David Silverstein, a
neuroscientist with an interest in climate negotiations. He’s a
researcher and teacher at the Royal Institute of Technology in
 Stockholm .  “You could set a harmonized global floor price or  tax rate 
in a year,” Silverstein said in a telephone interview. “You
have some sort of scaffolding to allow global climate finance to
develop in a more structured way.”  The 1997  Kyoto Protocol , which set an emissions cap for
more than 30 developed nations in the five years through this
year, was never ratified by the U.S. and didn’t include  China 
and  India , the world’s two most populous nations. UN envoys have
failed to decide how to extend or replace that agreement the
past 14 years.  A key problem with new caps is that scientists can’t agree
what limit is needed to protect the climate, Silverstein said.
“If you are going to have to keep adjusting the limit, then you
might as well just change the price floor or tax.”  The complex wrangling about how money from the price should
be used is better solved by national governments rather than
international  negotiations , he said. “If you try to scale
complexity to a global level, you could potentially get a
mess.”  ‘Difficult Sell’  It’s probably better to allow nations to determine how to
implement the price, he said. “I agree, though, that it’s a
little bit of a difficult sell.”  His plan would potentially set a price of $8 a ton and jump
$8 a year, reaching $64 in 2020. Richer nations would contribute
to a Green Climate Fund for use by poor nations based on their
historical responsibility for heat-trapping gases, as well as
their wealth. The rising price will quickly make non-fossil-fuel
technology viable, cutting emissions, according to the plan.  The U.S. would contribute 50 percent of the Green Climate
Fund. At a price of $8, the world’s biggest economy would
contribute $1.65 a ton, or 21 percent, helping contribute $100
billion a year by 2020 from rich nations to poor for adaptation
and mitigation. The rest of the revenue would be used by the
U.S. to address  climate change  internally.  Avoiding Sanctions  The U.S. will want to avoid potential penalties and
compensation claims, Silverstein said. “Ultimately there could
be trade sanctions that could be employed” by developing
nations that experience climate-change related disasters, he
said. Emerging nations including China and India would forgo use
of the fund and may start contributing to it as they become
wealthier, he said.  The plan contrasts with  one proposed  by Mutsuyoshi Nishimura, a former negotiator for the Japanese government,
which would set a global limit of 660 billion tons of carbon
dioxide equivalent in the four decades through 2050 from 2010.
Global man-made emissions need to drop to about 32.6 billion
tons in 2035 from 47.1 billion tons in 2009, the  International
Energy Agency  in Paris said in November.  The world could adopt the global harmonized price at least
for the next several years while it negotiates a new cap,
because the current growth in emissions represents a serious
risk to the climate, Silverstein said.  Officials from almost 200 nations agreed on Dec. 11 at UN
climate talks in Durban,  South Africa , to seek a global deal by
2015, with the participation for the first time of the U.S.,
China and India. “Perhaps this makes it more likely that all
nations will accept the responsibility to adopt a common carbon
price,” Silverstein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  