-- Commodities Near Their Highest for a Month
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-10T17:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/commodities-near-their-highest-for-a-month-orange-juice-soars.html
Commodities (SPGSCI)  rose to near the highest
in more than a month after  orange juice  jumped to the most
expensive price in 15 years.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities gained
as much as 1.5 percent to 672.47, near its high on Jan. 5 which
was the most in seven weeks. It was at 669.92 as of 12:16 p.m.
in  New York . Cocoa rose to a six-week high in London on
speculation processing figures this week will signal stronger
demand as dry weather may damage crops in West Africa. White
sugar advanced.  “In general it’s quite positive across the board,
including precious and base metals, and crude,” Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst at SEB AB, said in a
telephone interview from Oslo. “It’s not a pure commodities
move as the different segments are highly correlated with
equities and the weaker  U.S. dollar .”  French business confidence climbed from a two-year low last
month and industrial output increased in November, indicating
the threat of a recession in the euro-region’s second-biggest
economy is easing. Consumer borrowing in the U.S. surged in
November by the most in 10 years, showing households are
optimistic enough to take on debt and banks are willing to lend.  Orange juice for March delivery on ICE Futures U.S. rose 20
cents, the most allowed by the exchange, to $2.0775 a pound, the
highest for a most-active contract since March 1997.  Iran Dispute  Oil rose in New York for the first time in four days on
growing concern that the dispute between  Iran  and western
governments may lead to a disruption in Middle East crude
exports. Crude for February delivery climbed as much as $2.10 to
$103.41 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can’t get
involved in a dispute between the U.S. and Iran over sanctions,
according to  Venezuela ’s oil minister  Rafael Ramirez . President
 Barack Obama  is prepared to use military force to prevent Iran
from acquiring a nuclear weapon if sanctions and diplomacy fail,
his former special assistant on Iran said.  Cash gold gained as much as 1.8 percent to $1,640.11 an
ounce, the highest price since Dec. 21. Copper futures for March
delivery increased as much as 3 percent to $3.5175 a pound on
the Comex in New York.  Cocoa futures for March delivery climbed as much as 7.8
percent to $2,339 a metric ton, the highest level since Nov. 28.  Credit increased by $20.4 billion, the biggest jump since
November 2001, to $2.48 trillion, U.S. Federal Reserve figures
showed yesterday in  Washington . The advance was almost twice as
big as the highest forecast of 31 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Chinese Growth  In  China , import growth fell to a two-year low in December,
underscoring a slowdown in the fastest-growing major economy
that deepens risks for the global outlook.  Imports rose 11.8
percent  from a year before, less than all 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, a government report showed
today in Beijing.  “Even though imports to and exports from China were weaker
than expected, we still saw good loan growth in December,”
SEB’s Schieldrop said.  China is implementing a growth strategy that includes
infrastructure construction in the western and north-eastern
regions, he said.  “There’s further optimism that China will ease reserve-
requirement rates further in next two weeks. The market is not
putting too much weight on weaker exports but the probability
that you’ll see further stimulus of the Chinese economy,”
Schieldrop said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  