-- Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Increases for Fourth Month
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-10T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-increases-for-fourth-month.html
Confidence among small businesses in
the U.S. rose in December for a fourth month as companies
foresaw improving sales, profits and economy, a survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s  index 
climbed to 93.8, the highest level since February, from 92 the
previous month, the Washington-based group said today in a
statement. The gauge averaged 88.2 in the recession that ended
in June 2009.  Four consecutive gains mark the index’s longest stretch of
increases since the same period ended November 2010. Alongside
other improving data that include bigger payroll gains and
stronger manufacturing, the small-business report indicates the
economy is beginning 2012 on a bright note.  “The economy appears to be slowly recovering, resolving
imbalances in debt, housing and the like,”  William Dunkelberg ,
the group’s chief economist, said in a statement. “There is
still a lot of work to be done.”  The share of owners projecting higher sales, adjusted for
inflation, rose five points to 9 percent, also the highest since
February. The gauge of expectations for better business
conditions six months from now increased four points to a net
minus 8 percent.  Hiring Plans  The net share of small-business owners planning to hire
over the next three months slipped a point to 6 percent, the
report showed. Nonetheless, workforce reductions were at the
second-lowest level since December 2007, and the business
group’s model projects an  unemployment rate  in the “mid to low
8 percent range” this year, according to the release.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  A measure of earnings trends increased six points to a net
minus 22 percent, the  highest  since December 2007, the report
showed. Additionally, a net minus 9 percent of small businesses
said they expect easier credit conditions, a one-point gain from
the prior month.  Those businesses planning to spend on  new equipment  and
facilities held at a 24 percent share, matching the highest
level since March.  The NFIB report was based on responses from 725 small-
business owners polled through Dec. 31. Small companies
represent more than 99 percent of all U.S. employers, according
to the U.S. Small Business Administration. A small business is
defined as an independent enterprise employing as many as 500
people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  