-- Copper Climbs Most in a Week as China’s Decmeber Imports Rise to Record
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-01-10T19:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/copper-climbs-most-in-a-week-on-record-high-shipments-of-metal-into-china.html
Copper futures posted the biggest
gain in almost six weeks as imports climbed to a record in
 China , the world’s biggest user of industrial metals.  Imports of unwrought copper and products gained 13 percent
in December to 508,942 metric tons, the seventh straight gain,
China’s customs figures showed today. Equities rallied on
speculation that officials may loosen monetary policy in an
effort to spur economic growth.  “We saw some good monthly copper figures from China, and
that set a strong tone,”  William O’Neill , a partner at Logic
Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s evidence that China is slowing, but the
reality is the slowing doesn’t equate with a hard landing” for
the economy, he said. “The key is economic optimism now.”  Copper futures for March delivery advanced 2.8 percent to
settle at $3.513 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Nov. 30.  Purchases by China still posted a drop last year, the first
decline since 2008. Futures dropped 23 percent in 2011.  China’s policy makers probably will ease real-estate curbs
as early as the middle of the year to prevent a collapse of the
housing market, according to UBS AG. Construction accounts for a
quarter of demand for copper, used in pipes and wiring, the
Copper Development Association says.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 3.3 percent to $7,740 a metric ton ($3.51 a pound).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  