-- Copper Imports by China at Record on Re-Stocking, Trade Financing Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T07:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/copper-imports-by-china-at-record-on-re-stocking-trade-financing-demand.html
Copper  imports  by  China  surged to a
record in December, narrowing the first annual drop since 2008,
as pre-holiday stockpiling and financing needs spurred buying
amid low domestic inventories in the world’s largest consumer.  Inbound shipments of the refined metal, copper alloy and
products were 508,942 metric tons, gaining for the seventh
straight month, according to data on the General Administration
of Customs’  website  today. That was the highest level ever,
according to Qu Yi, a Beijing-based analyst at CRU International
Ltd.  Tight credit conditions after China raised bank reserve
ratios six times in 2011 spurred metal imports as a means to
secure trade financing. Unprofitable arbitrage between London
and Shanghai in the first half caused a 29 percent drop in
inventories as users ran down local stocks. The benchmark copper
price in  London  tumbled 21 percent last year.  “December imports far exceeded the market expectation,”
Peng Qiang, an analyst at Cofco Futures Co., said by phone from
Beijing. “The consensus was around level with November, or even
slightly lower. This may be a combined result of actual demand
and financing needs.”  Arrivals of unwrought copper fell 24 percent in the first
six months from a year earlier as the arbitrage window closed,
spurring a rebound in the second half, paring the annual decline
to a 5.1 percent drop. Arbitrage traders attempt to profit from
prices variations for the same asset traded on different
exchanges.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange gained as
much as 1.5 percent today to $7,609.50 a ton, before being
traded at $7,595 per ton at 2:48 p.m.  Shanghai  time.  Financing Demand  “Expectations of loosening money supply this year
encouraged financing deals, as traders would deem such deals
safer when overall  cash flow  isn’t that tight,” Peng said.  Trading companies receive a letter of credit for copper
imports and then get a window of a few months of cheap loans.
They can sell the metal and use the proceeds for higher-yielding
investments, or submit a warehouse receipt or a warrant to use
it as collateral for a discounted loan.  China cut  reserve requirements  in December by 50 basis
points, the first reduction since 2008. The People’s Bank of
China may follow up last month’s reduction with another cut this
week, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said yesterday.  Improving demand ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday may
also have boosted shipments, Peng said. The weeklong vacation
starts on Jan. 23.  More Imports  Low stockpiles and tight financing conditions may support
imports this year, said CRU’s Qu. “If prices slide further, and
if  money supply  loosens a tad, imports may pick up.”  China’s stocks rose, driving the benchmark index to its
biggest three-day gain since October 2010, as slowing trade data
boosted speculation the government may loosen monetary policy to
spur economic growth.  China’s copper consumption growth will slow to 6.4 percent
this year, or 7.85 million tons, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co. This compares with 8.5 percent
growth in 2011 to 7.38 million tons, and 11.5 percent to 6.8
million tons in 2010, Antaike’s data show.  “For January, holidays and low utilization rates of
producers will probably bring down imports from the record level
in December,” said Wang Mingyi, an analyst at Galaxy Futures
Co.  Scrap copper  imports  totaled 450,000 tons in December,
lifting the annual arrivals to 4.69 million tons, up 7.4 percent
from 2010, according to customs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  