-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall to Lowest Level Since October
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-10T22:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-to-lowest-level-since-october.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell to the lowest level in more than two months on
speculation that European leaders are making progress in the
region’s sovereign debt crisis and that China will act to
stimulate its economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
dropped 3.1 basis points to a mid-price of 116.3 basis points at
5 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts on
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  also declined.  Market moves reflected “the increased expectation that
policy makers aren’t going to fumble the ball,” Brian Jacobsen,
chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, which
oversees $219.9 billion in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said in a
telephone interview.  The gauge decreased as International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
discussed  Greece  today. The  European Central Bank ’s policy
decision, followed by President  Mario Draghi ’s news conference,
is on Jan. 12. The Frankfurt-based central bank will leave its
key refinancing rate at 1 percent, according to the median of 51
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Sovereign Bond Auctions  Traders also pushed the swaps index lower as signs of
domestic demand moderation in  China  bolstered forecasts for
monetary easing and spurred a gain in stocks worldwide.  “EU sovereign bond auctions have gone pretty well, and
outside of  Europe , U.S. data continues to beat expectations
while there’s hope that China will loosen policy to help
stimulate growth,” George Bory, chief corporate credit
strategist for UBS AG, said in an e-mail. While still
“constructive on credit,” Bory added that risks of a “hiccup
in EU sovereign bonds,” weaker-than-expected earnings from U.S.
financial companies and European bank funding issues persist.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, slid today to as low as
116.2, the lowest level since Oct. 31. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt.  Contracts tied to Bank of America eased 13.8 basis points
to 341.2 basis points, the lowest level since Nov. 3, according
to data provider CMA. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  MBIA Swaps Drop  Credit-default swaps on the MBIA Inc. unit that guaranteed
toxic mortgage debt dropped to the lowest in more than three
years after its regulator said BNP Paribas SA will withdraw from
lawsuits challenging MBIA’s restructuring.  Five-year swaps on MBIA Insurance Corp. fell 1.9 percentage
points to 23.8 percent upfront, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percentage
points a year, meaning the cost to protect $10 million of the
company’s obligations against default fell to $2.38 million
upfront and $500,000 annually.  The trailing 12 month global speculative-grade default rate
declined to 1.7 percent for the fourth quarter from 1.8 percent
in the prior period, Moody’s Investors Service said in a note
today.  The U.S. speculative-grade default rate ended the fourth
quarter at 1.8 percent, down from 3.4 percent at the end of last
year, and 36 rated corporate issuers defaulted in 2011, compared
with 61 the prior year, Moody’s said. Speculative-grade debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  