-- Crystal Palace Defeats Cardiff 1-0 to Open Carling Cup Soccer Semifinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/crystal-palace-beats-cardiff-1-0-in-carling-cup-semifinal-opener.html
Crystal Palace defeated Cardiff 1-0
in the opening match of their semifinal in the Carling Cup,
English soccer’s second-tier club competition.  Anthony Gardner scored the only goal just before halftime
last night at Selhurst Park in south  London . Cardiff hosts the
return match in the two-game series on Jan. 24.  “We got a team set up to win away from home,” Palace
manager Dougie Freedman, whose players knocked out  Manchester
United  in the previous round, told Sky Sports. “We’ll go there
quietly confident and it’ll be a very interesting game.”  The winner of the series between the teams from the second-
tier Championship advances to the Feb. 26 final at Wembley
Stadium in London. Record seven-time winner Liverpool visits
Premier League leader  Manchester City  in the first game of the
other semifinal tonight.  Palace took the lead when Mile Jedinak beat Cardiff
goalkeeper Tom Heaton to a Darren Ambrose free kick and flicked
the ball toward the far post where Gardner nodded it into the
empty net.  Cardiff looked to have tied the score in the 67th minute
when Kenny Miller headed in a corner kick, only for referee Mike Dean to disallow the effort for a foul in front of goal.  “The referee not giving the goal is a surprise to me,”
Cardiff manager Malky Mackay told  Sky Sports . “Maybe he has got
in his mind he should have given a goal kick rather than a
corner and tried to rectify that.”  The Bluebirds controlled play over the final 15 minutes
without coming up with the tying goal. Andrew Taylor sent their
last chance just over the crossbar in injury time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 