-- Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Say No Official Decision Received From EU on Merger
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-10T18:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/deutsche-boerse-nyse-say-no-official-decision-received-from-eu-on-merger.html
European antitrust regulators have
until Feb. 9 to evaluate  Deutsche Boerse AG’s (DB1)  takeover of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  and have yet to communicate a formal ruling, according
to the exchange companies.  “ Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE Euronext have not received yet an
official decision by the European Commission regarding the
requested merger,”  Deutsche Boerse spokesman  Frank Herkenhoff 
said in an e-mailed statement. The New York Stock Exchange owner
issued a similar statement, citing a media report.  “The commission has announced that it will make its final
ruling on whether to clear the proposed merger by Feb. 9, 2012.
As a matter of policy, we cannot comment on speculation,”
Herkenhoff wrote.  NYSE shares  climbed as much as 5.3 percent to $27.98 today
after the Financial Times said  Joaquin Almunia , the EC’s
antitrust chief, informed the companies he will recommend
against the deal. Almunia’s team drafted an official
recommendation opposing the plan because it would create too big
a player in European derivatives, the FT said, citing two people
involved in the process which it didn’t name.  EC negotiators told the companies at a Dec. 21 meeting in
Brussels the concessions they offered to allay competition
concerns didn’t go far enough and that they were likely to
recommend against the merger, two people familiar with the talks
told Bloomberg at the time. People familiar with the situation
said Dec. 30 that a draft recommendation reflecting that opinion
would probably be released this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 