-- Deutsche Boerse, NYSE Chiefs Set to Meet Amid Rising Opposition to Merger
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-10T19:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/deutsche-boerse-nyse-chiefs-set-to-meet-amid-rising-opposition-to-merger.html
The chief executive officers of
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext will meet in New York
tomorrow to discuss rising opposition to their planned merger,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Reto Francioni and executives of  Deutsche Boerse  are flying
to meet NYSE’s  Duncan Niederauer  after the companies said today
that no official decision has been received from European
antitrust regulators on the deal. Shares of the exchange
operators rose more than 5 percent after the Financial Times
said the European Commission would block it.  “Their realistic options are to continue to do what they’re
doing, lobby for the deal and give every ounce of effort, and I
think that’s what they’re doing,”  Richard Repetto , an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “They never positioned this deal as a layup, or an
automatic shoo-in.”  Niederauer and Francioni have been working for 11 months to
convince competition authorities in  Europe  that their merger
won’t stifle competition in derivatives trading. Scrutiny of the
proposed acquisition has been greatest in Europe where it would
unite the region’s two biggest derivatives exchanges, NYSE’s
Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex.  The executives will discuss steps that can be taken to
persuade regulators to clear the proposal, which would create
the world’s biggest  exchange company , two people said,
requesting anonymity because the plans are private. Topics will
include opposition in the EC and among regulators in the German
state of Hesse, as well as the integration they have been
pursuing since announcing the deal in February, the people said.  Falling Short  “They could appeal to politicians to secure some pressure
on the regulators,”  Jamie Selway , head of liquidity management
at New York-based Investment Technology Group Inc., said in a
phone interview. “They could say that if European politicians
are intent on setting back the financial markets in Europe
substantially, preventing this deal is a good way to do that.”  EC negotiators told the companies at a Dec. 21 meeting in
Brussels the concessions they offered to allay competition
concerns didn’t go far enough and that they were likely to
recommend against the merger, two people familiar with the talks
told Bloomberg at the time. People familiar with the situation
said Dec. 30 that a draft recommendation reflecting that opinion
would probably be released this month.  Stocks Gain  NYSE shares climbed 5.6 percent to $28.05 as of 2:30 p.m.
in  New York  after the Financial Times said  Joaquin Almunia , the
EC’s antitrust chief, told the companies he will recommend
against the deal. Almunia’s team drafted an official
recommendation opposing the plan, the FT said, citing two people
involved in the process. Deutsche Boerse advanced 4.9 percent to
42.02 euros.  “Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext have not received yet an
official decision by the European Commission regarding the
requested merger,” Deutsche Boerse spokesman  Frank Herkenhoff 
said in an e-mailed statement. The New York Stock Exchange owner
issued a similar statement, citing a media report.  “The commission has announced that it will make its final
ruling on whether to clear the proposed merger by Feb. 9, 2012,”
Herkenhoff said. “As a matter of policy, we cannot comment on
speculation.”  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  on Feb. 15
for stock worth $9.53 billion. The value of the acquisition has
fallen to about $6.6 billion as stocks around the world tumbled.
 Germany ’s DAX Index is down 16 percent since the merger
discussions were first reported Feb. 9.  Room to Maneuver  Even if Almunia’s team recommends against the transaction,
the companies have room to maneuver. Before deciding whether to
approve or block a deal, the European Commission must consult
competition agencies from the European Union’s member nations.
Commissioners from each EU country must vote on a decision and
companies can appeal a ban at the EU courts.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the European
exchange-traded  derivatives market  and about 30 percent of the
region’s stock trading in the hands of one company. Deutsche
Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives exchange,
while Liffe is the second-largest. Eurex is owner of  New York- 
based  International Securities Exchange , which has a 31.5
percent stake in Direct Edge Holdings LLC. Brokers own the rest.  OTC Derivatives  “The thesis by regulators and politicians is that exchanges
are part of the solution for OTC derivatives trading,” Selway
said. “They may look to remind politicians of that and let them
know a unified derivatives market for Europe will be a
counterweight to CME in the U.S. They could argue that not
having that would weaken Europe.”  In Europe, the companies have offered capping fees on
derivatives trading and clearing for three years, selling NYSE’s
Liffe single-stock derivatives business, and the licensing of
the Eurex trading system to a third party, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private. Regulators
haven’t drafted a decision yet, they said.  The takeover was cleared by the U.S. Justice Department on
Dec. 22. U.S. regulators, who in May blocked Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. from pursuing a hostile bid for the New York Stock Exchange
owner, agreed to allow the purchase by Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse as long as the company sells its 31.5 percent stake in
another U.S. equity market, Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 