-- Hedge Funds Sit Out Stock Market Rally
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-01-10T21:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hedge-funds-sit-out-rally-with-speculation-on-stock-gains-close-to-09-low.html
Rallying  stocks  have done little to
entice professional money managers back to U.S. equities.  A gauge of hedge-fund bullishness measuring the proportion
of bets that shares will rise climbed to 44.5 last week from
43.9 at the end of 2011, holding close to the lowest level since
2009, according to International Strategy & Investment Group.
Compared with the price of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
managers’ so-called net exposure is close to the lowest since
June 2008, the ISI data show.  Speculators have been cutting equities since the index
peaked in February 2011 at 54.2, concerned  Europe ’s credit
crisis will spread and curb global economic growth. They stayed
bearish after October when the S&P 500 began a 17 percent rally
that has restored $2 trillion to the value of American equities.  “ Hedge funds  have made massive mistakes,”  George Feiger ,
chief executive officer of Contango Capital Advisors Inc., the
San Francisco-based wealth management arm of Zions
Bancorporation, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 6. He
manages $3.3 billion at Contango and Western National Trust Co.
“We are less and less willing to invest with these people
because at the point when you need them the most, they’re worth
the least.”  Record Volatility  Investors have struggled to profit amid record stock market
volatility. Hedge funds, largely unregulated investment vehicles
that aim to make money whether markets rise or fall, lost 4.9
percent last year as fear that the European sovereign-debt
crisis would spread deterred them from buying risky assets
including stocks, according to the Bloomberg aggregate hedge-
fund  index .  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 9.4 percent in 2011
while fixed-income securities worldwide returned 5.89 percent
last year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The S&P 500  rebounded  from last year’s lowest level on Oct.
3 as data on manufacturing, construction and employment spurred
speculation the  U.S. economy  is accelerating. The benchmark
index for American equities fell 0.04 point in 2011, the 10th
best performance among the world’s stock markets, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The index lost 7.2 percent in September.  Net Exposure  ISI’s index, based on a survey of 35 mostly U.S. hedge
funds with about $84 billion under management, tracks net
exposure on a zero through 100 scale. Readings of zero show
“maximum” short selling, or the sale of borrowed equities with
the hope of profiting by buying them at lower prices later,
while 100 means “maximum” bullish bets. At 50, hedge funds are
deploying a “normal” ratio of long to short investments.  “It is unusual for hedge funds in our survey to remain as
cautious on net exposure as they have, given the size of the
move in stocks since the summer,” Oscar Sloterbeck, managing
director at New York-based ISI, said in an e-mail on Jan. 6.  Hedge funds have reason to be cautious as the euro-zone
debt crisis and the U.S. budget debate threaten global economic
growth, according to Steve Shafer, chief investment officer at
Covenant Global Investors.  “It’s very sensible to have this low level of exposure,”
Shafer, who helps manage $315 million at the Oklahoma City-based
hedge fund, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The problem
is that the low exposure creates the potential for whipsaw,
which hurt of lot of hedge funds last year. You get pounded in
September and then you miss out on October.”  Manufacturing Reports  The  S&P 500  rose 1.6 percent to 1,277.81 last week, its
second-best start of a year since 2006, as reports on
manufacturing from America to  China  bolstered optimism about the
global economy. The benchmark index rose today to the highest
level since July 29, a week before the U.S. was stripped of its
AAA credit rating by S&P, advancing 0.9 percent to 1,292.08 at 4
p.m. in New York.  Buying of equities by hedge funds that have missed out on
gains amid an improving economy and record corporate earnings
may help propel stock prices this year, said  Tim Hartzell  of
Houston-based Sequent Asset Management.  “The hedge funds are risk takers and they need to come
back,” Hartzell, who oversees about $350 million as chief
investment officer at Sequent, said in a phone interview Jan. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  