-- Hedge Funds Ask SEC to Let Them Solicit Private Funds Without Registration
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-10T22:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hedge-funds-ask-sec-to-let-them-go-public-in-private-offerings.html
The Managed Funds Association is
urging U.S. regulators to remove restrictions on solicitation
and advertising in private offerings to make it easier for  hedge
funds  to raise money and promote their products.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should amend its
rules to allow private funds to “engage in communication and
offering activity while remaining in compliance,” Richard H. Baker, the Washington-based lobby group’s president and chief
executive officer, said in a letter requesting the rule change.
An SEC advisory group on small and emerging companies voted for
a similar recommendation on Jan. 6.  The change would let hedge funds avoid the SEC’s
registration process while openly seeking money from so-called
accredited investors, those deemed sophisticated enough to
understand riskier offerings. Changes in securities markets and
regulations have rendered the 30-year-old restrictions
unnecessary, Baker wrote in the letter dated yesterday.  “We believe eliminating the ban would reduce the cost of
capital for private funds and lead to greater efficiency in
private offerings,” Baker wrote.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  asked her staff to rethink the
measure after President  Barack Obama  directed federal agencies
last year to ensure their rules promote economic growth while
using the least burdensome tools to achieve regulatory ends.  The U.S. House of Representatives in November approved
legislation proposed by California Republican  Kevin McCarthy 
that would let closely held companies advertise for investors. A
similar measure awaits action by the Senate.  “The industry is viewed as secretive, creating an
unwarranted negative inference by investors and regulators,”
Baker said. Removing curbs on advertising and solicitation would
be “an important step in allowing a wider audience to learn
about the industry,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 