-- Hedging at 18-Month High to Europe on Protests: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-01-10T03:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hedging-at-18-month-high-to-europe-on-protests-russia-overnight.html
Options traders are paying the most
for protection against declines in Russian stocks since July
2010 compared with European and Asian equities, concerned anti-
government protests will cut demand for the nation’s assets.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
six-month contracts on the  Market Vectors Russia Exchange Traded
Fund (RSX)  is 36 percent higher than that for the iShares MSCI EAFE
Index ETF, which tracks U.K., German and Japanese stocks, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap touched a 18-month high of
43 percent on Jan. 4 and is trading above the average premium of
24 percent over the past year, the data show.  The  Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 index  of Russian companies
traded in New York slid 10 percent in December, the most in
three months, as demonstrators took to the streets protesting
the results of elections which saw Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party retain its majority in parliament.
 Futures (VEA)  expiring in March on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS
index dropped 0.1 percent to 141,835 in U.S. trading yesterday.  “People are really worried that something bad is going to
happen in Russia,” Hawk Sunshine, who manages $300 million,
including options, at IFC Metropol in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “In times of increased market stress, investors pull
out of risky assets and go to more conservative assets and the
Russian market is considered a risky asset.”  The Russia  ETF  trades on the NYSE Arca exchange and  tracks 
the U.S.-listed shares of 48 Russian companies.  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the
world’s biggest natural-gas exporter, is the fund’s largest
holding, accounting for 9.4 percent of its  market weight .  OAO
Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s second-largest oil producer, is the second-
biggest, followed by  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s largest lender.  Ballot Box Fraud  American depositary receipts of Moscow-based  Gazprom (GAZP)  added
0.8 percent yesterday in New York to $11.09, Lukoil ADRs
advanced 1.4 percent to $55.05, and  Sberbank (SBRCY) ’s led gainers on
the Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 index, jumping 3 percent to $10.62.
The index climbed 1.1 percent to 93.90 while the Russia ETF rose
0.9 percent to $27.33.  At least 30,000 people rallied in Moscow on Dec. 24 amid
allegations that the Dec. 4 parliamentary poll was tainted by
ballot box fraud. Alexei Kudrin, finance minister until
September when he was fired for opposing increased military
spending, said on Jan. 6 that opposition leaders should pressure
the government into holding a fresh election, according to the
website of the Echo Moskvy radio station.  Putin, who stepped down as president in 2008 because of a
constitutional limit on serving more than two consecutive terms,
will stand for a third stint in a March vote that he has pledged
will be fair.  Contested Elections  The fact that the Duma elections “were contested” is
behind the widening of the Russia ETF premium to the EAFE fund,
Etai Friedman, head of equity derivatives trading at brokerage
Mkm Partners LP, said yesterday from Moscow. “I don’t think the
possibility of Putin’s government going down is being priced
in.”  The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in
the index futures, gained for a second day, adding 2.6 percent
to 41.86, the highest level since Dec. 22.  Six-month options on the Russia ETF with a strike price
nearest the underlying share level have an implied volatility of
40.81, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a level of 28.08 for the  EAFE fund , the data show.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 0.4 percent to HK$4.68 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:21
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1 percent
today before a meeting in Berlin between German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  that will focus on  Greece .  Stake Purchase  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , Russia’s second-biggest mobile-phone
operator, rose to a one-month high in U.S. trading after the
Amsterdam-based company said it may sell a stake in an Algerian
joint venture. Algeria’s  Finance Ministry  agreed to buy a 51
percent stake in mobile telephone operator Orascom Telecom
Algeria, Zoheir Meziane, an adviser to the Post and
Telecommunication Minister, said on Jan. 8.  “Any resolution to the Algerian dispute between Orascom
Telecom and the government is positive and should be supportive
for the stock,” Tom Furda, director of Russian equity sales at
Auerbach Grayson & Co.’s Moscow-based brokerage partner UralSib
Financial Corp., said by phone in  New York .  VimpelCom climbed 1.9 percent to $10.11, the highest level
since Dec. 9. Terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  Oil Prices  Oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, dropped for a third
day as German industrial output declined, and as concern eased
that  Iran  will block crude shipments from the  Persian Gulf .  Crude for February settlement declined 0.2 percent to
$101.31 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
futures rose 0.3 percent in electronic trading today.  Brent oil for February settlement lost 0.5 percent to
$112.45 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, dropped 0.8 percent to
$110.39.  The  RTS index  in Moscow fell 0.1 percent to 1,428.96
yesterday and the 30-stock, ruble-denominated  Micex (INDEXCF)  index gained
0.5 percent to 1,448.36, the highest level since Dec. 8.  The EAFE fund tracks 933 companies with 61 percent of its
market value concentrated stocks from the U.K,  Japan ,  Australia ,
Switzerland,  France  and  Germany , according to the iShares
website. The three largest holdings are Nestle SA, Vodafone
Group Plc and BP Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  