-- Emerging-Market Stocks at One-Month High Amid Chinese Policy Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-10T23:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/emerging-market-stocks-to-one-month-high-amid-chinese-policy-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
one-month high amid speculation  China  will loosen monetary
policies to bolster economic growth and on signs European
leaders are increasing efforts to tackle the debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 1.9 percent to
948.82 at the close in New York, the highest since Dec. 7. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.7 percent. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  jumped 2.2 percent and the  Micex Index (MICEX)  gained 2
percent in Moscow as oil rose.  Brazil ’s Bovespa rose 1.2
percent.  Chinese stocks posted the biggest three-day gain since
October after a government report showed import growth fell to a
two-year low in December. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
 International Monetary Fund  Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
discussed Greece and efforts to resolve the euro-area debt
crisis during talks in Berlin late today. U.S. consumer credit
increased by $20.4 billion, the biggest jump since November
2001, to $2.48 trillion, Federal Reserve figures showed.  “Better U.S. data, and hopes of progress in  Europe  from
the Merkozy axis continues to shore up sentiment in the short
term,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging markets economist at the
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in a client
note. “That said, investors appear only prepared to dip their
toes in risk rather than plunging in head first just yet.”  Merkel, Lagarde  Merkel met French President Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday as
European leaders flesh out a rulebook for budgetary discipline
negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit that seeks to create a “fiscal
compact” for the 17-member euro area. In today’s discussions,
Merkel and Lagarde “renewed their commitment to the goal of
strengthening growth and employment in Europe in a sustainable
way,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in a text
message.  Emerging market shares have advanced 3.5 percent so far
this year, besting the 2.1 percent gains for developed-nation
stocks, as higher commodity prices and optimism the euro-area
debt crisis may be resolved boost equities. Developing-country
stocks trade at 9.7 times estimated earnings, trailing the 11.7
ratio for developed markets.  Chinese stocks extended gains today after a report showed
the nation’s exports rose 13.4 percent last month, matching
economists’ forecasts. Import growth slowed more than estimated,
boosting speculation the government may loosen monetary policy
to spur economic growth.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  closed at the highest since July 25 as
commodities rallied, boosting  oil companies  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  Cia. Hering (HGTX3) ,
Brazil’s second-biggest clothing retailer, jumped 3 percent
after it said fourth-quarter gross revenue rose 23 percent from
a year earlier.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
climbed 0.9 percent.  Hungary Talks  The  BUX Index (BUX)  gained 2.4 percent in Budapest. Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s chief negotiator for a financial bailout,
started talks with the International Monetary Fund in  Washington 
yesterday, state news service MTI reported, citing a statement
from the country’s embassy there.  The  ISE National 100 Index  advanced 1.9 percent in
Istanbul, heading for its first increase in five days.  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a state-run bank, climbed 3.9 percent, making
it the biggest gainer among banks in  Turkey . Halkbank is least
exposed to risks from an economic downturn, according to a
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “stress test” on Turkish banks
published today.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1.5 percent in  South Korea  and the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  rose 0.8 percent as metal prices
climbed.  Real to Gain  Twenty of the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg appreciated against the dollar. The real advanced 1.9
percent while the rupee added 1.6 percent.  Standard Chartered Plc, the most-accurate Brazilian real
forecaster over the past 18 months, predicts the currency will
advance 12 percent this year to 1.65 per dollar from 1.8332
yesterday. The real plunged 11 percent last year.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 425, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  