-- Enbridge Pipeline Boosts Spill Risk, Native Group Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-01-10T19:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/enbridge-pipeline-puts-canada-fishing-at-risk-native-group-says.html
(Corrects name of Coastal First Nations director in second
paragraph.)  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern
Gateway pipeline should not be built because it increases the
risk of an oil spill off the coast of British Columbia, a panel
was told today as 18 months of hearings on the line began.  “An oil spill would coat the entire British Columbia
coast,” said Art Sterritt, executive director of Coastal First
Nations, a group of 10 native groups opposing the pipeline.
“It’s not in the national interest to put 30,000 jobs in the
fishing, fish farming and  tourism industry  at risk.”  When the hearings end next year, the three-person panel
will make a recommendation on whether Enbridge should build the
pipeline, which would carry oil sands crude to the British
Columbian coast and on to  Asia . Canada’s  National Energy Board 
will then decide if the project should proceed.  “The B.C. coastline is extremely sensitive to oil spills
because of its physical features,” federal Green Party Leader
Elizabeth May said. The waters of the Hecate Strait and Queen
Charlotte Basin are known to be exceptionally stormy, with some
of the largest waves on Earth, she said.  The meeting in a recreation center in Kitimat Village, home
of the Haisla aboriginal group and the planned terminus of the
pipeline, began with traditional native drumming and singing. A
panel, appointed by Canadian regulators, today will hear mainly
from opponents of the 1,177-kilometer (730-mile) pipeline.  Northern Gateway is opposed by some aboriginal groups, who
point to the risks to salmon streams, forests and coastal waters
in one of the world’s largest remaining temperate rainforests.
Oil producers and politicians are pushing for  Canada  to export
crude to Asian markets and reduce dependence on the U.S., where
demand for fossil fuels is stagnant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Kitimat, British Columbia via   jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  