-- Japan Banks Said to Consider $26 Billion Loan to Tepco to Avoid Bankruptcy
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-01-11T04:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/tepco-said-to-seek-2-trillion-yen-in-loans.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  is in talks
with banks to borrow as much as 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) to
help stave off bankruptcy as it compensates survivors of the
Fukushima nuclear disaster and decommissions reactors, according
to two people with knowledge of the talks.  Three Japanese banks and the state-run Nuclear Damage
Liability Facilitation Fund are negotiating with the utility
known as Tepco, the people said. The loans are contingent on
Tepco raising electricity rates, accepting a capital injection
from the fund and restarting reactors. The unidentified banks
would lend 1 trillion yen to Tepco and 1 trillion yen to the
fund, which would use the money to buy the utility’s shares to
get  voting rights , the people said.  “The banks are hedging their bets,” said Penn Bowers, a
Tokyo-based utilities analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.
“They know that the ultimate entity holding the key to this is
the government and that’s who you need to be nice to.”  Tepco, which was the world’s largest non-state-run utility
in the 1970s, now  depends  on government support as it faces as
much as 4.5 trillion yen in compensation payments by 2013 after
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami destroyed its Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear station, sparking the world’s worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  Tepco shares yesterday rose the most in almost three months
on reports of a government capital injection to avert
bankruptcy. Tepco spokeswoman Chie Hosoda declined to comment.  Government Control  Uncertainty over whether the government will take control
of the utility and how state-backed cash will be distributed to
Tepco has made the stock “jumpy” in the past few days, said
 Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The utility  rose 0.9 percent  to 217 yen at 11:30 a.m. local
time today, reversing an earlier drop of as much as 11 percent.
The stock fell 12 percent yesterday on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
before surging to close 24 percent higher.  “It was sold big on signs the government is likely to
control the utility, and it’s being bought back simply after the
news was priced in,” Hirano said.  Tepco received 2 trillion yen in emergency loans last year
related to the Fukushima disaster and last month the company
requested 689.4 billion yen in additional aid from the state’s
nuclear fund.  Price of Aid  The aid comes at the price of independence for the company,
while for Tepco clients, it means higher electricity bills as
soon as the second quarter of this year, CLSA’s Bowers said.
Rising fuel prices are already hurting Tepco’s finances more
than the compensation claims and government intervention is
needed to keep operations running, he said.  “Ultimately, it is taxpayer funds that effectively
guarantee these loans and thus ultimately pay it back,” Bowers
said. “The situation is, if you live in Tokyo your rates are
going up or your taxes are going up, or both.”  Japan ’s Economy, Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano 
told Tepco president Toshio Nishizawa last month that the
company must consider “all options, including temporary
government control,” to improve its finances. The country’s
biggest utility and power provider to metropolitan Tokyo, the
world’s biggest city with 29 million people, needs to meet all
its compensation payments and raise funds for decommissioning
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, Edano said at a Dec. 27
briefing.  The government will consider taking control of the
country’s nuclear plants unless utilities assume more
responsibility for the risks involved in the operations, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported on Jan. 6, citing Edano, whose
ministry oversees the atomic power industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe 占部絵美 in 東京 at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  