-- Tepco Shares Erase Losses to Surge 24% on Speculation It Will Keep Listing
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-01-10T07:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/tepco-shares-erase-losses-to-surge-29-on-speculation-it-will-keep-listing.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  surged the
most in almost three months in Japan trading, erasing earlier
losses on repeated reports the government plans a capital
injection that would help the company avoid bankruptcy.  The stock jumped 24 percent to close at 215 yen, the
biggest gain since Oct. 20, after earlier falling as much as 12
percent to 153 yen. Tepco, as the utility is known, has dropped
90 percent since the day before the March 11 quake and tsunami
wrecked its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, causing radiation
leaks and mass evacuations.  Newspaper reports about the government plan to purchase the
utility’s stocks can be read positively, said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities
Co. “It means it will avoid being delisted. That’s creating a
sense of safety and causing the stock to be bought back.”  The government-backed Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund plans to acquire common stock as early as this summer, as
part of a 1 trillion yen ($13 billion) capital injection into
the company, the Nikkei newspaper reported on Jan. 7.  “The issue of a capital injection is an option, yet no
conclusions to discussions have been reached,” said Chie
Hosoda, a spokeswoman for Tepco.  Bank Loans  The utility and banks started talks this week for lending
an additional 1 trillion yen as early as April, the Nikkei
reported today, without saying who provided the information.
Tepco received 2 trillion yen in emergency loans last year
related to the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  An increase in electricity prices and a restart of idled
nuclear reactors within two years may be conditions for loans,
the Nikkei reported.  Tepco’s Hosoda declined to comment on negotiations with
banks as the talks are private.  The government will consider taking control of the
country’s nuclear plants unless utilities assume more
responsibility for the risks involved in the operations, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported on Jan. 6, citing Yukio Edano, the
minister at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which
oversees  Japan ’s power industry.  All Options  “I want you to consider all options including temporary
government control of Tepco” as the company needs to improve
its finances for compensation payments and raise funds for
decommissioning the reactors at Fukushima, Edano told the
company’s president Toshio Nishizawa at a Dec. 27 press
conference.  “Nationalizing Tepco doesn’t solve its problems. No matter
who runs the company, it cannot maintain its operations without
restarting nuclear reactors or raising electricity rates,” said
Hirofumi Kawachi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co.  The utility, which supplies power to Metropolitan Tokyo,
the world’s biggest city, needs support from the government-
backed fund to avoid insolvency. It may face 4.5 trillion yen in
compensation payments by 2013 to those who lost livelihoods and
homes as a result of radiation fallout from the Fukushima atomic
station.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  