-- Mercedes, BMW Swap Barbs Over U.S. Sales
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-10T00:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/mercedes-exchanges-barbs-with-bmw-over-u-s-sales-announcements.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz said it
held back final 2011 U.S. sales results last week because the
luxury brand suspected rival  BMW (BMW)  would adjust its own number to
overtake them as No. 1.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  denied the accusation while
taking a swipe at Mercedes’s incentive spending as the race to
replace  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus brand as the top-selling
luxury brand entered its final weeks last year.  BMW outsold Mercedes by 2,715 vehicles in 2011 in the U.S.,
ending Lexus’s 11-year run as the annual luxury sales leader.
Mercedes and BMW both waited until Jan. 5 to release results, a
day after other automakers announced figures. Ultimately,
Mercedes announced its results about two hours before BMW did.  “What we were thinking that they were going to do was just
wait for a number then punch exactly the amount of cars that
they needed in order to beat us,” Steve Cannon, head of
Mercedes’s U.S. unit, said in an interview yesterday at the
North American International Auto Show in  Detroit . “At the end
of the day, silly stuff.”  Ludwig Willisch, chief executive officer of BMW of  North
America , denied the accusation in a separate interview. “We
didn’t change our numbers,” he said.  Battle Continues  Both expect the fight for luxury supremacy to continue this
year. Mercedes forecasts its U.S. sales to rise at least 10
percent in 2012, aided by the refreshed C-Class, Cannon said.  BMW predicts its U.S. sales will rise as well, helped by
the introduction of a redesigned 3-Series compact sedan,
Willisch said. While he declined to say how much sales would
increase, Willisch said BMW would remain No. 1 in the U.S.  Deliveries of the 3-Series fell 6.5 percent to 94,371 last
year as the company wound down sales of the old model.  Sales of Munich-based BMW’s vehicles rose 13 percent to
247,907 last year, boosted by the redesigned X3 sport-utility
vehicle, while  Lexus  sales fell 13 percent to 198,552.  Mercedes narrowed the gap with BMW toward the end of the
year, helped by a refreshed C-Class compact sedan and new coupe.
Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes saw sales rise 13 percent to
245,192 in the U.S.  “Obviously, they were trying to get close to us,”
Willisch said of Mercedes. BMW “is not in the business of
distributing cars but selling cars for a profit. We were kind of
wondering what was going on in November.”  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter and Freightliner
vans, Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand vehicles, which aren’t
luxury models. The 2011 full-year figures also exclude sales of
Daimler’s Maybach brand.  Balancing Act  The fight for No. 1 in luxury cars is a balancing act,
 Rebecca Lindland , a Norwalk, Connecticut-based analyst at IHS
Automotive, said in an e-mail.  “I struggle with this because there’s always the balance
between being No. 1 versus becoming ubiquitous and hence losing
cachet,” she said.  BMW and Mercedes will face increased competition from other
automakers.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac introduced its new ATS
compact sedan on Jan. 8, seeking entry-level luxury buyers who
now purchase the 3-Series and C-Class.  Mark Templin , head of U.S. Lexus sales, said last week that
the brand will grow about 20 percent this year with new
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  