-- Merck Hepatitis C Drug May ‘Anchor’ Future Worldwide Regimen
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-10T21:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/merck-hepatitis-c-drug-may-anchor-future-worldwide-regimen.html
Merck & Co.  will make whatever deals
are necessary to ensure the company leads the race for future
hepatitis C combination therapies, said Roger Pomerantz, the
drugmaker’s worldwide head of licensing and acquisitions.  “Our goal is to be a leader in hepatitis C, and we will do
what it takes to get there,” Pomerantz said in an interview at
the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in  San Francisco . “We
would consider small deals to large deals, whatever is necessary
to lead in hepatitis.”  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, won U.S. approval 
in May for Victrelis, the first hepatitis C drug in almost a 
decade. The company’s pill and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s 
Incivek, cleared for sale just 10 days after Victrelis, are 
easier to use and have fewer side effects than existing 
injection treatments. Now the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-
based company is in the second stage of testing for a more 
powerful drug that may work against all strains, Pomerantz said.  If trials are successful for the drug, called MK-5172, the
therapy may become the foundation medicine for future
combination pill treatments, he said.  “What we have seen makes us quite optimistic that the drug
could be an anchor,” he said.  Growing Market  As many as 170 million people worldwide carry the  hepatitis
C virus , a bloodborne disease that can lead to liver cirrhosis
and cancer, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. The new pills, used in combination with
the injectible treatments, have a higher cure rate than previous
therapies alone. Incivek and Victrelis are so-called protease
inhibitors that work by blocking an enzyme used by the hepatitis
C virus to copy itself.  The market for medicines against the disease is about $3
billion worldwide, according to  Andrew Berens , a senior health-
care analyst with Bloomberg Industries, in Skillman,  New Jersey .
It may be worth $20 billion by 2020, said Michael Kishbauch,
chief executive officer of  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , the
maker of another experimental treatment, in a November
interview.  The race to gain an all-pill regimen for hepatitis C has
led to two recent deals.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  said on Jan. 7
it would pay about $2.5 billion in cash to buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX) 
Pharmasset agreed to be acquired by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  for
$10.8 billion in a deal announced Nov. 21.  Possible Targets  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , which also has a hepatitis C
drug candidate, and Achillion rose in trading on speculation
they may be acquired like Inhibitex and Pharmasset. Idenix,
based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , gained 24 percent to $12 at
the close in New York and  New Haven , Connecticut-based Achillion
increased 22 percent to $11.90.  The companies yesterday also reported successful results of
early clinical trials for their experimental drugs.  Achillion is “not eager to go out and plant a ‘for sale’
sign on our front lawn,” Mary Kay Fenton, the company’s chief
financial officer, said yesterday in an interview at the health-
care conference. Instead, Achillion is concentrating on
developing its drug candidates, she said.  “There’s so much euphoria in the hepatitis C space” after
the recent deals, she said, “it’s easy to lose focus on the
fact that we’re developing drugs that patients need.”  Merck is considering a range of possibilities for new pill
combinations, including the company’s experimental drugs,
partnership agreements or acquisitions, Pomerantz said. The
flurry of activity in hepatitis C reflects a unique opportunity
to come up with a cure, he said.  “We have a curable disease and I think that people are
reacting to the fact there may be a window of opportunity to put
the right combinations together,” Pomerantz said in the
interview.  Merck rose less than 1 percent to $38.52. The company
gained 3.5 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  