-- Hering Poised for One-Month High as Same-Store Sales Rise
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-01-10T18:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hering-poised-for-one-month-high-as-same-store-sales-rise-1-.html
Cia. Hering (HGTX3) ,  Brazil ’s second-largest
clothing retailer by market value, headed to a one-month high
after a smaller slowdown in same-store sales than some analysts
predicted.  Hering (HGTX3)  rose 2.9 percent to 37.85 reais at 4:30 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. A close at that level would be the highest since Dec. 7.
The Bovespa index gained 1 percent. The retailer has risen 17
percent this year, compared with the benchmark’s 5.2 percent
advance.  Hering’s same-store sales increased 8.1 percent in the last
three months of 2011 from a year earlier. While that was the
third straight quarterly slowdown, it exceeded the 5 percent
expansion Banco Santander SA had forecast and is “probably the
strongest growth rate among Brazilian apparel retailers,”
analysts including Tobias Stingelin wrote in a note to clients.
Hering released the preliminary results in a filing late
yesterday.  Fourth-quarter gross revenue rose 23 percent, Hering said
in the filing. That was slower than the 36 percent pace in the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite this being the third consecutive deceleration,
organic growth was still robust, especially in light of the
recent worsening of the macroeconomic environment,” analysts
led by Fabio Monteiro at Banco BTG Pactual SA wrote in a
research note. Hering is the bank’s top pick among retailers.  Hering also said it will open 20 stores for children in
2012 as it expands its Hering Kids line beyond five pilot
stores. The company said it has the potential to open as many as
200 to 250 youth-targeted locations. That could add as much as 3
reais a share to the stock, according to Santander.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  