-- Esprit Rises Most in Three Months After Naming New Design Chief From Puma
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-10T10:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/esprit-rises-most-in-three-months-after-naming-new-design-chief-from-puma.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothing
retailer that lost 73 percent of market value last year, rose
the most in three weeks in Hong Kong trading after naming a
former Puma AG executive to run product development and design.  The apparel retailer climbed 4.4 percent to HK$10.86 at
close, its biggest  gain  since Dec. 16. Esprit, the Hang Seng
Index’s biggest loser in 2011, has soared 8.4 percent so far
this year, outperforming a 3.1 percent rise for the benchmark.  Melody Harris-Jensbach will take the role of chief product
and design officer at Esprit starting Jan. 9, the company said
in a statement yesterday. Her hiring follows that of Holly Li,
Adidas’s general manager for north  China , as Esprit’s China
chief executive officer, amid a push to revive earnings at the
retailer that in September said its brand had “lost its soul.”  Esprit, which made 79 percent of revenue out of  Europe ,
faces declining sales and greater competition from rivals
including Hennes & Mauritz AB and Inditex SA’s Zara. Chief
Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis has said he plans to turn
the company around by improving fashion designs to revive
earnings in Europe while doubling China sales in four years.  “The appointment is certainly positive in the long run,
yet the effects are not likely to be seen until the next fiscal
year,” Vineet Sharma, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc., said
in a telephone interview today.  Esprit isn’t aware of any reason for the rise in the stock
price and said there are no negotiations related to intended
acquisitions, the company said in a stock exchange filing today.  Harris-Jensbach is joining Esprit from Puma AG where she
acted as deputy CEO and chief product officer since January 2008,
the company said. From 1998 until 2007, Harris-Jensbach held
senior management positions within Esprit, according to the
statement.  Li is scheduled to take over as China CEO on Feb. 1, Esprit
said in a statement in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 Vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  