-- MetLife Quits Mortgage Business, to Cut Most of 4,300 Workers
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-01-11T02:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/metlife-most-of-4-300-at-mortgage-unit-to-lose-jobs.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said it will shut its home mortgage-origination
operation, costing the company at least $90 million and most of
the 4,300  employees  at the unit their jobs.  “The majority will no longer have a position,” said  John Calagna , a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, in an interview
yesterday. About 20 percent of the workers are based in Irving,
 Texas , and the rest are scattered throughout the U.S., he said.  MetLife said in October it was seeking a buyer for the
mortgage unit after announcing plans to sell deposit-gathering
operations to reduce federal oversight. The firm reached a deal
last month to sell about $7.5 billion of  bank deposits  to
General Electric Co. The  Federal Reserve , which oversees MetLife
because of its size and banking operations, rejected its plan
last year to raise the dividend and resume share buybacks.  “It’s hard to sell a banking business right now,
especially a mortgage business, given all of the potential
pitfalls” tied to regulation, said Dan Theriault, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC who has  a “hold” rating on the company.
“They said they had two options, they could sell the bank or
wind it down, and they’re doing a combination of the two.”  MetLife rose 3.9 percent to $34.55 in New York trading
yesterday. The company has gained 11 percent since Dec. 31 after
falling 30 percent last year.  Financial firms globally disclosed plans in 2011 to
eliminate more than 200,000 jobs amid market turmoil,  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and concerns that U.S. economic growth
will slow.  Banks Trim Payrolls  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
said in September it plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next
few years. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the
cuts are part of an effort to bolster profit and the company’s
stock. Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
plans to cut about 4,500 jobs in coming quarters to trim costs
amid slumping revenue, CEO Vikram Pandit announced last month.  MetLife said affected employees include salespeople and
support staff. The company hasn’t begun dismissals and will give
employees 60 days notice, Calagna said. Workers can apply for
other positions within the company, he said. MetLife had about
66,000 employees as of Dec. 31, 2010, according to a filing.  CEO  Steven Kandarian , promoted to the top job in May, is
reviewing the insurer’s businesses and told investors last month
that “everything is on the table” as he seeks to improve
shareholder returns. Kandarian’s predecessor at CEO, Robert Henrikson, expanded MetLife’s business outside the U.S. with the
acquisition of American Life Insurance Co. from American
International Group Inc. for about $16 billion.  MetLife will continue to service current home-loan clients
and to offer reverse mortgages, the company said yesterday. The
wind-down may cost as much as $110 million, MetLife said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  