-- EU Carbon Permit Set-Aside to Be Decided in Clear-Cut March Vote
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-10T14:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/eu-carbon-permit-set-aside-to-be-decided-in-clear-cut-march-vote.html
The European Parliament is likely to
decide in a “clear-cut” vote at the end of March whether to
back a draft amendment urging a temporary cut in the supply of
carbon allowances, according to a member of the Parliament.  The Parliament’s committee on industry, known as ITRE, will
vote February 28 on amendments to the European Union energy
efficiency law, said Claude Turmes, who is in charge of drawing
up a report on the directive in the committee. Deputies from the
Parliament’s environment committee last month recommended ITRE
support their amendment calling on the EU to propose withholding
a “significant amount” of allowances from the bloc’s
emissions-trading system as of 2013 to shore up prices.  “It’s a very controversial question, the amendment will go
to vote in ITRE and most likely in the plenary later,” Turmes
said in a phone interview from Brussels. “It’s difficult to
foresee what the outcome will be.”  Carbon permits rose as much as 32 percent on Dec. 20, the
day of the environment committee vote, amid speculation that it
raised the likelihood of the EU curbing oversupply and
supporting prices in its emissions-trading system. Concern that
the new energy-savings law will further cut demand for pollution
rights at a time of economic slowdown helped knock allowance
prices to a four-year low in December.  ‘Political Message’  The EU emissions-trading system, known as the ETS, is the
world’s largest and was valued at $120 billion last year.
Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance predict that the ETS
will be oversupplied by 997 million metric tons, or 9.6 percent,
from 2008 to 2012. This surplus may be transferred into the
second phase from 2013 to 2020, in which New Energy Finance
predicts a net shortfall of 749 million tons.  “The vote in the environment committee sent a strong
political message to the commission and also to member states on
the issue of a set-aside,” Turmes said. “This is of course a
political process. The ball has been rolling since the ENVI vote
and will continue to be played.”  Under the same  amendment , the environment committee, known
as ENVI, voted to add in a non-binding part of the directive a
clause that would require the commission to set the number of
permits to be withheld at such a level that wouldn’t push carbon
prices above 30 euros ($38.36).  Support by ITRE, whose report will include recommendations
to the full parliament in the next stage of the legislation
process, would boost chances of the set-aside draft rule winning
approval in the plenary vote. In order to become a law, it would
also need backing from member states in a parallel procedure.  Separate Process  A subsequent proposal by the European Commission to set
aside permits would require consent from national governments in
a separate regulatory process.  “It won’t be possible to have any compromise amendments on
this, so it will be a clear-cut vote, which will be either won
or lost,” Turmes said.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, first
came up in 2010 with the idea of setting aside allowances in the
next phase of the emissions program starting in 2013 and also
included a reference to such a tool in a March 2011 policy
paper, known as the low-carbon 2050 road map.  It has suggested that a set-aside could be gradually
created from the pool of permits to be sold to companies by
countries starting in 2013. This would require amending the
auctioning regulation by the so-called comitology procedure,
under which a measure requires backing from representatives of
member states in the  Climate Change  Committee and then is
subject to a three-month scrutiny period by the parliament and
national governments.  States Divided  Member states remain divided on whether to raise the
stringency of the EU’s climate policies. While western European
countries have voiced support for tighter pollution caps on
companies, eastern nations have in previous years tended to
favor a more cautious approach.  The emissions trading system is the cornerstone of the EU
policy to cut  greenhouse gases  blamed for climate change. It
imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities and
manufacturers, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21 percent
less than 2005 discharges.  Turmes said that the reason for the postponement of the
ITRE vote was to have more time to negotiate among deputies the
around 1,800 amendments that have been proposed to the energy
efficiency law. The law is one of priorities for  Denmark , which
took over the rotating six-month EU presidency this month.  “It’s more constructive and productive to have four more
weeks to settle out more details and the voting list,” Turmes
said. “The time for the vote is making it possible to find the
first reading agreement during the Danish presidency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 