-- EU Said to Weigh Iran Oil Embargo Exemptions for Member States
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-10T17:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/eu-said-to-weigh-iran-oil-embargo-exemptions-for-member-states.html
European Union talks on an oil
embargo on  Iran  are becoming bogged down over discussions on
exemptions for existing supply contracts and the length of a
planned phase-in period, according to four diplomats.  Greece ,  Italy  and  Spain  are trying to soften a U.K. push
for a blanket ban, concerned that an oil-supply shock would
further damage their economies already hit by the European debt
crisis, the diplomats said, declining to be identified because
no final agreement has been reached.  Foreign ministers from the 27 EU member states are
scheduled to decide at a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels when to
impose and how to phase in the embargo, which is designed to
force Iran back to the negotiating table over its nuclear
program, the diplomats said. The EU said today it brought
forward the meeting from Jan. 30 to avoid a clash with a
leaders’ summit the same day.  EU countries say that Iran’s nuclear-development plans are
aimed at building atomic weapons. The Islamic republic, the
second-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , says its program is for
civilian purposes only.  The scenarios the EU is considering include imposing a ban
on future Iranian crude imports that would leave existing
contract shipments exempt until a later date, according to the
officials. That would protect European countries that import the
most Iranian oil, such as Italy and Greece, they said.  Another option would be to exempt Greece, which blocked an
EU consensus on an embargo in December, until it arranges
alternative supplies, according to one official. Greece relied
on Iran for 14 percent of its oil imports in the first half of
2011, according to the U.S. Energy Department’s Energy
Information Administration.  Eni Exemption  The bloc is also considering exempting  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s
largest oil company, from the ban, according to the officials.
Italy gets 13 percent of its imported crude from Iran, which
supplied Rome-based Eni to pay off its debts.  The U.S. tightened sanctions on Iran on Dec. 31 and is
pushing the EU to follow suit. The threatened measures, coupled
with an Iranian demand that U.S. warships stay out of the
Persian Gulf, have stirred new tensions in the region.  Crude oil for February delivery rose 1.4 percent to $102.74
per barrel at 10:49 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
today. Iran has threatened to block the  Strait of Hormuz ,
through which almost 20 percent of the world’s oil flows out of
the  Persian Gulf , if its exports are restricted.  EU sanctions on Iran already include an embargo on
equipment for the oil and natural gas industries and a ban on
investment in the sector. The bloc has also imposed restrictions
on transfers of funds to and from Iran and vigilance over
business with the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 