-- European Stocks Rise as Alcoa Posts Results; BHP, Carmakers Gain
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-10T17:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/european-stock-futures-gain-as-alcoa-loss-matches-estimates-bhp-may-move.html
European stocks rose, rebounding
from yesterday’s drop, as mining companies rallied after  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  kicked off the U.S. earnings season with results that met
analysts’ estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  climbed more than 3 percent as copper
rebounded from a one-week low on record monthly imports of the
metal in China.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  jumped more than 3 percent as
German carmakers said they plan to grow faster than competitors
after setting sales records last year. U.K. retailers rallied.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 1.8 percent to 250.82
at the close, erasing yesterday’s 0.5 percent drop. The gauge
advanced in the first week of 2012 as economic reports around
the world added to optimism the global economy can withstand the
euro-area’s debt crisis.  Most investors “look forward to 2012 with a sense of
cautious optimism that things will be brighter,” wrote  Robert Buckland , chief global strategist at Citigroup Inc. in a report
to clients dated yesterday. “Despite the obvious macro
headwinds, global corporate earnings and  cash flow  continue to
grow at a solid rate.”  Alcoa shares climbed 1 percent in New York even after
reporting its first quarterly loss since 2009. The largest U.S.
aluminum producer reported a fourth-quarter net loss, excluding
restructuring costs, of 3 cents a share, matching the average
 analyst estimate  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 6 percent.  Alcoa is the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  to report earnings for the final quarter of 2009.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. will post its results on Jan. 13.  Merkel-Sarkozy Meeting  European stocks retreated yesterday, trimming three weeks
of gains for the Stoxx 600, as a meeting between German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
failed to ease concern that euro-leaders will fail to do enough
to resolve the sovereign-debt crisis.  The euro gained for a second day today before Merkel and
the International Monetary Fund’s managing director Christine Lagarde meet in Berlin.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will also visit Berlin
this week. Sarkozy and Merkel will both travel to Rome on Jan.
20 for negotiations with the Italian government before the next
European Union summit meeting in Brussels on Jan. 30.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every west-European
market except Greece and Portugal. Germany’s DAX Index gained
2.4 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index increased 1.5 percent and
France’s CAC 40 Index jumped 2.7 percent.  Mining Companies  BHP Billiton ,  the world’s largest mining company , climbed
3.4 percent to 2,014 pence.  Rio Tinto ,  the third-biggest ,
increased 3.6 percent to 3,428.5 pence and Xstrata Plc added 3.1
percent to 1,043 pence.  Copper rallied on the London Metal Exchange as China
imported record amounts of the metal in December. Inbound
shipments of the refined metal, copper alloy and products
climbed for a seventh month, rising to 508,942 tons, according
to  customs data .  Carmakers advanced as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Daimler
AG (DAI)  and Audi AG, owned by Volkswagen, said they plan to beat
industry growth in 2012 following record sales last year.  BMW’s deliveries this year will rise by a single-digit
percentage that outpaces the car market’s expansion of 4 percent
to 5 percent,  Ian Robertson , the company’s sales chief, told
reporters yesterday at the North American International Auto
Show in Detroit. The chief executive officers of Audi and
Daimler said they expect their sales to exceed 4 percent.  BMW, Daimler, Volkswagen  Volkswagen, the biggest European carmaker, gained 3.2
percent to 125.70 euros, BMW rallied 3.3 percent to 58.72 euros
and Daimler rose 4.2 percent to 38.26 euros.  U.K. retailers advanced with  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) 
climbing 3 percent to 317.7 pence after the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer reported increased Christmas sales led by
gains in its food unit. The company maintained its  full-year
profit outlook  as cost reductions offset discounts on apparel.  Revenue at U.K. stores open at least a year increased 0.5
percent in the 13 weeks ended Dec. 31. U.K. food sales rose 3
percent, beating the 2 percent median estimate. Sales fell 1.8
percent in the general-merchandise division, missing the  median
analyst estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  surged 9 percent to 62 pence after the  U.K.’s
second-largest department-store chain  reported Christmas sales
that beat analysts’ estimates and predicted that pressure from
commodity costs will ease.  Revenue at stores open at least a year was unchanged,
excluding value-added tax, in the 18 weeks ended Jan. 7. That
compared with the median analyst estimate for a 0.5 percent
decline. Group gross transaction value rose 0.5 percent.  Commerzbank, UniCredit  A gauge of bank shares made the biggest contribution to the
 Stoxx 600’s advance , gaining 3.6 percent. Commerzbank AG surged
4.8 percent to 1.24 euros after Germany’s second-largest lender
said its funding needs for 2012 have fallen to as little as 6
billion euros ($7.7 billion).  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  soared 6 percent to 2.42 euros, rebounding
from a five-day selloff that sent the shares plunging 47
percent.  Italy’s biggest bank  last week priced its 7.5 billion-
euro rights offer at a 43 percent discount from the previous
day’s closing price.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  added 2.9 percent to 374.40 Swiss francs
after  revenue  climbed to a record in 2011. The biggest maker of
Swiss watches reported a 22 percent increase in gross sales on a
constant-currency basis to 7.14 billion francs ($7.5 billion).
The franc’s strength stripped 696 million francs from revenue.  Philips, Actelion Sink  Royal Philips Electronics NV retreated 4.7 percent to 14.91
euros after the world’s biggest maker of light bulbs reported a
45 percent drop in fourth-quarter  earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization  to about 500 million euros. Philips
reiterated its 2013 financial targets.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  lost 2.5 percent to 32.60 francs after the
drugmaker said it missed its 2011 profit-growth forecast and
repeated that its sales will fall this year as it faces
increased pricing and competitive pressure.  The company will take a charge of as much as 35 million
euros for sums it’s owed by public hospitals and other
institutions in southern Europe. Without the provision, Actelion
would have met a target of low double-digit earnings growth in
local currencies, it said.  Software AG (SOW)  sank 20 percent to 24.25 euros, its biggest
drop since 2002, after Germany’s second-largest software maker
reported fourth-quarter profit and sales that missed analysts’
estimates as its U.S. business weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  