-- Mexican Peso Advances the Most in Week on Increased Risk Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-01-10T22:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/mexican-peso-advances-the-most-in-week-on-increased-risk-demand.html
Mexico ’s peso rose the most in a
week as speculation that European leaders will make progress in
resolving the region’s debt crisis fueled demand for the Latin
American country’s higher-yielding assets.  The peso climbed 0.5 percent to 13.6329 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Mexico City, from 13.6968 yesterday. The currency
has gained 2.2 percent in 2012, after posting the worst
performance among Latin America’s major currencies last year.  A meeting yesterday between German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy is helping spur the global
risk appetite that’s driving peso gains, said  Rafael Camarena ,
an economist at Banco Santander SA in Mexico City. Merkel and
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
discussed Greece during a meeting today, Steffen Seibert, the
German leader’s chief spokesman, said in a text message, and
“renewed their commitment to the goal of strengthening growth
and employment in  Europe  in a sustainable way.”  “Today Europe woke up optimistic,” Camarena said by
phone. “If Europe gets a bit better it diminishes a little bit
the perception of global risk that’s been affecting emerging-
market currencies such as the peso.”  The peso’s rise is also being driven by speculation Mexican
policy makers won’t change the benchmark 4.5 percent interest
rate when they meet later this month, Camarena said.  “With the inflation data we saw yesterday in Mexico,
obviously there are no expectations for a change in the  interest
rate  in this central bank meeting,” he said.  Consumer Prices  Mexico’s consumer prices jumped more than analysts forecast
in December, pushing annual inflation to the fastest in 12
months. Consumer prices climbed 0.82 percent from November,
boosting the annual rate to 3.82 percent, the national
statistics agency said yesterday on its website.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
6.55 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
of the security rose 0.29 centavo to 129.96 centavos per peso.  Mexico sold all 10 billion pesos of 28-day Cetes and 11
billion pesos of the 91-day securities it offered today, the
 central bank said  on its website. Mexico also sold all 8.5
billion pesos in 182-day bills and 9.5 billion pesos of 336-day
Cetes it auctioned today, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  