-- MF Global U.K. Clients Demand Results
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-10T09:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/mf-global-u-k-clients-demand-results-as-fees-climb.html
MF Global Holding Ltd.’s (MF)  U.K.
customers demanded their money back at a London creditors’
meeting as administrators KPMG LLP said they racked up 17.5
million pounds ($27 million) in fees since the broker’s collapse
without returning anything to clients.  Customers asked KPMG, which was appointed to wind up MF
Global’s U.K. unit on Oct. 31, why the process was taking so
long and what would happen to money that wasn’t in protected, or
segregated, accounts.  The quick return of money in customer accounts is a
“matter of life and death” for some clients, said Dimitry
Nedvetsky, who identified himself as an employee of MF Global.
Others expressed surprise when KPMG said clients with
unsegregated accounts, which weren’t held separately from the
broker’s own money, would be treated as unsecured claims
alongside other creditors.  All client money, segregated or not, is “sacrosanct” and
should be “paid in full,” Erico Tavares, of investment fund
Sinclair Limited, told administrators. “The irony is that we
picked the U.K. exactly for that investor protection, which has
now proved illusory,” he said in an e-mailed statement after
the meeting.  The issue of unsegregated customer funds sparked contention
at the first meeting between  KPMG  and the broker’s U.K. clients
and creditors yesterday, unlike in the U.S., where attention is
focused on locating some $1.2 billion missing from customer
accounts. Bankruptcy trustees for New York-based MF Global
Holdings Ltd. have scheduled a creditors meeting for Jan. 26.  No Special Protection  While segregated funds are held separately and not supposed
to be used by financial firms, unsegregated accounts have no
special protection under U.K. law and no priority over other
unsecured creditor claims, KPMG partner Richard Heis said at the
meeting. He wouldn’t confirm exactly how much was in the
unsegregated accounts but said it was more than 1 billion pounds
($1.5 billion).  MF Global’s clients had to specifically ask for their
accounts to be protected as segregated funds, said Sean Donovan-
Smith, an attorney at London firm Speechly Bircham LLP. Some
thought they had protection but didn’t, or didn’t know they had
to make a special request.  “We know from experience that clients of MF Global may not
have fully read the terms and conditions of business
carefully,” he said.  FSA Complaint  KPMG administrator Richard Faulkner said at the meeting
there were disputes with clients about the status of accounts
and while the firm would try to resolve them amicably, some
“may be decided in the U.K. courts.” Some clients tried to
change the status of accounts to gain protection just before the
broker collapsed, administrators said.  Tavares has made an official complaint to the Financial
Services Authority over the treatment of unsegregated accounts.
 Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K. financial regulator,
wouldn’t confirm how many complaints the regulator had received.  “The FSA takes complaints seriously, we have a process to
deal with those complaints and will respond in due course,” he
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Fees  KPMG said the 17.5 million pounds in fees included 14
million pounds for the administrators and legal fees of 3.5
million pounds. The administrators won’t be paid anything until
a creditors committee has approved the figures, Heis said.  There will be an initial payment to segregated account
holders after a London court hearing scheduled for Feb. 3, Heis
said at the meeting.  “There is no delay,” he said. “We are doing it as
quickly as we can. I do sympathize with a number of people who
were badly affected by the lack of money.”  About 1 billion pounds of segregated funds was frozen in MF
Global UK Ltd. accounts when its parent collapsed.
Administrators say they have identified all the money, and
haven’t discovered any shortfall of the kind seen in the U.S.  The confusion over segregated and unsegregated accounts is
damaging to the U.K.’s image as a trading destination, said
Clive Roberts, a fund manager at broker Alecto Financial Ltd.,
who attended the meeting.  Consternation  Why should “a customer depositing funds with a broker to
maintain open market positions consider themselves alongside a
telecoms provider, vending machine company or landlord?”
Roberts said in an e-mail yesterday. Client funds should be
returned ahead of unsecured creditors, he said, while KPMG’s
fees had caused “consternation”.  New York-based MF Global Holdings Ltd. was the fifth-
largest financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31 after making losing bets on European
sovereign debt.  KPMG asked those attending yesterday’s meeting to vote on
whether to support its proposals for the administration. At the
end of the event, Heis said creditors and clients had voted
“overwhelmingly” in favor of its plan, though votes on who
should make up the creditors’ committee hadn’t yet been counted.  The administrators had won “cautious approval, but with
more questions than answers,” Roberts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  