-- MF Global Holdings Trustee Louis Freeh Seeks Bankruptcy Creditor Priority
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-10T16:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/mf-global-holdings-trustee-freeh-seeks-creditor-priority.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ’s creditors
should have some priority to be repaid by the bankrupt estate,
said Chapter 11 trustee  Louis Freeh , citing intercompany loans
made between the failed parent and its operating unit.  Freeh, representing the interests of creditors of the
parent company, commented on the legal principles that will
govern repayments in papers filed late yesterday in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court. Former customers of the broker-dealer unit,
seeking an estimated $1.2 billion missing from their accounts,
are being repaid in a related case overseen by a different
trustee, James Giddens, appointed under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  The holding company has “substantial intercompany claims”
against the broker-dealer unit on account of former intercompany
loans, and any recoveries of that money shouldn’t be
“diverted” to customers, giving them a priority at the expense
of creditors of the parent company, Freeh said.  Freeh is concerned that “an inappropriate interpretation”
of the law may lead Giddens to deny the rights of creditors to
recover from property that was never deposited by them, lawyers
for Freeh wrote.  Customer Pool  The conflict is “not whether certain estate property can
be distributed to customers, but whether estate assets that
would otherwise be available for distribution to MF Global
Inc.’s creditors can be reallocated to the customer pool,”
Freeh said.  Parent company MF Global Holdings, once run by  Jon Corzine ,
a former New Jersey governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-
chairman, filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a
wrong-way $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most indebted nations.  Its Chapter 11 bankruptcy will apportion returns to
creditors including JPMorgan Chase & Co., while the liquidation
of the broker-dealer will apportion returns to commodities and
securities customers.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York 
at   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  