-- Fannie Mae CEO Williams to Leave Mortgage Financier Once Successor Named
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fannie-mae-chief-williams-plans-to-step-down-after-a-successor-appointed.html
Michael J. Williams will step down
as chief executive officer of  Fannie Mae , the mortgage finance
guarantor controlled by U.S. regulators, the company announced.  Williams, who spent 21 years at Fannie Mae and helped guide
its transition to government control, will continue as chief
executive officer and president until a successor is named. The
Washington-based company reported the departure yesterday in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “I decided the time is right to turn over the reins to a
new leader,” Williams said in a statement. “As I told our
employees today, I am extremely proud of what we have achieved
together, and I am confident that they will continue to make a
positive difference.”  Williams, 54, became head of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  in 2009, soon after
mounting loan losses forced the company and its smaller rival,
 Freddie Mac , into U.S. government conservatorship. President
 Barack Obama  and members of Congress are exploring ways to wind
down the two companies.  Since 2008, the companies have been controlled largely by
their government regulator, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
which is charged with conserving their assets and minimizing
taxpayer losses.  Freddie Mac Chief Executive Officer Charles E. Haldeman,
62, announced his departure in October. He remains on the job
awaiting appointment of a successor.  Government Role  Williams took charge of the company well after its heyday.
Fannie Mae shares hit an all-time high of $84 in 2001 before it
restated earnings in 2006 to show $6.3 billion in losses.  In the decade before their government takeover, Fannie Mae
and  Freddie Mac (FMC)  spent a combined $174 million to lobby the
government -- more than General Electric Co., according to the
Center for Responsive Politics. The FHFA halted all political
activity by the two companies when it took control in September
2008.  Since 2006,  home prices  have fallen more than a third from
their peak and wiped out $7 trillion in household wealth. The
decline has forced Washington policymakers to question the
government’s role in mortgage finance and explore ways to wean
the industry from its reliance on government guarantees sold by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The mortgage finance guarantors now own or guarantee almost
half of residential mortgages. Combined, they have so far cost
taxpayers more than $153 billion and continue to report losses
from failed loans.  Pay Packages  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco in 2009 approved
two-year pay packages for Williams and Haldeman totaling $17
million. DeMarco defended the compensation as necessary to
retain employees with the skills to manage $5 trillion in
mortgage assets.  DeMarco said he will work with Fannie Mae’s board to find
new leadership for the company.  “As conservator, I am grateful for Mr. Williams’ steadfast
dedication to ensuring Fannie Mae meets its public mission of
providing stability, liquidity, and affordability to housing
finance while both leading his company and working with
government officials to that end,” DeMarco said in a written
statement.  In addition to serving as CEO, Williams was Fannie Mae’s
chief operating officer from 2005 to 2009. Prior to that, he
worked in the firm’s e-commerce and customer applications and
technology integration divisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  