-- Fed’s Williams Sees ‘Strong’ Case for More Bond Purchases by Central Bank
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-01-10T18:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fed-s-williams-sees-strong-case-for-purchasing-more-bonds.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said he sees a “strong” case
for more Fed purchases of mortgage bonds given his expectation
that inflation will fall below 1.5 percent this year.  “I’m expecting lower inflation than a typical private-
sector” economics forecaster, Williams, 49, told reporters
today after a speech in Vancouver,  Washington . If that’s the
case, “there’s a strong argument for buying more mortgage-
backed securities” and suggests a need for policy which is
“more stimulative.”  Policy makers disagree over whether they should see if the
economy slows before trying to further cut borrowing costs and
spur  job creation . The economy is expanding moderately amid
“apparent slowing” in global growth, with “some improvement
in overall labor market conditions,” Fed officials said last
month. The unemployment rate fell to 8.5 percent from 8.7
percent in November, the government reported last week.  The jobs report “wasn’t in any way a game changer,” said
the  San Francisco  Fed chief, who took office in March 2011 and
casts his first vote as a policy maker this year.  Stocks surged, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
the highest level in five months, amid speculation  China  may
take steps to spur growth and better-than-forecast revenue at
Alcoa Inc. The  S&P 500  advanced 0.8 percent to 1,290.37 at 1:16
p.m. in  New York .  In his speech, Williams said it’s “vital” for policy
makers to support a  U.S. economy  hobbled by high unemployment,
anemic spending and a weak housing market.  Reduce Unemployment  The economy should grow by 2.5 percent this year and about
3 percent next year, not enough to bring down an  unemployment
rate  that will stay above 8 percent in 2013 and around 7 percent
at the end of 2014, Williams said in his speech.  With unemployment at a high level and inflation likely to
decelerate, “it’s vital that the Fed use all the tools at its
disposal to achieve its mandated employment and price stability
goals,” the Fed official said. He refrained from calling for
new actions by the Fed, asking instead for federal programs to
support housing and “tax and spending policies” that would
complement the central bank’s moves.  “We at the Fed are doing everything we can to move the
economy forward,” Williams said.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the Commerce Department’s
measure that excludes food and fuel and is tied to  consumer
spending , was up 1.7 percent in the year ended in November, at
the lower end of Fed policy makers’ long-run projection of 1.7
percent to 2 percent. Inflation should fall under 1.5 percent
this year and next, from about 2.5 percent in 2011, Williams
said.  ‘Glacial’ Resolution  In response to audience questions, the policy maker said he
sees a “very glacial” resolution to the nation’s housing
problems and big regional differences in economic performance.
It’s difficult for monetary policy to address the “great deal
of disparity” that exists between “parts of the country that
are doing incredibly well, such as North Dakota,” and others
still struggling because of housing, he said.  Williams was the first Fed official to signal the
possibility the  central bank  would release interest rate
forecasts, telling reporters in November such a move would be
“useful” and has worked well in other countries. The Fed plans
to distribute its anticipated path for the fed funds rate after
its next meeting on Jan. 24-25.  The San Francisco Fed chief, who oversees the Fed’s largest
district, served as a senior economist for the Council of
Economic Advisers during the Clinton administration. The
Sacramento native succeeded  Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s
vice chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at and
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  