-- Fed’s George: Policy Makers Need to Weigh Instability Risk
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-10T19:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fed-s-george-policy-makers-need-to-weigh-instability-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas  City
President Esther George said that central bank policy makers
must consider whether they are increasing the odds of
instability in the financial system.  “Policy choices that attempt to speed improvement in the
housing and labor markets can be attractive given these
circumstances,” George said, referring to the “weak housing
market, high unemployment and impaired bank balance sheets.”  “But this desire must be traded off against the need to
foster long-term stability within our financial sector,” she
said in her first speech since becoming a regional Fed president
in October.  The remarks indicate that George shares a key concern of
her predecessor  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented from all Fed policy
decisions in 2010 with the warning that a prolonged period of
zero- interest rates  could provoke turmoil in financial markets.
Fed regional bank presidents rotate voting on monetary policy,
with George first voting in 2013.  Asked whether the Fed could do more to stimulate economic
growth and bring down unemployment, George said that such
actions may run risks.  “My view is that the economy is going through a
deleveraging process and that takes time,” George said in
response to an audience question. “Efforts to speed up that
process run some risks. It’s going to take things other than
interest rates to stimulate that economy.”  “The actions we’ve taken will have some time to play out
as it is and we’ll have to see how data come in to make the
decision about whether any further action is appropriate,”
George said.  Some institutions appear to be increasing their exposure to
risk, George said in her speech.  “Some bankers with strong balance sheets tell me they must
react to the current environment by taking on more risk,” she
said. “While appropriate risk-taking is fundamental to banking
and desirable in this environment, creating conditions that
encourage the financial system to take on mispriced risk could
lead to distortions that will only haunt us later,” she said.  Bank Supervision  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
Hoenig, who retired last year. She joined the Fed in 1982, spent
much of her career in bank supervision and became first vice
president in 2009.  From 2001 to 2009, she was senior vice president in charge
of the Division of Supervision and Risk Management, overseeing
regulation of the Kansas City Fed district’s 170 state-chartered
member banks and almost 1,000 bank and financial holding
companies. She worked in  Washington  in 2009 as acting director
of bank supervision for the entire Fed system.  The recovery following the recession that lasted from 2007
to 2009 has been “uneven and underwhelming,” George said.  “With moderate economic growth have come modest job growth
and a too-high  unemployment rate , in addition to lingering
doubts about whether the recovery is sustainable,” she said.  Payroll growth in the U.S. beat forecasts in December and
the unemployment rate dropped to the lowest level in almost
three years as the economy gained strength heading into 2012,
the Labor Department said last week.  Final Month  Employers added 200,000 jobs in the final month of 2011 and
the jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent, down from 9 percent in
September and 9.4 percent in December 2010.  For all of 2011, employers added 1.64 million workers, the
best year for the American worker since 2006, after a 940,000
increase in 2010. Even with the gains, little headway has been
made in recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the
recession that ended in June 2009.  Only part of the economy’s weak growth can be attributed to
temporary factors such as the natural disaster in  Japan ,
political turmoil in the  Middle East  and the fiscal debt crisis
in  Europe , George said.  “A considerable drag on the recovery remains the
consequences of the buildup in leverage leading to the financial
crisis,” she said. “All of this suggests a moderate recovery
remains the most likely outlook, depending on developments in
Europe and  Asia ’s economies, as well as U.S. fiscal policies
that have yet to be defined,” she said.  George said one of the largest risks is that the European
debt crisis may spread to the U.S. through the financial system.  “When I think about risks to our economy, in terms of
whether Europe goes into a recession, and some have said they
may be there now, I worry more about things like financial
contagion that could come across,” George said. “You see a
lack of confidence. You see characteristics that we saw back in
2008.”  Processing Checks  The Kansas City Fed is one of the 12 regional banks that
aid in supervising commercial banks and processing checks as
well as reporting on regional business conditions. The Kansas
City district represents  Colorado , Kansas,  Nebraska ,  Oklahoma ,
 Wyoming , northern  New Mexico  and the western third of Missouri.  George said that one area where risk may be mispriced is
farm land, also a concern of her predecessor Hoenig in his final
year as Kansas City Fed chief.  “Each week brings a new tale of dizzying prices at the
most recent farmland auction,” she said. “I hear from many
well-informed, concerned voices across our region wondering
whether this could be a bubble.’  “These types of events have played out in the past, and
the results were not kind to the industry involved or its
banks,” said George, 53. “There may be other sectors
experiencing similar conditions that will not be obvious without
the benefit of hindsight. This is a common pattern with
mispriced risk.”  Boost Economy  Some officials on the  Federal Open Market Committee  have
continued to call for efforts to boost the economy and
particularly the dormant housing market.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said last week
that “additional housing policy interventions” can help boost
growth, and the Fed should consider further easing. Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said he supported the purchase of
mortgage-backed securities.  The average 30-year fixed rate mortgage was at a record low
3.91 percent last week in a Freddie Mac index. Those low
 mortgage rates  have failed to revive home construction and
purchasing which remain depressed. Builders broke ground on
685,000 homes at an annual pace in November, still 70 percent
below the peak pace of 2.3 million homes recorded in January
2006.  “I view monetary policy as attempting to walk a fine
line,” George said. “On the one hand, today’s policy settings
are designed to encourage risk-taking and to stimulate much-
needed growth across our economy. But on the other hand,
experience has shown that pushing risk-taking too far can cause
the mispricing of risk, the misallocation of capital and the
ultimate weakening of financial firms’ balance sheets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Kansas City,  Missouri  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  