-- Williams Says It’s ‘Vital’ for Fed to Support a ‘Suffering’ U.S. Economy
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-01-10T15:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fed-s-williams-says-vital-for-policy-makers-to-aid-suffering-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  said it’s “vital” for policy
makers to support a  U.S. economy  hobbled by high unemployment,
anemic spending and a weak housing market.  “We at the Fed are doing everything we can to move the
economy forward” and need “tax and spending policies” that
would complement the central bank’s moves, Williams, 49, said
today in the text of a speech in Vancouver,  Washington . The San
Francisco Fed chief took office in March 2011 and casts his
first vote as a policy maker this year.  Policy makers disagree over whether they should see if the
economy slows before trying to further cut borrowing costs and
spur  job creation . The economy is expanding moderately amid
“apparent slowing” in global growth, with “some improvement
in overall labor market conditions,” Fed officials said last
month. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.5 percent from 8.7
percent in November, the government reported last week.  The economy should grow by 2.5 percent this year and about
3 percent next year, not enough to bring down an unemployment
rate that will stay above 8 percent next year and around 7
percent at the end of 2014, Williams said in remarks to the
Columbian’s 2012 Economic Forecast Breakfast.  With the labor market far from full employment and
inflation likely to decelerate, “it’s vital that the Fed use
all the tools at its disposal to achieve its mandated employment
and price stability goals,” he said. He refrained from calling
for new actions by the Fed, asking instead for federal programs
to support housing.  Inflation May Slow  Inflation should fall to 1.5 percent this year and next,
from about 2.5 percent in 2011, Williams said. The Fed’s
preferred price gauge, the Commerce Department’s measure that
excludes food and fuel and is tied to  consumer spending , was up
1.7 percent in the year ended in November, at the lower end of
Fed policy makers’ long-run projection of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  Williams was the first Fed official to signal the
possibility the central bank would release interest rate
forecasts, telling reporters in November such a move would be
“useful” and has worked well in other countries. The Fed plans
to distribute its anticipated path for the fed funds rate after
its next meeting on Jan. 24-25.  The San Francisco Fed chief, who oversees the Fed’s largest
district, served as a senior economist for the  Council of
Economic Advisers  during the Clinton administration. The
Sacramento native succeeded  Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s
vice chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at and
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  