-- Fed’s Pianalto Says ‘Frustratingly Slow’ Recovery Still Faces Headwinds
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-10T17:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fed-s-pianalto-says-economic-recovery-is-frustratingly-slow-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the economic recovery faces
“headwinds” such as “depressed” housing markets, the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and government spending cuts.  “Despite our current accommodative monetary policy, the
recovery from the recent financial and economic crisis has been
frustratingly slow,” Pianalto said today in Wooster, Ohio.
“Going forward, I will continue to weigh the costs and benefits
of further policy actions.”  Three Fed policy makers said last week that the U.S.
government should try new ways to spur the housing market to
help boost growth, without agreeing about how much more the
central bank needs to do to bring down  interest rates . The
comments underscored concerns by Fed officials that they may be
reaching the limits of their power to bolster the economy.  Pianalto, who is a voting member of the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said that she foresees
“moderate” U.S. economic growth and forecast a 2.5 percent
expansion in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013.  While the inflation outlook is “pretty good,” the
unemployment backdrop remains “very difficult,” Pianalto said.
She predicted that inflation will “dip below” 2 percent in the
first six months of 2012.  The jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent in December, the
lowest since February 2009, according to a Labor Department
report last week. Payrolls rose by 200,000 workers, more than
economists forecast.  Natural Jobless Rate  Pianalto said that it will take four to five years for the
 unemployment rate  to fall to 6 percent, which she estimates is
its natural rate.  “Sooner, of course, would be better for everyone, but I
want to be on a path toward full employment that doesn’t create
an inflation problem down the road,” Pianalto said. “Inflation
over the longer run is primarily determined by monetary policy,
whereas the maximum level of employment is largely determined by
non-monetary factors that may change over time.”  Pianalto said she has “supported” the Fed’s policy
decisions, and sees “evidence that they have been effective.”
She said she’s “committed to moving our economy toward full
employment and maintaining  price stability .”  The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  almost to
zero in December 2008. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the Fed
is considering additional actions, including a third round of
large-scale asset purchases.  ‘Control Inflation’  Pianalto said in response to audience questions that the
Fed’s policies “control inflation” over the long run, and that
she’s “absolutely” certain the central bank will keep
inflation in check. Inflation expectations have remained “very
stable,” and financial markets show investors aren’t
“concerned” about accelerating prices, she said.  Fed officials are “trying to be more transparent” about
their policies, as evidenced by their decision to release their
interest-rate forecasts, Pianalto said. The forecasts, to be
announced for the first time after their Jan. 24-25 meeting,
will help tie the Fed’s policies “to economic variables”
rather than to calendar dates, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Wooster,  Ohio  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  