-- Fed Officials Present Contrasting Views of Bank’s Policy of Accommodation
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-10T20:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fed-officials-provide-contrasting-views-of-bank-s-policy-of-accommodation.html
Two Federal Reserve officials laid
out contrasting views of Fed attempts to bolster the economy,
with one seeing a need for more asset purchases and another
warning that current accommodation risks provoking instability.  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said today he sees a “strong” case for new purchases
of mortgage bonds given his expectation that inflation will fall
below 1.5 percent this year. His counterpart in Kansas City,
Esther George, said officials must weigh whether their current
policy is increasing the odds of renewed financial turmoil.  The remarks underscore the division on the  Federal Open
Market Committee , which next meets Jan. 24-25 in Washington.
Officials disagree on whether more steps are needed to bolster
an expanding  U.S. economy  showing signs of improvement in the
labor market. The unemployment rate fell to 8.5 percent in
December from 8.7 percent the previous month, the government
reported last week.  The jobs report “wasn’t in any way a game changer,”
Williams, 49, told reporters after a speech in  Vancouver ,
Washington. The San Francisco Fed chief took office in March
2011 and casts his first vote as a policy maker this year.  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent to
1,293.08 in  New York  at 3:01 p.m., while yields on 10-year
Treasuries rose one basis point to 1.97 percent.  In his speech, Williams credited the Fed’s emergency
lending to financial institutions with keeping the U.S. economy
from falling into an abyss in 2008 and 2009. He said it’s
“vital” for policy makers to support an economy that’s hobbled
by high unemployment, anemic spending and a weak housing market.  Lower Inflation  Williams told reporters that given his forecast for lower
inflation than what’s predicted by a typical private forecaster,
“there’s a strong argument for buying more mortgage-backed
securities.” That suggests a need for policy which is “more
stimulative.”  George appeared in  Kansas City  to deliver her first speech
since becoming a regional Fed president in October. Her comments
indicate that she shares a key concern of her predecessor  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented from all Fed policy decisions in 2010 with
the warning that a prolonged period of zero- interest rates  could
provoke turmoil in financial markets.  “My view is that the economy is going through a
deleveraging process and that takes time,” George said in
response to an audience question. “Efforts to speed up that
process run some risks. It’s going to take things other than
interest rates to stimulate that economy,” she said.  “The actions we’ve taken will have some time to play out
as it is and we’ll have to see how data come in to make the
decision about whether any further action is appropriate,” she
said.  Unemployment Dropped  Payroll growth in the U.S. beat forecasts in December and
the  unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest level in almost
three years as the economy gained strength heading into 2012,
the Labor Department said last week.  Employers added 200,000 jobs in the final month of 2011 and
the jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent, down from 9 percent in
September and 9.4 percent in December 2010.  The economy should grow by 2.5 percent this year and about
3 percent next year, not enough to bring down an unemployment
rate that will stay above 8 percent in 2013 and around 7 percent
at the end of 2014, Williams said in his speech.  With the labor market far from full employment and
inflation likely to decelerate, “it’s vital that the Fed use
all the tools at its disposal to achieve its mandated employment
and price stability goals,” the Fed official said.  Preferred Price Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the Commerce Department’s
measure that excludes food and fuel and is tied to  consumer
spending , was up 1.7 percent in the year ended in November, at
the lower end of Fed policy makers’ long-run projection of 1.7
percent to 2 percent. Inflation should fall under 1.5 percent
this year and next, from about 2.5 percent in 2011, Williams
said.  Williams was the first Fed official to signal the
possibility the central bank would release interest rate
forecasts, telling reporters in November such a move would be
“useful” and has worked well in other countries. The Fed plans
to distribute its anticipated path for the fed funds rate after
its next meeting on Jan. 24-25.  The  San Francisco  Fed chief, who oversees the Fed’s largest
district, served as a senior economist for the  Council of
Economic Advisers  during the Clinton administration. The
Sacramento native succeeded  Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s
vice chairman.  No. 2 Official  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
Hoenig, who retired last year. She joined the Fed in 1982, spent
much of her career in bank supervision, and became first vice
president in 2009.  “Policy choices that attempt to speed improvement in the
housing and labor markets can be attractive given these
circumstances,” George said in her speech, referring to the
“weak housing market, high unemployment and impaired bank
balance sheets.”  “But this desire must be traded off against the need to
foster long-term stability within our financial sector,” she
said, without saying whether the Fed’s current policy stance is
appropriate. George starts voting on the FOMC in 2013.  From 2001 to 2009 she was senior vice president in charge
of the Division of Supervision and Risk Management, overseeing
regulation of the Kansas City Fed district’s 170 state-chartered
member banks and almost 1,000 bank and financial holding
companies. She worked in  Washington  in 2009 as acting director
of bank supervision for the entire Fed system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Kansas City, Missouri at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  