-- FIFA Official Says Soccer Match-Fixing Requires Anti-Terrorism Approach
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-10T18:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/fifa-official-says-soccer-match-fixing-requires-anti-terrorism-approach.html
Soccer match-fixing by criminal
gangs can only be prevented by police agencies using joint
intelligence gathering similar to that in the fight against
global terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks, FIFA’s head of
security said.  With cross-border movement of capital and the global nature
of the sport’s teams and officials, investigators face a tough
task, said  Chris Eaton , a former counter-terrorism specialist at
Interpol now employed by soccer’s governing body.  “We’d still be investigating 9/11 had we investigated it
nationally,” he told a media briefing at FIFA’s headquarters in
Zurich today. “You have national police operating within
national confines but these are international activities which
are very complex.”  Matches have been found to have been influenced by gangs
trying to manipulate results, leading to court cases, prison
sentences and even suspension of national leagues. In August,
Italian club Atalanta got a six-point deduction and two of its
players were suspended for alleged match-fixing.  Turkey ’s
Fenerbahce was barred from playing in Europe’s elite  Champions
League  this season following a police investigation.  The illegal gambling market worldwide is estimated at $90
billion, according to the World Lottery Association, a lobbying
group for state-backed lotteries. Interpol estimates the value
of legal and illegal gambling at $500 billion, Eaton said,
adding match-fixers generate as much as $15 million a year
manipulating results.  Organized Crime  In the past year, fixing scams often connected to organized
crime networks spanning  Europe  and South East Asia have also
been uncovered in countries including Finland and  Germany . In
 Italy , two former members of its national team are under
investigation for fixes allegedly manipulated by Mafia-style
groups. Eaton said he’s heard of anecdotal evidence where “some
players have been killed” for failure to cooperate with fixers.  FIFA itself is undergoing reform after several of its
officials faced corruptions inquiries. That’s led to some
criticism that Eaton’s statements about match-fixing are to
deflect attention from graft within the governing body.  “If I thought I was being used as a fig leaf for FIFA I
wouldn’t be here today,” said former police chief Eaton, who
has four decades in  law enforcement . He said he realized match
fixing was to be his biggest challenge after being hired by FIFA
to look into security issues related to the 2010  World Cup .  FIFA today released seized documents related to an
exhibition hosted in Antalya, Turkey, last year that led to life
bans for seven officials after a probe into two games where all
the goals were scored from penalties. Estonia and  Bulgaria  tied
2-2, while  Latvia  beat Bolivia 2-1.  Footy Media  A contract for the tournament to one of the teams, drawn up
by a company named as Footy Media International, demanded that
“there will be no television agreement” and details of the
arrangement “shall not be released to the public or media by
any of the two parties to maintain confidentiality.”  Eaton said Footy Media was a fictitious company and Blapp
Johnsen, listed as its CEO, was actually Anthony Santia Raj, an
associate of Singapore-national Wilson Perumal who was jailed
for two years in  Finland  last year for fixing matches there.
Each team was offered 20,000 euros ($25,600) for flights, 5-star
hotel accommodation for 30 people and a 20,000 euros appearance
fee for each game.  “That match was only put on for the purpose of gambling,
and it wasn’t to be seen by spectators or viewers,” Eaton said.  A separate file released by FIFA shows e-mail exchanges
between Perumal and an official that Eaton says is the head of
national soccer federation.  ‘Reward’  “These games are exhibition matches and please don’t make
my life difficult by saying you want to win,” Perumal is quoted
as saying. In a separate e-mail he offers a “reward” of
$100,000 if the official’s team can guarantee “two goals in
each half and you can get one after conceding the fourth goal.”  In a handwritten note from jail, also released by FIFA,
Perumal asks an unnamed reporter whether the governing body is
fit to investigate fixing.  “Corruption is a disease without care,” Perumal said.
“Look at FIFA. If the parent body is corrupt how is it going to
eradicate corruption in football.”  An anonymous tips hotline and website for players,
officials and referees is being established next month by FIFA.
Witnesses will be given protection if they come forward, Eaton
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 