-- Florida Schools May Get $1 Billion More in Scott’s Proposal to Lawmakers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-01-10T18:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/florida-schools-may-get-1-billion-more-in-scott-s-proposal-to-lawmakers.html
After asking lawmakers to cut more
than $700 million from the public-school budget last year,
 Florida (STOFL1)  Governor Rick Scott today used his second State of the
State speech to call for a $1 billion increase.  Scott, a former chief executive of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the
largest U.S. hospital operator, wants a budget that
“significantly increases” education spending.  “On this point, I just can’t budge,” Scott said today in
Tallahassee, the capital.  Scott was among the Republican U.S. governors elected in a
wave of Tea Party activism in 2010. His approval rating is 38
percent among Florida voters, according to a  poll  by  Quinnipiac
University  in Hamden,  Connecticut , released today.  Lawmakers applauded Scott when he noted that Florida, the
fourth-most-populous state, added 135,000 jobs in private
businesses during the past year, third most in the country.
Since Scott took office,  Florida’s unemployment rate  dropped 2
percentage points to 10 percent last month, while the  national
rate  was 8.7 percent.  Pointing to those numbers, Scott said, “the state of the
state will continue to improve.”  “While we have many miles to go, and some of them will be
painful, our higher journey is under way,” Scott said. “This
year and today we see the rebirth of an even greater  Florida .”  Even as he called for putting more money toward education,
Scott asked lawmakers to cut taxes on business. He proposed
reducing levies on corporate profits and property by about $8
million.  “Jobs are going to grow like crazy,” Scott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  