-- Flybe Shares Drop on Waning U.K. Sales, Failed Fare Strategy
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-10T08:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/flybe-shares-drop-on-waning-u-k-sales-failed-fare-strategy-1-.html
Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  fell as much as 30
percent after  Europe ’s biggest regional airline said demand for
travel in its main British market is deteriorating and that it
had failed to push through planned fare increases.  U.K. domestic sales, which make up about 70 percent of
Flybe’s revenue from the country, fell 8 percent in the third
quarter ended Dec. 31, with sales last month “particularly
disappointing,” the Exeter, England-based company said today.  Chief Executive Officer Jim French has responded to the
decline by seeking to maintain market share rather than lift
fares. French has said he’s seeking purchases and deals to
provide flights for major European carriers seeking to exit
regional routes requiring aircraft with fewer than 100 seats.  “All that people might see right now is disappointment, but
once the market stabilizes it’s very exciting,” said Andrew
Fitchie, an analyst at Investec Securities in  London  with a
“hold” rating on the stock. “There is opportunity there in the
medium to long term, but it’s going to be a bumpy ride.”  French said in a statement that it was “the correct
decision to protect the long-term potential of Flybe” in
securing market position at the expense of yield or fare
increases. The company, already Britain’s biggest domestic
carrier, boosted its share 2 percentage points, he said.  Flybe fell as much as 20.75 pence and was trading down
15.25 pence, or 22 percent, at 53.50 pence as of 8:27 a.m. in
London, valuing it at 40.2 million pounds ($62 million).  The stock has tumbled 81 percent since debuting on the
London Stock Exchange in December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  