-- For Global Gasaholics, Ending Subsidies Is the First Step: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-10T00:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/for-global-gasaholics-ending-subsidies-is-the-first-step-to-a-cure-view.html
Fuel subsidies are the crack cocaine
of global economic development: easy to get hooked on, hard to
give up. And as every addict knows, there are good and bad ways
to try to kick the habit.  Consider  Nigeria  and Iran. In Nigeria, the government’s
recent decision to remove fuel subsidies and more than double
the price of  gasoline (3AGSREG)  has led to riots and now a nationwide
strike. Two years ago in Iran, an initiative to cut subsidies
and almost quadruple the price of gas (as well as boost the
price of food and water) provoked little unrest, lowered oil
consumption and bolstered the economy and the government.  The differences between the two efforts offer valuable
lessons about the best ways to eliminate fossil-fuel subsidies -
- a staggering global misallocation of resources that does
little to help the poor, distorts markets and pumps more
 greenhouse gases  into our atmosphere.  In 2010, the value of all fossil-fuel subsidies, for both
production and consumption, was roughly  $500 billion . On the
consumption side, 37 countries spent $409 billion underwriting
their citizens’ fuel purchases, according to the  International
Energy Agency . Venezuelans, for example, enjoy the world’s
cheapest gasoline: You can fill up a 32-gallon Hummer for about
$3. In pre-reform  Iran , the price of gasoline was 40 cents a
gallon; in Nigeria, it was about $1.50.  Support Skews Development  There’s not much good to say about fuel-consumption
subsidies. For starters, they encourage waste -- Venezuela has
the dubious honor of having  Latin America ’s highest per-capita
energy consumption. They also skew economic development because
investment decisions are made on the basis of false market
signals. And because consumption subsidies reward high-energy
users, they help the middle class and the rich over the poor,
who rely heavily on dung or wood and aren’t connected to the
 power grid .  The IEA, an independent body formed after the oil shocks of
the 1970s, estimates that only  8 percent  of that $409 billion
went to the bottom-income quintile. Moreover, such government
funding sucks up money that could be used to help the poor in
other ways:  Venezuela  devotes at least 6 percent of its gross
domestic product to fuel subsidies, about double its education
budget; in  Indonesia  that amount is around 4 percent; the $6
billion that Nigeria has been spending to keep fuel prices low
is three times its health budget.  In addition to freeing up hundreds of billions of dollars
for more productive uses, unwinding all consumption subsidies by
2020 would reduce demand for energy by 4.1 percent and carbon-
dioxide emissions by 4.7 percent, according to the IEA.  Here’s where Iran comes in. Whatever the conduct of
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government in other realms, its
fuel-subsidy reforms in late 2010 make it something of a  role
model . Legislative debate began almost two years before the
changes went into effect; officials, academics and community
leaders led an extensive public-awareness campaign that included
sending households mock bills showing the true cost of their
electricity. More important, the reforms included a clear
benefit to Iranians: direct cash payments to more than 80
percent of the population, paid out before the changes took
effect. In the case of the poorest of the poor, the sums
amounted to more than half their monthly cash income, which
helped to insulate the program from political criticism.  The administration of Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
took a different path. It released its  proposal  a mere two
months before it was to go into effect. Cash payments are to be
directed only to small subsets of the poor (mainly pregnant
women). Others will receive menial jobs, with pay low enough to
“ensure the self-selection of only the poor.” The government
says the cost savings will be recycled to the poor through
building roads, railways, and irrigation projects. That doesn’t
seem likely in one of the world’s most corrupt countries. No
wonder Nigerians have taken to the streets.  Spurring Wasteful Consumption  The problem is hardly limited to the developing world. In
2009, the Group of 20, whose members encompass big oil exporters
and importers, pledged to phase out “inefficient fossil fuel
subsidies that encourage wasteful consumption.” One way to
ensure that this goal is met -- and not largely at the expense
of the poor -- would be for the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development to team up with the United Nations
Development Program to compile best practices from Iran and
other countries, as well as from the work being done by an
alphabet soup of other groups (the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries, the IEA, the  World Bank  and its regional
cousins).  The OECD has already pulled together a 350-page  inventory 
of more than 250 ways in which 24 of its member countries
subsidize the production and consumption of gasoline, diesel and
other fossil fuels. But this transparency exercise looks only at
budgetary support and tax breaks; it has yet to tackle the
harder-to-estimate subsidies provided through things like loan
guarantees. In order to speed up the process, how about turning
the database into a public wiki, enabling the hive mind to exert
its collective powers?  One benefit of this approach would be to highlight the
contradictions indulged in by even relatively green countries,
such as  Norway  and  New Zealand , which tax fuel consumption
heavily while still supporting their fossil-fuel production
industries. The G-20 has so far deferred defining “inefficient”
subsidies and “wasteful consumption.” We put forth a candidate:
the tens of billions of dollars a year in forgone fuel taxes
associated with diesel for agriculture, fisheries and other
“off-road” uses, mostly as a result of exempting them from
excise levies. Farmers and fishing fleets would have more reason
to be energy-efficient, and we would have cleaner air and water
in the bargain.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 