-- Ford Says Thailand Floods Damaged Profits
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-01-10T23:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/ford-says-thai-floods-prevented-all-units-from-making-11-profit.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said floods in
 Thailand  caused a 2011 loss for its Asia Pacific and Africa
region, preventing the automaker from achieving its goal to be
profitable in all its global business units.  “The impact of the Thai floods is a bit bigger than we
anticipated,” Ford Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  told
analysts yesterday in a presentation at the Detroit auto show.
“We guided in the third quarter that all business units would
be profitable for the full year. We now think that’s no longer
possible because of the impact of the Thai floods.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has said Ford global
sales will increase 50 percent to 8 million vehicles by 2015 and
one-third of its deliveries will be in the  Asia  by 2020. The
second-largest U.S. automaker now has less than 3 percent of the
Chinese market.  “This shows how globally interconnected Ford has become;
it’s no longer just a North American, South American and
European company,” said  Michael Robinet , an analyst with auto
consultant IHS Automotive in Northville, Michigan. “The impact
from the Thai floods will be transitory and they’ll make it up
over time.”  Ford’s Asia Plans  Ford is building seven factories and has 50 new models and
engines coming to the Asian market by 2015, according to Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s chief of that region. Ford sales rose 7 percent
in China last year, outpacing the 3 percent to 4 percent growth
in total auto sales there, he said. Ford will open two factories
in  China  by 2013 and introduce two sport-utility vehicle models
there this year, Hinrichs said.  “We haven’t slowed our growth projections or our
aspirations or intentions,” Hinrichs said in an interview this
week. “This is an eight- or nine-year journey.”  Even with the impact of the Thai floods, Mulally said
yesterday that Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford was solidly
profitable in the fourth quarter, without providing a specific
figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  