-- Forint Gains Most in 6 Weeks as Bill Sale on Target on Aid Hope
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-10T16:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/forint-rallies-as-hungary-meets-bill-sale-target-on-aid-optimism.html
The forint rose the most in six
weeks and  Hungary  met its target amount at a Treasury bill sale
on optimism the government will be able to restart bailout talks
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  The currency strengthened 1.8 percent to 310.45 per euro by
5 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest daily rally since Nov. 28 and
compared with a level of 315 at the end of last year. The
government sold 45 billion forint ($183 million) in three-month
Treasury bills at an average yield of 7.98 percent, the highest
for that maturity since August 2009.  Tamas Fellegi, the minister leading foreign aid talks, is
in  Washington  and will meet IMF Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  on Jan 12., state news service MTI reported. Fellegi is
scheduled to meet European Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  on Jan. 20 to discuss Hungary’s central
bank law, Rehn’s spokesman,  Amadeu Altafaj , told reporters in
Brussels today.  “Markets are increasingly confident that there will be a
quick deal with the international organizations on a standby
credit agreement of appropriate size,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a
Budapest-based economist at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in an e-
mailed note today.  The forint fell to a record low against the euro and bonds
plummeted last week after the IMF and the European Union
discontinued talks with Hungary as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
refused to withdraw new central  bank regulations  the
institutions objected to. Markets rebounded after Orban said he
is ready to accept “any kind” of  credit line  that strengthens
the country’s market financing.  Aid Talks  Bonds advanced for a fourth day, with yields on  10-year
notes  falling 29 basis points to 9.565 percent, the lowest since
Dec. 27. The benchmark BUX stock index gained 2.4 percent as OTP
Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rallied 3.6 percent.
Hungary also sold the target amount planned at a sale of six-
week Treasury bills yesterday.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny expects a “positive solution” for Hungary’s talks with
the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, he
said in Vienna today.  “From an IMF/EU point of view, I wouldn’t even send the
team before the central bank law is changed,”  Koon Chow , a
London-based strategist at  Barclays Capital , said in a telephone
interview today.  The official aid talks won’t resume until the government
proves that a new law doesn’t infringe on the independence of
its central bank, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the European
Commission, which holds the power to authorize any aid package,
told reporters in Brussels Jan. 5.  Ratings Downgrade  Hungary needs to secure a bailout from the IMF in the first
half of 2012 to restore market confidence, Paul Rawkins, head of
the emerging Europe sovereign ratings group at  Fitch Ratings ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.  “Hungary’s problems are very country specific; there are
problems in the region, but a lot of Hungary’s problems are of
its own making,” Rawkins said. “As a result, they undermine
confidence and it’s very hard to restore that confidence.”  Fitch cut Hungary’s ratings below investment grade on Jan.
6, following similar moves from  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service last year, saying doubts remain as to whether
the government will submit to conditions for aid. Fitch has a
negative outlook on Hungary, indicating a probability greater
than 50 percent of a further downgrade in the next two years.  The cost of insuring against a default on Hungary’s debt
with credit-default swaps fell to 674 basis points from 690
basis points yesterday and a record 735 basis points last week,
according to data provider CMA. A basis point is one hundredth
of a percentage point.  EU, IMF Demands  Orban had shunned the IMF since taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures. They included the effective nationalization of $12
billion of private pension-fund assets, extraordinary industry
taxes to raise revenue for the budget,  Europe ’s highest bank
levy and forcing lenders to swallow exchange-rate losses on
foreign-currency mortgages.  “I remain more than skeptical that the government will
agree on what EU and IMF are likely going to demand,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in
comments sent by e-mail today.  “Negotiations will be long and
the government will have to give in regarding several crucial
points they considered incontestable some months ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  