-- Oracle Investigated Over HP ‘Eviction Strategy’ Complaint
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-10T18:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/french-competition-authority-reviews-oracle-database-licensing.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  is under investigation
by  France ’s competition regulator after  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
complained that Oracle used discriminatory practices on its
licensing and support for products based on  Intel Corp. (INTC)  systems.  The competition authority said it opened a probe to examine
Hewlett-Packard’s July complaint that Oracle’s refusal to
support Intel’s Itanium systems would be an abuse of dominant
position, and that its license pricing was “decided
unilaterally.”  Hewlett-Packard described “a generalized eviction strategy
by Oracle, reinforced, according to it, by a deceitful ad
campaign against HP Integrity servers,” the regulator said in a
 decision  published on its website today.  Hewlett-Packard has also disputed in the U.S. Oracle’s plan
to stop developing products that use Intel’s Itanium chip, which
HP uses in some servers. Oracle, the largest database-software
maker, has responded with claims including false advertising.
Its lower-priced systems using Intel chips are losing ground to
competitors as it uses its 2010 acquisition of Sun Microsystems
to develop computer servers that run Oracle database and
applications.  The competition authority refused Hewlett-Packard’s request
for immediate action to force Oracle to change its behavior,
saying there was no “grave and immediate threat” to warrant
action.  ‘Real Fate’  “Oracle has acted in the best interest of consumers by
telling the truth as HP has attempted to hide Itanium’s real
fate from customers in order to protect its own profits,”
Thomas Vinje, a lawyer for  Redwood City , California-based
Oracle, said today in a statement.  The regulator “recognized the strong evidence” that
Oracle “violated EU and French competition law,”  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Hewlett-Packard may request “that the authorities revisit
the approval of Oracle’s acquisition of Sun Microsystems in
light of Oracle’s clear pattern of abusive anti-competitive and
anti-customer conduct,” according to the statement.  Oracle won European Commission approval to buy Sun in 2010
after it made a non-binding promise to maintain and develop the
company’s open-source applications.  Gaye Hudson, a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to comment
on Hewlett-Packard’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 