-- French Business Confidence Climbs From Low
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-10T09:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/french-business-confidence-climbs-from-two-year-low.html
French business confidence climbed
from a two-year low last month and industrial output increased
in November, indicating the euro-region’s second-biggest economy
may avoid a recession.  The Bank of France’s  Business Sentiment Indicator (FRBSI)  for
manufacturers advanced to 96 from 95 in November, the lowest
since September 2009. The reading suggests gross domestic
product was unchanged in the fourth quarter, the central bank
said today in a statement from Paris.  The euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis and slowing global
growth are curbing investment and demand for French goods.
Companies such as  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA (UG)  and Societe Generale
SA are cutting jobs to cope with lower demand and the debt
crisis.  “ Europe  is still in dangerous territory as the sovereign-
debt crisis has turned into a crisis of confidence,”  Elga Bartsch , chief European economist at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
said in a note to clients. “A mild recession over the winter
could turn into a deep one if a full-blown, area-wide credit
crunch materializes.”  French factory output is also improving. Industrial
production climbed 1.1 percent in November, lifted by
electronics and refinery output, national statistics office
Insee said today. Manufacturing production climbed 1.3 percent
following a revised 0.2 percent increase in October.  Orders, Inventories  Even so, industrial production fell 1 percent over the past
three months, according to Insee. Order books are less full now
than they were a month ago and inventories are at their target
level, the Bank of  France  survey of manufacturers showed.  A decline in December industrial production “after this
strong November reading is likely,” said Gizem Kara, an
economist at BNP Paribas in London. “Surveys and anecdotal
evidence suggest manufacturers have accumulated excess
inventory, which will weigh on future output.”  The  European Central Bank ’s governing council meets later
this week, followed by a press conference by President  Mario Draghi  on Jan. 12. The Frankfurt-based central bank will leave
its key refinancing rate at 1 percent, according to the median
of 51 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  