-- French Business Confidence Rebounds as Threat of Recession Eases: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-10T11:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/french-business-confidence-rebounds-as-threat-of-recession-eases-economy.html
French business confidence climbed
from a two-year low last month and industrial output increased
in November, indicating the threat of a recession in the euro-
region’s second-biggest economy is easing.  The Bank of  France ’s  Business Sentiment Indicator (FRBSI)  for
manufacturers advanced to 96 from 95 in November, when it fell
to the lowest since September 2009. Industrial production
unexpectedly climbed 1.1 percent in November, lifted by
electronics and refinery output, national statistics office
Insee said today. Both numbers beat economists’ forecasts.  The numbers suggest that France may be able to skirt a deep
recession as European leaders impose austerity measures to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The confidence
reading suggests French gross domestic product will stall and
not shrink in the fourth quarter, the Bank of France said today.  “This is reassuring,” said Michel Martinez, an economist
at Societe Generale in Paris. “The economy may have contracted
in the fourth quarter and probably in the first quarter but the
recession will be very mild. It’s not an implosion, not the 2009
scenario.”  Stocks rallied and commodities rose for a third day with
U.S. index futures gaining. The MSCI All-Country World Index
added 0.7 percent at 10:30 a.m. in  London  and Standard & Poor’s
500 Index futures increased 0.9 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index jumped 2.7 percent for its biggest three-day advance in 15
months on speculation the government may act to spur growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy as import growth fell to a
two-year low.  French Bonds  The euro strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.2791. The yield on
France’s 10-year bond fell 6 basis points to 3.258 after  Fitch
Ratings  said the country would likely avoid a downgrade this
year.  Europe ’s economy isn’t out of the woods and investors will
be watching developments closely. Fitch today forecast a
“shallow recession” for the euro region “as tough austerity
measures continue to bite and consumer and business confidence
remains weak.” Italy faces “a significant risk” of a rating
reduction.  Finland’s economy grew at the slowest pace in 1 1/2 years
in October as the debt crisis sapped export demand. GDP adjusted
for working days expanded an annual 1.1 percent in October,
slowing from a revised 2.3 percent increase in September,
Helsinki-based  Statistics Finland  said.  ‘Dangerous Territory’  Even with the monthly jump in output, French industrial
production fell 1 percent in the three months through November,
according to Insee. Order books are less full now than they were
a month ago and inventories are at their target level, the Bank
of France survey of manufacturers showed.  “Europe is still in dangerous territory as the sovereign-
debt crisis has turned into a crisis of confidence,”  Elga Bartsch , chief European economist at Morgan Stanley in London,
said in a note to clients. “A mild recession over the winter
could turn into a deep one if a full-blown, area-wide credit
crunch materializes.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who expects the economy
to expand 1 percent in 2012, has repeatedly said he’ll make
additional spending cuts and further tax increases if necessary
to meet the government’s deficit targets as the economy slows.
The austerity threats are sapping consumer demand and prompting
companies such as PSA Peugeot Citroen SA and  Societe Generale  to
cut jobs, fueling the slowdown.  ECB Rates  Societe Generale’s Martinez said policy makers’ response
will be key to boosting confidence among companies and
underpinning output. “None of this means that the situation
can’t deteriorate,” he said.  The  European Central Bank ’s governing council meets later
this week, followed by a press conference by President  Mario Draghi  on Jan. 12. The Frankfurt-based central bank will leave
its key refinancing rate at 1 percent, according to the median
of 51 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  In contrast with European numbers, U.S. economic data have
signaled improvement. Job growth picked up in December and
 consumer credit  jumped by $20.4 billion in November, reports in
recent days showed. A release today may indicate a monthly gain
in wholesale inventories in November, with restocking forecast
to add to gross domestic product.  In  Asia ,  China ’s import growth fell to a two-year low in
December, underscoring a slowdown in the fastest-growing major
economy. The moderation caused the  trade surplus  to increase to
$16.5 billion in the month, as exports advanced 13.4 percent in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  