-- Gasoline Rises to 12-Week High on Iran Tensions, Plant Closures
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-10T17:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/gasoline-rises-to-12-week-high-on-iran-tensions-plant-closures.html
Gasoline rose to the highest level
since October on Iran political tension and on concern refinery
shutdowns in  Europe  and the U.S. will reduce fuel supplies.  Futures advanced as much as 1.4 percent after a European
Union diplomat said the EU is considering moving forward by a
week a scheduled Jan. 30 meeting to discuss banning Iranian oil
imports. Five refineries in Europe and the U.S. Northeast have
closed since the end of September and other plants have idled
units for maintenance.  “The decision to move up the Jan. 30 meeting to discuss an
Iranian oil embargo may have sparked the market,” said  Gene
McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The product market is still getting a
bid because there’s a certain wariness with these refinery
shutdowns.”  Gasoline for February delivery rose 1.93 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $2.7783 a gallon at 12:32 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures touched $2.7981, the highest
intraday price since Oct. 17.  Gasoline’s gains were part of a broader rally in equities
and commodities. The S&P  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw materials climbed
0.9 percent at 12:32 p.m. in  New York . The  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
added 1.2 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied
0.8 percent.  “A lot of stock markets around the world broke through
resistance levels,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa, Florida. “There’s mounting optimism
being led by the  U.S. economy , China is looking like a soft
landing and it seems in Europe as though Sarkozy and Merkel are
going to get something done.”  Debt Crisis  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  will meet in Berlin
tonight as pressure grows to complete a Greek debt swap needed
to put a rescue plan in place. Merkel and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday that the October European summit
decisions on Greece have to be implemented.  The U.S. tightened economic sanctions against  Iran  over its
nuclear program on Dec. 31, and the EU is weighing a ban on
purchases of Iranian crude. Iran has threatened to block oil
transportation through the Strait of Hormuz, which carries about
20 percent of the world’s traded oil, if sanctions are imposed.  Petroplus Holdings AG, Europe’s largest independent refiner
by capacity, is suspending operations at three plants with a
combined processing capacity of 337,300 barrels of crude a day
after banks froze $1 billion of the company’s loans. Petroplus
has also reduced production at two other refineries in the U.K.
and Germany.  Refineries Shut  In the U.S., three Pennsylvania refineries owned by Sunoco
Inc. and ConocoPhillips that account for about half of Northeast
capacity are for sale, and two have already closed.  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s  Port Arthur (MEPACRUD) ,  Texas , refinery shut
a diesel hydrotreater for repairs and will idle a crude unit
Jan. 17 and a coker March 1 for work, according to two people
with knowledge of the operations. ConocoPhillips and BP Plc also
shut units at Texas plants.  U.S. gasoline inventories probably rose 2.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News. That would leave supplies at the
highest level in 10 months. Distillate stockpiles increased 2.25
million barrels to 145.8 million, the highest in 11 weeks, the
survey showed.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  February-delivery heating oil rose 3.5 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $3.108 a gallon on the exchange, after touching
$3.1188, the highest intraday price since Nov. 18.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.372 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It was
the first decline since Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  