-- Geithner Will Press China on Yuan While Seeking Support on Iran Sanctions
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-11T04:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/geithner-to-seek-china-s-support-on-iran-sanctions-while-pressing-on-yuan.html
U.S. Treasury  Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will urge Asia’s two biggest economies to cut Iranian
oil imports and seek to narrow differences with China on trade
and currency disputes on a visit to Beijing and  Tokyo  this week.  Geithner, who today holds talks with Premier Wen Jiabao,
Vice President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , arrived
in Beijing yesterday and met Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan .
In Japan, he is due to meet with Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
and Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  tomorrow.  “On economic growth, financial stability around the world,
on nonproliferation, we have what we view as a very strong
cooperative relationship with the government and we are looking
forward to building on that,” Geithner said at the start of his
meeting with Xi.  Wang, appearing with Geithner yesterday, said the two
countries “have a lot of issues to talk about in the areas of
economy, finance, trade and investment.”  “Apart from the bilateral aspect, we are also having
important cooperation in the multilateral and global arena in
the areas of economy, finance, trade policies and also G-20
related affairs,” Wang said.  Geithner will probably encounter resistance in  China , which
disagrees with U.S. assertions that its currency is undervalued
and is sparring with the Obama administration over trade in
goods from chicken to steel. At the same time, he may seek to
avert a public split at a time when a likely European slide to
recession is already clouding the global economic outlook.  Treasury Bills  “These are the world’s second- and third-largest economies
and the two biggest holders of Treasury bills,” said Stephen Myrow, a U.S. Treasury official during the administration of
George W. Bush and now managing director of ACG Analytics Inc.,
a Washington investment research firm. “These are relationships
that need to be continually nurtured.”  China is the largest foreign holder of U.S. government
securities, with $1.13 trillion in October.  Japan  is second
among foreign nations with $979 billion.  A plea to cut back on Iranian oil, tied to the Obama
administration’s sanctions last month aimed at that country’s
nuclear program, may not resonate with Chinese officials,
intelligence and foreign-affairs analysts said.  “China will be less OK with it than Japan,”  Matthew
Levitt , a former financial intelligence official at the Treasury
Department who is now at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, said in an interview. “But neither wants to be seen as
rogue.”  Iranian Oil  The two countries are the largest importers of Iranian oil,
with China accounting for 22 percent and Japan buying 14 percent
of Tehran’s crude oil exports during the first half of last year,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. As a
group, the European Union buys 18 percent of  Iran ’s oil exports.  Wen, China’s premier, will visit  Saudi Arabia , the United
Arab Emirates and Qatar from Jan. 14 to Jan. 19, China’s foreign
ministry said yesterday.  Wen will attend a conference in Abu Dhabi and make a speech
about China’s energy policy, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu
Weimin said in a statement on the ministry’s website. Wen will
hold talks with leaders of the three nations during his six-day
visit and “promote the development of China-Arab relations and
relations with the Islamic world,” Liu said.  Trade Rules  In China, Geithner may tell officials that they need to
follow through on pledges to shift the world’s second-largest
economy more toward domestic demand and away from exports,
William Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington , said in an interview Jan.
9. The real value of the yuan “needs to rise by 10 to 20
percent,” he said.  President Barack Obama plans to form a government task
force to monitor China’s compliance with U.S. trade rules, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  The panel will include officials from the Treasury,
Commerce and Energy departments, and the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, it said. An announcement of the
enforcement task force is expected later this month, the
newspaper said in its online edition.  Substantially Undervalued  The Treasury Department said Dec. 27 in its twice-yearly
report on global currencies that the yuan is substantially
undervalued and the U.S. will “press for policy changes that
yield greater exchange-rate flexibility.” China’s state-run
Xinhua News Agency replied in a commentary that the U.S. should
move beyond the “useless, meaningless” quarrel over the
exchange rate.  The yuan closed at 6.3150 in Shanghai yesterday, little
changed from 6.3146 on Jan. 9, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5
percent on either side of the daily fixing. In Hong Kong’s
offshore market, the yuan slipped 0.03 percent to 6.3159.  China’s growth may slow to 8.5 percent this year, down from
9.2 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank lowered
the required reserve ratio for banks for the first time in
almost three years in December to encourage lending, a shifting
of its stance from fighting inflation as price pressures ease.  Record Earthquake  The Treasury secretary arrives in Japan as that nation
copes with a fading rebound from the aftermath of a record
earthquake in March 2011. Gross domestic product probably shrank
0.1 percent in the three months through December, the third
contraction in four quarters, according to estimates by the
Japan Center for Economic Research, an independent analysis
group in Tokyo.  Prime Minister Noda’s administration has overseen record
 sales of yen  to counter exchange-rate appreciation that has
prompted companies including  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
to plan shifting some operations abroad. The U.S. Treasury
criticized the currency intervention in a report last month,
saying Japan should instead focus on domestic policy initiatives.  “Geithner may be looking for input from America’s key
trading partners in Asia on how to promote a sustainable
recovery in world economic demand,”  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said
in an e-mail. “He may want to hear directly as well in face-to-
face meetings on just how worried are China and Japan officials
about the outlook for their own domestic economies.”  WTO Panel  Commerce may also be on the agenda. The U.S. Trade
Representative asked the World Trade Organization last month to
establish a panel that will seek a settlement in a conflict with
China over duties on American poultry.  China set a duty of as much as 105.4 percent last year on
U.S. broiler-chicken products. About 300,000 workers and farmers
have been hurt by China’s actions, Trade Representative Ron Kirk
said in September.  The chicken-import dispute may add to tensions between the
world’s two largest economies, which have clashed over access to
each others’ markets for products including steel pipes, tires,
movies and music. The WTO rejected in September China’s appeal
of a ruling that backed U.S. duties on Chinese tire imports.  Geithner hasn’t been to China since March 2011 and to Japan
since November 2010. Treasury officials traveling with him
include  Lael Brainard , undersecretary for international affairs;
Robert Dohner, deputy assistant secretary for  Asia ; and  David Loevinger , senior coordinator for China affairs.  Foreign Sanctions  Obama signed into law Dec. 31 a defense-spending bill that
includes a provision that would impose sanctions on foreign
financial institutions that conduct transactions with the
Central Bank of Iran.  The law gives the administration flexibility by allowing it
to waive sanctions for as long as 120 days at a time if the
president determines they would threaten national security. Iran
threatened last month to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
point for one-fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions are
imposed on its crude exports.  “The regular economic and trade relations and energy
cooperation between China and Iran has nothing to do with the
nuclear issue,” Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai told
reporters in Beijing Jan. 9. “We should not mix issues with
different natures.”  Chinese officials aren’t “as committed to a unified
position with the United States, don’t philosophically agree the
sanctions should hurt the Iranian people or the Iranian
economy,” said  Kenneth Katzman , an Iran specialist for the
nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  