-- Genting Boost as Florida Casino Plan Clears First Senate Hurdle
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-01-10T01:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/genting-boost-as-florida-casino-plan-clears-first-senate-hurdle.html
Florida (STOFL1)  would become the most
populous state with full casino gambling outside American Indian
control under a proposal that has cleared its first legislative
hurdle.  The decision was a win for Malaysia’s  Genting Bhd. (GENT) , which
controls Asia’s second-biggest gaming company by market value.
Yesterday’s vote in the Senate Regulated Industries Committee
would allow the fourth-largest state by population to have as
many as three Las Vegas-style casinos, with dealers and table
games in addition to slot machines.  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) , a unit of Kuala Lumpur-based Genting,
has pitched lawmakers on a $3.8 billion casino-and-hotel complex
on Miami’s Biscayne Bay as an antidote to the state’s 10 percent
 unemployment (USUSFLA)  rate in November, ahead of the national rate of 8.7
percent. It also has plans to build the biggest convention
center in the U.S., in  New York City  where it last year opened a
casino at the Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens.  “The potential legalization of commercial gaming in Miami
and table gaming in  New York  could provide a boost to earnings
growth,” UOB-Kay Kian Holdings Ltd. analysts  Vincent Khoo  and
Moey Su En wrote in a report today.  Genting Bhd. fell 0.7 percent to 11.06 ringgit at 9:45 a.m.
local time in Kuala Lumpur trading today, while Genting Malaysia
dropped 0.5 cent. The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (KLCI) 
was little changed.  The Florida measure is opposed by the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the
world’s biggest theme-park company, whose flagship Walt Disney
World is near Orlando. Hoteliers, restaurant owners and betting
parlors who say they’ll lose business to destination casinos
also are lobbying against the bill.  Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who took office last year,
hasn’t signaled whether he supports the plan. His insistence
that any county that wants to land one of the resorts first get
voter approval was included in a rewrite of the bill last week.  “This is the beginning of the discussion,” Republican
Senator Ellyn Bogdanoff, the bill sponsor, said during the
hearing at the state Capitol in Tallahassee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  