-- Germany Reaped the Most Benefit From Euro Membership, McKinsey Study Shows
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-10T16:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/germany-reaped-most-economic-benefit-from-euro-mckinsey-2010-study-shows.html
Germany  was the main beneficiary
from the euro in 2010, when the single currency increased the
region’s wealth by 332 billion euros ($424 billion), or about
3.6 percent of gross domestic product, a McKinsey study showed.  The then 16 euro members benefited to varying degrees as
some countries were slow to adjust their economies to increasing
competition, McKinsey’s German office based in Dusseldorf said
today in a study. At 165 billion euros, or 6.6 percent of its
GDP, Germany’s gain was almost half the region’s total.  “The removal of nominal exchange rates within the  euro
zone  lowered transaction costs, trade within the euro zone
increased, competitiveness rose as firms benefited from
economies of scale and scope, and investment and consumption
were boosted by low  interest rates ,” McKinsey said by e-mail.  European leaders are striving to hold the now 17-member
euro area together as the debt crisis that emerged in  Greece 
more than two years ago spreads to the region’s core. Greek
Prime Minister Lucas Papademos last week warned of an exit from
the euro and economic collapse if fellow citizens didn’t accept
short, sharp cuts in incomes and pensions.  Italy’s advantage of having the euro accounted for 3.1
percent of its GDP, while the boost for  France  equated to 0.7
percent of the country’s output, McKinsey said. Estonia became
the 17th member of the single currency on Jan. 1, 2011.  A policy of budget discipline linked to a stabilization
mechanism is best suited to return the region to sustainable
public finances, the study said.  Following the two-pronged approach will lead to declining
euro region debt from 2016, and beats the alternatives of
isolated liquidity support by financial backstops or the
 European Central Bank , dismantling the currency bloc or moving
toward closer fiscal union, McKinsey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  