-- Euro Bonds in German Interest With Tough Fiscal Rules, Rehn Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-10T16:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/germany-would-gain-from-euro-bonds-promoting-budget-discipline-rehn-says.html
Germany , which opposes joint bond
sales by euro-area governments to tackle the debt crisis, would
benefit from such a step provided it were underpinned by “rock-
solid” budget discipline, said European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn .  Rehn said common debt issuance by the euro area’s 17
nations could create a large, liquid market for bonds to rival
U.S. Treasuries as a safe haven. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
opposes the creation of euro bonds -- also called “stability
bonds” -- to help Greece,  Portugal  and other distressed euro
nations lower borrowing costs.  “Stability bonds can provide substantial benefits also for
countries with currently high credit standing,” Rehn told a
European Parliament group today in Brussels. “Yet there are
serious challenges to make them work.”  As the debt crisis enters its third year, the European
Commission is trying to balance Merkel’s opposition to euro
bonds against support for them in southern nations including
 Greece  and Italy, federalist-leaning Luxembourg and  Belgium , and
the European Parliament. Joint bonds “are not appropriate as a
rescue measure,” Merkel told lawmakers in Berlin on Dec. 14.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, two days ago closed
a public consultation on the options for common debt issuance in
the euro area. Rehn said the commission is still evaluating the
responses.  ‘Stable Access’  “Joint bonds would act as a driver of integration and
efficiency of European bond markets,” he said. “They could
lower transaction costs and the cost of government borrowing.
Stability bonds would strengthen financial stability by allowing
member states secure and stable access to refinancing.”  In a Nov. 23 policy paper, the commission outlined three
options for euro bonds. It said two of the three options would
probably involve the lengthy process of changing the EU treaty
and all of them would require reinforced fiscal oversight.  The type of joint bond sales that the euro area could carry
out most quickly, because no EU treaty change is required, would
probably offer the fewest benefits to distressed nations,
according to the commission. Under this option, euro bonds would
partially substitute for national debt issuance and would be
underpinned by pro-rata guarantees of euro-area nations.  Governments would retain liability for their respective
share of euro-bond sales and for their national issuance under
this model, which involves debt sales with “several but not
joint guarantees,” according to the commission paper.  Budget Control  The other two options would be the partial substitution of
national issuance through euro bonds with joint and several
guarantees as well as the full substitution with joint and
several guarantees. Both of these models, under which a creditor
can turn to each guarantor for the full amount, probably require
an EU treaty change, said the commission.  When it released the options paper on euro bonds, the
commission pushed for more budget control over euro-area
nations.  Weeks after winning a year-long battle for stronger powers
to sanction spendthrift euro governments, the commission
proposed adding the right to screen national budgets earlier,
monitor more closely nations such as  Italy  where rising
borrowing costs threaten financial stability and tighten fiscal
surveillance of countries such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal
after they exit rescue programs. Those draft laws are being
scrutinized by the parliament and national governments.  This year will “mark a profound transformation of EU
economic governance,” Rehn said today. The euro “remains our
prime political project and the foundation of economic stability
in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  