-- Gina Raimondo Math Convinces Rhode Island of America’s Prospects With Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/gina-raimondo-math-convinces-rhode-island-of-america-s-prospects-with-debt.html
Gina Raimondo was running a  Rhode
Island  venture-capital firm in Providence when the mother of two
read with alarm that a growing fiscal crisis might force
cutbacks in library hours and bus service in 2009.  The threat drove her to seek public office for the first
time. “I literally put the paper down and said, ‘I have to do
this, I have to run,’” the Democrat said in an interview.
Raimondo, 40, won the state treasurer’s office in 2010 with 62
percent of the vote, partly on a pledge to revamp pensions, an
issue so politically toxic her backers urged her to avoid it.  Raimondo has since gained fame beyond the smallest U.S.
state for her overhaul of a pension system whose promises to
workers were eating up local aid and helped push one city into
bankruptcy. The changes she persuaded the Democrat-controlled
Legislature to pass over union opposition will save about $3
billion by delaying retirement, suspending cost-of-living
increases and offering workers 401(k)-type savings plans.  The overhaul may provide a template for other states and
cities such as Pennsylvania and Chicago that are grappling with
underfunded pension obligations they may not be able to fulfill.
Her success has vaulted her into the national spotlight,
attracting support from among President  Barack Obama ’s biggest
fundraisers and spurring speculation that she may rise to become
Rhode Island’s first female governor or U.S. Senator.  Courage to Speak  “She always understood that the math didn’t work and had
the courage to say it,”  Orin Kramer , a general partner at
hedge-fund firm Boston Provident LP in New York, said by e-mail.
Kramer, the former head of the New Jersey Investment Council,
which guides pension asset allocations, has  raised  more than
$500,000 for Obama’s 2012 campaign. He also has donated $2,000
to Raimondo since March 2010, according to state records.  “We focused on the math, not politics,” Raimondo said on
Jan. 5 after accepting the annual “Urban Innovator” award from
the nonprofit  Manhattan  Institute for Policy Research in New
York, which tries to foster individual responsibility and
economic choice. “Very early on, that was the tagline -- this
is about math, not politics.”  Union leaders aren’t applauding. Raimondo’s overhaul “went
too far and it was illegal,” said Robert Walsh, executive
director of the National Education Association of Rhode Island,
the state’s biggest teachers union. Yet her plan has drawn
queries from Democrats such as  Chicago  Mayor Rahm Emanuel, a
former Obama aide, and Pennsylvania Treasurer Rob McCord.  Consulting on Strategy  Both men have sought to consult with her on how the changes
were pushed through the Legislature, Raimondo said. Michael
Smith, a McCord spokesman, and Tarrah Cooper, a spokeswoman for
Emanuel, didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment on
the discussions.  “There is a generation of Democrats who are becoming truth
tellers to their own party about very difficult things,” said
Matt Bennett, co-founder of Third Way in  Washington , a nonprofit
group that advocates for moderate public policies. “That’s
going to happen at the national level when it comes to
entitlement reform and it’s happening at the state level when it
comes to pension reform.”  The collapse of financial markets in 2008 plunged state and
local retirement systems deeper into debt, leaving them $1
trillion short of the assets needed to meet promised payments,
according to the Pew Center on the States, a nonprofit research
organization. A crisis had been years in the making as
politicians failed to set aside enough to cover the benefits
promised to teachers, firefighters and other government workers,
said David Draine, a Pew researcher in Washington.  Funding Plight  Rhode Island had the lowest level of assets to cover
projected pension obligations of any U.S. state in 2007, at
about 54 percent, according to a study by Bloomberg Rankings. By
2010, its funding ratio had risen slightly, to about 59 percent,
ahead of  Illinois ,  Connecticut  and five others on the list,
while the median value for all states fell to about 75 percent
from 83 percent.  By the time Raimondo took office last year, Rhode Island’s
system still trailed the 80 percent funding ratio considered
adequate by actuaries, with about $7 billion in assets to cover
projected benefits for more than 60,000 state workers, teachers
and judges. While the state and employees had paid into the
fund, lawmakers didn’t authorize recommended amounts until the
1980s and even then it wasn’t enough, as retirement ages were
lowered and cost-of-living adjustments were enhanced.  Ambitious Changes  The overhaul the treasurer spearheaded, which raised the
minimum retirement age with full benefits for most public
workers to 67, is the most ambitious enacted in recent years,
said Ronald Snell, a senior fellow at the National Conference of
State Legislatures in Denver.  Lawmakers in Illinois, which has the biggest unfunded
pension liability of any state, have by contrast been hamstrung
by labor opposition. While Governor Pat Quinn, a Democrat, has
clamped down on some abuses and recently said he was forming
working groups to chart more changes, public-worker unions in
May blocked an effort to obtain pension concessions with a
campaign of hundreds of thousands of telephone calls, e-mails
and letters to state lawmakers protesting the move.  Raimondo emerged from the Rhode Island pension battle as
the state’s most-popular politician, with 52 percent rating her
performance good or excellent in a December  voter survey  by
Brown University, compared with 27 percent for Governor Lincoln Chafee, a former Republican turned independent. That echoes  New
York  Governor Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat whose approval rating
reached 68 percent after he worked with his party’s leaders in
the Legislature to hold the line on taxes while closing a $10
billion deficit last year.  Political Future  Raimondo’s popularity and fundraising prowess make her the
leading Democratic candidate to challenge Chafee if he seeks re-
election in 2014, said  Wendy Schiller , who teaches politics at
Brown, based in Providence. Raimondo raised about $1 million in
her 2010 campaign. She could also run for a U.S. Senate seat if
Obama is re-elected and names incumbent Rhode Island Senator
Jack Reed, a Democrat, to an administration post, Schiller said.  “There’s enormous pressure building on her to run as a
Democrat for governor,” said Schiller, who worked as a
legislative assistant to former New York Governor Mario Cuomo,
Andrew Cuomo’s father. “She not only understands high finance,
she understands retail, on-the-ground politics.”  Rhode Island has never elected a woman governor and has
sent only one, Republican Claudine Schneider, to Congress.  Support for Overhaul  In Brown’s December survey, 60 percent said they supported
the pension overhaul. The school polled 464 Rhode Island voters
and the results had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5
percentage points.  “In this day when so many people have lost their faith in
government, I like to think that we showed the way,” Raimondo
said at the Manhattan Institute  event  last week. She took on the
pension overhaul against the advice of her supporters, she said.  “My friends and closest advisers said to me, ‘Stay away
from this issue,’” Raimondo said, recalling their words. “‘We
know there’s a problem, but it’s too tough -- stay away from
it.’”  Part of her motive for tackling the challenge stemmed from
her upbringing, Raimondo said. As a child in Smithfield, about
11 miles (18 kilometers) northwest of Providence, she relied on
public libraries and buses, while the federal G.I. Bill helped
her father go to college, she said.  Taste of Politics  Reed, a family friend, gave Raimondo her first taste of
electoral politics. In 1990, while an undergraduate at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , she volunteered to help
Reed when he ran for a U.S. House of Representatives seat. He
won and served three terms before being elected to the Senate.  After graduating in 1993, Raimondo studied at Oxford
University in  England  as a Rhodes scholar before earning a law
degree from  Yale University  in 1998. She worked as a law clerk
for U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in Manhattan before joining
the New York office of Village Ventures Inc., a Williamstown,
Massachusetts, company that finances startups. Within a few
years, she returned to Rhode Island to help start Point Judith
Capital, a venture-investing company in Providence, with seed
money and partners from her former firm.  Raimondo began weighing a bid for elective office a few
years ago when Frank Caprio, then the state treasurer, signaled
he would run for governor. Rhode Island already was reeling from
a drop in housing prices and an economy that was among the first
to slip into recession, with an  unemployment rate  that surpassed
the U.S. average in July 2005 for the first time since the end
of the previous recession, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It still hasn’t returned to the national level.  Providence Scandal  Rhode Island’s political heritage has been defined by
scandal for decades, no more so than in 2002 when former
Providence Mayor Vincent “Buddy” Cianci Jr. was sentenced to
five years and four months in prison for conspiracy. The federal
probe that led to his indictment was nicknamed “Operation
Plunder Dome” by investigators.  As a candidate, Raimondo cast herself as a Rhode Island
native who had come home to create jobs. She pledged in her
campaign to fix the pension system, which is overseen by the
treasurer, to ensure that it would remain solvent and “fair to
taxpayers.” She outspent her Republican opponent, Kernan King,
drawing from funds raised through a wide network she developed
at Harvard, Yale, Oxford and in the venture-finance industry.  “Once I decided I was going to do it, I went for it,”
Raimondo said in a Dec. 19 interview last month in her
statehouse office. “I believed. I would call people and say, ‘I
never ask for a contribution, I ask for an investment.’”  Obama Backers  In addition to Kramer, the hedge fund manager, state
records show she has received support from another Obama
fundraiser, Roger Altman, co-chairman of Evercore Partners Inc.
in New York and a deputy Treasury secretary for President Bill
Clinton. Other donors to her campaign include  Whitney Tilson ,
managing director of hedge fund T2 Partners LLP, Facebook Inc.
executive  Sheryl Sandberg , and Cory Booker, the Democratic mayor
of  Newark ,  New Jersey , who roomed with her husband, Andrew
Moffit, at Yale Law School in  New Haven , Connecticut.  Raimondo won the biggest percentage of the 2010  vote  of any
statewide candidate, declaring her victory as a mandate for
change. The first thing she did to pursue the pension overhaul
was to put the system’s underfunded status in even starker
relief. She successfully pressed for a cut in the assumed return
on pension investments, which would open an even wider deficit
if benefits didn’t shrink or payments into the fund didn’t rise.  Investment Returns  In April, the board overseeing the fund cut the rate to 7.5
percent from 8.25 percent. That meant an additional $300 million
would be needed, either in taxpayer money, worker contributions
or benefit cuts. Lawmakers were cornered.  “There would not have been comprehensive pension reform if
that assumption had not been changed,” said Gary Sasse, the
chief of administration for former Governor Donald Carcieri, a
Republican who Chafee succeeded. “Once those assumptions were
changed, it was fiscally untenable” for the state to raise its
annual contribution, Sasse said.  In June, Raimondo released a 16-page report diagnosing the
causes of the pension’s underfunded status and created a special
advisory group, including union leaders, to help craft ways to
solve the problem. She and lawmakers began a series of meetings
across the state, to raise awareness and talk about solutions.  “Gina was always willing to meet,” said Walsh, the
teacher’s union leader. “She was fearless in that regard. These
were large meetings with lots of angry people.”  ‘Furious’ Unions  Unions under the umbrella of the  Rhode Island Retirement
Security Coalition  fought the overhaul, drawing hundreds of
protesters to a Providence rally against it Nov. 8. In an
interview, Walsh faulted Democrats in the Legislature for going
along with Raimondo’s overhaul.  ‘The democratic majority voted against our interests,”
Walsh said. “Labor has carried the Democratic Party’s water for
a very long time,” he said, adding that some labor leaders have
thought about leaving the party. “They’re furious,” he said.  The treasurer said she kept her eye on the ultimate goal of
her effort, to restore fiscal stability to the  state .  “I went toe-to-toe with the public unions looking out for
the kids of Rhode Island because if we didn’t fix those
pensions, there would be no good public schools,” Raimondo said
in the interview last month. “That is what motivated me, every
single day.”  “This has been a long year, long days,” she said.
“Trying to be a Democrat and find your way there is hard.”  Family Scion  Chafee, a scion of a family that traces its roots in New
England back 200 years and whose great-great-grandfather was
governor of Rhode Island, was endorsed by the teachers union in
his run for governor in 2010 after he pledged to protect their
pension benefits. The former Republican U.S. senator instead
joined Raimondo in pressing for the overhaul.  By October,  EngageRI , a group formed to support the effort,
produced a survey that said 73 percent of Rhode Islanders backed
the changes Raimondo sought. That month the treasurer, with
Chafee’s support, unveiled the proposed overhaul’s details,
holding a statehouse rally that attracted hundreds. Union
opponents had staged a counter-demonstration against the plan in
the same spot hours earlier.  The Legislature already had agreed to a series a lesser
changes beginning in 2005 at the urging of Chafee’s predecessor,
altering the calculation for how much a future retiree could
receive as well as modifying cost-of-living calculations.
Lawmakers faced opposition from national labor leaders such as
Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of
Teachers, and Richard Trumka, head of the AFL-CIO, the largest
U.S. union organization. On Nov. 17, the overhaul bill passed
the Legislature by an overwhelming majority in both chambers.  Bus Cuts  While Providence has managed to avoid closing branch
libraries, the Rhode Island Public Transit Authority, which runs
local buses, has been cutting services since at least 2004 to
cope with funding shortfalls and higher fuel prices.  The pension overhaul, projected to cut the state’s required
annual contribution to the system by $274 million in fiscal
2013, which begins in July, made headlines around the U.S.
Raimondo said callers have inundated her office with inquiries
about the law and how it was enacted.  Even after cutting the system’s projected unfunded pension
liability by about $3 billion with the overhaul, Rhode Island
faces a $120 million fiscal 2013 deficit, according to the
state’s budget office. Pension costs for cities and towns,
omitted from Raimondo’s plan, are “reaching a crisis point,”
Moody’s Investors Service said last month in a report.  Chafee met with mayors and other officials from the state’s
39 municipalities last week to discuss proposals for overhauling
local retirement plans. Rhode Island cut aid to cities and towns
by about $200 million in the past five years, Moody’s said. The
smallest, Central Falls, entered bankruptcy in August, partly
because of pensions it can’t afford.  Cutting benefits for public employees “isn’t what you
think about when you think about a progressive Democrat,”
Raimondo said in the interview last month. “But you have to do
it because if you don’t, then you can’t invest in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 