-- Gingrich-Allied Attack Film Shows Romney as ‘Ruthless’ Rich
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-11T17:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/gingrich-sponsored-attack-film-depicts-romney-as-ruthless-rich.html
Mitt Romney  is depicted as a
financier “more ruthless than  Wall Street ” and a son of
privilege responsible for firing thousands of workers in a film
bankrolled by Newt Gingrich supporters set to be released today
in South Carolina.  “Make a profit,” a laughing Romney is shown saying in the
28-minute film, obtained by Bloomberg News. “That’s what it’s
all about, right?”  Release of the film, which attacks Romney’s record as the
chief executive officer of the private-equity firm Bain Capital
LLC, comes after the former Massachusetts governor’s victory in
yesterday’s New Hampshire Republican presidential primary.  The super-PAC supporting Gingrich’s campaign, Winning Our
Future, says it plans to buy $3.4 million of ads in  South
Carolina , with the Republican campaign for president focusing on
the state’s Jan. 21 primary election.  As Romney takes wins in the first two nominating contests
into South Carolina, his rivals will seek to shake his
frontrunner status in a state with a history of negative
campaigning.  Money for Air Time  Entitled “When Mitt Romney Came to Town,” the film
produced by Jason Killian Meath, a former Republican National
Committee aide, is being funded by Winning Our Future, an
organization run by longtime aides to Gingrich.  Sheldon Adelson ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ,
and a Gingrich supporter, has given Winning Our Future $5
million to help air the film in South Carolina.  Among the film’s allegations, it potentially overstates
Romney’s net worth and the number of homes he owns and misstates
how active a role he played in Bain during a period the company
owned KB Toys Inc.  “It’s absolutely brutal in its depiction of the activities
of  Bain Capital  under Governor Romney,” said Stephen K. Bannon,
a conservative filmmaker and radio host who said he had no
connection to the Romney film.  Bannon, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker,
interviewed Barry Bennett, a supporter of Texas Governor  Rick Perry  who commissioned the film, on his show at KABC Radio in
 Los Angeles .  “It wouldn’t be an issue except for the fact that Governor
Romney’s made it the central part of this thesis for why he
should be elected,” Bannon said.  Swift Boat Comparison  The attacks on Romney’s tenure at Bain are similar to
criticism Democrat  John Kerry  faced over his service in the
 Vietnam War  in his unsuccessful presidential bid, said political
analyst Matthew Dowd on the Charlie Rose show.  Kerry’s military service was his main asset in the 2004
election that was about national security. It became a liability
when an outside group ran advertisements critical of Kerry’s
record, Dowd said.  “That’s the problem with Bain,” Dowd said. “It’s the
main asset that Mitt Romney has to sell in an election about the
economy.”  The film focuses on four companies acquired by Bain that
later suffered difficulties or filed for bankruptcy -- UniMac,
KB Toys Inc., American Pad & Paper or Ampad, and  DDI Corp. (DDIC) , an
electronics company.  ‘Filling in the Gaps’  “We’re filling in the gaps of the 20 years of Bain that
nobody knows about,” said  Rick Tyler , a former Gingrich
campaign spokesman and senior adviser to Winning Our Future.
“People can look at it and decide for themselves.”  The film says that Romney’s financial statement shows his
personal fortune to be “at least a quarter billion dollars.”  That figure is a top range of Romney’s worth. Romney filed
a public financial disclosure report with the  Federal Election
Commission  last year that lists his investment holdings, which
are valued using a range. Using lower figures in the range,
Romney could have assets valued at $190 million.  An unidentified woman in the film says Romney owns 15
homes. According to published reports, Romney owns three, one in
 Massachusetts , one in  California  and one in New Hampshire.  In another instance, the film said the Boston Herald
newspaper called profits that Romney and his firm made from KB
Toys “disgusting.”  The quote is incorrectly attributed. The Boston Herald
quoted a fired KB Toys employee saying top executives made
“disgusting” profits after the 2000 takeover.  Moving Truck  The film includes a procession of purported fired workers
describing their struggles to cope with the ensuing job losses.  An unnamed woman recalls how she lost her home after she
says she was fired by Ampad and had to pack her belongings into
a moving truck. The identities of the people portrayed couldn’t
be immediately independently verified.  In his presidential campaign appearances, Romney has cited
jobs created by the private-equity firm where he worked for 25
years.  Romney has stated that, while some business ventures
failed, a net gain of 100,000 jobs were created by Bain’s
successes. Neither the Romney campaign nor Bain provided data to
support that figure.  The film’s interview with the purportedly fired worker is
juxtaposed with a clip of Romney saying, “For an economy to
thrive, there are a lot of people who will suffer as a result of
that.”  ‘Making Billions’  Others depicted in the film include a woman describing how
she was fired when eight months pregnant, a mother who had
difficulties feeding her family after her alleged job-loss and
several women who lost homes to foreclosure. Throughout the
film, Romney and Bain are presented as having caused, and
profited from, their hardships.  “Under Romney, Bain was making billions,” a narrator
says. “At the same time, contributing to the greatest American
job-loss since World War II.”  “It is sad when any American loses their job,” Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney’s presidential campaign, said in
a statement responding to the film. Under President  Barack Obama , “25 million Americans are out of work, under-employed or
have stopped looking for work. It’s puzzling to see Speaker
Gingrich and his supporters continue their attacks on free
enterprise.”  ‘Left-Wing Allies’  “This is the type of criticism we’ve come to expect from
President Obama and his left-wing allies at Moveon.org,” Saul
said. “Unlike President Obama and Speaker Gingrich, Mitt Romney
spent his career in business and knows what it will take to turn
around our nation’s bad economy.”  Tyler refused to authorize Bloomberg to show the film ahead
of its official release.  The film also depicts Romney as “rich beyond imagination”
and out of touch with most Americans as a result of his wealth.
Two of Romney’s homes are featured, described as “a $3 million
home in  New Hampshire  with a private beach and a $12 million
beachfront property in California.”  Twice in the film, Romney is also shown speaking in French.
The two-time presidential aspirant was a Mormon missionary in
 France  as a young man.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Manchester, New Hampshire at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  