-- Gingrich Says Romney Has ‘Very Big Questions’ to Answer About Time at Bain
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2012-01-10T13:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/gingrich-says-romney-has-very-big-questions-to-answer-about-time-at-bain.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  said party front-runner  Mitt Romney  has “some
very big questions to answer” about his time at private equity
firm Bain Capital LLC and whether he chose profit over jobs.  “I don’t have much respect if you rig the game so you end
up walking off with all the money,” Gingrich, a former U.S.
House speaker, said today on Bloomberg Television.  Romney, who was the founder and chief executive officer of
Bain Capital before serving one term as governor of
 Massachusetts , is leading in surveys as New Hampshire voters go
to the polls today for the nation’s first presidential primary.
Gingrich continued campaigning today in such cities as
Manchester and Bedford as he increased his criticism of Romney
and his stewardship at  Bain Capital .  Gingrich, citing a report in the Wall Street Journal, said
Bain Capital in one case invested $30 million in a company and
later took $180 million out and “the company went bankrupt.”  “Should you really take out six times as much as you put
it?” Gingrich said.  “I’m for capitalism,” he said, yet
“he’s got some very big questions to answer.”  He said the question is whether “these particular
companies were being manipulated by the guys who invested in
order to drain them of their money, leaving behind people who
are  unemployed .”  ‘A Huge Problem’  “If he can’t explain it,” Gingrich said, then “I think
he has a huge problem.”  Romney has defended his tenure at Bain Capital by saying
that, on balance, its investments created more than 100,000
jobs.  Gingrich said that he expects Romney to win the  New
Hampshire  primary after an eight-vote victory in the Jan. 3 Iowa
caucuses and that “as long as we’re in the top group, we’ll be
fine.”  The former House speaker said he plans to improve his
standing in  South Carolina , which holds its primary Jan. 21. The
contest there, he said, will be between “a Reagan conservative
and a Massachusetts moderate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Manchester, New Hampshire, at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  