-- Go Daddy Bets on Windfall From Web-Address Expansion Beyond .Com
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/go-daddy-verisign-bet-on-windfall-from-web-address-expansion-ge-opposes.html
Go Daddy Group and  VeriSign Inc. (VRSN)  are
among online-services companies that may reap a sales windfall
from an expansion of the Web’s address system beyond .com and
.net opposed by some of the largest U.S. brand owners.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
will begin accepting applications Jan. 12 for top-level domains
that may result in hundreds of new Web suffixes such as .apple
and .nyc.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and more than 50
other brands object to the program, saying it will increase
their costs, confuse consumers and fuel Internet fraud.  The expansion, aimed at spurring online innovation, has
sparked a land rush among established companies and startups for
new opportunities to the right of the “dot” in Web addresses.
Icann’s program may spur sales for Go Daddy, VeriSign and other
companies that help consumers and businesses get onto the Web,
Todd Weller, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore,
said in an interview.  “The new domains are potentially expanding market
opportunities,” Weller said. “We think .com is still the
premier domain name but more domains should be a positive for
the market overall.”  Icann , an independent nonprofit based in  Marina del Rey ,
 California , oversees top-level domains under a zero-dollar U.S.
government contract. The group charges annual fees to domain-
management companies such as VeriSign and to sellers of full
website names including Go Daddy.  .XXX Precedent  The organization’s board concluded six years of
deliberations by approving a plan in June to consider almost any
word in any language as a Web suffix. Each application will cost
$185,000. The program may double Icann’s annual $85 million
budget, Rod Beckstrom, the group’s chief executive officer, said
in an October speech.  Icann approved a .xxx domain for adult-content websites in
March, providing an example of how the broader domain-name
system expansion may play out.  Almost 200,000 .xxx domains have been sold so far through
registrars such as Go Daddy and Network Solutions, Stuart Lawley, chief executive officer of ICM Registry, the operator of
.xxx, said in an interview. ICM, based in  Palm Beach Gardens ,
 Florida , received almost $25 million from sales of the domains
last year, Lawley said. ICM paid $95,000 in fees to Icann over
several years to apply for .xxx and now pays $2 a year for each
domain name, he said.  About 60,000 brand owners, including as many as 70 percent
of Fortune 500 companies, registered .xxx domains over 52 days
starting Sept. 7, Lawley said. Most of the Fortune 500 companies
that acquired .xxx domains did so to protect their brands and
don’t intend to use them, he said, declining to name the
companies.  Go Daddy Doubling  The broader Web-name expansion may help closely held Go
Daddy double the number of its domain names under management to
100 million from 51 million, Richard Merdinger, the company’s
senior director of product development for domains, said in an
interview.  “We’ve seen an ever increasing number of inquiries” from
potential applicants for the new domains, Merdinger said. “It
could be very significant.”  Private-equity firm  KKR & Co.  teamed in July with  Silver
Lake Partners  and Technology Crossover Ventures in agreeing to
buy Go Daddy in a deal valuing the Web-hosting company at $2.25
billion.  “It’s an open area that’s ripe for creative things,” Paul
Stahura, co-founder and chief executive officer of  Donuts Inc. ,
a Seattle-based startup company, said in an interview.  ‘Domain Nuts’  Donuts, which stands for “domain nuts,” plans to apply
for 10 top-level domains under the Icann program, said Stahura,
a former chief strategy officer and director at  Demand Media
Inc. (DMD) , a  Santa Monica , California-based website publisher.
Stahura, who sold Internet registrar eNom to Demand Media in
2006, declined to name the domains his company is targeting or
further describe his company’s plans.  Stahura’s startup is among an array of smaller companies
looking to invest in new Web suffixes. Another is a London-
company called  Top Level Domain Holdings Ltd. (TLDH) , which plans to
acquire top-level domains and offer Internet registry services
to domain applicants. The company said it hired former Icann
chairman Peter Dengate Thrush in July, a month after group
approved its expansion plan.  ‘Benefit Users’  A spokesman for Reston, Virginia-based VeriSign, which
operates the .com and .net domains, declined a request for an
interview about the Web-name expansion.  “The registries and registrars that exist will benefit
because there will be more activity, but we’re not bringing out
this program to benefit them,”  Stephen Crocker , Icann’s
chairman, said in an interview yesterday. “We’re bringing it
out to benefit the users of the Internet.”  The expansion may result in hundreds of new top-level
domains, and potentially as many as 2,000, according to Crocker,
who said the organization has no plans to delay or scale back
the program amid criticism from brand owners.  “We’re very sensitive to the issue of consumer protection
and protecting brand owners,” he said. “We have extensive
safeguards during the process and even afterward if there are
abuses detected.”  Icann will put aside about $60,000 of every $185,000
application fee to cover potential litigation arising from the
program, Crocker said.  Pressure to Postpone  Icann has come under increasing pressure from U.S.
lawmakers, regulators and large corporations to postpone or
limit the program.  Brand owners including  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Johnson &
Johnson  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  joined the Association of National
Advertisers to oppose the expansion in November, saying it would
force companies to “spend ever-greater amounts of time and
resources simply to protect their brands.”  The ANA, which initially urged the Commerce Department to
persuade Icann to delay the program, yesterday suggested
changes, including a “do not sell” list aimed at saving brand
owners the expense of buying domains to keep them out of the
wrong hands.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads
the Senate Commerce Committee, called for delaying or limiting
the program in a Dec. 28 letter to the Commerce Department. The
Federal Trade Commission said in a Dec. 16 letter that Icann
should scale back the number of domains introduced, citing the
risk of Internet fraud.  The Commerce Department, the overseer of Icann’s U.S.
contract, raised industry complaints about the Web-name
expansion in a Jan. 3 letter to the group while making clear
that the government doesn’t wish to interfere with decisions
about the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  