-- Goldman Trader Who Quit City Likes It Hot at London Restaurant
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-01-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/goldman-trader-who-quit-city-likes-it-hot-at-london-restaurant.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  alumni have
excelled in the world of finance. Now, one is making his mark in
restaurants.  Rohit Chugh entered the food business after honing his
skills as a pan-European equities trader in  London . Before that,
he was an accountant at Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP.  Leicester, England-born Chugh, 43, whose father is from
Amritsar, initially worked for Cinnamon Club when he gave up the
City. He was managing director and helped to create the Cinnamon
Kitchen -- serving the financial district -- before leaving to
open Roti Chai, an Indian street-food restaurant on a quiet mews
off London’s Oxford Street.  The menu is small, with just a few snacks and curries, and
as many options for vegetarians as meat eaters. My favorite dish
is the Hakka chili paneer at 5.20 pounds ($8.10) -- a Kolkata
specialty of cheese, herbs and spices. It burns slowly so you
start out by tasting the freshness of the ingredients before you
feel the heat. It’s like idly leaning against a radiator and
taking a few seconds to register how hot it is.  The paneer (Indian cheese) is marinated in salt, pepper,
ginger and garlic, then flash-fried with green chilis and served
on a bed of spring onions, peppers and salad.  You can offset a little of the heat with papri chaat: wheat
crisps with potato, chickpeas and yoghurt. I also order a dish
of raita with mint and cucumber and some beer, though nothing
can really douse the flames.  Masala Marinade  Lighter options include chicken lollipops (Keralan spiced
wings) and Parsi chicken farcha in a masala marinade with
curried ketchup. There are also the usual samosas and so on.  Then you might care to move on to a mini-burger stuffed
with spiced lamb before trying the curries, or ‘Road & Rail’ as
this section of the menu is called, referring to roadside
“dhaba” cafes and the train stations of the subcontinent.  The railway lamb curry comes with potatoes in a rich gravy,
with chapatis on the side. It’s the most popular dish, possibly
because the lamb is so good; macher jhol is a Bengali fish curry
with fiery kasundi mustard and is served with rice.  There’s not much choice when it comes to desserts, and
pistachio kulfi (Indian ice cream) on a stick does it for me.  Street food is harder than it looks. Two of  Europe ’s
leading Indian chefs -- Vineet Bhatia of Rasoi and Atul Kochhar
of Benares -- might tell you: Their London venues Urban Turban
and Colony were both short-lived. Dishoom, with its large menu,
does a good job and Masala Zone offers excellent value for money
with its thali platters. (Masala Zone belongs to the group that
owns Chutney Mary, Veeraswamy and Amaya.)  Light Touch  What stands out at Roti Chai is the lightness of touch. The
flavor is all there; the heavy sauces are not.  The all-day street-food section is on the ground floor,
which has an industrial look and an open kitchen. The staffers
are young and friendly, the customers more mixed, including
Indians and other shoppers laden with bags from Selfridges.  Downstairs, there is a formal restaurant serving dishes
from across  India . I have never made it there. Why would I when
the rest is so good?  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 30 pounds all in if you eat and drink plenty.  Sound level? About 70 decibels. The noise isn’t intrusive.  Inside tip? Corner Table 1 by the window is a good choice.  Special feature? Fresh street food.  Will I be back? I’m a regular.  Date place? Great place for a hot date.  Rating? ***.  Roti Chai is at 3 Portman Mews South, London, W1H 6HS.
Information: +44-20-7408-0101 or  http://www.rotichai.com/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 