-- Goldman, Citigroup Planning First 2012 Commercial Mortgage Deal
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-01-10T17:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/goldman-sachs-citigroup-planning-first-2012-commercial-mortgage-bond-deal.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are planning to market about $1 billion of bonds
backed by commercial property loans as soon as next week as
demand for the debt recovers amid optimism the  U.S. economy  can
withstand Europe’s fiscal crisis.  The deal will probably be the first of its kind for 2012,
according to people familiar with the offering, who declined to
be identified because the transaction hasn’t been announced. The
New York-based banks last sold similar debt in September, when
they issued $1.7 billion in securities tied to shopping malls,
hotel and office mortgages, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Banks pulled back from making new loans to package into
bonds in July as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled credit markets and
sent relative yields soaring. Originations have since picked up,
according to a  Standard & Poor’s  report last month. The ratings
company is forecasting $35 billion in 2012 sales.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment. Scott Helfman of Citigroup, also in New
York, declined to comment.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries has declined 85
basis points to 238 basis points since Oct. 4, when it rose to a
20-month high, according to Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super
Duper Index. The spread expanded from the 2011 low of 178 basis
points, or 1.78 percentage points, in April.  “Despite global concerns, people are ready” for a new
deal, said Ed Shugrue, CEO of New York-based commercial mortgage
bond investor and special servicer Talmage LLC. “The market
wants to transact.”  Attracting New Buyers  Bankers have retooled offerings sold since August by
boosting investor protection on the safest classes and
registering the debt with the Securities and Exchange Commission
to attract new buyers after demand shriveled amid the spreading
European debt turmoil. The AAA portion of the Goldman/Citigroup
deal should move “briskly,” Shugrue said, speaking in an
interview at the Commercial Real Estate Finance Council’s annual
convention in Miami.  Bank forecasts for commercial-mortgage bond sales in 2012
range from  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  predicting $25 billion to
UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG estimating as much as $45
billion. Wall Street banks arranged about $28 billion of the
debt last year, compared with $11.5 billion in 2010, Bloomberg
data show. Issuance peaked at $232 billion in 2007, the data
show.  The slowdown in lending was visible in the third quarter
last year as fewer loans paid off than in the first two
quarters, Standard & Poor’s said in a Dec. 19 report. About 56
percent of loans paid off at maturity in the third quarter, down
from more than 67 percent in the prior three-month period,
according to the New York-based rating company. A lack of new
sales chokes off funding to borrowers with debt coming due.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  