-- Gold Futures Jump to Three-Week High as Dollar Decline, Equities Advance
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-01-10T20:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/gold-advances-for-first-day-in-three-on-europe-crisis-optimism.html
Gold futures closed at the highest
price in four weeks as a weaker dollar bolstered demand for
commodities. Silver, platinum and palladium also surged.  The greenback retreated for the second straight day against
a basket of currencies amid signs that European leaders are
taking more steps to stem the region’s debt woes. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of  equities  rose as much as 1.6 percent, and
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
advanced as much as 1.5 percent, the fifth gain in six sessions.  “The dollar is selling off, benefiting gold and
commodities,”  Scott Gardner , the chief investment officer at
Verdmont Capital SA in Panama, said in an e-mail. “Risky assets
have been well bid in 2012 on the heels of relatively solid
economic news in the U.S. and the belief that much of the bad
news out of  Europe  has been priced in.”  Gold futures for February delivery advanced 1.5 percent to
settle at $1,631.50 an ounce at 1:48 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the highest closing since Dec. 13. The precious metal rose
as high as $1,61.40, the highest since Dec. 21.  China ’s equities had the biggest three-session gain since
October 2010 as slowing trade data boosted speculation that the
government may loosen monetary policy to spur economic growth.
The country is the world’s top user of industrial metals and the
second-biggest gold buyer.  ‘Additional Easing’  “The market is starting to sniff out additional easing
measures by Chinese officials,” Gardner said.  China,  Taiwan ,  Hong Kong ,  Vietnam  and  Thailand  may boost
gold purchases before the Lunar New Year, according to U.S.
Global Investors Inc. The weeklong New Year break starts Jan.
23.  The U.S. Mint already has sold 79,000 ounces of gold coins
in January, topping total sales in December of 65,500 ounces.  “Physical investment and jewelry demand has been strong
into price falls below $1,650, with Chinese buyers particularly
active,”  Nick Moore , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said in a report. Demand from China “is likely to increase
this month irrespective of price, in the run-up to the Chinese
New Year.”  Physical demand in  India , the biggest buyer, may also gain
as the nation’s policy makers rein in inflation, boosting the
rupee after a 16 percent slump last year.  The  European Central Bank  will likely keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low 1 percent on Jan. 12, according to
52 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The ECB cut the rate
in December and stepped up efforts to boost liquidity as the
region’s debt crisis threatened to engulf Italy and Spain.  ‘Ultra-Low Yield’  “Even though the market expects no changes to the
benchmark rate, some still anticipate the central bank embarking
on further policy easing,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in London, said in a report. “Either way, we
continue in an ultra-low currency yield environment which is
gold beneficial, with little change in the near future for major
central banks.”  Silver futures for March delivery climbed 3.6 percent to
$29.815 an ounce on the Comex. Earlier, the price reached
$30.31, the highest since Dec. 14.  Sales of American Eagle silver coins in January have
already totaled 3.96 million ounces, more than the combined
total in the previous two months. The metal is used to make
jewelry and products such as solar panels, electronics and
batteries.  South African Power  Platinum futures for April delivery rose 2.4 percent to
$1,464.60 an ounce on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Earlier,
the metal reached $1,475, the highest since Dec. 14.  Palladium futures for March delivery climbed 2.8 percent to
$635.20 an ounce on the Nymex, rising the most since Dec. 30.  Platinum and palladium are used in jewelry and pollution-
control devices in vehicles.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the utility that supplies about 95
percent of  South Africa ’s power, said yesterday that the risk of
electricity outages increased after more generating plants were
shut for maintenance.  South Africa is the biggest platinum producer and second-
largest source of palladium.  “The country might be subject to a repeat of the 2008
power outages, which severely curtailed platinum production,”
Marc Ground, an analyst at Standard Bank Plc, said in a report.  Russia is the top palladium producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  