-- Google Users Will Get More Personalized Results in Searches
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-11T01:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/google-users-to-start-getting-more-personalized-internet-search-results.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will provide more
personalized search results for users by tapping content from
its Google+ service, including photos, news and comments that
are posted on the social network.  A new service called  Search, Plus Your World  will display
more content for users who log into Google, providing access to
items they may have put on Google+ or from friends’ posts, said
Amit Singhal, who focuses on improving information retrieval at
the  Mountain View , California-based company. If someone searches
for a dog, for instance, pictures of friends’ dogs might show up
first in the search results.  “At Google, we always want to return the most
comprehensive and relevant answers to your questions, and many
times those answers are in the open public Web, but many times
those answers are in your own personal content,” Singhal said.
“This is the first time we’re bringing personal content right
into the results page.”  Google, the world’s biggest search engine, aims to ward off
competition from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing and Facebook Inc. Last
year,  Bing  began displaying Facebook data, such as restaurants,
brands and links friends have recommended, in its search
results. Facebook has more than 800 million members, compared
with more than 40 million for Google+ as of October.  Facebook, Twitter  Google’s search service doesn’t include content from
Facebook or microblogging service Twitter Inc. The changes under
the new Google service could make finding Twitter posts on news
events more difficult, San Francisco-based Twitter said.  “People have relied on Google to deliver the most relevant
results anytime they wanted to find something on the Internet,”
Twitter said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re concerned that as
a result of Google’s changes, finding this information will be
much harder for everyone.”  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , declined to
comment on the new search service.  Google wants to be comprehensive in its search results,
according to Gabriel Stricker, a spokesman for the company.  “Google does not have access to crawl all the information
on some sites, so it’s not possible for us to surface all that
content,” Stricker said in an e-mail today. “Based on current
policies from many social networks, we currently only have
persistent access to information from Google+.”  Bing Plays Catch-Up  While Google remains dominant in Internet queries,
Microsoft has gained ground. In December, Bing had 15.1 percent
of U.S. Internet queries, up from 13.9 percent in March,
according to  ComScore Inc.   Microsoft passed Yahoo to become the No. 2 search engine
last month. Yahoo dropped to 14.5 percent in the period, down
from 15.1 percent the previous month and 15.7 percent in March.
Google’s share was 65.9 percent in December, compared with 65.7
percent in March.  As part of Google’s search changes, the company is rolling
out a feature called Profiles in Search. It has an auto-complete
function that brings up links to friends’ Google+ accounts while
users are still entering queries in the search box. It also will
give suggestions on whom to follow on Google+.  Google’s new personal content on search-results pages,
which will be rolled out in the coming days, can come from
Google+ accounts or its photo-sharing feature Picasa.  Google shares rose less than 1 percent today to $623.14 at
the close in  New York . The shares rose 8.7 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  