-- Goolsbee Expects 2012 Washington ‘Gridlock’
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-10T18:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/goolsbee-sees-whole-lot-of-gridlock-in-washington-this-year-tom-keene.html
U.S. policy makers won’t make
progress clearing up uncertainty for businesses and Americans
this year, according to  Austan Goolsbee , former chairman of the
White House Council of Economic Advisers.  “The only thing we can be guaranteed of for this coming
year is a whole lot of gridlock, so if that adds uncertainty I
don’t know if there’s a whole lot we can do about that,”
Goolsbee said today in a television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene.  Uncertainty was impeding growth at about 61 percent of
small businesses in the U.S., according to a November  survey 
from the National Federation of Independent Businesses. Half of
those who cited uncertainty said it was the result of the
political situation, the survey showed.  Congress agreed last month to extend a payroll-tax cut
through February without resolving the conflict over how to
cover the cost through 2012. While President  Barack Obama  is
appealing to lawmakers to extend the break through 2012,
Goolsbee said lower taxes do not always stimulate the economy.  “The data does not support that high-income tax cuts are
the main drivers of growth, so I don’t think that uncertainty
over what the  tax rate  will be for someone that makes a million
dollars a year has that big an impact on the economic growth
rate in the country,” said Goolsbee, an economics professor at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.  Continued drops in joblessness will help Obama as he
campaigns for the 2012 election, Goolsbee said. The jobless rate
 fell  to 8.5 percent in December, the fourth consecutive
decrease, according to figures from the Labor Department.  “We know there are a lot of people in the unemployment
pool that do not match up in their skill set for what jobs are
going to be created, and that’s an area we’ve got to keep
pressing on,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  