-- Governments Get EU Warning on Delays in Carbon Allocation Plans
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-10T17:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/governments-get-eu-warning-on-delays-in-carbon-allocation-plans.html
The European Union urged 17  member
states  that failed to submit on time their plans on allocating
free carbon permits to companies to explain the reasons for
delay within 10 weeks or risk infringement proceedings.  Only 10 out of 27 EU member states have so far notified
their so-called national implementation measures for the period
from 2013 to 2020 to the EU, the European Commission said on its
website. The commission needs national plans to calculate the
final number of free allowances to be given to companies in the
next period of the bloc’s carbon cap-and-trade program.  The allocation of a dwindling supply of free permits will
be done through carbon efficiency benchmarks approved last year.
In a procedural step preceding infringement procedures, the
commission, the EU regulatory arm, called on the member states
that lag behind to “clarify the situation” by March 1 and
avoid further delays after the original deadline for submitting
the national measures expired on Sept. 30.  “Depending on the replies and the progress with the
notifications, the commission will consider possible further
action,” it said.  The EU, which has given away the majority of emissions
allowances since it started the program in 2005, will sell the
majority of them in the next stage of its emissions trading
system, or the ETS, that starts in 2013. The bloc will auction
around 60 percent of the total number of permits next year,
according to the commission estimates, and the proportion will
increase in coming years.  Average Performance  EU carbon benchmarks for free allowances are based on the
average performance of the top 10 percent of installations in
2007 and 2008. The most efficient installations in a given
industry won’t need to purchase more permits, while those that
emit more than the benchmarks will need to buy pollution rights.  In the third phase of the ETS west European utilities will
no longer get free allocations, while east European  power plants 
will have to buy 30 percent of their permits at auctions. That
amount rises to 100 percent by 2020.  The European carbon cap-and-trade program, the world’s
largest, imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities
and manufacturers, including  Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the
continent’s largest oil company. Those that emit less than their
quota can sell surplus permits. One allowance gives the right to
discharge one metric ton of carbon dioxide.  Countries that have notified the commission of their
planned allocation of free permits to companies are Cyprus,
 Estonia , Ireland,  Latvia ,  Lithuania , Malta,  Poland ,  Romania ,
Slovakia and the U.K., the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  