-- Grassley Says Delaying New Senate Confirmations an Option After Cordray
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-10T18:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/grassley-says-delaying-new-senate-confirmations-an-option-after-cordray.html
Senate Republicans should consider
blocking future presidential nominations as a response to
President Barack Obama’s disputed recess appointments last week,
said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican.  Grassley, the top Republican on the  Senate Judiciary
Committee , said today he prefers first seeking some Senate
Democrats to join in a public pushback to Obama’s four recess
appointments Jan. 4, including the installation of  Richard Cordray  as the new director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau. Short of that, Grassley said, Republicans may have to go
it alone with tough actions that could include holding up
pending nominations from a Senate confirmation vote.  “We have got to stand our ground,” Grassley said in an
interview. “You can’t let a president who takes an oath to
uphold the Constitution go around the Constitution. That’s what
the checks and balances are.”  Senate Republicans have criticized Obama’s decision to
appoint Cordray as well as three members to the  National Labor
Relations Board  while the Senate was on a break. So far the
Republicans have said little about whether they might retaliate.
 Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , said his office doesn’t have “any announcements”
about what effect Obama’s move will have on pending nominations
and any other business before the Senate.  Nominations that might be affected include two picks for
Federal Reserve Board governors as well as the two top posts at
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Campaign-Trail Fodder  Ramping up his re-election campaign, Obama is using the
Cordray appointment to draw a distinction between Republicans
and his fellow Democrats. Senate Republicans said they blocked
Cordray’s nomination since last summer because they objected to
the agency’s powers, not the nominee.  Cordray, 52, takes over a bureau created under the Dodd-
Frank Act in response to complaints that regulators didn’t do
enough to protect consumers before the 2008 credit crisis.
Republicans have slowed many other confirmations since Obama
took office.  Republican lawmakers question the legality of Obama’s
appointments of Cordray and the NLRB members. While the
Constitution gives the president power to make appointments when
the Senate is in recess, leaders in both parties agreed in
December to keep Congress in pro forma sessions every three days
through the holidays. That practice has been used for about two
decades to prevent recess appointments.  Grassley said Senate Republicans will determine their
course of action after the Senate returns the week of Jan. 23.  It likely will be up to a business or trade group affected by
a decision of the consumer financial agency to file a lawsuit
challenging Cordray’s appointment, Grassley said. Unless a court
upholds the Senate’s past approach to extended breaks, Obama
could try this again, he said.  “Isn’t this going to permit the president to make recess
appointments on Saturdays and Sundays 52 times a year if we
don’t get this settled?” he said.  Editors: Jodi Schneider,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  