-- Greek Crisis Has Pharmacists Pleading for Aspirin as Drug Supply Dries Up
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/greek-crisis-has-pharmacists-pleading-for-aspirin-as-drug-supply-dries-up.html
For patients and pharmacists in
financially stricken Greece, even finding aspirin has turned
into a headache.  Mina Mavrou, who runs a pharmacy in a middle-class  Athens 
suburb, spends hours each day pleading with drugmakers,
wholesalers and colleagues to hunt down medicines for clients.
Life-saving drugs such as  Sanofi (SAN) ’s blood-thinner Clexane and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s asthma inhaler Flixotide often appear as
lines of crimson data on pharmacists’ computer screens, meaning
the products aren’t in stock or that pharmacists can’t order as
many units as they need.  “When we see red, we want to cry,” Mavrou said. “The
situation is worsening day by day.”  The 12,000 pharmacies that dot almost every street corner
in Greek cities are the damaged capillaries of a complex system
for getting treatment to patients. The Panhellenic Association
of Pharmacists reports shortages of almost half the country’s
500 most-used medicines. Even when drugs are available,
pharmacists often must foot the bill up front, or patients
simply do without.  The financial crisis is brewing a “Greek tragedy” of
slowing access to medical care and worsening outcomes for
patients, Martin McKee, a professor of European public health at
the  London School  of Hygiene and  Tropical Medicine , wrote in an
October article in  The Lancet .  The Greek Ministry of Health didn’t respond to repeated
requests for comment.  ‘Many Difficulties’  “It would be unrealistic to deny that there are many
difficulties regarding all public services due to the financial
crisis,” Nicolaos Polyzos, secretary general of the Ministry of
Health, wrote in a response to McKee’s article posted on the
ministry’s  website . “However, this cannot justify
characterizing the current picture of (the) health sector in
Greece as a ‘tragedy.’”  The reasons for the shortages are complex. One major cause
is the Greek government, which sets prices for medicines. As part
of an effort to cut its own costs,  Greece  has mandated lower
drug prices in the past year. That has fed a secondary market, 
drug manufacturers contend, as wholesalers sell their shipments
outside the country at higher prices than they can get within 
Greece.  Strained government finances only make matters worse. 
Wholesalers and pharmacists say the system suffers from a lack 
of liquidity, as public insurers delay payments to pharmacies, 
which in turn can’t pay suppliers on time.   “Wholesalers simply do not have the money anymore to play
bank to the pharmacies,” Heinz Kobelt, secretary general of the
European Association of Euro-Pharmaceutical Companies, said in a
telephone interview.  330 Million Euros  Public insurers owe pharmacists some 330 million euros
($422.1 million) for drugs bought since April, Dimitris
Karageorgiou, vice-chairman of the pharmacists’ association,
said in an interview last month. Payment can take three months
to up to a year, pharmacists said. Some are turning to patients
to pay up front.  “They’re saying you pay me now, and then you’ll get the
money from your social security fund,” said Ioannis
Theodorakis, chairman of the Association of Persons with
Multiple Sclerosis.  Theodorakis said he already knows a few patients who can’t
afford to pay and aren’t on treatment. If non-payment by public
insurers continues, more will discontinue treatment, he said in
an interview in his office in Athens, a few steps from where
protesters lob Molotov cocktails and pelt police with rocks at
Syntagma Square.  ‘Dysfunctional’ System  “The whole system is dysfunctional,” said Aggeliki
Matsouki, who opened her first pharmacy in Athens in 1981.  Chain-smoking in her tiny back office, Matsouki described
calling other pharmacies to track down London-based Glaxo’s oral
herpes drug Famvir. “If I can’t find a prescription drug, I try
to borrow it from colleagues. We exchange medicines.”  Austerity measures imposed to address the financial crisis
may paradoxically be making matters worse. Greek wholesalers now
have more incentive than ever to sell drugs outside the country
after Greece implemented a law last year further reducing
prices. The law sets prices of medicines according to the
average of the three  lowest charges  in 22 European Union
countries, part of an effort to trim a health bill that in 2010
totaled more than 13 billion euros, or about 5 percent of GDP.  Parallel Trading  Parallel imports peaked in 2004, then flattened out about
two years ago once drugmakers imposed quotas of the maximum
amount of medicines they think the Greek market will need, said
Kobelt, whose Brussels-based association represents companies
engaged in the trade. Still, if pharmacies can’t pay, it makes
economic sense to ship the drugs back out again rather than let
them languish on wholesalers’ shelves, he said.  Kobelt said he’s seen boxes of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Aspirin in  Poland 
that originated in Greece, suggesting that the medicine fetches
higher prices in eastern  Europe .  “Even Polish people pay more than Greeks for Aspirin,” he
said. “That is the recipe for parallel trade, I’m sorry to
say.”  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , is a case in
point.  “We are competing with our own products,” said Mike Rulis, a spokesman for the company.  Novo stopped selling some of its higher-priced insulins in
Greece for about a month in 2010 after the government cut prices
by about 25 percent. The drugmaker now ships in the same volume
as before the cuts, yet pharmacists are running short of
insulin, Rulis said in a telephone interview.  Special Deliveries  “There are cases where pharmacies will call our Greek
affiliate and say, ‘We are out of stock, can you help us,’” he
said. “Then we will call the wholesaler to make a special
delivery.”  Reimbursement fraud compounds the drain on the country’s
health resources, Richard Bergstrom, director-general of
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations, said in an interview. Drugs shipped elsewhere yet
submitted for reimbursement to public insurers as if they had
been prescribed to patients cost Greece more than 500 million
euros a year, Bergstrom said, citing figures he said he got from
the Ministry of Health.  In a later e-mail, Bergstrom said he had personally seen
packs of drugs with Greek reimbursement stickers on the market
outside of Greece, suggesting that exporters were reimbursed and
able to ship the packs abroad.  “If the pack is exported, the exporter is obliged to
’cancel’ the code, a bar code, by using a black pen,” Bergstrom
wrote. “But this is not monitored.”  Up-Front Payment  Not all pharmacists can afford to pay up-front for costly
drugs in the hope of being reimbursed by insurers.  An invoice provided to Bloomberg News shows  Roche Holding
AG (ROG)  requesting a 926-euro payment in advance from a pharmacy for
 NeoRecormon , a medicine used to treat anemia in chemotherapy and
chronic kidney disease patients.  The Swiss drugmaker switched to a payment-on-delivery
policy for hospitals with a history of nonpayment last year
after accepting 400 million Swiss francs ($426.7 million) in
Greek  government bonds  for unpaid hospital debts. The Greek
government announced in December 2010 it would issue more than 5
billion euros of non-interest paying bonds to hospital suppliers
for unpaid bills from 2007 to 2009.  Roche extends a credit to pharmacies and in some cases has
extended credit limits to ensure patients can get drugs, Daniel
Grotzky, a company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.
“This might be a pharmacy which has used up its  credit line ,”
he said.  Difficult Decisions  A year ago, the Health Ministry advised MS patients to buy
medicine through state hospitals, Theodorakis said. Those
hospitals often don’t have enough drugs, so patients go to
pharmacies instead, he said.  Theodorakis stopped taking  Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Rebif in 2006
because he wasn’t satisfied the drug’s benefits outweighed its
side effects in his particular case. The frustrating process of
obtaining medicine contributed to his decision not to start
taking another drug, said Theodorakis, who uses a wheelchair and
has an assistant to type his e-mails.  “It’s a difficult decision to make because you can’t play
dice with your health,” Theodorakis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  