-- Greek Bank Deposits Fell 2% in November After October Plunge
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-01-10T17:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/greek-bank-deposits-in-november-decline-to-eu172-9-billion.html
Greek bank deposits by businesses
and households fell 2 percent in November as the then Premier
 George Papandreou  announced and then ditched a referendum on
international aid, putting the country’s euro-area membership
into question.  Deposits dropped to 172.9 billion euros ($220.9 billion) in
November from 176.4 billion euros the previous month, according
to a statement released by the  Bank of Greece  on its website
today. Deposits have declined 36.7 billion euros, or 18 percent,
since December 2010.  Bank of Greece (TELL)  Governor  George Provopoulos  said on Nov. 29
that the deposit flight continued early in November after
Papandreou called and then dropped plans for a referendum on the
terms of an Oct. 26 second aid package for the country. Deposits
stabilized after  Lucas Papademos , a former vice president of the
 European Central Bank , replaced Papandreou on Nov. 11, he said.  “The figure certainly showed an improvement compared to
September-October respective figures, however in absolute terms
it is still large,” Panagiotis Kladis, an analyst at Athens-
based National Securities, said in an e-mailed note.  The 3.5 billion-euro monthly drop in November was smaller
than the 6.8 billion-euro decline in October, which was the
biggest since  Greece  joined the euro area.  “The trend seems to be improving following the appointment
of the new coalition government which resulted in a
stabilization in confidence,” Kladis said.  Greek bank reliance on European Central Bank liquidity
declined to 73.4 billion euros in November from 74.3 billion
euros the previous month, according to a separate statement from
the Greek central bank today. Reliance on Emergency Liquidity
Assistance, which is extended by the Athens-based central bank,
stood at 42.9 billion euros, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  