-- Greek Debt-Swap Talks at ‘Satisfactory Point,’ Minister Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-01-10T12:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/greek-debt-swap-talks-at-satisfactory-point-minister-says-1-.html
Talks between the Greek government
and private creditors on a debt swap are proceeding
satisfactorily, focusing on the coupon new bonds will carry,
Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis said.  “A part of the talks relates to the coupon, the
jurisdiction under which the bonds will be issued and a whole
series of other parameters,” Sachinidis said in an  interview  on
Real FM radio today. While no final text has been reached yet,
“there are developments,” and the negotiations “are at a
satisfactory point,” he said.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  expects to have an outline
of the 100 billion-euro ($128 billion) plan next week, when
talks on the terms of a second financing agreement with European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials start in Athens.
The discussions need to end by March 20, when  Greece  must make a
14.5 billion-euro bond payment.  Papademos and Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos will
meet with  Charles Dallara , the managing director of the
 Institute of International Finance , in Athens tomorrow as the
debt-swap talks near completion, Real.gr reported today, without
citing anyone. Papademos’s office couldn’t immediately confirm
the meeting when reached by phone.  The swap, part of a 130 billion-euro second financing
package for Greece agreed by European leaders in Brussels in
October, aims to lower the country’s debt to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by the end of 2020. The debt is likely to
balloon to almost double the size of the shrinking economy this
year without the writedown, the European Commission estimates.  “Decisions of Oct. 26 are a unique opportunity for our
country to get out of the big debt trap,” Sachinidis told the
radio station.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  