-- TGS Sees Sales Growth of 25% as Exploration Spending Expands
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-01-10T17:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/tgs-sees-sales-growth-of-25-as-exploration-spending-expands-1-.html
TGS-Nopec Geophysical ASA (TGS) , a
Norwegian oilfield surveyor, expects sales to rise as much as 25
percent this year as energy explorers step up the search for
deposits offshore.  Net revenue will reach $700 million to $760 million, up
from $609 million in 2011, the Asker-based company said today in
a statement. Surveys for individual clients will account for
about 5 percent, while data sold in non-exclusive, or
multiclient, permits will reap as much as $365 million, it said.  Oil and gas companies are investing in exploration in
increasingly remote areas as traditional fields mature and new
drilling techniques enable extraction in more hostile or complex
environments. Surveyors such as TGS and its Norwegian competitor
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA use seismic data to assess energy
prospects for development.  “We continue to see growth in many of our new markets as
well as existing areas,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Hobbs
said in a presentation. TGS expects “significant” expansion
off northwestern  Australia  and in U.S. shale, as well as growth
in West Africa, the  North Sea  and the Arctic, the company said.  TGS fell 0.7 percent to close at 139.9 kroner in Oslo
trading, after earlier rising as much as 2.1 percent.  Gulf of Mexico   Producers including BP Plc and Genesis Energy LP are
seeking to expand in, or return to, the Gulf of  Mexico  following
the April 2010 Macondo well blowout that caused the worst  oil
spill  in U.S. history. Growth in the area may benefit surveyors
such as TGS, according to RS Platou Markets AS.  “The U.S. Gulf of Mexico normalizing is likely to be a
pivotal sales driver,” Goeran Andreassen, an analyst at RS
Platou Markets, said in an e-mailed note. “We interpret the
higher-than-anticipated revenue guidance as a confirmation of
continued strong demand for seismic and multiclient data.”  TGS said an extraordinary impairment of a convertible loan
of about $20 million will be charged in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  