-- Guggenheim Foundation May Build Helsinki Museum at Harbor Site
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-10T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/guggenheim-foundation-may-build-helsinki-museum-at-harbor-site.html
The Guggenheim Foundation  proposed
establishing a fourth European museum in the Helsinki harbor to
help the Nordic city increase tourism and strengthen its image
as a design and technology hub.  The museum on the site of a former ship terminal could be
opened in 2018, the City of Helsinki said today in a report. The
city and the New York-based foundation still must decide whether
to proceed with the project.  Helsinki is competing with other medium-sized cities around
 Europe  for tourism as well as for investments in creative, fast-
growth businesses such as software. The  New York Times  last week
placed Finland’s biggest city second after  Panama  on its list of
places to go this year, citing its position as World Design
Capital 2012 and the Music Center that opened last year.  “The Guggenheim Helsinki would have a stronger focus on
architecture and design than other Guggenheim affiliates,”
according to the report.  The 140 million-euro ($179 million) Helsinki museum project
is “largely conceived as a non-collecting institution” that
would host traveling exhibitions of contemporary art, including
shows from Russian museums. The museum would serve as a “center
of gravity” for the city’s other museums and a “town green”
for social events, offering extended opening hours and free
public access to some areas.  New Visitors  Attendance is estimated at about half a million people per
year, including 45 percent foreign visitors and 65,000 new
visitors to the city, according to the midrange scenario in the
report. The project was conceived as an idea a year ago.  The Guggenheim Bilbao museum in  Spain , designed by  Frank
Gehry , has attracted more than 10 million visitors since it was
first opened in 1997. The Bilbao museum will have right of
approval of the Helsinki museum. The foundation also operates
museums in  New York , Berlin,  Venice  and  Abu Dhabi .  “Helsinki now has an incredible possibility that we should
embrace,” Mayor Jussi Pajunen said in a statement. “The
Guggenheim Museum would be a distinct place in Finland’s
cultural landscape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  