-- Microsoft Says PCs May Have Missed Fourth-Quarter Estimates
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-10T23:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/microsoft-says-industry-pc-sales-may-have-missed-fourth-quarter-estimates.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said industrywide
sales of personal computers will probably be lower than analysts
had projected in the fourth quarter because supply was hurt by
flooding in Thailand.  Analysts have estimated that total PC shipments fell about
1 percent in the quarter, Tami Reller, chief financial officer
of Microsoft’s Windows unit, said an investment conference. The
actual number is probably lower, she said. Bill Koefoed,
Microsoft’s general manager of  investor relations , echoed those
remarks at a separate event.  “As the numbers come out, you’ll likely see that number
decline further as the impact has been felt faster than people
had anticipated,” Koefoed said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
conference. Reller told the audience at a Nomura Holdings Inc.
event that there could potentially be more downward adjustments.
Both conferences were held in  Las Vegas , where the  Consumer
Electronics Show  is under way.  Last year’s flooding in Thailand, which knocked disk-drive
factories off line, took a toll on a PC market that was already
suffering from competition with smartphones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad. Microsoft’s Windows sales have missed estimates in three
of the past four quarters. The comments today probably mean they
will fall short again, said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities.  ‘Under Siege’  “The Windows business is under siege,” said Barnicle, who
had estimated that PC shipments dropped 1 percent in the
quarter. He rates Microsoft shares “sector perform.” “Windows
is their most profitable business. If that’s not stable for
whatever reason --  Thailand , Apple -- it just becomes difficult
for the stock to gain momentum.”  Shares of Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker,
 slipped  1.8 percent in extended trading after the comments were
reported. The stock had closed at $27.84 earlier today.  Microsoft is working to release a new operating system,
Windows 8, that’s designed to work on iPad-like tablets, helping
it compete with Apple. A public test version is set for
February, and Reller gave a preview last night during Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer ’s keynote address at the
Consumer Electronics Show.  The executives today declined to comment on when the final
version will go on sale. Analysts expect it later this year.  Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest computer-chip maker, cut
its fourth-quarter revenue forecast by $1 billion last month,
citing the disk-drive shortages.  While drive manufactures are still working to recover, some
have bounced back faster than they had expected.  Western Digital
Corp. (WDC) , one of the harder-hit companies, has resumed production
and raised its quarterly revenue forecast.  Still, these types of shortages take time to go away,
Microsoft’s Reller said.  “It tends to take a few quarters to work its way through
the system,” she said. “It would be naive to believe
otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  