-- Microsoft, Yahoo, Corbis, Yves St. Laurent, Elisa: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-10T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/microsoft-yahoo-corbis-woolworth-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp., the world’s largest
software maker, sued  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  in  London ’s
 High Court .  Court papers didn’t give details on the content of
Microsoft’s claim against Motorola Mobility, which is being
acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , maker of the Android operating system.  The suit was filed Dec. 23, three days after Microsoft won
a ruling before the U.S. International Trade Commission over
claims Android-based smartphones infringe Microsoft’s patents,
and two weeks after a hearing in  Germany  over similar claims
alleged by Microsoft against Motorola Mobility.  The ITC, which issued two findings on the matter last
month, said some features of Android phones use licensed
technology without permission, rulings which fell short of
Microsoft’s original broader claims that its inventions are
widely used in Android phones. Motorola Mobility General Counsel
Scott Offer said at the time that the majority of that ruling is
favorable to the handset maker and may provide clarity on what
Microsoft owns to avoid potential infringement.  Lacretia Taylor, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft, didn’t have an immediate comment on the U.K.
lawsuit.  Gemma Priscott and  Jennifer Erickson , spokeswomen for
Motorola Mobility, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  Google said Aug. 15 it would buy Libertyville, Illinois-
based Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion to obtain patents that
may be used to fend off suits targeting handsets and tablet
computers that use Android. Microsoft makes its own mobile-
operating system, Windows Phone 7, which competes with Android.  The case is Microsoft Corporation v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., case no. HC11C04536, High Court of London, Chancery
Division (London).  Yahoo!, Augme Patent Infringement Case Trial Date Set for 2013  The jury trial in  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s patent infringement case
brought by mobile-marketing company Augme Technologies Inc. is
set for January 2013, according to an Augme announcement.  New York-based Augme sued Yahoo! in federal court in  San
Francisco  in November 2009, accusing the Sunnyvale, California
Internet company of infringing to patents related to web-page
functionality. In dispute are patents 6,594,691 and 7,269,636.  In November 2010 Yahoo asked the court to dismiss the case.
That was rejected by a magistrate judge in December of that
year. In September 2011 the magistrate judge issued a ruling on
the reach of the patent -- known as a “Markman” ruling -- that
Augme said “is believed to be favorable to the company.”  The case is  Augme Technologies Inc. (AUGT)  v. Yahoo Inc.,
3:09-cv-05386-JCS, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Texas A&M Says It Will Consider How to Enforce ‘12th Man’ Mark  Texas A&M University is in discussion with its lawyers over
a stunt that occurred at the National Football League playoff
game Jan. 8 between the Denver Broncos and Pittsburgh Steelers,
the Texas Tribune  reported .  A man parachuted into the stadium with a “12th Man” flag
trailing behind him,  a trademark that is registered to the Texas
school , according to the Tribune.  The flag was seen during the broadcast and the university
objects to the use of its marks by others without authorization,
the newspaper reported.  The phrase, which refers to football fans as the “12th
Man,” has previously been the subject of a dispute between the
school and the Seattle Seahawks NFL team, which was resolved by
a licensing agreement between the two entities, according to the
Tribune.  Corbis Acquires Product-Placement Consulting Firm NMA Group  Corbis Corp., the Seattle-based photo archive company owned
by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates , acquired a Los Angeles-
based product placement agency.  According to a joint company statement issued yesterday,
the GreenLight media-licensing unit of Corbis has acquired Norm
Marshall & Associates, which is also known as NMA Group.  NMA, founded in 1979, has coordinated “thousands of iconic
placements” in film and television productions. The company
also does “celebrity seeding,” through which it places branded
products in the hands of various celebrities.  One of the companies for which it does celebrity-seeding
work is Dutch brewer  Heineken NV. (HEIA)  NMA says on its website that
it has “seeded” Heineken with Jeremy Renner, Bradley Cooper,
Ryan Reynolds, Ryan Kwanten, Ashton Kutcher, Mila Kunis,
Michelle Trachtenberg, Ian Somerhalder, John Krazinski and Chris
Pine.  Among the other companies with which NMA works are General
Motors Co., Motorola Inc. and  Puma SE (PUM) .  NMA will operate as an independent business unit of
GreenLight, Corbis said in the statement. Terms of the
transaction weren’t disclosed.  Yves St. Laurent’s Color Argument Supported by Legal Academics  Yves St. Laurent SAS/ France  has found a few friends in its
trademark battle with French shoe designer  Christian Louboutin 
SA over red soles for women’s shoes.  A group of 11 law school professors submitted a brief Jan.
3 to a federal appeals court on behalf of St. Laurent.  The professors argued that the protection of single colors
in fashion markets “should be rejected in order to preserve
freedom of innovation and competition.”  They are arguing that the choice of red soles for the St.
Laurent shoes was an aesthetic determination rather than an
indicator of source. “If Louboutin had never existed, YSL would
have the same aesthetic reasons for choosing to use a red sole
on a red shoe,” they said, noting that the case record
indicated that St. Laurent used red soles for some of its shoes
as an esthetic element “long before Louboutin designed shoes.”  Louboutin sued St. Laurent in federal court in  Manhattan  in
April, claiming the use of red shoe soles by St. Laurent
infringed its trademarks. The trial court rejected the
shoemaker’s request to bar St. Laurent shoes with red soles, and
Louboutin filed an appeal of that ruling in mid-October.  In November  Tiffany & Co. , the luxury jewelry company,
submitted a friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of Christian
Louboutin.  New York-based Tiffany, which packages its jewelry items in
distinctive robin’s-egg blue boxes, weighed in on Louboutin’s
behalf. In its filing, Tiffany noted that it has a registered
trademark for its “Tiffany blue” color.  The company argues that the lower court holding that a
single color for a fashion item can never be a valid trademark
“is not supported” by trademark law.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves St. Laurent
America Inc, 11-3303,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit.  The lower court case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves St.
Laurent America Inc., 1:11-cv-02381-VM, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Woolworths Accused of Cloning Bottler’s Entire Product Line  Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL)  has become the target of  a
campaign  on one of Facebook Inc.’s pages following the
retailer’s adoption of a new line of soft drinks,  South Africa ’s
Times newspaper  reported .  The owner of Frankie’s soft drinks, a bottler in South
Africa’s Natal region, claimed the retail giant cloned his
entire product range, according to the Times.  This happened after Frankie’s Mike Schmidt met with
Woolworths about carrying his products and was told they were
out of character for the chain, the Times reported.  Woolworths managing director Zyda Rylands told the Times
that her company hasn’t infringed “any copyright, intellectual
property nor registered trademark.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Elisa Blocks Pirate Bay Website Pending Finnish Court Appeal  Elisa Oyj (ELI1V) ,  Finland ’s largest wireless carrier by
subscribers, has temporarily blocked the Pirate Bay file-sharing
website to users by court order.  Elisa banned access to the website after receiving an
enforcement order related to a court ruling in October, the
Helsinki-based company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
The Helsinki District Court ruled against Elisa based on a
complaint by the local branch of the International Federation of
the Phonographic Industry, Elisa said. The company has appealed
the decision.  The Swedish-founded Pirate Bay site enables downloading of
digitized music and films using software called BitTorrent which
enables complete works to be assembled from pieces on other
users’ computers.  Telenor ASA (TEL) , Norway’s largest operator,
successfully argued in a Norwegian court in 2010 that the
company shouldn’t be ordered to block the website.  “According to information received from the collection
authorities, we have to implement the measures requested until
the court case is completed,” Henri Korpi, Elisa’s head of
consumer subscriptions business, said in the statement.  “The parties should now concentrate on measures that would
really reduce piracy,” Korpi said. “That includes making
digital distribution available at a reasonable price and at the
same time as releases on other media.”  The block affects users of both Elisa and Saunalahti
branded services in Finland and covers more than 30 Pirate Bay
domains.  The IFPI and the Copyright Information and Anti-Piracy
Center also filed blocking actions against TeliaSonera AB and
DNA Oy in Finland on Nov. 25, said Antti Kotilainen, executive
director of the anti-piracy center, which represents the IFPI in
defending the copyrights of major record companies in Finland.  Decisions in those cases are expected in February or March,
Kotilainen said. TeliaSonera, Elisa and DNA together account for
80 percent of broadband users in Finland, Kotilainen said.  Pirate Bay’s four founders were each sentenced to one year
in prison in 2009 by a Swedish court. Three of the men had their
jail sentences reduced on appeal in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 