-- Thierry Henry Marks Arsenal Return With Winning Goal in Soccer’s F.A. Cup
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-10T00:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/thierry-henry-marks-arsenal-return-with-winner-in-f-a-cup-soccer-match.html
Thierry Henry  marked his return to
Arsenal, where he scored a club-record 226 goals before leaving
for Barcelona in 2007, by grabbing the winner in an F.A. Cup
match against Leeds.  Arsenal won 1-0 at the Emirates Stadium in north London
last night to set up a fourth-round home meeting with Premier
League rival Aston Villa. Henry joined the game as a second-half
substitute and scored in the corner of the net after collecting
 Alex Song ’s pass in the 78th minute.  “I never thought I was going to play for Arsenal again or
score a winner,” Henry told broadcaster ESPN. “I hope it won’t
be the last one. The feeling I had when I scored was amazing.”  Henry, 34, rejoined Arsenal four days ago on a two-month
loan from the New York Red Bulls. He moved to the Major League
Soccer team in July 2010 after three years with  Barcelona , where
he scored 49 goals in 121 league appearances. He was third in
MLS with 16 goals last season.  Henry was brought in to provide coverage for strikers
Gervinho and Marouane Chamakh, who will shortly leave for the
Africa Cup of Nations, which runs Jan. 21 to Feb. 12 in Gabon
and  Equatorial Guinea .  Henry was loudly welcomed onto the field by Arsenal fans
with 22 minutes remaining in last night’s game and the stadium
erupted 10 minutes later when he slid the ball past Leeds
goalkeeper Andy Lonergen for the goal. Henry was engulfed by
teammates before running to embrace manager  Arsene Wenger .  Class Act  “You could see Thierry brought his class but also how much
it means to him to come on and make the difference,” Wenger
told ESPN. “When he gets in these kind of positions, we’ve seen
it so many times, him finishing at the right moment. It looks
easy, but it’s not.”  Henry joined Arsenal in August 1999 after seven months with
Juventus in  Italy . He won the Premier League twice as a Gunner
and the F.A. Cup three times, including the last time Wenger’s
team won a trophy in 2005.  During his time in  Spain , Barcelona won trophies including
the European  Champions League , two Spanish league titles and the
FIFA Club World Cup.  A member of  France ’s World Cup-winning squad in 1998, Henry
scored 51 goals in 123 appearances for his country and also was
part of the European Championship-winning team in 2000.  Henry scored twice against Sparta Prague in October 2005 on
his return from a month-long layoff with a groin injury to
surpass Ian Wright’s Arsenal record of 185 goals.  Striking Role  Since Henry’s departure from north  London , the top
striker’s role has been taken on by captain  Robin van Persie ,
who didn’t play against Leeds. The Dutchman leads the Premier
League with 17 goals this season and scored 35 in 2011, one shy
of the league mark set by Alan Shearer in 1995.  During Henry’s stay, Arsenal is scheduled to play AC Milan
in the Champions League, European soccer’s elite competition, as
well as Premier League champion Manchester United.  “I love the club and I hope I can do more,” Henry said.
“Now I know how some of the guys who played for Liverpool or
Man United or Chelsea felt when they scored a goal for the club
they support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  