-- Life Technologies Rises Most Since 2009 on New Gene-Sequencing Machine
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-11T00:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/life-technologies-rises-most-since-2009-on-new-gene-sequencing-machine.html
The race to parse the building
blocks of life has accelerated with competing reports from  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  and  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  that they’ve built machines
that can sequence a genome in a day, rather than weeks or
months.  The announcement boosted Life Technologies 8.3 percent to
$46.17 at the close in New York, the biggest single-day jump in
almost three years. Illumina rose 3.7 percent to $33.01.  Life Technologies, based in Carlsbad,  California , today
said it is taking  orders  for its benchtop Ion Proton Sequencer.
The machine, available for $149,000, is designed to provide a
full transcript of a person’s DNA in a day for just $1,000.
Illumina, of  San Diego , said its  HiSeq 2500  will be available in
the second half of the year. It didn’t reveal the price.  “It’s huge and unexpected,” said Bill Bonello, an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis , in a telephone interview.
“The $1,000 genome is the holy grail in DNA sequencing. To be
able to deliver that in a single day in a single run will be
very meaningful in terms of broadening the potential customer
base for next generation sequencing.”  The current Illumina machines can sequence five human
genomes in 10 days, Chief Executive Officer Jay Flatley said in
an interview today at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare conference in
San Francisco. If researchers need something immediately, they
have few options, he said.  ‘Enormous Market’  Illumina’s HiSeq will be competitive with Life Technology’s
Ion, Flatley said. Genome sequencing is “an enormous” market,
he said. “I don’t think it is ever going to be commoditized in
my lifetime.”  It’s difficult to determine how big a financial impact the
new machines will have, Bonello said. The market for benchtop
sequencers is currently less than $100 million annually, while
the bigger, more expensive machines that can run hundreds of
samples simultaneously generate more than $500 million, he said.  “As price goes down, there will be both more sequencing
done and some cannibalization of the whole genome market,” said
Bonello, who doesn’t currently have a forecast for sales of the
devices.  The technology will become more revolutionary, or
disruptive to the market for the larger, existing machines once
the companies further refine the approach, Bonello said in a
telephone interview. Already, Life Technologies’ $1,000-genome
price will broaden the market for which researchers and
facilities can perform gene sequencing, he said.  Semiconductor Sequencing  The Ion Proton uses semiconductor sequencing technology,
leap-frogging optical technology that costs $500,000 to $750,000
for machines that may take months to deliver their results, said
Life Technologies Chief Executive Officer Gregory Lucier. The
Ion Proton will cost a fraction of Illumina’s machine and will
sequence a whole genome three to four times faster, he said.  “I don’t think there is any competition for what we have
announced,” Lucier said in at the conference in  San Francisco .
“We have the enviable technology position now.”  Potential applications for the new machines include
analyzing the genomes of cancerous tumors to help guide
treatment, creating biofuels and designing novel products in
agricultural biotechnology, he said.  Baylor College of Medicine  in Houston,  Yale School of
Medicine  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and the Broad Institute in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , each have signed up to get more than
one of Life Technologies’ sequencers, according to the company.  “A genome sequence for $1,000 was a pipe dream just a few
years ago,” Richard Gibbs, director of the Human Genome
Sequencing Center at Baylor, said in a statement. “A $1,000
genome in less than one day was not even on the radar, but will
transform the clinical applications of sequencing.”  Ion Proton  The Ion Proton machine hasn’t yet completed all its testing
and external validation, and it lags Illumina’s technology in
accuracy, wrote Nandita Koshal, an analyst at Barclays Capital
Inc. in  New York , in a note to investors today. Still, Life
Technologies has improved its scale and positioned the company
as a “viable contender” in the high-throughput sequencing
space at a time when funding constraints are rising, Koshal
said.  “We are in for a period of heightened competition for
share across the throughput spectrum in sequencing,” Koshal
wrote. “This battle for share will likely play out as costs
decline and profitability for sequencing providers potentially
comes under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  