-- Tiffany Falls After Cutting Annual Profit Outlook on Slowing Sales Growth
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-01-10T21:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/tiffany-reduces-annual-profit-forecast-as-holiday-growth-slows.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  declined the most in
more than three years after the world’s second-largest luxury
jewelry retailer reduced its annual earnings forecast, hurt by
slowing holiday sales growth across all regions.  Tiffany  tumbled  10 percent to $59.94 at the close in New 
York for the biggest decline since October 2008. The shares 
have dropped 28 percent since a 12-month high on July 7.  The retailer said “weakness” in spending from U.S.
customers slowed the pace of sales in the Americas. Tiffany,
which generates almost half of its sales outside of the U.S.,
reported a deceleration in sales in Europe, where the sovereign
debt crisis prompted consumers to curb spending. Asian shoppers
also limited purchases as  China’s economy  cooled.  “With all the uncertainty, it’s not a time for people to
indulge in something like jewelry,”  Marshal Cohen , chief
industry analyst at NPD Group in Port Washington,  New York , said
today in a telephone interview.  Profit excluding some items will advance to as much as
$3.65 a share in the year ending Jan. 31, the New York-based
jeweler said today in a statement. That compares with a November
forecast for profit of as much as $3.80. Analysts projected
$3.77, the average of  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales in November and December increased about 7 percent to
$952 million worldwide. That was slower than the 11 percent gain
Tiffany recorded in the same period a year earlier.  Overseas Sales  “Sales weakened markedly in the United States and Europe
during the holiday season, reflecting restrained spending by
consumers for fine jewelry,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Kowalski said in the statement.  Tiffany’s sales from outside the Americas have increased to
about 50 percent from 38 percent in 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  and  Coach Inc. (COH) 
generate less than a third of their revenue outside the U.S.  In the Americas, which includes the U.S., Canada and  Latin
America , sales advanced 4 percent. Sales in the region increased
9 percent a year earlier. In Europe, sales climbed 1 percent,
compared with a gain of 13 percent a year earlier. Asia-Pacific
sales growth shrank to 19 percent from 23 percent, Tiffany said.  Europe’s gross domestic product will rise just 0.2 percent
in 2012, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris said Nov. 28.  China  will expand 8.5 percent
this year, the lowest pace in 11 years, the OECD forecast.  The jeweler plans to report full-year results on March 20.  The retailer reported adjusted earnings from continuing
operations of $2.93 a share in the year ended in January 2011.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  