-- India Lets Starbucks, Ikea Open Wholly Owned Stores After Wal-Mart Reverse
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-01-11T07:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/india-ratifies-decision-to-allow-starbucks-ikea-to-open-stores.html
India  abandoned a rule against
foreign single-brand retailers operating stores without a local
partner, paving the way for global companies including  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and Ikea.  The government ratified a Nov. 24 cabinet decision to raise
the ownership limit to 100 percent from 51 percent for single-
brand, Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  said in a statement
yesterday. The new rules take effect immediately and require the
companies to use smaller Indian companies for at least 30
percent of procurement, he said.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and other foreign chains
are still excluded from India’s $400 billion retail market after
an attempt last year to change the law failed. Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s administration has struggled to advance its
initiatives amid opposition from its own allies and a corruption
scandal that paralyzed parliament.  “This is a welcome move with a clear potential to lift the
general mood in the economy,” Rajan Bharti Mittal, managing
director at Bharti Enterprises, Wal-Mart’s Indian partner for
wholesale hypermarkets, said in an e-mailed statement. “We hope
the initiative is a precursor to further liberalization in the
sector in the days to come.”  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , India’s largest retailer,
gained in Mumbai trading after the announcement. The stock rose
as much as 10 percent, the most since Nov. 25, while  Shoppers
Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  surged 20 percent.  Trent Ltd. (TRENT) , which has a franchise
agreement with  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , rose as much as 6.9 percent. India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index rose 0.4 percent.  Waiting for Multi-Brand  “People think that this would lead to a positive stance on
multi-brand retail soon,” Sameer Narang, an Mumbai-based
analyst with HDFC Securities Ltd. said in a telephone interview.
“My opinion is that it’s not coming any time soon, given the
way things went the last time the government tried to introduce
it, I doubt a lot of traction will be seen on it.”  Starbucks would compete in India with operators including
 Lavazza SpA (LAVA) ’s Barista Coffee Co. and closely held Cafe Coffee
Day. The Seattle-based coffee chain said in November it intended
to open its first store in India this year.  “Ikea welcomes the decision from the Indian government to
allow 100 percent FDI in single-brand retail,” Nivedeeta
Moirangthem, the furniture and housewares retailer’s India
spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement. India is a very
interesting potential retail market for the Ikea Group.’’  Calls and e-mails to the Starbucks public-relations team in
Seattle weren’t immediately answered. Starbucks signed an
agreement with India’s  Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO)  in January 2011 to
source beans and consider opening stores.  Suspended Opening  Singh’s allies and other parties opposed a decision
allowing retailers selling more than one brand, unveiled in late
November, saying it would hurt local mom-and-pop type stores.
The government suspended the policy Dec. 7.  “India remains committed to a system of regulation that is
supportive of enterprise and we will do everything to encourage
foreign investment,” Singh, 79, said in a Dec. 14 interview,  He said he would renew the multi-brand retail initiative
after regional elections this year.  Singh, whose championing of free-market policies two
decades ago helped India become the second-fastest growing major
economy, faces allegations that the government lost $31 billion
by unfairly awarding mobile-phone service permits in 2008 to
ineligible companies and over contracts for hosting the 2010
Commonwealth Games.  The benchmark BSE  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  dropped 25 percent last
year, while the rupee slumped 16 percent versus the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  