-- Indonesia Raises $1.75B in Record Debt Sales
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-10T02:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/indonesia-raises-1-75b-in-record-debt-sales.html
Indonesia  drew orders for double the
$1.75 billion of 30-year dollar-denominated bonds it offered for
sale, a sign of investor confidence in developing economies
during a record start to a year for emerging-market debt issues.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy sold notes due January
2042 with a 5.25 percent coupon to yield 5.375 percent,
attracting $3.6 billion of bids, the  finance ministry  said. The
rate was 240 basis points more than that for similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries and the sale was arranged by HSBC Holdings Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Plc.  Developing nations and companies have already raised $25.9
billion in 2012, the most for the Jan. 1-9 period since at least
1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil ,  Mexico 
and the Philippines have sold global bonds this year even as
European nations struggle to contain a debt crisis.  Fitch
Ratings  raised Indonesia’s ranking by one level to BBB- in
December as it lowered  France ’s rating outlook and put Spain and
 Italy  on review for a downgrade.  “Those emerging-countries’ fiscal conditions are quite
good, making it easier for them to issue and attract
investors,” said Kenichiro Ikezawa, a Tokyo-based  fund manager 
at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. that oversees about $60 billion.
“Indonesia just got upgraded by Fitch and of course,
speculation is for others to follow suit eventually.”  PLUS Bhd., a Malaysian state-owned highway operator, leads
emerging-market debt issuance this year, having sold 30.6
billion ringgit ($9.7 billion) of Islamic bonds globally.  Bond Returns  The extra  yield (USGG10YR)  investors demand to hold Indonesia’s 10-
year dollar-denominated securities rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries narrowed to 205 basis points from a two-year high of
324 basis points reached on Oct. 4. The average yield premium
for developing nations’ debt was 379 basis points yesterday,
down from a two-year high of 443 basis points on Oct. 4,
according to an  index (JPEMSOSD)  compiled by JPMorgan Chase. The gap was
248 basis points at the start of last year.  Indonesia’s gross domestic product will increase 6.2
percent in 2012, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The central bank estimates growth
accelerated to 6.5 percent last year from 6.1 percent in 2010.
Consumer prices rose 3.79 percent in December from a year
earlier, the least since March 2010, official data show. The
 budget deficit  amounted to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product
last year, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said last week.  ‘Rating Triggers’  Parliament approved a land-acquisition bill last month that
will allow the government to accelerate road, port and airport
projects. The bill may reinvigorate Yudhoyono’s push to double
spending on roads, ports and airports to $140 billion in his
second term.  Southeast Asia  will have relatively strong economic
growth in 2012, International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing
Director Zhu Min said in Singapore on Jan. 5.  Recent developments “are potential rating triggers,
including the passage of the land-acquisition bill” last month,
Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant vice president
at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an interview Jan. 4. Agost Benard, Standard & Poor’s Singapore-based associate director,
reiterated the company’s stance that it may follow Fitch should
the government continue to improve fiscal administrative and
structural reforms, in an interview on the same day.  Moody’s lifted Indonesia to Ba1 in January 2011. In April,
S&P raised the nation to BB+, with a positive outlook. The
ratings are one level below investment grade.  Philippines , Brazil  The Philippines sold $1.5 billion of 25-year, sub-
investment grade notes at a yield of 5 percent last week.  “You are better compensated for risk on Indonesia’s bonds
than on the Philippine dollar bonds,” said Endre Pedersen, the
Hong Kong-based managing director for fixed-income investments
at Manulife Asset Management, which has an Asian bond portfolio
valued at $29 billion. “Not only are you getting better yield
but also a better sovereign credit.”  Brazil sold $750 million of notes due 2021 on Jan. 3 to
yield 3.45 percent, while Mexico issued $2 billion of 10-year
bonds the same day to yield 3.71 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Philippines sold its global notes a
day later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 