-- Ipsen in ‘Advanced’ Talks for Primary Care in France, CEO Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-01-10T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/ipsen-in-advanced-talks-for-primary-care-in-france-ceo-says.html
Ipsen SA (IPN) , the French maker of a
Botox rival, is in “advanced” partnership talks with two
drugmakers for its French primary-care business, Chief Executive
Officer Marc de Garidel said.  “We remain cautious, it will take more time,” de Garidel
said in an interview while flying to  San Francisco  for the 30th
annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference on Jan. 8. He declined
to identify the potential partners.  About 15 companies had initially expressed interest in an
agreement for the business, which includes products such as the
Smecta diarrhea remedy and Tanakan for  memory loss , de Garidel
said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is managing the process, he said.  De Garidel has been reorganizing Ipsen, based in Boulogne-
Billancourt, just outside Paris, since taking over as CEO in
November 2010. He announced plans in June to drop a third of
Ipsen’s research projects and devote more resources to products
such as its Dysport anti-wrinkle treatment and Somatuline, a
drug to fight cancer and a hormone disorder known as acromegaly.  Ipsen is also in talks with three companies for the sale of
part of its manufacturing site in Dreux,  France , he said.  The company is likely to announce a partnership for the
French primary-care unit in the first half, he said. Ipsen had
initially aimed for the end of 2011 or the beginning of 2012.  “Negotiations take time,” de Garidel said. “The French
environment didn’t help.”  Too Many Drugs  France is tightening controls on health-care spending as it
seeks funds to deal with an economic slowdown. Health Minister
Xavier Bertrand, who last year presented plans to overhaul the
country’s drug-review system, has said there are “too many
drugs” in France and that treatments aiming for reimbursement
should provide a “real benefit.”  Ipsen expects Tanakan to get off the list of reimbursed
medicines in France soon, according to de Garidel.  Ipsen, controlled by France’s Beaufour family, has a market
value of almost 2 billion euros ($2.56 billion).  De Garidel said Ipsen is sticking to a forecast of 8
percent sales growth for specialty care drugs in 2011 and a
decline of as much as 5 percent for primary-care medicines. The
company will publish fourth-quarter sales Feb. 2.  This year, Ipsen’s growth will be driven by specialty-care
medicines and sales in the U.S. as well as  emerging markets  like
 China , he said. “We aren’t expecting a lot of growth in big
European countries” such as Spain and  Italy , he added.  De Garidel declined to give sales targets for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in San Francisco at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  