-- Iran Enrichment at Secured Nuclear Site Draws U.S., France Anger
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-10T06:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/iran-enrichment-at-secured-nuclear-site-draws-u-s-france-anger.html
Iran began enriching uranium at a
fortified nuclear site, the  International Atomic Energy Agency 
said, a move that drew U.S. and France’s condemnation and may
accelerate the imposition of stricter sanctions on the country.  “Iran has started the production of uranium enriched up to
20 percent” in the Fordo Fuel Enrichment Plant, IAEA spokesman
Gill Tudor said in an e-mail yesterday. “All nuclear material
in the facility remains under the agency’s containment and
surveillance.”  U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the
enrichment represented an intensification of Iranian violations
of  United Nations  agreements on its nuclear program and called
on Iran to suspend its enrichment activities.  “This is a further escalation of their ongoing violations
with regard to their nuclear obligations,” Nuland said
yesterday.  France  said it “condemns in the strongest possible
terms,” the production of enriched uranium at the Qom facility
and is calling for additional sanctions of an “unprecedented
severity” to be imposed on Iran, the deputy spokesman at the
French Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  IAEA inspectors conduct safeguard inspections of the
facility in Fordo, near the holy city of Qom. Western
intelligence reports revealed in 2009 the existence of the
plant, built into the side of a mountain south of Tehran, the
capital, raising concerns about its purpose.  `Covert Site'  Iranian officials announced in June plans to install an
initial series of centrifuges at the Fordo nuclear facility
within “months” and said they already informed the IAEA about
the project.  “The worry was that it would be this covert enrichment
site that would allow Iran to produce weapons-grade uranium
fairly quickly without anyone knowing it was taking place,”
 David Albright , president of the Institute for Science and
International Security, a Washington nonprofit group, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  The IAEA has asked Iran to clarify the circumstances that
led to the plant’s construction.  Nuland said Iran was taking the “next step” and couldn’t
have civilian uses in mind.  “When you enrich to 20 percent there’s no possible use if
you’re talking about a peaceful purpose,” Nuland said. “You’re
enriching to a level that takes you to a different kind of
nuclear program.”  UN Deal Failure  Iran began processing low-enriched uranium to 20 percent
purity two years ago as a deal brokered in 2009 by the United
Nations for the delivery of the fuel failed to materialize.  While  Iran  says it needs the enriched uranium for civilian
use in a medical research reactor, Albright said Iran has
already produced enough such fuel to serve that purpose for
several years.  Stockpiling 20 percent enriched uranium would make it that
much easier to get to the next step of 60 percent, and from
there to 90 percent enrichment that is ideal for creating
weapons, Albright said.  “So that if they do decide they want nuclear weapons, it’s
easy to do,” he said.  Repeated Denial  The activities at Fordo would let Iran “build nuclear
weapons relatively quickly and in facilities that are relatively
hard to destroy militarily,” Albright said.  Iran has repeatedly denied any ambition to build a nuclear
weapons program. Nuland said the U.S. was open to talks with
Iran if it would “come clean” about its nuclear program.  Tensions between Iran and the West have escalated as the
U.S. moves to sanction Iran’s central bank and the European
Union considers an embargo on  Iranian oil .  The European Union are considering bringing forward a
meeting of foreign ministers to Jan. 23, from Jan. 30, that will
discuss a possible embargo on imports of Iranian oil, an EU
diplomat, who declined to be identified, citing government
policy, said yesterday.  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation would block oil shipments through the  Strait of
Hormuz  if sanctions are imposed, the  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said. The Strait is a transit point for one fifth of oil
traded worldwide.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said moves on
additional sanctions “must be timed and phased” to avoid
damage to oil markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  