-- Iran Says Work at Fortified Uranium Enrichment Site Is Supervised by IAEA
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-10T11:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/iran-says-work-at-fortified-uranium-enrichment-site-is-supervised-by-iaea.html
Iran  said that all activities at a
fortified nuclear site, where it began enriching uranium drawing
U.S. condemnation, are under the permanent supervision of the
International Atomic Energy Agency.  Fordo “was declared more than two years ago and since then
the agency has continuously monitored all the activities,” Ali Asghar Soltanieh, Iran’s delegate to the IAEA, told the state-
run  Press TV  news channel. “Every step we have taken so far and
will take in the future has been and will be under IAEA
containment and surveillance.”  Iran has started the production of uranium enriched up to
20 percent in the Fordo Fuel Enrichment Plant near the holy city
of Qom,  International Atomic Energy Agency  spokesman Gill Tudor
said in an e-mail yesterday. “All nuclear material in the
facility remains under the agency’s containment and
surveillance.”  The start of enrichment activities at the Fordo facility,
which is built into the side of a mountain south of Tehran, the
capital, has aroused Western ire and may accelerate the
imposition of tighter sanctions on the country.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday the enrichment represented “a further escalation” of
Iranian violations of United Nations agreements on its nuclear
program, and called on Iran to suspend enrichment activities.  France also said it “condemns in the strongest possible
terms” the production of enriched uranium at the Qom facility
and is calling for additional sanctions of an “unprecedented
severity” to be imposed on Iran, according to an e-mailed
statement from the French Ministry of Foreign and European
Affairs yesterday.  ‘Covert Site’  The IAEA conducts safeguard inspections of the facility.
The existence of the Fordo plant was revealed in 2009 through
Western intelligence reports, raising concerns at the time about
its purpose.  Iranian officials announced in June plans to install an
initial series of centrifuges at the Fordo nuclear facility
within “months” and said they already informed the IAEA about
the project.  “The worry was that it would be this covert enrichment
site that would allow Iran to produce weapons-grade uranium
fairly quickly without anyone knowing it was taking place,”
 David Albright , president of the Institute for Science and
International Security, a Washington nonprofit group, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  The IAEA has asked Iran to clarify the circumstances that
led to the plant’s construction.  ‘Next Step’  Nuland said Iran was taking the “next step” and couldn’t
have civilian uses in mind.  “When you enrich to 20 percent there’s no possible use if
you’re talking about a peaceful purpose,” Nuland said. “You’re
enriching to a level that takes you to a different kind of
nuclear program.”  Iran began processing low-enriched uranium to 20 percent
purity two years ago as a deal brokered in 2009 by the UN for
the delivery of the fuel failed to materialize.  While Iran says it needs the enriched uranium for civilian
use in a medical research reactor, Albright said Iran has
already produced enough such fuel to serve that purpose for
several years.  Stockpiling 20 percent enriched uranium would make it that
much easier to get to the next step of 60 percent, and from
there to 90 percent enrichment that is ideal for creating
weapons, Albright said.  “So that if they do decide they want nuclear weapons, it’s
easy to do,” he said.  Repeated Denial  The activities at Fordo would let Iran “build nuclear
weapons relatively quickly and in facilities that are relatively
hard to destroy militarily,” Albright said.  Iran has repeatedly denied any ambition to build a nuclear
weapons program. Nuland said the U.S. was open to talks with
Iran if it would “come clean” about its nuclear program.  Tensions between Iran and the West have escalated as the
U.S. moves to sanction Iran’s central bank and the European
Union considers an embargo on  Iranian oil .  The European Union is considering bringing forward to Jan.
23 from Jan. 30 a meeting of foreign ministers to discuss a
possible embargo on imports of Iranian oil, an EU diplomat, who
declined to be identified, citing government policy, said
yesterday.  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation would block oil shipments through the  Strait of
Hormuz  if sanctions are imposed, the  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said. The Strait is a transit point for a fifth of oil
traded worldwide.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said moves on
additional sanctions “must be timed and phased” to avoid
damage to oil markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  