-- Listeria Outbreak in Cantaloupe Tied to Flawed Practices, U.S. House Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-01-10T22:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/listeria-outbreak-in-cantaloupe-tied-to-flawed-practices-u-s-house-says.html
A listeria  outbreak  that killed 30
people and sickened another 146 may have been avoided if a
 Colorado  cantaloupe processor had followed U.S. guidelines and
washed the fruit in chlorinated water, a congressional
investigation found.  Jensen Farms in Granada, Colorado, also added new
processing equipment that may have led to contamination,
according to the report issued today by the House Energy and
Commerce Committee.  The  Food and Drug Administration , which oversees produce,
doesn’t have specific regulations for cantaloupe processing and
offers only guidance, though it can request the U.S. Justice
Department issue an injunction to shut a facility. The agency
also doesn’t regulate auditors farms hire to certify that their
operations comply with good safety practices.  While the panel report makes no specific recommendations,
“reforms in third-party audits are essential,” committee
Democrats wrote in a letter today to the FDA. Auditors are hired
by grocers, processors and others to ensure best practices are
used to ensure food is safe.  “Weakness in third-party auditors represent a significant
gap in the food-safety system because the auditors are often the
only entities to inspect a farm or facility,” according to the
letter, signed by Representative Henry Waxman of  California , the
committee’s senior Democrat, and three other lawmakers.  ‘Superior’ Rating  Jensen Farms was graded by an independent auditor as having
“superior” safety practices just one month before consumers
became ill from eating the fruit.  Representatives of Jensen Farms didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, is
among grocers facing lawsuits claiming they sold contaminated
cantaloupe.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  is developing new safety
protocols as a result. The outbreak occurred in September and
October.  “It’s unfortunate that victims and their families weren’t
involved in the congressional committee’s investigation,” said
Bill Marler, a Seattle-based food safety lawyer who represents
clients in the Jensen Farms case, in an interview.  “There’s really nothing new that’s added,” said Marler,
referring to the report. “It’s basically what the FDA already
found.”  Widespread contamination and unsanitary practices were
found at a packing facility owned by the company, the FDA said
in an Oct. 18  warning letter .  “FDA officials stated that the outbreak could likely have
been prevented if Jensen Farms had maintained its facilities in
accordance with exiting FDA guidance,” according to the House
panel’s report.  The letter to the FDA calling for audit oversight was also
signed by  Diana DeGette  of Colorado, the top Democrat on the
Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and
Investigations, Frank Pallone Jr. of  New Jersey  and John Dingell
of  Michigan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  