-- J&J Sold Insulin Pumps After Learning of Defects, FDA Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-10T21:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/j-j-unit-sold-insulin-pumps-after-learning-of-defects-fda-says.html
Johnson & Johnson ’s Animas unit kept
selling insulin pumps last year after learning of malfunctions
with the devices that prompted it to make design changes, the
 Food and Drug Administration  said.  The agency faulted the J&J unit for not adequately
explaining “why your firm continued to manufacture insulin
pumps” after they “had known failures.” The issues with
Animas’ One Touch Ping and 2020 pumps prompted a company
investigation that started in April, according to the FDA’s
 letter , which was dated Dec. 27 and released today.  J&J, the world’s second-biggest seller of health-care
products, has faced a series of safety recalls and FDA warnings
over the last two years. The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
company pulled dozens of brands of over-the-counter medicines in
2010 as well as faulty artificial hips and also agreed to give
the FDA expanded oversight over three manufacturing plants.  The pump malfunctions involved the device’s keypad, said
Caroline Pavis, an Animas spokeswoman. The warning letter only
“requested further clarification on our internal quality
systems and processes,” she said. “The insulin pumps we
manufacture meet all product specifications.  “We are dedicated to quickly resolving the FDA’s
outstanding concerns,” she said in an e-mail. “We remain
strongly committed to manufacturing and delivering products to
our customers that meet high quality standards and the
regulations of our industry.”  Penalties Possible  Last month’s warning could lead to fines or affect J&J’s
chances of winning federal contracts, the agency said in the
letter. The FDA gave the company 15 days to respond.  The pump failures last year led Animas to make a design
change and to switch manufacturing to a different supplier, the
FDA said. The device maker said that it conducted a hazard
evaluation and held a risk evaluation meeting to assess the
dangers to patients, according to the agency.  Still, Animas failed to explain “why it was acceptable for
your firm to continue to use” remaining pumps “with known
failure modes,” the agency said in the letter.  The FDA deleted some details of the pump failures in the
letter it released, which didn’t explain the exact nature of the
malfunctions. Pavis, the Animas spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking more information.  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $65.20 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The  shares  gained 4.9 percent in the 12 months before
today.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York, is the top seller of
health products.  The December letter also faulted Animas for failing to
quickly report three incidents to the FDA in which patients
using Animas pumps were injured. Two of the incidents involved
“user error” and in a third, there was no evidence the pump
malfunctioned, the FDA said. Animas lacked proper procedures for
identifying and reporting problems outside the U.S., the FDA
also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  