-- J&J Should Pay Texas $579 Million for Risperdal, Jury Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-10T23:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/j-j-should-pay-at-least-579-million-for-risperdal-texas-says.html
Johnson & Johnson  should reimburse
at least $579 million to the  Texas  Medicaid system for
fraudulently promoting its antipsychotic drug Risperdal for uses
not approved by U.S. regulators, a state lawyer told jurors.  J&J, the world’s largest health care products company, is
defending a lawsuit by Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  that
claims the company and its Janssen unit overhyped and
overcharged the state for the drug after its approval in 1993.
J&J also promoted Risperdal for use by children before it got
approval from the  Food and Drug Administration , Texas claims.  By making false claims about the drug’s superiority and
minimizing its side effects, J&J persuaded Texas Medicaid
officials to pay 45 times more for Risperdal than for older
types of drugs, Assistant Attorney General Cynthia O’Keeffe told
jurors in opening a trial today in state court in Austin.  “This is a case about the systematic looting of money from
the Texas Medicaid system by one of the oldest and largest drug
companies in America,” O’Keeffe said.  Texas joined a lawsuit filed by a whistle-blower, Allen
Jones, a former investigator for the  Pennsylvania  Office of
Inspector General. An award of $579 million as sought by the
state could be tripled by jurors under Texas law.  In addition, if the state wins the case, jurors will decide
the number of violations and set a penalty of as much as $10,000
apiece.  Risperdal Sales  An attorney for Jones, Thomas Melsheimer, told jurors that
J&J made $34 billion in Risperdal sales over 17 years.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, systematically
minimized Risperdal’s health risks to establish it as a
blockbuster drug, Melsheimer said.  He said the company made “a series of illegal payments”
to Dr. Steven Shon, the former medical director of the
Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation in Texas,
that “effectively made him a salesman for Risperdal” who
promoted the drug around the U.S.  J&J denies wrongdoing and never acted illegally, attorney
 Stephen McConnico  told jurors in his opening statement. He
disputed the state’s contention that Risperdal was not superior
to other drugs, saying it succeeded in the market because it was
an improvement over an earlier generation of antipsychotics that
had debilitating side effects.  He said doctors made the decision to prescribe Risperdal
off-label, which is not illegal, because it worked so well.  No ‘Master Puppeteer’  “The idea that we’re some kind of master puppeteer that
can control doctors all over the country” to prescribe what J&J
wants is “simply not common sense,” McConnico said. “What did
the doctors do? You bet they prescribed it. We don’t run away
from that. We admit it. Because it worked.”  From 1994 to 2009, the Texas Medicaid program reimbursed
for 2.75 million prescriptions for Risperdal, he said.  He said Risperdal has remained on the state’s preferred
drug list even as the attorney general has investigated this
case for several years.  “Actions speak louder than words,” McConnico said. “They
wanted doctors to give it, and doctors wanted to give it.”  In his opening, Melsheimer cited an FDA letter centering on
safety claims that J&J and Janssen made in November 2003
correspondence to 700,000 doctors. The FDA responded with a
warning letter saying J&J made false and misleading claims that
minimized the potentially fatal risks of diabetes and overstated
the drug’s superiority to competitors.  Diabetes Risk  McConnico disputed the FDA claim that J&J hid the risk of
diabetes, saying that the drug’s warning label mentioned the
disease several times.  “The idea that we ever hid anything about diabetes is
simply wrong,” he said.  In 1993, Janssen won FDA approval to sell the drug for
psychotic disorders including schizophrenia. That market was
limited, Melsheimer said, so the company promoted the drug off-
label for many other uses, including dementia.  In 2003, the FDA approved Risperdal for bipolar disorder.
In 2006, the regulator approved it for symptoms related to
autism in children and teens. The FDA approved it to treat
bipolar children and teens the next year. The drug was never
approved for dementia.  Jurors heard videotaped testimony from a former Janssen
executive who helped launch the drug, Thomas Anderson, and from
Margaret Hunt, an investigator in the state’s civil Medicaid
fraud division.  TMAP  The witnesses testified about a series of payments that
Janssen made to Texas state officials involved with the Texas
Medication Algorithm Project, known as TMAP. The Texas lawsuit
claims that TMAP gave guidelines to doctors on the treatment of
patients with mental illnesses. Those guidelines, Texas claims,
favored Risperdal over other antipsychotics.  Hunt testified that the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
donated $2.8 million to TMAP, while J&J and Janssen gave
$375,465. In turn, Janssen paid $942,659 to three doctors and
their company, which helped develop and promote the guidelines,
Anderson testified.  Hunt also described Janssen payments to several Texas state
officials involved with TMAP, including Shon. He traveled around
the U.S. to promote the TMAP guidelines, she testified.  The company lost a Risperdal case in  Louisiana , where on
top of a $257.7 million jury award the judge ordered the company
to pay $73.3 million in attorneys’ fees and costs.  Marketing Practices  In  South Carolina  the company lost a $327 million judgment
after a jury found the drugmaker liable for damages.  J&J and the Janssen unit have also been sued over marketing
practices by  Alaska ,  Arkansas , Louisiana,  Montana ,  New Mexico ,
Pennsylvania and  Utah . The Arkansas case is set for trial in
March.  A suit filed by  West Virginia  was dropped after an appeals
court set aside a nonjury trial judgment against the company.
J&J won dismissal of the Pennsylvania case.  The case is State of Texas ex rel. Jones v. Janssen LP, D-
1GV-04-001288, District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 