-- Job-Market Gains Underscored as Hiring Catches Up With Openings: Economy
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-10T21:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/job-openings-in-u-s-decreased-in-november-as-hiring-picked-up.html
Gains in hiring are catching up with
 job openings , pointing to greater willingness among U.S.
companies to expand as the economy improves.  Employers took on 4.15 million workers in November, up
107,000 from the prior month, the Labor Department said today in
Washington. The number of jobs filled in the three months to
November was the highest since the period from March to May
2010.  The thawing in employment comes as other reports indicate
firings have eased, highlighting an improvement in the labor
market that is contributing to a rebound in  consumer confidence 
and spending. Today’s figures also showed the number of jobs
waiting to be filled  dropped  in November for a second month, a
sign gains in payrolls will take time to develop.  “Any hiring increase is encouraging,” said Henry Mo, an
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “No matter how many
openings you have, if you don’t hire then it doesn’t translate
into the results the economy is looking for. I’m a little bit
optimistic. Many labor market indicators are pointing in the
right direction.”  Stocks climbed, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its highest level since July, amid bets that  China  may act to
spur growth. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.9 percent to 1,292.08 at the
close in New York.  A report today showed China’s import growth dropped in
December to a two-year low, underscoring a slowdown that may
require government policies aimed at spurring the economy.  More Confidence  In Europe, French business confidence climbed from a two-
year low in December and industrial production rose a month
earlier, signs the threat of recession in the euro region’s
second-biggest economy is easing.  Today’s report from the Labor Department showed job
openings dropped by 63,000 to 3.16 million.  Fewer openings may mean the financial crisis in  Europe  and
political gridlock in the U.S. are prompting companies to wait
until there is more evidence the world’s largest economy is
weathering the challenges.  Payrolls increased by 200,000 workers last month after a
100,000 gain in November, and the  unemployment rate  fell to an
almost three-year low of 8.5 percent, Labor Department figures
showed on Jan. 6.  Confidence among small businesses rose in December for a
fourth month as companies foresaw improving sales, profits and
economy, another report today found.  Small Companies  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s sentiment
 index  climbed to 93.8, the highest level since February, from 92
the previous month. The gauge averaged 88.2 in the recession
that ended in June 2009.  Job openings dropped 2 percent in November from a revised
3.22 million in the prior month that was less than previously
estimated, the report from the Labor Department showed.  The  hiring rate  climbed to 3.2 percent in November from 3.1
percent the prior month. It had been as low as 2.9 percent in
January 2011.  The rate of job openings decreased to 2.3 percent from 2.4
percent in October. Professional and business services showed
the biggest drop in jobs available.  Among companies expanding payrolls is  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)   “Sales are robust, merchandise margins are strong,
operating margins are growing,” Alexander Smith, chief
executive officer of the  Fort Worth , Texas-based firm said on a
Dec. 15 conference call with analysts. “There’s going to be a
little more hiring in the first part of the year without a
doubt.”  Outlook for Unemployed  Compared with the 13.3 million Americans who were
 unemployed  in November, today’s figures indicate there were
about 4.2 people vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when
the 18-month recession began in December 2007.  Total job cuts, including retirements and those who left
their job voluntarily, increased to 4 million in November from
3.9 million a month before. Firings climbed to 1.69 million from
1.6 million in October.  The data on firings run counter to figures on first-time
 claims  for jobless benefits. The number of people collecting
unemployment insurance payments averaged 396,300 a week in
November, down from 405,300 the prior month, according to other
Labor Department statistics.  In the 12 months ended in November, the economy created a
net 1.4 million jobs, representing 48.6 million hires and 47.2
million separations, today’s report showed.  “We’re starting to rebound,” President  Barack Obama  said
Jan. 6 after the monthly employment report. “We’re creating
jobs on a consistent basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in  Washington  at 
 Ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  