-- Virginia Appeals Ruling Blocking Publication of ‘Super Tuesday’ Ballots
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-10T17:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/judge-blocks-virginia-from-mailing-absentee-ballots-for-republican-primary.html
Virginia  officials asked a federal
appeals court to overturn a judge’s order blocking them from
mailing absentee ballots or printing regular ones for the
state’s Republican primary pending a Jan. 13 hearing.  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli today filed an
emergency request with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond,
arguing that ballots for the March 6 primary need to go to the
printer immediately in order to meet legal deadlines to provide
ballots to absentee and overseas voters.  U.S. District Judge John A. Gibney Jr. in Richmond
yesterday ordered the process halted while he considers a suit
by  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  and other Republican presidential
candidates who were disqualified from the primary because they
didn’t submit 10,000 signatures from qualified Virginia voters.  “Should there be any delay in the printing of ballots, or
a reprinting, it will be to the detriment of military and
overseas voters,” Cuccinelli said in the appellate filing,
adding that sending two ballots to voters would create confusion
and result in a “significant” cost to Virginia.  Perry last month sought a temporary order to halt state
officials from printing the ballots, or to require them to
include his name. In a lawsuit filed Dec. 27 in federal court in
Richmond, Perry claimed the state’s requirement that people who
circulate petitions be eligible or registered to vote in
Virginia violates his constitutional rights.  Santorum, Gingrich  Last week, Republican presidential candidates  Rick Santorum ,  Newt Gingrich  and Jon Huntsman won permission to join
Perry’s challenge.  They argued that Virginia’s rules governing petition
circulators violate “freedoms of speech and association
protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments” of the U.S.
Constitution.  Perry and the other candidates must respond to Virginia’s
appeal by tomorrow morning, according to a directive from the
deputy clerk of the appeals court.  In yesterday’s order, Gibney said he will rule on Perry’s
request for a preliminary injunction the same day as the Jan. 13
hearing.  “This is a positive development for the presidential
candidates and the citizens of Virginia,”  Ray Sullivan , a
spokesman for the Perry campaign, said of yesterday’s order. He
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
Virginia’s appeal.  Cuccinelli said Perry was disqualified from the March vote
because he failed to collect the 10,000 signatures required by
state rules.  ‘Lacks Standing’  Perry “lacks standing to assert an injury arising from the
inability to circulate his own petitions because there is no
averment that he stood ready, willing and able to circulate his
own petitions and there is no basis for concluding that he would
have collected a sufficient number of valid signatures,” the
state said in its filing.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans to
make it onto the ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called
Super Tuesday, the  Republican Party  of Virginia said last month.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond). The appeal is
Perry v. Judd, 12-1042, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  