-- KBR Settles Lawsuit Brought by Driver Injured in Iraq Convoy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-10T22:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/kbr-settles-suit-over-driver-s-claim-company-knew-of-danger-to-iraq-convoy.html
KBR Inc. (KBR)  settled a lawsuit brought
by an injured convoy driver who claimed the company sent
civilians into a battle zone in Iraq in 2004 knowing they would
be attacked and possibly killed, according to a court filing.  Reginald Cecil Lane, the driver, reached a “confidential
settlement” with KBR and its former parent,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
his lawyer, Tommy Fibich, said yesterday in court papers. Lane
and the defendants asked the court to dismiss the lawsuit,
according to the filing.  “Lane was severely injured in the attack, and his wife
died during the pendency of the case,” Fibich said today in a
phone interview. He declined to comment further on the
settlement, citing the confidentiality agreement.  KBR, a Houston-based government contractor, was also sued
by the families of seven drivers who were killed in  Iraq . The
company is appealing a ruling by U.S. District Judge Gray Miller
in Houston allowing the suits to go forward. The other claims
haven’t been settled,  Scott Allen , a lawyer for the families,
said today in a phone interview.  The deal with Lane was reached in late December, according
to appeals court records. A KBR representative declined to
comment on the settlement, citing a confidentiality agreement.  “Although Halliburton is named in the lawsuit, the
activity involved was pursuant to a KBR contract,” Marisol
Espinosa, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Defense
of this lawsuit is KBR’s responsibility so we cannot comment on
the details.”  Recruited Workers  The drivers and their families claim KBR officials
fraudulently recruited workers for safe jobs in Iraq and
intentionally sent unarmed civilians into a recognized combat
zone in April 2004. The military-supply contract gave company
officials the right to refuse assignments deemed too dangerous
for civilians, according to the complaints.  KBR and Halliburton have argued that they aren’t liable
because they couldn’t refuse Army orders to dispatch the fuel
convoys under terms of their multibillion-dollar supply contract
with the U.S. military. Miller rejected Halliburton’s request to
be dismissed from the case on the grounds that KBR was spun off
as a separate company in 2007.  Last July, KBR urged the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New
Orleans to throw out the drivers’ claims, arguing that the cases
required a jury to second-guess the military’s actions in Iraq.
The convoys were attacked at a time when Iraqi insurgents were
just beginning to escalate the fight against U.S. troops that
had taken over the country to oust dictator  Saddam Hussein ,
according to court records.  ‘Catastrophic Failure’  “They were doing what they were employed to do when they
were attacked,” Lawrence Ebner, KBR’s lawyer, told the
appellate judges. If the drivers’ deaths and injuries were
caused by a “catastrophic failure” of Army intelligence
concerning threats along the convoy route, “that would absolve
us” of liability for the casualties, Ebner told the court.  “We’re not going to judge what the Army did; we want to
judge what KBR did,” David Gunn, the drivers’ appellate lawyer,
told the  New Orleans  panel in asking to let the claims go to
trial. Calling the casualties “not even close to accidental,”
Gunn said, “there is plenty of evidence on our side that they
knew the attacks were ongoing and they refused to tell us or
draw us back” to protected military bases.  The appeals court hasn’t said when it will issue a ruling.  Can’t Name Military  Miller previously ruled that the companies couldn’t name
the military as a co-defendant in the lawsuits, so the Army
isn’t required to defend its actions.  Allen, who represents several drivers killed in the
attacks, told the appellate judges in July that three U.S.
generals have testified in the case that “KBR has the right to
turn their convoys around,” regardless of the military’s
opinion of the safety or necessity of any particular convoy
mission. Scott declined today to comment on any possible
settlement of the remaining drivers’ claims.  The lower-court judge ruled the convoy cases could go to
trial after reviewing extensive company e-mails sent between the
drivers, their dispatchers and company officials during the
weeklong series of convoy attacks. The messages show company
officials debating the dangers of sending the civilian convoys
into battle areas, after the drivers had sustained casualties
and the attacks were continuing, according to e-mails unsealed
in the case.  E-Mail Exchanges  Miller said the e-mail exchanges convinced him that the
defendants knew that some drivers would be attacked and killed
the next day if convoys were sent along the same route where
drivers had been fired on the previous day. The convoys were
sent out anyway, with no warning to the drivers, Miller said in
his ruling.  In early 2010, KBR attorney David Kasanow told the Army
that the company faced the “near certainty of a protracted,
difficult trial with potential damages of more than $700
million,” according to court filings. KBR previously stated it
would submit the bill for any damage awards or litigation
expenses tied to its military contracting work in Iraq to the
government for possible reimbursement.  The case is Lane v. Halliburton, 06-CV-01971, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net 
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  