-- Kenyan Central Bank May Halt Rate Increases as Inflation Eases
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-10T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/kenyan-central-bank-may-halt-rate-increases-as-inflation-eases.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  on hold today after four
increases in as many months boosted the currency, curbing price
pressures in  East Africa ’s biggest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna
Ndung’u, will keep the policy rate at a record 18 percent,
according to five of the six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The Nairobi-based bank is scheduled to announce its decision in
an e-mailed statement later today.  Ndung’u lifted the lending rate by 11.75 percentage points
since September to help bolster the shilling after it lost a
fifth of its value in the first nine months of 2011. That’s
helped to curb  inflation  as last year’s drought eased, lowering
food prices. The government expects the inflation rate to drop
to 9 percent in the fiscal year through June, half the pace of
18.9 percent reached in December.  “Given that inflation has peaked, the  interest-rate  cycle
of tightening may have also reached its peak,” Yvonne Mhango,
an economist with  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said in a
phone interview.  Kenya may follow  Uganda ’s central bank, which kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second consecutive
meeting last week, after boosting it by 10 percentage points to
23 percent since July.  Drought Eases  Food prices may ease further after ample rains fell over
 crop-growing  areas of central and south-eastern Kenya during the
October-December rainy season, the Nairobi-based Kenya
Meteorological Department said on Dec. 31. Rising costs in the
economy crimped investment in the world’s largest black tea
exporter, with economic growth slowing to 3.6 percent in the
third quarter from 4.3 percent in the previous three months.  The shilling has dropped 4.2 percent to 87.30 against the
dollar since Dec. 20, paring its gain since a record low of
106.75 on Oct. 11 to 17 percent.  “The next question is when the central bank will begin
weakening monetary policy,” Mhango said. “But with the
currency now retreating after recovering strongly, that will
prevent them from cutting the rate this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  