-- Kodak Pushes Patent Value With Apple, HTC Lawsuits as It Seeks Turnaround
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-11T21:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/kodak-sues-apple-in-u-s-claiming-infringement-of-four-patents.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , seeking to sell
or license a portfolio of more than 1,100 patents, sued Apple
Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  in an expansion of a legal strategy that may
help boost the value of its inventions to fund a turnaround.  Two infringement lawsuits filed yesterday in federal court
in Rochester,  New York , accuse the smartphone makers of using
without permission Kodak technology for image transmission,
including a way for users to share images directly from cameras.
Kodak also claims HTC is infringing an additional patent for a
preview feature, which is at the center of a U.S. International
Trade Commission case against Apple and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   “They’re trying to generate value for their patent
portfolio,” said  Ron Epstein , chief executive officer of patent
brokerage Epicenter IP Group LLC in  Redwood City , California.  Kodak,  predicted by analysts  to report its fourth straight
annual net loss Jan. 26, has put the company’s digital-imaging
patents up for sale to help fund changes to its business. CEO
Antonio Perez, who is betting on digital printers for
publishers, packagers, advertisers and households to lift Kodak,
has said the Apple-RIM trade commission case may generate $1
billion in new revenue from settlements.  Kodak didn’t say how much the new Apple and HTC cases could
be worth. The company filed companion complaints at the trade
commission yesterday in  Washington , seeking to block U.S.
imports of products including Apple’s iPad and iPhone, and HTC’s
Flyer tablet and Wildfire S phone that are made overseas.  Bankruptcy Risk  “This is an important part of ongoing operations to get
them through the transition,” said Erin-Michael Gill, chief
intellectual property officer for MDB Capital Group LLC, a  Santa
Monica , California-based investment bank. “A bad sign would be
them sitting on their hands and waiting for these to sell.”  Kodak  rose  22 cents, or 36 percent, to 82 cents at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. That follows a 50
percent jump in shares yesterday after the company reported a
restructuring of its management.  Kodak said last year it hired Lazard Ltd. to help it sell
the patents and retained  Jones Day  among advisers helping on
strategic options.  The civil suits may be put on hold while the ITC conducts
its investigations. The agency seeks to complete investigations
in 16 to 18 months, though it’s been forced to extend that
target in many cases because of the deluge of litigation over
mobile devices.  Portfolio Perceptions  The Apple-RIM trade commission case filed in 2010,
involving the single image-preview patent, has met with delays
including the retirement of the judge handling the case, and a
final decision isn’t scheduled until September.  Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 5 cut ratings on about $1
billion of Kodak debt with a negative outlook, citing “a
heightened probability of a bankruptcy over the near-term” as
liquidity deteriorates, making a patent sale more challenging.  Adding four new patents into the mix “helps, even without
litigating any of the issues, to counteract the impression that
there’s only one good patent” in the portfolio, said Ron Laurie, managing director of Inflexion Point Strategy LLC in
 Palo Alto ,  California , which counsels companies on intellectual
property purchases. Kodak “wanted to defuse that impression.”  The four patents asserted against Apple and HTC have as co-
inventor Kodak researcher Kenneth Parulski, who has more than
190 patents and is “recognized as a pioneer in numerous digital
camera technologies,” according to the complaints.  Infringement Claims  Kodak claims infringement by Apple’s iPad 2, iPhone and
iPod Touch, and by HTC’s tablets and phones, including the
Flyer, EVO View 4G, Jetstream, Vivid, Amaze 4g, Desire, Hero S,
Rezound, Rhyme, Sensation 4G and Wildfire S.  “We’ve had numerous discussions with both companies in an
attempt to resolve this issue, and we have not been able to
reach a satisfactory agreement,” Laura Quatela, Kodak’s chief
operating officer and a president, said in a statement. “Our
primary interest is not to disrupt the availability of any
product but to obtain fair compensation for the unauthorized use
of our technology.”  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , had no comment on the
complaints. Officials with Cupertino, California-based Apple
didn’t reply to a request for comment.  Selling patents and debt will help determine “the
company’s ability to continue its operations” in the next 12
months, Kodak said in a quarterly regulatory filing in November.
Kodak said then it would pursue licensing opportunities for the
patents if unable to sell them at “an appropriate price.”  Kodak, which lost 88 percent of its  stock market value  last
year, has struggled since demand for photographic film began
evaporating as the world embraced digital cameras. Kodak’s cash
and equivalents fell to $862 million at the end of its third
quarter from $1.4 billion a year earlier.  Management Changes  Kodak said yesterday it was adjusting its management
structure and creating a chief operating office to reduce costs
as its sales decline and cash reserves dwindle.  The chief operating office will be led by Quatela and
Philip Faraci, both presidents at Kodak. Faraci will focus on
the commercial segment and sales and regional operations, and
Quatela, who had been the company’s chief intellectual property
officer, will lead the consumer segment and certain corporate
functions, Kodak said.  The company’s $162 million market value at yesterday’s
close “is lower than the potential damages” the company could
generate from litigation, Epstein said.  “They’re looking at the mobile device companies and
saying, ‘The brilliance of your user interface and product
integration does not detract from the fact that you have
integrated my innovation into your product and you owe me
something for it,’” Epstein said.  The new case against Apple is Eastman Kodak Co. v.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , 12cv6020, and the case against HTC is Eastman Kodak Co. v.
HTC, 12cv6021, both U.S. District Court for the Western District
of New York (Rochester).  The ITC case is In the Matter of Electronic Devices for
Capturing and Transmitting Images, Complaint No. 2869, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  