-- Incheon Airport May Add $3 Billion Resort on China Tourism
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-01-11T01:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/korea-s-incheon-airport-considers-3-billion-resort-to-lure-china-tourists.html
Incheon International Airport Corp. ,
operator of  South Korea ’s busiest gateway, is close to approving
plans for a $3 billion resort to help lure more Chinese
tourists.  A U.S. company has proposed building the development, which
will include a hotel and convention center, Lee Chae Wook, chief
executive officer of the state-owned airport company, said
yesterday in an interview in Incheon. A deal will probably be
signed by the end of June, with construction starting next year,
he said, without naming the investor.  “We want to build a landmark near the airport that will
resemble  Singapore ’s Marina Bay Sands,” Lee said. “The
investment will help attract more visitors from  China  and create
more jobs.”  Incheon Airport, 50 kilometers (31 miles) west of  Seoul ,
also plans medical centers, malls and entertainment facilities
as Asian nations compete for holidaymakers from China, the
world’s fastest-growing air-travel market. The Marina Bay Sands,
built by casino-operator Las Vegas Sands Corp., opened in 2010.
Singapore is aiming to triple tourism revenue by 2015.  “There is a need to develop new attractions to lure more
tourists from China,” said Jee Heon Seok, an analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “They come in large
numbers and they tend to spend a lot of money.”  Incheon Airport may increase passenger numbers 5.7 percent
this year to 37 million, helped by rising arrivals from China,
Lee said. The facility is also adding luxury-goods outlets to
lure more Chinese and Japanese travelers, who accounted for 45
percent of duty-free sales last year, Lee said.  LVMH Outlet  That demand and the opening of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) ’s first airport outlet worldwide allowed Incheon to
surpass Dubai and  London Heathrow  to become the world’s biggest
airport in terms of duty-free sales last year, Lee said. The
company generates about 65 percent of sales from shops, hotels
and other businesses not directly related to flying, he said.  “By growing non-aeronautical revenues, we can afford to
offer lower landing fees, which attracts more airlines and
passengers,” Lee said. The airport charges about $3,500 to
$4,000 to handle a landing by a Boeing Co.  747 aircraft , he
said.  Incheon is also considering a bid for Edinburgh Airport
with Korean financial institutions as it works to boost sales
from overseas, Lee said. He declined to elaborate. BAA Ltd.,
Britain’s biggest airport operator, is selling the Scottish
facility following a competition review.  IPO Delay  The Korean airport operator may also have to use loans to
pay for a new second terminal because of delays in a planned
initial public offering, Lee said. The facility, due to open
before South Korea hosts the 2018 Winter Olympics, will boost
the airport’s capacity to 62 million travelers a year, he said.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government has said
it wants to sell 15 percent of Incheon Airport in an IPO. That
plan has been delayed by opposition from lawmakers and is now
unlikely to happen before parliamentary elections scheduled for
April, Lee said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  