-- N.H. Votes as Rivals Hit Romney Over Firing Comment
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-11T00:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/n-h-voters-weigh-in-as-rivals-hit-romney.html
Mitt Romney’s rivals sought to
tarnish his image and cut into his front-runner’s status in the
Republican presidential race as voters went to the polls for
today’s New Hampshire primary and the candidates looked to
continue their campaigns as the race moves south.  With 9 percent of the vote counted, Romney had 36 percent,
 Ron Paul  had 25 percent, Jon Huntsman Jr. had 16 percent,  Newt Gingrich  had 11 percent,  Rick Santorum  had 10 percent and  Rick
Perry  had almost 1 percent.  Former U.S. House Speaker Gingrich said this morning that
Romney has “some very big questions to answer” about his time
at Bain Capital LLC, a Boston-based private equity firm, and
whether he chose profit over jobs.  “I don’t have much respect if you rig the game so you end
up walking off with all the money,” Gingrich, 68, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and second-time
presidential candidate who won the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses by eight
votes, was competing against expectations that he would win  New
Hampshire ’s contest by a wide margin. Anything less may
frustrate his efforts to show that he has enough political
strength within his own party to mount a strong challenge to
President  Barack Obama  in November’s general election.  “We’ve come a long way in New Hampshire, but we can’t take
anything for granted,” Romney said in an e-mail asking
supporters to “do everything in your power to make it out to
your local polling place today.”  Firing People  Romney made his final case to voters as most of his rivals
seized on an off-the-cuff remark yesterday that he likes “being
able to fire people who provide services to me.”  While Romney, 64, was referring to health-insurance
companies -- not his own employees -- when he made the comments,
the remarks are being used to portray him as a corporate raider
because of his years in the private equity business and to
undercut his argument that he’s the candidate best able to
create jobs.  U.S. employers added 1.64 million workers in 2011, the most
since 2006, the Labor Department said last week. Even with the
gains, little headway has been made in recovering the 8.75
million jobs lost as a result of the recession that ended in
June 2009.  Former Utah Governor Huntsman, 51, who has blanketed New
Hampshire over the past several months and staked his campaign
on a solid showing here today, pushed for a late burst of
support based partly on a backlash from Romney’s “firing”
comment.  ‘Closing Message’  “Our closing message to New Hampshire voters is about
restoring trust and putting country first; Mitt Romney’s closing
message is about petty politics and firing people,” said
Huntsman spokesman  Tim Miller  in a statement that accompanied a
new web video the campaign released featuring the candidate
expounding on New Hampshire’s “Live Free or Die” motto.  U.S. Representative Paul, the third-place finisher in Iowa
who is working to establish himself as Romney’s main
competition, came to Romney’s defense. Jesse Benton, Paul’s
campaign manager, issued a statement blasting Gingrich, Huntsman
and former Pennsylvania Senator Santorum for the flap, saying
they had taken Romney’s quote “horribly out of context.”  The three are “using the language of the liberal left to
attack private equity and condemn capitalism in a desperate and,
frankly, unsavory attempt to tear down another Republican with
tactics akin to those of MoveOn.org,” Benton said.  ‘Leftist Tactics’  He said the trio were “employing leftist tactics because
they can’t run on their questionable records and can’t
distinguish themselves from Romney” on bailouts, spending,
deficits and health care.  Gingrich, in a telephone conference call with  South
Carolina  voters this afternoon, said he agreed Romney’s
“firing” comments had been taken out of context by some.  “The language was a little bit clumsy and open to
misinterpretation and that might raise some questions about
whether he’s the right person to debate Barack Obama, which I
think is an essential characteristic for this fall, but
nonetheless I thought it was unfair to suggest he was actually
saying he liked firing people,” said Gingrich.  Poll Results  Romney was favored by 37 percent of likely New Hampshire
primary voters surveyed in a  tracking poll  conducted Jan. 8-9 by
the Suffolk University Political Research Center in  Boston  and
sponsored by 7NEWS. Paul was second with 18 percent, followed by
Huntsman at 16 percent, Santorum -- the second-place finisher in
 Iowa  -- with 11 percent and Gingrich at 9 percent. Texas
Governor Perry, who is focusing on South Carolina’s Jan. 21
primary, drew 1 percent.  The survey showed Romney’s support eroding since last week,
when he had 43 percent support in Suffolk’s poll released Jan.
2. Huntsman is on the rise, having had 9 percent in the previous
poll.  Perry, who skipped campaigning in New Hampshire, told a
town-hall meeting today at a retirement community in Fort Mill,
South Carolina, that Bain’s dealings had hurt workers in the
state.  “They were more interested in making the quick buck,”
Perry said. “And that’s the Wall Street mentality. Ethics kind
of get thrown out the door. And it’s all too often just about
how can we make as much money as we can make in a hurry. And
then walk away from the rubble that’s left.”  Perry said that while he is a capitalist, there’s a
difference between that and “making money at all costs.”  Questions for Romney  Romney, stopping today at a New Hampshire polling place at
Manchester’s Webster School, continued to face questions about
his firing comment.  As he held a baby thrust into his arms by a supporter, a
protester shouted: “Are you going to fire that baby?”  “I was talking about, as you know, insurance companies,”
Romney told reporters. “We all like to get rid of our insurance
companies. We don’t want Obama to tell us we can’t.”  New Hampshire voters suggested they were living up to their
reputation for choosing a candidate late and changing their
minds up to the final moments.  Some voters looking for an alternative to Romney said they
had recently decided to back Huntsman.  “I thought he was the most middle-of-the-road Republican,
and I think the fact that he was the ambassador to  China  under
the Obama administration shows he’d be able to work with the
other side,” said George Tosatti, 75, a hospital administrator,
after casting his ballot for Huntsman.  Vote for Paul  Patrick Boissonneau, 30, a student who had Paul’s name
tatooed on his neck, said he “came down to vote for him because
I believe more in the personal liberty aspect of things.”  Romney’s rivals hope to halt his momentum in South
Carolina, where socially conservative voters he has had trouble
attracting hold considerable sway.  Paul, 76, e-mailed supporters telling them he was “excited
about our chances to follow up on our incredible top-tier finish
in Iowa with a strong showing” in New Hampshire today, and
announcing he would hold a “money bomb” Jan. 14 to help him
make a “strong final push in South Carolina.”  Democrats were looking to use today’s primary as an
organizing tool to rally support for Obama. Democratic National
Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  said Romney’s
firing comment showed he is “remarkably out of touch.”  She also set a high bar for his performance in New
Hampshire. If he doesn’t draw more than 50 percent of the vote,
Wasserman Schultz said, it “shows you just how deeply concerned
people are and the lack of enthusiasm there is for his
candidacy.”  “As they’ve gotten a closer look in New Hampshire, Mitt
Romney’s support among Republican voters has precipitously
dropped,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Manchester, New Hampshire at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Manchester, New Hampshire at 
4318 or
 srastello@bloomberg.net  