-- Nestle Boosts Milk Production in China After Scandal Hurts Rival
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T17:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nestle-boosts-milk-production-in-china-after-scandal-hurts-rival.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  will spend 2.5 billion
yuan ($396 million) with a local Chinese government and
investors to boost output in its biggest  China  dairy district
after tainted milk from competitor China Mengniu Dairy Co. hurt
 consumer confidence .  The investment over the next five years will be used partly
to create a dairy farming institute in Shuangcheng city,
northeastern China, allowing the Swiss company to help farmers
produce better quality milk and modernize methods, Nestle
Greater China Chairman Roland Decorvet said.  The company, the world’s largest foodmaker, also plans to
expand capacity by investing as much as 600 million yuan in the
next two-to-three years, said Heiko Schipper, managing director
for Nestle Food & Beverage in Greater China.  “This will transform how raw milk is produced and how
dairy farms are managed and the consequence will be more milk
and better milk,” Decorvet, who is also chief executive for the
region, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. “We need to
do more to communicate the milk we have in China is 100 percent
safe and is the best quality.”  The announcement comes amid renewed food-safety fears after
toxins were found in milk products of Mengniu, the country’s
largest dairy company. The latest scandal, three years after
contaminated local  infant formula  killed six babies, has damaged
consumer confidence in China’s domestic dairy industry and may
help win customers for foreign companies such as Nestle,  H.J.
Heinz Co. (HNZ)  and Mead Johnson Nutrition Co.  Production Volume  Nestle, which makes Nescafe instant coffee,  Kit Kat candy
bars  and Polo mints, has been investing in Shuangcheng for more
than two decades. The company estimates that the overall milk
production will grow between 8 percent and 10 percent a year in
volume and “all these investments will allow us to grow our
business even more,” Decorvet said.  The Shuangcheng factory has close to 100 people in testing
and monitoring and has a “very sophisticated” test capability,
said Jonathan Dong, a Beijing-based spokesman.  The Vevey, Switzerland-based company is the global leader
in infant nutrition, the fastest-growing segment of the
packaged-food industry. It has lost market share in China since
2005, when it withdrew two varieties of Neslac milk powder
because authorities found they contained too much iodine,
prompting a local boycott.  Nestle aims to regain market share in the world’s most
populous nation and hopes to become a top three company in
China’s infant nutrition market in about five years, Schipper
said in an interview. This will be mainly achieved without
acquisitions, he said.  China Overtaking  France   Nestle also expects China sales to surpass France within
five years, Decorvet said. Nestle’s No. 1 market is the U.S., he
said.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the baby-food maker based in
Glenview,  Illinois , had a 12 percent share of China’s milk
formula market in 2010, Danone had 10 percent and Nestle 2.3
percent, Euromonitor International said. Closely held Hangzhou
Beingmate Group Co. had 9.2 percent and Yili had 7.9 percent,
the researcher said.  China’s baby-food market will grow about 22 percent to more
than 68 billion yuan in 2011 and will almost double to 136
billion yuan by 2015, according to Euromonitor.  Pfizer Sale  Pfizer Inc., the fourth-biggest baby-food company in the
country, said July 7 it may sell or spin off its nutrition unit,
sparking interest from Nestle, Danone SA and Abbott
Laboratories, according to people with knowledge of the process.
H.J. Heinz Co. is also bidding, the New York Post said
yesterday. Decorvet declined to comment on the reports.  Nestle last year got 10.4 billion francs ($11 billion), or
about 10 percent of revenue, from nutrition brands such as
Cerelac and Nestle Nan. The unit makes products ranging from
formula milk for babies to cereals and snacks for toddlers. Milk
products and ice cream accounted for a fifth of the group’s
revenue.  Nestle in July agreed to buy 60 percent of Chinese snack
and candy maker Hsu Fu Chi for S$2.07 billion ($1.6 billion). In
April, Nestle said it agreed to acquire 60 percent of Yinlu
Foods Group, without disclosing the sale price. Helvea AG
analyst Andreas Von Arx at the time estimated the price to be
about 1 billion Swiss francs.  --Stephanie Wong. Editors:  Garry Smith , Subramaniam Sharma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong at   swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at   bokeson@bloomberg.net  