-- Warner Bros. Faces Push-Back With Plan to Bar New DVD Rentals for 8 Weeks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/netflix-accepts-longer-warner-bros-dvd-delay-while-redbox-balks-at-terms.html
Warner Bros ., leading a push to spur
movie purchases by delaying the availability of DVD rentals, is
running into resistance from two of its biggest customers.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s Blockbuster, the largest U.S. movie-
rental chain, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , operator of the Redbox DVD
kiosks, are pushing back against the  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  film
unit’s efforts to make consumers wait 56 days before they can
rent the latest releases. The current delay for Redbox is 28
days after a DVD goes on sale to the public.  Warner Bros. is calculating the potential gains outweigh
the risk of alienating the retailers. While  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  is
going along, Blockbuster stores are buying the studio’s movies
from others the day they go on sale and renting them to
customers right away, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  “As a company that’s really not focused on new releases,
Netflix doesn’t really care about a move from 28 days to 56,”
said  Eric Wold , a San Francisco-based analyst at B. Riley & Co.
“For the other companies, new releases really dominate their
rentals, so that kind of delay would really hurt them.”  Coinstar, which has an agreement with Warner Bros. that
expires at the end of this month, hasn’t agreed to lengthen its
28-day window and has suggested it too may find alternatives.  No Revised Accord  “The current agreement Coinstar has with Warner Bros. is
to receive movie titles 28 days after their release,” Marci Maule, a spokeswoman for the Bellevue, Washington-based company,
said yesterday in an e-mail, reiterating earlier statements.
“No revised agreements are in place.”  Coinstar, operator of more than 34,000 DVD-rental kiosks,
has “workarounds” to obtain new releases if studios seek to
impose a longer delay, Chief Executive Officer Paul Davis said
on an Oct. 27 conference call.  Peter Binazeski, a Warner Bros. spokesman, said the company
had no comment on talks with Blockbuster or Coinstar.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and
Warner Bros. previously made deals with Coinstar and Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix for a 28-day delay.  Netflix, the streaming and DVD rental service, agreed with
Warner Bros. yesterday to double the period to 56 days.  The longer window is part of an effort at Warner to get
customers to buy movies rather than rent them, Mark Horak,
president of Warner Home Video North America, said yesterday in
the statement announcing the Netflix deal.  U.S. consumer spending on home-video entertainment fell 2.1
percent to $18 billion last year, the seventh straight annual
decline, according to the industry-backed Digital Entertainment
Group.  Rental Stores  Rental revenue at stores like Blockbuster tumbled 28
percent, the DEG said. Purchases of DVDs fell 20 percent, the
DEG data suggest, while spending on Blu-ray discs gained 20
percent to $2 billion. Kiosk rentals, led by Redbox, grew by 31
percent, the DEG said.  Another part of the strategy, Horak said, is to promote
UltraViolet, a technical standard that allows consumers to buy
movies online from multiple sources and watch them on a variety
of devices, including TVs, computers and smartphones.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest Internet retailer, announced
yesterday at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  that
it is rejoining the UltraViolet initiative and will make films
purchased by consumers accessible on devices such as its Kindle 
Fire tablet.  Netflix probably is getting a reduced price on DVDs in
return for waiting longer, Wold said. Before Netflix started its
streaming business, new releases accounted for about 30 percent
of customer requests, he said. That percentage probably declined
when streaming was introduced.  “They always push consumers toward catalog titles
anyway,” Wold said.  Dish, which bought Blockbuster out of bankruptcy in April,
gained 0.3 percent to $28.88 yesterday at the close in  New York .
Coinstar advanced 2.3 percent to $44.18, while Time Warner added
0.4 percent to $36.97. Netflix declined 2.4 percent to $95.83.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  