-- Ponzi Schemer Shapiro’s Associate Gets One Year in Prison for Tax Crime
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-10T19:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nevin-shapiro-associate-gets-year-in-prison-for-failing-to-report-income.html
A Naples,  Florida , man who brought
the most individuals into a $930 million Ponzi scheme was
sentenced to one year and one day in prison for failing to
report to tax authorities commissions he received.  Sydney Jack Williams, 63, was sentenced today by U.S.
District Judge Susan Wigenton in  Newark ,  New Jersey , according
to a statement from U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman. In pleading
guilty in September Williams admitted to getting people to
invest in Capitol Investments USA Inc., a bogus wholesale-
grocery distribution business run by  Nevin Shapiro  of Miami
Beach, Florida. Shapiro, 42, was sentenced in June to 20 years.  “Williams received more than $12 million for bringing more
than 60 investors to Capitol -- more money than any other
individual received and for more investors than any other
individual recruited,” according to Fishman’s statement.  Shapiro admitted he used money from new investors in
Capitol to pay earlier ones, as well as to fund a lavish
lifestyle, including making mortgage payments on a $5 million
house and buying floor seats to Miami Heat basketball games. He
is in the Federal Correctional Institution in Oakdale,
 Louisiana , according to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons website.  Williams’s lawyer, Martin R. Raskin of  Coral Gables ,
Florida, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking
comment on the sentence.  Failure to Report  According to the prosecutor’s statement, Williams pleaded
guilty to failing to report $1.7 million in income for 2005. He
failed to report a total of $6.4 million in Capitol-related
income for 2004 through 2007, on which he owed about $2.2.
million in taxes, according to his charging document.  Williams, who faced a maximum sentence of three years,
wasn’t accused of knowing Shapiro or Capitol committed fraud. He
himself invested more than $100 million in Capitol and received
$7 million in interest payments, though he ultimately lost
$3 million when the scheme collapsed, according to prosecutors.  The people Williams recruited invested more than
$307 million and lost more than $38 million, according to court
papers.  Capitol, based in  Miami Beach , was a so-called grocery
diverter, which buys low-priced food in one region and sells it
for a profit elsewhere, according to court papers. Shapiro told
investors their money would fund his grocery business, according
to an indictment.  Williams’s case is U.S. v. Williams, 11-cr-649, and
Shapiro’s case is U.S. v. Shapiro, 10-cr-00471, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 