-- Christie Cancels State of State Speech Following Death of Lawmaker DeCroce
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-10T15:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/new-jersey-assembly-republican-leader-alex-decroce-dies-1-.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
postponed his annual State of the State address today, following
the death last night of Assembly Minority Leader Alex DeCroce,
the highest-ranking Republican in the lower house.  Christie will put off the planned speech to a joint session
of the Legislature and intends to give remarks on DeCroce’s
passing, said  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor.
Christie is legally obligated to make the address and will do so
at a later date, Drewniak said.  The last time the speech was postponed was in 1996 by
Republican Governor Christine Todd Whitman due to weather.  “This has just supplanted the State of the State,”
Drewniak said in a telephone interview. “Obviously, this is
done out of respect.”  DeCroce, who represented Parsippany, collapsed and died
last night in a Statehouse men’s room moments after the
Legislature held its final voting session of the year, State
Police Captain Frank Davis said. He was 75.  The lawmaker had served in the  Assembly  since 1989 and
assumed the leadership post in 2003. State troopers responding
to reports of an unconscious man in a first-floor restroom about
11:20 found DeCroce slumped over, without a pulse and not
breathing, Davis said.  CPR Performed  After troopers performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation and
used an external defibrillator, Assemblyman Herb Conaway, a
Democrat and physician who had served with DeCroce since 1998,
pronounced him dead at 11:30 p.m. local time, Davis said. He
declined to speculate on the cause of death.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican, called the lawmaker’s
passing “an enormous loss for our state.” He plans to speak at
1 p.m. in the Assembly chambers in Trenton, Drewniak said.  “Tonight I lost a dear friend, colleague and mentor,”
Christie said in an e-mailed statement. “He was an enormously
accomplished legislator and a tremendous servant to the people
of  New Jersey .”  Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver also canceled a planned
reorganization meeting of the Assembly today,  Tom Hester , her
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Oliver and Majority Leader-Elect
 Louis Greenwald  commented on DeCroce’s death in a statement on
the Assembly’s website.  “Alex DeCroce was a friend, colleague and leader,”
Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange , said in a joint statement
with Majority Leader Louis Greenwald. “He was always someone
ready with a handshake and a laugh, no matter the circumstance,
and his devotion to the people of New Jersey was unwavering. The
Assembly has lost one of its great institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  