-- New Jersey Democrats May Thwart Christie’s Cuts in Second Half of His Term
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-10T12:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/new-jersey-democrats-may-thwart-christie-s-cuts-in-second-half-of-his-term.html
Democrats who control  New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s
Legislature may thwart parts of Governor  Chris Christie ’s
agenda, including ending unused sick-day pay and teacher tenure,
as he begins the second half of his term with near-record
approval ratings.  The Republican has won passage of proposals to raise public
workers’ costs for pensions and benefits and put a 2 percent cap
on property-tax growth. Democrats, emboldened by victories in
November’s elections, have vowed to fight harder against
Christie, who they say has acted like a bully to get his way.  “This legislature is going to be publicly less
cooperative,” said  Brigid Harrison , a politics professor at
 Montclair State University . “Many Democrats were taken by
surprise at the considerable momentum and force he brought to
the office and they haven’t wanted to defy him in the court of
public opinion. Now they’re going to be more wary.”  Even with Democrats hardening their opposition, Christie,
49, has remained popular in  New Jersey  and with Republicans out
of state. He has 56 percent approval among voters and has been
campaigning for presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  in  Iowa  and
 New Hampshire  after spurning his own White House bid last year.  Christie, who was scheduled to make his second State of the
State address today, postponed the speech after Assembly
Minority Leader Alex DeCroce collapsed and died last night in
the Statehouse.  Sick Pay  Christie last week declined to say what topics he’ll touch
on during this year’s State of the State, though he said he may
call again for action on ending payouts for unused sick-pay if
lawmakers didn’t pass it in the lame-duck session that ended
yesterday.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor,
declined to comment on the speech.  In what may become 2012’s first showdown, Democratic
legislative leaders said yesterday they have enough votes to
pass a gay-marriage bill. Christie has said he supports the
state’s civil-unions law, and believes marriage should be
between a man and a woman.  A year ago, Christie used his first State of the State
speech to urge lawmakers to “do the big things,” which he said
were maintaining fiscal discipline, overhauling public education
and reducing the costs of pensions and benefits.  ‘Small Potatoes’  In recent weeks, Christie has toured the state to emphasize
the costs to towns and taxpayers of giving government workers
lump-sum payments for unused sick days. He has refused to accept
Democrats’ compromise that would cap the payouts, not end them.  Such smaller battles, as compared with his pension changes
that drew protests from thousands of workers outside the
Statehouse, will likely be a bigger part of Christie’s agenda in
the rest of his term, said  Patrick Murray , a political-science
professor at  Monmouth University .  “He’s really staking out a claim on small-potatoes issues
such as sick-leave payouts, which are important to his overall
strategy, but are not really what he needs as far as
accomplishments,” said Murray. “The political reality is that
there’s a gubernatorial election coming up and members of the
other party do not necessarily want to give him a victory.”  Education Proposals  Christie, after calling 2011 “the year of education
reform,” was unable to win passage of measures to offer
privately funded vouchers to students from poor families,
institute merit pay for teachers and make it easier for
administrators to fire educators deemed to be inadequate. He has
promised to jump-start debate on the bills in 2012.  Speaking to reporters Jan. 4 in  New Brunswick , Christie
said he wouldn’t accept Democrats’ compromise on sick leave.  “You’re never going to get everything you want but you
should never compromise your principles; this is a principle
issue,” Christie said. “If I compromised on this, I would be
violating a principle of mine.”  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, saw his stature in the national party rise weeks
after taking office in January 2010. He froze $2.2 billion in
spending to close a midyear deficit, and then cut $10 billion in
projected new spending for schools, pensions and towns. He
sparred with teachers and other union members over benefits and
pay, using YouTube videos of the battles to spread his message.  Benefits Changes  Democratic control of the Legislature forced Christie to
compromise on the tax cap and benefits overhaul. Christie also
was dealt a blow in November when his party failed to gain
legislative seats, even after he campaigned for candidates and
drew record out-of-state donations.  “That election proved a point,” Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , New Jersey’s highest-ranking Democratic lawmaker, said
in a Jan. 6 interview. “The governor went around in those
competitive districts and said ‘this is all about me; please
help me out.’ Everywhere he did that, he lost.”  Democrats’ victories didn’t hurt Christie’s popularity.
Fifty-six percent of the state’s registered voters approved of
him in a Nov. 16 Quinnipiac University poll, statistically
unchanged from his high of 58 percent in October. Christie’s
predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine , had approval from 46 percent
of voters at the midpoint of his term.  Economic Recovery  Christie may be benefiting from the state beginning to
recover from the 18-month recession that began in December 2007.
New Jersey’s unemployment rate, which trails the U.S. average,
was 9.1 percent in November, down from 9.8 percent at the
beginning of 2010. Still, that’s more than double the 4.5
percent rate four years earlier.  The Philadelphia Federal Reserve’s coincident index of New
Jersey, a gauge of state-level economic conditions, has climbed
3 percent since Christie took office. The  index  is a composite
of economic data, including nonfarm employment, the jobless
rate, average hours worked in manufacturing and wages.  “He’s in a much better position than Corzine was, there’s
no doubt about it,” said  Peter Woolley , director of the
PublicMind Polling Institute at Fairleigh Dickinson University.  Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a Westfield Republican,
said Christie “has a good story to tell” in cutting spending
and turning around the economy and needs to highlight that in
the State of the State.  Monmouth University ’s Murray said
Christie should plot out a clear course for how he will continue
work on lowering property taxes and reining in the cost of
government.  “He’s setting himself up for a potential battle with the
Legislature, so he needs to lay right on the line that he’s
going to be the one with taxpayers’ interests on his mind,”
Murray said  ‘Aggressive Assumptions’  New Jersey’s revenue collections for the first five months
of the fiscal year that began July 1 totaled $7.65 billion, up 5
percent from the same period a year earlier. The total, though,
is 1.9 percent below Christie’s projections.  Christie’s fiscal 2012 budget “relies on some relatively
aggressive assumptions on both the revenue and expenditure side
and could place additional pressure on the state if these
assumptions do not materialize,”  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
Jan. 5 report.  S&P cut its rating on New Jersey’s debt one step last
February to AA-, its fourth-highest level, citing the state’s
pension and health-care obligations. Moody’s Investors Service
followed in April, and  Fitch Ratings  in August. Only California
and  Illinois  have lower ratings.  Bond Market   Christie’s pension and benefit changes won’t prevent the
need for increased state contributions, Fitch said. Other
negatives for Fitch were an economic recovery that is lagging
behind the nation, persistent deficits and high debt.  The extra yield investors demand to own a New Jersey
general-obligation bond maturing in 2021 rated Aa3 by Moody’s
and AA- by S&P instead of a top-grade tax-exempt security due in
nine years fell to about 31 basis points on Jan. 9 from as much
as 100 basis points in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  John Mousseau, portfolio manager at Vineland, New Jersey-
based Cumberland Advisors, which oversees $1.2 billion in
municipal securities, said he gives Christie “a solid B or B-
plus.” While as a politician Christie needs to improve how he
works with lawmakers,  Wall Street  has looked more favorably on
New Jersey due to high incomes and confidence that Christie is
beginning to get a handle on spending, he said.  “He’s installed a mindset of cutting costs which clearly
was missing,” Mousseau said. “Has he turned the ocean liner
around yet? No. Has he started maneuvering it to get it clear?
Absolutely.”  Sweeney, of West Deptford, said Christie was able to secure
early legislative wins because there was already support among
top Democrats for overhauling pensions and benefits. The
governor is going to have to abandon his inflexible approach if
he wants approval for sick-time pay and tenure, Sweeney said.  “For the first half of his term, his agenda almost
mirrored mine,” Sweeney said. “I’m not going out of my way to
pick a fight, but we’re going to push our agenda and we’re going
to do it hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 