-- New Hampshire Republican Primary Awards 12 Convention Delegates
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/new-hampshire-republican-primary-awards-12-convention-delegates.html
New Hampshire  voters cast ballots
today in the first presidential primary of the 2012 campaign, a
quadrennial tradition that dates to 1952.  With President  Barack Obama  free of serious opposition on
the Democratic side, the spotlight is on the race for the
Republican nomination. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
has led in polls of likely primary voters in the state, though
his lead has been shrinking. His rivals are jostling for second
place, as the race next turns to South Carolina.  Here’s a closer look at the New Hampshire contest and its
mechanics:  How is the New Hampshire primary different from the Iowa
caucuses that were held Jan. 3?  The primary is state-run, while the Iowa caucuses are
party-operated meetings that begin at night and require a longer
time commitment to vote. New Hampshire voters simply must go to
polling stations, most of which will open in the early morning
and close at 7 p.m. local time. Other polling locations will
close at 7:30 p.m. or 8 p.m.  The northern New Hampshire hamlets of Dixville Notch and
Hart’s Location will continue a tradition of voting and
reporting their results minutes after midnight today, before
everyone else. The  Associated Press  will report results as soon
as they get them, though it won’t project a winner until after
all polling stations have closed at 8 p.m.  Who may participate in the Republican primary?  The vote is open to registered Republicans and voters who
haven’t declared a party preference. Also, residents who haven’t
registered to vote may do so on primary day.  According to the office of New Hampshire Secretary of State
William Gardner, there were 231,611 Republicans and 312,621
undeclared voters as of Dec. 14.  How many voters will show up?  Gardner has predicted a turnout of 250,000 for the
Republican primary, a little higher than the almost 240,000
ballots cast in the past two competitive Republican primaries.  Turnout was 239,793 in 2008, when Arizona Senator  John McCain  beat rivals including Romney. In 2000, there were 238,206
votes cast in the primary in which McCain defeated then-Texas
Governor  George W. Bush , who went on to become his party’s
nominee and win the presidency.  Unlike in 2000 and 2008, this year’s Republican primary
isn’t competing with a contested Democratic race for the
attention of the 41 percent of voters who don’t declare a party
preference. President Barack Obama, then an Illinois senator,
lost the 2008 Democratic primary to then-Senator  Hillary Clinton 
of  New York  by 2 percentage points. In the 2000 Democratic race,
then-Vice President  Al Gore  defeated former Senator Bill Bradley
of  New Jersey  by four percentage points.  Why has Romney led in the polls?  Romney campaigned frequently in New Hampshire, where he
also owns a home. He was governor of neighboring Massachusetts
from 2003 to 2007 and placed second in the New Hampshire primary
in 2008.  Former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , a social-
issues conservative who finished second to Romney in the Iowa
Caucuses by eight votes, isn’t doing as well in New Hampshire
because the state doesn’t have as large a bloc of evangelical
voters. In the 2008 Republican primary, 23 percent of voters
told pollsters they were born-again or evangelical Christians,
compared with 57 percent in last week’s Iowa caucuses.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  has run second in the
polls, buoyed by a core of supporters attracted by his
libertarian, pro-state rights positions. Former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. is staking his candidacy on his showing in New
Hampshire; to that end, he has conducted more than 150 public
events in the state.  How are Republican voters spread throughout the state?  Two counties, Hillsborough and Rockingham in the state’s
southern part, will cast more votes than the other eight.
Hillsborough, which includes the cities of Manchester and
Nashua, cast 30 percent of the Republican vote in 2008.
Rockingham, which takes in Portsmouth and Derry, cast 25
percent.  In the 2008 primary, Romney carried Hillsborough and
Rockingham, two of the three counties that abut  Massachusetts .
McCain won the other eight counties to beat Romney statewide by
37 percent to 32 percent.  How many delegates are at stake?  New Hampshire has 12 delegates to the national Republican
convention, or 0.5 percent of the total of 2,286. Its delegation
was reduced from 24 because it is holding a binding nomination
contest before Feb. 1, in violation of a Republican National
Committee rule.  The delegate penalty is a small price to pay for the media
exposure and candidate visits to a state that influences the
momentum of the race more than the delegate math.  How are the delegates allocated among the candidates?  Candidates win delegates in proportion to the votes they
get, though they must win at least 10 percent of the ballots
cast to be eligible for the allocation. The statewide winner
gets the remainder of the 12 delegates if the threshold
requirement leaves some unaccounted for.  How often does New Hampshire’s Republican primary winner capture
the party’s nomination?  Of the five winners of Republican primaries between 1980
and 2008 that didn’t include an incumbent president, three went
on to claim the nomination --  Ronald Reagan  in 1980,  George H.W.
Bush  in 1988 and McCain in 2008.  In 1996,  Bob Dole  won the nomination after losing the New
Hampshire primary to Pat Buchanan by 1 percentage point. In
2000, George W. Bush lost to McCain in New Hampshire by 19
points then won the nomination.  Why does New Hampshire hold the nation’s first primary?  The national political parties generally allow New
Hampshire to hold the first primary. A state law directs New
Hampshire’s secretary of state to select a primary date that is
at least seven days before any other primary. The next primary
this year is Jan. 21 in  South Carolina .  New Hampshire’s presidential primary dates to 1916, when it
began direct election of delegates to national party
conventions. It began voting directly for presidential
candidates in 1952, when primaries were still less common than
caucuses or state conventions for selecting convention
delegates.  That year, Senator Estes Kefauver of  Tennessee  focused on
the state in his bid for the Democratic nomination when it was
still unclear whether President  Harry Truman , also a Democrat,
would seek another term. “All these primaries are just eyewash
when the convention meets,” Truman said at a White House news
conference, according to a 2003 book by Dante Scala, a political
scientist at the University of New Hampshire in Durham.  Kefauver won the primary, and Truman announced a few weeks
later that he wouldn’t seek re-election. The New Hampshire
primary has increased in importance ever since.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  