-- Nicotine Patches, Gums Fail to Help Smokers Quit for Good
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-10T21:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nicotine-patches-gums-fail-to-help-smokers-stay-off-cigarettes.html
Nicotine-replacing gums and patches
like those from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  failed to
help smokers who quit the habit stay off cigarettes, even when
used with professional counseling, a study found.  Researchers surveying 781 former smokers found almost a
third relapsed even after using nicotine replacement products.
Scientists said the results cast doubt on the long-term benefit
of products like Pfizer’s Nicotrol inhaler and GlaxoSmithKline’s
NicoDerm CQ patch and Nicorette gum, leaders in a market worth
$1.2 billion annually, according to IMS Health, a research firm.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  should only approve
products that have been shown to help smokers quit and stay off
cigarettes for years, said researcher Gregory Connolly, director
of the Center for Global Tobacco Control at  Harvard School of
Public Health , in a statement.  “Using nicotine replacement therapy is no more effective
in helping people stop smoking cigarettes in the long-term than
trying to quit on one’s own,” said lead author Hillel Alpert, a
Harvard research scientist.  While the therapies helped smokers quit in clinical trials
where patients are carefully monitored, the study published
online yesterday by the journal Tobacco Control shows they’re
less effective in a real-world setting, Alpert said. The
 National Cancer Institute  funded the research.  Glaxo Response  Sarah Sanders, a spokeswoman for London-based Glaxo, said
that “hundreds” of previous studies had shown the efficacy of
nicotine replacement.  “NRT products have helped millions of smokers quit by
gradually weaning them off of their tobacco addiction and is
recommended as a first-line therapy for quitting,” Sanders
wrote in an e-mail. “Despite the authors’ conclusions, there
remains strong support for NRT’s efficacy and its positive
impact on  public health .”  Mackay Jimeson, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said
that smokers needed options to help them quit.  “While the health benefits of quitting smoking are
immediate and substantial, quitting smoking is a journey and
quit strategies can range from ‘cold turkey’ to gum and NRT to
other medications and counseling,” he wrote in an e-mail.  Glaxo  shares  fell 1.1 percent to 1,420 pence at the close
today in  London . Pfizer shares gained less than 1 percent to
$21.94 in New York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  