-- Nigerian Strike May Force Jonathan to Seek a Compromise on Fuel Subsidies
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-10T11:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nigeria-s-jonathan-faces-his-defining-battle-amid-general-strike.html
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan
is coming under increasing pressure from a general strike and
the legislature to back down on his decision to abolish fuel
subsidies and to discuss phasing them out instead.  The  House of Representatives  has called on Jonathan to
reverse the decision and the Nigeria Labour Congress and the
Trade Union Congress, which called the strike that started
yesterday, said they’re ready to discuss subsidies if he does.
While the action hasn’t hurt exports from Africa’s top oil
producer, trade in the naira currency was limited for a second
day and most businesses and shops were closed.  “It would be tough for them to back down, but what they
might do is try to think of some way of phasing it in, not
having quite as sharp a shock,” Rachel Ziemba, a senior analyst
at Roubini Global Economics in  London , said in a phone
interview. “It’s become a defining test for Jonathan’s
administration.”  At least two people were killed by police during protests
yesterday, while the the government imposed a dusk-to-dawn
curfew in the northern city of Kano. Nigerian army troops
guarded oil company offices and facilities in  Port Harcourt ,
while military helicopters and boats patrolled the creeks in the
Niger River delta.  Labor unions called the strike to force the government to
reverse a decision to scrap fuel subsidies. It started a day
after Jonathan, 54, said the Boko Haram Islamic group
responsible for attacks in the north had infiltrated his
administration and threatened  Nigeria  with a situation worse
than the 1967-70 civil war.  Gasoline Prices Soar  Gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
more than doubled after Jonathan abolished 1.2 trillion naira
($7.4 billion) of subsidies on Jan. 1. The price had been capped
at 65 naira a liter, undermining investment in refineries that
forced the nation to import about 70 percent of its fuel.  Jonathan may decide to try to start negotiations to remove
the subsidy gradually when the government meets tomorrow,
Babatunde Obaniyi, head of market risk at Lagos-based Greenwich
Trust Group Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Jonathan has pledged to use the savings from the subsidy to
invest in  power plants  and roads in  Africa ’s most populous
nation.  “Given President Jonathan’s insistence that the subsidy
removal would not be reversed as it forms part of his
transformation agenda, there may be a long drawn out battle
ahead,” Gregory Kronsten, the London-based head of
macroeconomic research at FBN Capital Ltd., wrote in a report
today. “The government’s resolve appears very strong.”  Oil Unions  The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of
Nigeria, one of the country’s two main oil workers’ unions,
urged Jonathan to compromise.  “Oil production is being shut down gradually in the
anticipation that the government will so something, but if
government doesn’t do something about the strike, then it will
be shut by the weekend,” Babatunte Oke, a spokesman for the
union, said today by phone from Lagos.  Nigel Cookey-Gam, a spokesman for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which
has the second-largest oil operations in Nigeria, said today by
phone that “production and exports have not been affected by
the strike.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s venture, which has the biggest
operations in Nigeria, said its offices in Lagos and Port
Hartcourt, the hub of the oil industry, are closed. Company
spokesman Precious Okolobo wouldn’t comment on the strike’s
impact on production.  Military Patrols  “We’re closely monitoring the situation and the safety of
our employees and contractors is our key concern right now,” he
said by phone from Lagos.  Nigeria produced an average 2.2 million barrels of crude a
day in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and is
the fifth-largest provider of oil imports to the U.S. At least
90 percent is pumped by Shell, based in  The Hague ,  Exxon Mobil ,
 San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
in joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp.  The strike forced Nigeria, the world’s fourth-biggest cocoa
producer, to stop moving beans from farms for processing and
gradings, said Robo Adhuze, spokesman for the Cocoa Association
of Nigeria.  Cocoa Processing Halted  “Without grading, the beans cannot be certified and bagged
for export,” he said by phone from Akure in western Nigeria.  Nigerian airspace is not closed and all international
flights are operating normally, Supo Atobatele, a spokesman for
the National Airspace Management Agency, said by phone from
Lagos today.  The strike, violence by Boko Haram militants in the north
and signs of a resumption of unrest in the oil-rich Niger delta
are increasing tensions in Nigeria,  John Campbell , a former U.S.
ambassador to Nigeria and fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in  New York , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Nigeria strikes me as being rather overstressed at the
moment, with Boko Haram, the delta and now a general strike,”
he said. “That’s a bit much for any country to deal with at the
same time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  