-- Nigeria Shuts Down as Striking Unions Defy Jonathan Over Fuel Subsidy
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-11T12:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nigeria-s-jonathan-in-deadlock-with-striking-unions-over-subsidy.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
and striking unions are deadlocked over their demands that the
government reverse its decision to lift fuel subsidies that more
than doubled the price of gasoline.  The strike, which entered its third day today, shut down
banks, businesses and ports across the West African nation,
limited the trade in stocks and the naira. While the action
hasn’t slowed oil exports from Africa’s top crude producer,
pumped by companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , it may have cost 320 billion naira ($2 billion) in
economic output, said Bismarck Rewane, chief executive officer
of Financial Derivatives Co.  “It’s mind boggling the cost” to the economy, he said by
phone from Lagos today. “The foreign-exchange markets are
down” and “the stock market is operating at about less than 5
or 10 percent of its optimal turnover and transactions.”  Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, has pledged to
use savings from the 1.2 trillion naira subsidy to invest in
 power plants  and roads in sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest
economy. At the same time he faces an increase in religious
violence in parts of the north where he has declared a state of
emergency and says Islamist militants pose a worse threat to the
country than the 1967-70 civil war.  Credibility at Stake  “Any backing away from the issue now will raise quite
profound credibility issues with the government,” Antony Goldman, the head of London-based PM Consulting, which
specializes in risk analysis in West  Africa , said in a phone
interview yesterday. “If they get this through, maybe people
will start believing the transformational agenda is something
more than just rhetoric.”  The lifting of the subsidies will lead to higher inflation
and likely tighter monetary policy, Yvonne Mhango, an economist
at  Renaissance Capital , said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Johannesburg. Growth may slow to as low
as 6.5 percent from a previous forecast of 7 percent this year,
she said.  “It’s a big positive the fuel subsidies have been
scrapped,” she said. “It created a huge scope for
corruption.”  Thousands of protesters marched through the streets of
major cities, led by union leaders, displaying banners and signs
denouncing Jonathan’s government and demanding the reversal of
fuel-price increases. Police have shot dead three people and
injured 25, London-based  Amnesty International  said today in
statement, as it urged Jonathan to investigate the use of police
force against demonstrations.  Naira Trading Limited  Naira trading was limited for the third day, as Nigeria’s
currency slid less than 0.1 percent to 161.91 per dollar as of
1:24 p.m. in Lagos. The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX) 
fell less than 0.1 percent to 20,901.13, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on Nigeria’s 6.75 percent Eurobonds due 2021
declined 10 basis points, or 0.1 percent, to 6.015 percent, the
lowest since Nov. 8, as of 12:16 P.m. in  London , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The unions’ defiance of an injunction the National
Industrial Court issued against the strike last week
“constitutes an open invitation to anarchy,” Attorney General
Mohammed Bello Adoke said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
The government may withhold the pay of state workers who don’t
honor their employment contracts, he said.  Kaduna Curfew  The northern state of Kaduna imposed a 24-hour curfew in
its the capital to curb violent protests, Police Commissioner
Bala Nasarawa said.  At least 11 people, including four policemen, were killed
yesterday in attacks by suspected Islamic militants in the
northern states of Yobe and Bauchi, police said.  The Senate will mediate between the government and striking
labor unions to end the deadlock over removal of fuel subsidies,
Senate President David Mark said today in a statement.  Gasoline prices in  Nigeria , where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
more than doubled after Jonathan abolished the subsidies on Jan.
1. The price had been capped at 65 naira a liter, undermining
investment in refineries that forced the nation to import about
70 percent of its fuel.  The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of
Nigeria, one of the country’s two main oil workers’ unions,
urged Jonathan to compromise.  Oil Industry Impact  Nigeria produced an average 2.2 million barrels of crude a
day in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and is
the fifth-largest provider of oil imports to the U.S. At least
90 percent is pumped by Shell, based in  The Hague ,  Exxon Mobil ,
 San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
in joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp.  “There’s nothing as yet to indicate that the  strike action 
will significantly impact the oil industry,” Mhango said.  Nigel Cookey-Gam, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil, said the
company’s position was the same as yesterday when he said
production wasn’t affected the strike. Precious Okolobo, a
spokesman for Shell’s venture, which has the biggest operations
in Nigeria, wouldn’t comment on output or exports.  “If the oil continues to flow then I think that the
government would hope that it can face down the strikes and
tough it out,” Goldman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  