-- Nokia, Microsoft Take Wraps Off Windows Phone for AT&T
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-01-10T21:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nokia-microsoft-take-the-wraps-off-fast-windows-phone-for-at-t.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
introduced their first high-speed Windows Phone for  AT&T Inc. (T)  at
the  Consumer Electronics Show , aiming to help both suppliers
stage a comeback in the smartphone industry.  The model, the Lumia 900, will be available in coming
months exclusively from AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, the companies said at an event in  Las Vegas  yesterday.
The  handset  will be one of the first Windows-based phones to use
the next-generation technology known as long-term evolution, or
LTE. Nokia didn’t give the sales date or price details.  AT&T is the biggest U.S. carrier to announce a Nokia
Windows handset, making the agreement vital for Microsoft, which
saw disappointing initial orders for phones based on its
software. Nokia is counting on Windows to revive sales in the
U.S. and help it win back share. The company sees the new model
as the linchpin to attracting more developers and other partners
to the platform.  “The Lumia 900 is not only about a great device, but it’s
also about inspiring a great ecosystem,” Nokia Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop said at the event. “An ecosystem is more
than just the apps. It’s more than the device. It’s more than
the operating system.”  Elop appeared onstage with Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  and
Ralph de la Vega, president of AT&T Mobility. The Lumia 900 will
be available in black and cyan, with a 4.3-inch (10.9-
centimeter) display. It has cameras with wide-angle lenses on
the front and back, and voice-enabled driving navigation.  Best So Far  “The Lumia 900 is probably the best device that has
carried Windows Phone so far,” said Al Hilwa, an analyst at IDC
in Seattle. “This is a hot device. The issue is how quickly
they can get it here. The market is moving at an incredible
velocity.”  HTC Corp. (2498)  also announced an LTE Windows Phone yesterday,
the Titan II. The Taiwanese handset maker, which is trying to
recover from its first quarterly profit decline in two years,
expects the model to be available in coming months via AT&T.  In a separate keynote speech, Ballmer promoted Nokia
devices, showing co-host Ryan Seacrest his own Nokia Lumia phone
-- with a missed call from Microsoft Chairman  Bill Gates .  Ballmer also announced that Microsoft has sold 66 million
units of its Xbox video game console, as well as 18 million of
the related Kinect sensors, which allow users to play games with
body motion. Kinect, along with accompanying software, will  go
on sale  for Windows personal computers on Feb. 1, the company
said yesterday. The Windows version will cost $249, with an
academic model available later in the year for $149.  Xbox Live   The company’s Xbox Live online gaming and entertainment
service now has 40 million members. To bolster that feature,
Microsoft plans to add content from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, with
programs such as “Glee,” “House,” “New Girl,” and “The
Simpsons,” as well as  Fox News  and the Wall Street Journal’s
video content.  XBox Live users will have to confirm they pay for
television in order to receive the programming, a process also
known as authentication, and the service requires a $5 monthly
fee that goes to Microsoft. News Corp. didn’t specify which pay-
TV operators have made agreements for content to be carried on
the service.  ‘Innovative Environment’  “As we continue to find new ways to deliver content to
consumers, this partnership with Xbox Live enables our viewers
to experience News Corp.’s leading media brands in an entirely
new and innovative environment,” News Corp. Chief Digital
Officer Jon Miller said in the statement.  At AT&T, the carrier is expanding its LTE network and
adding devices to catch up with larger  Verizon Wireless , which
has offered LTE devices for longer. AT&T is ahead of schedule
expanding its LTE network, with service in 26 U.S. cities, John Stankey, head of business solutions at the Dallas-based company,
said last week.  Last month, T-Mobile USA Inc. announced it would offer the
Lumia 710, Nokia’s first handset to run Windows Phone software
in the U.S. The device, targeting first-time smartphone buyers,
will cost $49.99 -- after a $50 rebate -- with a 24-month
contract. It will be available Jan. 11.  Market Share  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android boosted its share of the smartphone
operating-system market to more than 50 percent in the third
quarter, according to Gartner Inc., more than double its share
from a year earlier. Microsoft’s share dropped to 1.5 percent
from 2.7 percent.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is the single biggest
maker of smartphones. It surpassed Nokia to take that title in
the third quarter.  Ballmer’s speech ends a run of 15 years’ worth of keynotes
at the show by the executive or Gates. The Redmond, Washington-
based company said in December that it was scaling back its
presence because the timing doesn’t match up with its product-
release schedule.  Microsoft rose 0.4 percent to $27.84 at the close in  New
York . AT&T climbed 0.3 percent to $29.76. Nokia advanced 5
percent to 4.25 euros in Helsinki.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  