-- Nokia Unveils First High-Speed LTE Windows Phone for AT&T
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-01-10T00:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nokia-unveils-lte-windows-phone-for-at-t.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK)  unveiled its first high-
speed Windows Phone for  AT&T Inc. (T)  at the  Consumer Electronics
Show , a key product for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as it tries to regain
market share lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The Lumia 900 will be available in the coming months
exclusively from AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
the companies said at an event in  Las Vegas  today. The  handset 
will be one of the first Windows-based phones to use the next-
generation wireless technology known as long-term evolution, or
LTE. Nokia didn’t give details on price or an exact sales date.  AT&T is the biggest U.S. carrier to announce a Nokia
Windows handset, making it a vital agreement for Microsoft,
which saw disappointing initial sales for phones based on its
software. Nokia is counting on Windows to revive sales in the
U.S. and help it take back share after  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
surpassed Nokia as the biggest smartphone maker in the third
quarter, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “The Lumia 900 is not only about a great device, but it’s
also about inspiring a great ecosystem,” Nokia Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop said at the event. “An ecosystem is more
than just the apps, it’s more than the device, it’s more than
the operating system. It’s also about search, it’s about gaming,
and unified communications and location-based services,
developer tools and so many other things.”  Working Together  Elop appeared onstage with Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  and
Ralph de la Vega, president of AT&T Mobility. The Lumia 900 will
be available in black and cyan with a 4.3-inch (10.9-centimeter)
display. It has cameras with wide-angle lenses on the front and
back, and voice-enabled driving navigation.  HTC Corp. (2498)  also announced an LTE Windows Phone earlier
today. The Taiwanese handset maker, which is trying to recover
from its first quarterly profit decline in two years, said the
Titan II will be available in the coming months on AT&T’s
network.  AT&T is expanding its LTE network and adding devices to
catch up with larger rival Verizon Wireless, which has offered
LTE devices for longer. AT&T is ahead of schedule expanding its
LTE network, with service in 26 U.S. cities, John Stankey, head
of business solutions at the Dallas-based company, said last
week.  Nokia’s Windows Push  Last month, T-Mobile USA Inc. announced it would offer the
Lumia 710, Nokia’s first handset to run Windows Phone software
in the U.S. The device, targeting first-time smartphone buyers,
will cost $49.99 after a $50 rebate and with a 24-month
contract. It will be available Jan. 11.  Google’s Android boosted its share of the smartphone
operating-system market to more than 50 percent in the third
quarter, according to Gartner, more than double its share from a
year earlier. Microsoft’s share dropped to 1.5 percent from 2.7
percent.  Microsoft’s Ballmer will give the opening keynote speech at
the  Consumer Electronics Show  later today. The company said this
year’s conference will be the last where any Microsoft executive
gives a keynote address.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  