-- Lehman Executive Departures Mark ‘Turning Point’ for Nomura
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-01-11T06:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nomura-wholesale-banking-chief-jesse-bhattal-resigns-quits-the-industry.html
The resignation of two former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. executives from  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  may
allow  Japan ’s biggest brokerage to revamp a business that has
stumbled since it bought assets of the failed U.S. firm in 2008.  Jesse Bhattal , deputy president and chief of wholesale
banking, quit Nomura yesterday, the Tokyo-based company said.
Tarun Jotwani, head of Nomura’s global markets unit, also agreed
to step down and his division will be split up, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  They were among 8,000 Lehman employees who joined Nomura
after the Japanese company bought the bankrupt Wall Street
firm’s European and Asian operations. Bhattal, the first  foreign
member  of the bank’s 14-member executive management committee,
leaves behind a division bearing the brunt of a $1.2 billion
cost-reduction plan after overseas operations posted their
biggest loss in six quarters.  “His resignation illustrates a turning point for Nomura,
and shows that its strategy to boost profit by hiring expensive
bankers after the Lehman acquisition isn’t going to work,” said
Yuri Yoshida, a senior analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  Tokyo .
“The business model, which Lehman perfected, is old and won’t
work under the new regulatory regime and current market
conditions.”  Retire From Banking  Bhattal, 55, chose to quit and will retire from the banking
industry, Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nomura,
said by telephone yesterday. Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata will replace him temporarily.  Jotwani, 51, will also leave the firm, a person said,
declining to be identified as the matter is confidential. The
fixed-income and equities businesses under his division will be
managed separately as part of the restructuring, the person
said.  Joey Wu, a spokeswoman for Nomura in Tokyo, declined to
comment. Jotwani and his assistant weren’t immediately available
at Nomura’s office in  London , where he is based.  Shares of Nomura rose 3.2 percent to 259 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today, the highest closing price in four weeks.
They tumbled 55 percent last year, slumping to 224 yen on Nov.
24, the lowest in at least 37 years.  Nomura ranked 10th in arranging equity offerings worldwide
last year, down from No. 8 in 2009, the first full year after it
bought the Lehman operations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firm was 12th in mergers advisory, rising one
spot from two years earlier, the data show.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service said in November that it may cut
Nomura’s credit rating from Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade. The review will consider the firm’s cost-reduction plans
as well as its “failure to generate synergies and returns from
the Lehman acquisition,” Moody’s said on Nov. 9.  “Either he is uncomfortable with what they are planning to
do or Nomura wants to clear the decks to go ahead with a
restructuring,”  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca
SpA in London, said of Bhattal’s decision. “Nomura is caught in
the middle as neither a big global or a niche-type of player. It
was inevitably going to come under pressure to restructure. This
suggests, one way or other, that this will probably be
accelerated.”  Financial firms led by European and U.S. banks announced
plans last year to eliminate more than 200,000 jobs as Wall
Street’s biggest firms posted declines in third-quarter trading
and investment-banking revenue. The contagion is spreading to
 Asia , with Bank of America Corp. dismissing Michael Cho as co-
head of mergers and acquisitions in the region to cut costs, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said this week.  Stemming Exits  Bhattal, a former Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University,
joined Lehman in 1993. He was appointed president of Nomura’s
newly created wholesale division in March 2010 as the Japanese
firm sought to stem the flow of resignations by former Lehman
employees after guaranteed bonuses were paid out.  “Jesse has had a distinguished career, spanning nearly
three decades in the industry,” Shibata said in a statement
yesterday. “We would like to thank him for his contribution in
leading the wholesale business through exceptionally difficult
markets.”  Jotwani joined Lehman in 1995, holding posts including head
of Indian operations. He was appointed chief of Nomura’s global
markets division in March last year, overseeing the bank’s
equities and fixed-income units.  Nomura posted a 46.1 billion yen ($600 million)  loss  for
the three months ended Sept. 30, the first since the quarter
ended March 2009, driven by declines in trading and investment
banking income. Pretax losses from overseas operations swelled
to 52.4 billion yen, the most in at least six quarters.  The Japanese firm had a record 708.2 billion yen loss in
the year ended March 2009 after inheriting about 8,000 staff
from Lehman, guaranteeing salaries and bonuses for some.  “Bhattal kept Lehman’s franchise and people and helped
Nomura resurrect business ties with certain clients that the
 U.S. bank  used to have,” said  Masao Muraki , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “But the point is, Nomura keeps
posting losses overseas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  