-- North Korea Holds Military Rally to Demonstrate Allegiance to New Leader
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-10T04:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/north-korea-holds-military-rally-to-demonstrate-allegiance-to-new-leader.html
North Korea  held a military rally to
demonstrate allegiance to new leader Kim Jong Un and announced a
prisoner pardon to commemorate the birthdays of his father and
grandfather, the country’s first two dictators.  Navy, army and air force service members yesterday gathered
at a memorial plaza in the capital of Pyongyang, the official
Korean Central News Agency reported today, saying the military
“will build a ten thousands-fold bulwark for protecting the
supreme commander and become rifles and bombs to serve as Kim
Jong Un first line lifeguards.”  Kim Jong Il ’s death last month after 17 years of rule left
North Korea in the hands of his son, a little-known figure who
is thought to be under 30 and needs the support of party and
military leaders more than twice his age. Kim Jong Un yesterday
was named supreme commander of the 1.2 million-strong army in a
country where malnutrition has stunted the growth of  one-third
of its children , according to the  United Nations .  North Korea will grant amnesty to convicts on Feb. 1 to
mark the birthdays of state founder  Kim Il Sung  and his son Kim
Jong Il, KCNA said in a separate report today. The Presidium of
the Supreme People’s Assembly issued a decree authorizing the
move on Jan. 5, the report said, without specifying how many
convicts will be freed.  The government last granted pardons in August 2005 to mark
the 60th founding anniversary of the ruling Workers’ Party, said
Park Soo Jin, the deputy spokeswoman of South Korea’s
Unification Ministry. Special pardons are also usually issued
every 10 years of a milestone anniversary, Park said.  ‘Military Genius’  “The new regime has pretty much stabilized, as Kim Jong Un
plays commander winning the military’s loyalty and leader
winning public harmony and solidarity through the amnesty
decree,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at University of North
Korean Studies in  Seoul . “Kim Jong Un is getting that stability
from how Kim Jong Il used to rule, and by saying he will follow
his father’s dying wishes.”  North Korea’s state-run television aired a 50-minute
documentary on Jan. 8 about Kim Jong Un’s “military genius”
featuring footage of him driving a tank, assembling a rifle,
plotting coordinates on a military map and sitting in the
cockpit of a warplane. The program was broadcast on a day
believed to be his birthday, according to a book by Kenji
Fujimoto, the Kim family’s former Japanese chef.  Kim, believed to be 28 or 29 years old, oversaw the April
2009 test launch of the country’s long-range rocket, according
to the film. “I was determined to enter a war if the enemies
dared to intercept” the rocket, he was quoted as saying.  The program was a montage of his activities as the army’s
“supreme commander” and included footage of his father and
grandfather touring military facilities.  North Korea, which has twice detonated a nuclear device,
has more than 250  long-range artillery installations  along the
world’s most fortified border in reach of the Seoul area and its
23 million citizens. North Korea and  South Korea  remain
technically at war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a
cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  