-- Northern Irish Court Overturns Quinn Bankruptcy Declaration
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-01-10T14:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/northern-irish-court-overturns-quinn-bankruptcy-declaration-1-.html
A Northern Ireland court threw out
businessman  Sean Quinn ’s voluntary bankruptcy in the U.K.,
ruling that his primary business activities were in the Republic
of Ireland.  Judge Donnell Deeny overturned the bankruptcy order made by
a Northern Ireland court on Nov. 11, saying the order shouldn’t
have been made because Quinn’s business interests were in the
Republic of Ireland when Dublin-based  Irish Bank Resolution Corp
Ltd (ANGL) ., formerly  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp., made its petition against
him.  Quinn was once ranked as Ireland’s richest man by Forbes
magazine, which in 2008 put his worth at around $6 billion. He
estimates that he lost more than 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion)
after investing in Anglo Irish, which was nationalized in 2009.
Quinn owes the bank nearly 2.9 billion euros, according to the
lender. In April, IBRC appointed a share receiver to take over
the Quinn family’s equity interest in Quinn Group (ROI) Ltd.  “The whole thing is a joke,” Quinn told reporters outside
the Belfast court after the ruling, saying that he didn’t think
the bank would retrieve its money. “How would you get it back?
The company is destroyed. It is like somebody taking a
sledgehammer to a child’s toy. It is wrecked.”  Quinn declined to say whether his lawyers would appeal the
decision.  IBRC said it welcomed the court decision and will continue
with bankruptcy proceedings against Quinn in the  Republic of
Ireland .  “As a nationalized financial institution, IBRC is
determined to recoup its costs and maximize recovery for the
taxpayer and the state,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  In November, IBRC was awarded judgments in the  High Court 
in Dublin of 2.16 billion euros against money owed by Quinn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  