-- Norway Bond Yields Test German Parity as Euro Crisis Flight Resets Spreads
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-01-11T08:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/norway-bond-yields-test-german-parity-as-euro-crisis-flight-resets-spreads.html
Norwegian 10-year bond yields, which
have eased to a two-decade low, are approaching parity with
 Germany  as investors dump debt-plagued euro assets and flock to
the world’s biggest AAA rated  budget surplus .  The yield on  Norway ’s benchmark 10-year note today fell 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.95 percent, the
lowest since at least 1992, as of 8:55 a.m. in Oslo. The
 difference in yield  between Norway’s note and German debt
narrowed one basis point to about 11 basis points. The spread
was at more than 50 basis points at the start of the year.  “Demand for Nordic government bonds, especially Norwegian,
looks like it’s going to continue picking up,” Henrik Asmussen,
head of the frequent issuer desk at Nykredit Markets in
Copenhagen, said in an interview. “As long as the eurozone
remains a mess, this story isn’t going to change.”  The world’s seventh-largest oil exporter, which boasts a
$560 billion sovereign-wealth fund and no net debt, is the
world’s safest issuer of bonds, credit default swaps indicate.
Norway’s oil wealth has shielded it from the worst of Europe’s
debt crisis, which now threatens to deprive  France  and even
Germany of their AAA credit grades. As investors adjust,
countries like Norway can expect their bond markets to prosper,
Asmussen said.  “The Norwegian bond market might be the safest asset there
is,” Lars-Erik Aas, head of research at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo,
said by phone. “It is backed by one of the richest governments
in the world, which owns the petroleum fund.”  Best Performer  Norwegian government bonds with maturities of seven to 10
years are the world’s best performers this year, according to
Bloomberg data. The country’s broad market bond index has
returned 1.5 percent this year, when including reinvested
interest, while Swedish debt with a maturity of more than one
year has given investors a loss of 0.3 percent, Bloomberg
indexes show. Euro bloc debt has lost 1 percent this year, the
indexes show.  “It’s continued flight to quality, i.e. global reserve
managers diversifying into countries with strong credit
profiles,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist for Norway at SEB
AB in Oslo, said in an e-mailed reply to questions yesterday.  The bond purchases have also buoyed Norway’s currency. The
krone has gained 1.1 percent against the euro this year to a
four-month high of about 7.657.  Devising Rulebook  In the euro area, leaders are trying to devise a new
rulebook for a closer fiscal union as the debt crisis spreads to
 Italy , the bloc’s third-largest economy.  Fitch Ratings  said
yesterday Italy faces a “significant chance” of a downgrade
after last month lowering the outlook on France’s AAA rating and
putting countries including  Spain  on review for a downgrade,
citing a failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the
crisis.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes the oil and
shipping output, may expand 2.7 percent this year, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast
in November. That compares with estimated growth of 0.2 percent
in the 17-nation euro area, the OECD forecast. Norway, the only
Scandinavian country outside the EU, boasted a 10.5 percent
budget surplus of gross domestic product in 2010, the biggest of
all AAA rated sovereigns.  Rate Cuts  Norway’s central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 50
basis points last month to 1.75 percent to protect the economy
from the fallout of  Europe ’s debt crisis as export demand wanes.
Governor Oeystein Olsen said last week that policy makers have
“room to maneuver in both directions” on rates.  DNB ASA (DNB) , the
country’s biggest lender, predicts the central bank will cut
rates a further 25 basis points at its next meeting in March.  In neighboring  Sweden , which boasted the European Union’s
fastest economic expansion in 2010 and a budget surplus last
year, the government already pays less to borrow than Germany.
The yield on 10-year notes issued by AAA rated Sweden, the
largest Nordic economy with a 540 billion-krona ($78 billion)
bond market, was 1.67 percent today, about 20 basis points less
than similar-maturity bunds.  Demand for Norwegian bonds is picking up as the country
raises debt sales this year to finance a new 40-billion kroner
export lending program. The central bank is increasing the
number of auctions to 17 this year from six in 2011 after the
government decided to expand its 204 billion-krone bond market
following a decision to wind down state-backed Eksportfinans
ASA.  Increased Liquidity  “That might increase the liquidity in the market and might
make the market more interesting,” Aas said.  Norway’s average daily trading in  government bonds ,
excluding repo transactions, is 1.2 billion kroner. That
compares with about 17.3 billion kronor in neighboring Sweden,
according to data provided by Nasdaq OMX and Bloomberg
calculations.  Norway’s central bank on Jan. 9 received bids for almost
three times the amount it offered in notes maturing next year.
The country sold 6 billion kroner of 6.5 percent 2013 notes at a
yield of 1.39 percent. It received 17 billion kroner in bids,
for a cover ratio of 2.85, the highest since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  