-- Norway Inflation Was Unchanged Last Month as Growth Slows
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-01-10T09:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/norway-inflation-was-unchanged-last-month-as-growth-slows-1-.html
Norwegian underlying inflation was
unchanged last month as the prospect of a slower expansion in
the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter curtailed price growth.  The  underlying inflation  rate, adjusted for taxes, fees and
energy prices, was an annual 1 percent in December, unchanged
from a month earlier, Oslo-based Statistics Norway said today.
The rate was in line with the median estimate of 11 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 0.2 percent in the month.
Headline inflation slowed to 0.2 percent from 1.2 percent and
compared with the 0.5 percent estimated in a survey.  The central bank, which targets price growth of 2.5
percent, cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 50 basis points to
1.75 percent last months on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will hurt the economy as export demand wanes. A worsening global
growth outlook has hurt  consumer confidence  in the world’s
second-richest nation per capita, pushing it to a 2 1/2-year low
last quarter. Retail sales, excluding motor vehicles and petrol
stations, rose less than estimated in November.  “There are not many signs of strong domestic inflationary
pressures, even though capacity utilization is close to normal
levels,” Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, a senior analyst at First
Securities ASA, said in a note to clients yesterday. “Imported
inflation is depressed by a strong krone last autumn, but recent
krone weakness may damp the downward pressures on imported
prices in coming months.”  The currency emerged as a haven for investors seeking to
avoid the euro-area’s debt woes and after Switzerland capped
franc appreciation. The krone hit an 8 1/2-year high against the
euro in September. Since then, the krone has lost 2 percent
against the euro to trade at 7.6733 at 10:05 a.m. in Oslo.  Statistics Norway  has lowered its 2012 growth forecasts for
the mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and shipping, to
2.5 percent from 3.5 percent. The agency forecasts a rise in the
country’s unemployment rate to 3.6 percent this year from an
estimated 3.3 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net  