-- NYSE, Deutsche Boerse CEOs Said to Schedule Meeting on Takeover
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-10T14:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/nyse-deutsche-boerse-ceos-said-to-schedule-new-york-meeting-on-takeover.html
The chief executive officers of  NYSE
Euronext (NYSE)  and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  will meet in New York tomorrow
to discuss their merger after European Commission negotiators
signaled opposition, people familiar with the situation said.  Reto Francioni, CEO of Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse , is
flying to the U.S. with senior executives to meet NYSE’s  Duncan Niederauer , said two people who declined to be identified as the
meeting is private. They will discuss steps that can be taken to
persuade regulators to clear their 11-month-old plan to merge
and create the world’s biggest exchange company.  James Dunseath, a spokesman for NYSE in London, and  Frank Herkenhoff , a Deutsche Boerse spokesman, declined to comment.  Francioni and Niederauer will address opposition in the EC
and among regulators in the German state of Hesse, as well as
the integration they have been working on since announcing the
deal in February, the people said.  NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse (DB1) , fighting to salvage the
combination, have been trying to convince European regulators
that merging won’t stifle competition in derivatives and
clearing. EC officials told the companies at a Dec. 21 meeting
in Brussels that concessions they offered didn’t go far enough,
two people familiar with the talks said at the time. The EC team
examining the case indicated they are likely to recommend
prohibiting the deal, two people said at the time. The advice is
non-binding.  The companies still have room to maneuver. Before deciding
whether to approve or block a deal, the European Commission must
consult competition agencies from the European Union’s 27 member
nations. Commissioners from each EU country must also vote on a
decision and companies can appeal a merger ban at the EU courts.
Companies, including Oracle Corp., have managed to complete
deals to which the European Commission had initial objections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 