-- To Avoid All-Out War Give Iran One Last Chance: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-01-10T00:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/to-prevent-war-give-iran-one-last-chance-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Three years ago, President  Barack Obama  came into office with a very good idea: He would reach out
to the mullahs in Iran to see whether they were interested in
rethinking their hate-based relationship with the U.S.  So Obama, despite criticism from Republicans, wrote private
letters to the Iranian supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ,
and made a public appeal for a fresh start.  “In this season of new beginnings, I would like to speak
clearly to Iran’s leaders,” Obama said in a message broadcast in
early 2009. “We have serious differences that have grown over
time. My administration is now committed to diplomacy that
addresses the full range of issues before us, and to pursuing
constructive ties among the United States,  Iran  and the
international community.”  When the Iranian people rose up later that year, Obama only
tepidly endorsed them, and he was measured in his criticism of
the vicious manner in which the Iranian leadership suppressed
the protests. He may have been motivated partly by an assessment
that the uprising wouldn’t succeed, and that the U.S. would
still have to grapple with the Iranian theocracy. His approach
was neither morally nor emotionally satisfying, but it showed a
certain cold logic.  Nothing happened, of course: The ayatollahs showed no
interest in Obama’s entreaties.  Getting Tougher  Fast-forward three years. The Obama administration is now
tougher on Iran than was the administration of  George W. Bush .
It has imposed the most sweeping sanctions ever placed on the
country, including sanctions against the Iranian central bank.
It is helping coordinate a threatened international boycott of
 Iranian oil (IATBXOIL) . And, according to diplomatic sources I spoke to
last week, it has asked its Gulf Arab allies -- including
 Kuwait ,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates  -- to sharply
limit their contacts with official Iranian delegations.  So Republicans who still call Obama soft on Tehran are
either delusional or cynical. His administration has moved a
long way from engagement. In fact, it now appears to be moving
inexorably toward war.  The issue that will provoke that war is the Iranian nuclear
program. The administration has left itself no maneuverability
on this question. Last month,  Denis McDonough , the deputy
national security adviser, told a group of Jewish leaders that
he was furious “that there are people out there who doubt our
resolve to stop Iran.”  On Jan. 8,  Leon Panetta , the secretary of defense, said
that the U.S. would act if it found that Iran was developing a
nuclear weapon: “I think they need to know that if they take
that step -- that they’re going to be stopped.”  It appears that Iran is unmoved by such threats. Not only
has it intensified its belligerent rhetoric -- threatening to
shut the  Strait of Hormuz  to  oil-tanker traffic (OPCRIRAN)  and suggesting
that U.S. aircraft carriers aren’t welcome in the  Persian Gulf  -
- it has sentenced to death a former Marine named Amir Mirzaei
Hekmati on charges that he spied against Iran for the CIA. (The
U.S. denies that Hekmati was a spy.)  More ominously, the pro-regime Iranian newspaper Kayhan
reported that  uranium enrichment  has begun at a nuclear site
called Fordow near the holy city of Qom. This is a consequential
move: Most of Iran’s nuclear sites are vulnerable to air attack,
but Fordow is a hardened underground site. Because  Israel  has
only a limited ability to penetrate deeply buried bunkers, a
decisive move underground by Iran could push Israel to attack
preemptively.  U.S. Attack Possible  The argument is also being made in  Washington  that the U.S.
should strike Iran now, or in the very near future.  Some Republican presidential candidates have been agitating
for a preemptive strike, and their cause has been buttressed by
 an influential article  in Foreign Affairs magazine by Matthew
Kroenig, a nuclear-security expert at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , who says that a U.S. attack could set back the
Iranian program decisively, and even cause the regime to abandon
it.  Kroenig argues that a nuclear-armed Iran would threaten
U.S. allies and be prohibitively expensive to contain. He
writes: “Iran’s rapid nuclear development will ultimately force
the  United States  to choose between a conventional conflict and
a possible nuclear war. Faced with that decision, the United
States should conduct a surgical strike on Iran’s nuclear
facilities, absorb an inevitable round of retaliation, and then
seek to quickly de-escalate the crisis.”  Kroenig is correct to identify the Iranian nuclear program
as a foremost threat to American national security. But he is
wrong -- or at least premature -- to advocate for a preemptive
strike. A strike now would exchange a theoretical nightmare (a
difficult-to-contain nuclear Iran) with an actual nightmare (an
all-out conventional war across the  Middle East ).  The U.S. may one day have to stop  Iran’s nuclear program  by
force. Before it takes such drastic action, it should, once
again, attempt to show Iran the possibility of a different
future, one in which it is allowed to rejoin the community of
nations.  The president would have to spend significant political
capital, in an election year no less, by once again reaching out
to America’s foremost adversary. He could do it in such a way
that doesn’t convey weakness, but simply horror at the prospect
of war.  Obama would have to convince the Iranians that he is
offering one final chance at real dialogue -- not out of
weakness, but because, as a peace-loving person, he doesn’t want
to order the destruction of Iran’s military and industrial
infrastructure. And he could offer material prospects for
normalized relations with the West, which might be more
meaningful now that he has demonstrated his commitment to
isolating the regime  economically (IAGDPYOY) .  The chance for success is slim. Anti-Americanism is a
pillar of the Iranian regime’s faith, and the case of  Muammar Qaddafi , who gave up his weapons of mass destruction and then
saw the U.S. aid the rebels who eventually did him in, is on the
minds of Iran’s leaders. And Israel, along with the U.S.’s Arab
allies, would have to be convinced that this is a time-limited
offer.  A war with Iran could be a disaster for everyone involved,
and even those uninvolved. A last attempt at dialogue -- a last
attempt to build an offramp for the Iranians -- seems to have
fewer downsides than a rush to war.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 