-- Obama Says U.S. Can Protect Environment Without Hurting Jobs
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-10T21:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/obama-says-u-s-can-protect-environment-without-hurting-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  highlighted
his administration’s initiatives on the environment and told
Environmental Protection Agency workers cleaner air and water
doesn’t have to come at the expense of economic growth.  Obama visited the Washington headquarters of an agency that
has been a frequent target of criticism from Republicans in
Congress and the candidates seeking to challenge him in
November’s presidential election.  “We don’t have to choose between dirty air and dirty
water, and a growing economy,” Obama told the EPA staff. He
vowed to “stand with you every inch of the way.”  Republican presidential candidates, including former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and Representative  Ron Paul , have called
for abolishing the EPA. And former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said in a Dec. 4 debate that the agency “has gotten
completely out of control” and is hindering energy development.  Obama stopped at the EPA the same day the Republican
presidential candidates are waiting for results from today’s
primary election in  New Hampshire .  The president said that, before the EPA was created by
then-President  Richard Nixon  in 1970, some waterways were
heavily polluted and cars were emitting lead pollution into the
air.  “You almost want to do a ‘Back to the Future’ kind of
reminder of folks of what happens when we didn’t have a strong
EPA,” Obama said.  ‘Clear Contrast’  Heather Taylor-Miesle, director of the Natural Resources
Defense Council Action Fund, an advocacy group, wrote in a blog
posting that Obama’s visit is meant to “present a clear
contrast” to Republican candidates.  Still, Obama has drawn some criticism from
environmentalists. On Sept. 2, he sided with Republicans and
business leaders and canceled the EPA’s proposed tighter rules
on ozone. That put him at odds with EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson .  He said the decision was influenced by his consideration of
“reducing regulatory burdens and regulatory uncertainty,
particularly as our economy continues to recover.”  The higher ozone standards would have cost $19 billion to
$90 billion, according to the White House.  Obama’s decision means that states and counties must comply
with an ozone standard of 75 parts per billion set by President
 George W. Bush ’s administration. A scientific advisory panel had
said a limit of 60 to 70 parts per billion was necessary to
protect public health and Jackson had proposed cutting the level
to 70 parts per billion.  Obama said today that his commitment to the environment and
the economy “doesn’t mean that there aren’t going to be some
tensions.  That doesn’t mean that there aren’t going to be
legitimate debates that take place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  