-- Obama May Move Convention Speech to Bank of America Stadium
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-11T02:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/obama-may-move-convention-speech-to-bank-of-america-stadium.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign is considering moving the final day of the Democratic
National Convention in Charlotte,  North Carolina , to Bank of
America Stadium to sell more skyboxes to wealthy donors,
according to three Democrats involved in the fundraising.  The almost 74,000-seat home of the Carolina Panthers
professional football team would also have room for the
convention to sell more floor passes close to the stage.
Planners for the event are struggling to meet a $36.6 million
fundraising goal, according to the Democrats, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
discuss the matter.  Obama’s advisers are aware of the political downside of the
president delivering his nationally televised acceptance in a
stadium named for a bank that considered imposing a fee that he
said would have “mistreated” customers, they said.  That would be outweighed by the chance to lure more big-
dollar contributors, including corporate foundations, to cover
the convention’s costs, the three Democrats said. The rest of
the convention, scheduled to begin Sept. 3, will be conducted at
the Time Warner Cable Arena.  Joanne Peters, press secretary for the Charlotte
convention, said, “We plan to hold the convention at the Time
Warner Cable Arena.”  Four Years Later  An outdoor finale for the convention would echo the
atmosphere of four years ago in Denver, when Obama accepted his
party’s nomination under a clear Colorado night at Invesco
Field.  The administration has had a mixed relationship with
Charlotte-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  In May of 2010,  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama, praised Chief Executive
Officer Brian Moynihan for having a “level of corporate
responsibility beyond the bank.”  Last October, Obama criticized a planned $5 dollar monthly
fee that Bank of America was going to charge its debit card
users. He said that while banks have a right to set fees, he
questioned the bank’s explanation for the new charge.  “People have been using financial regulation as an excuse
to charge consumers more,” Obama said at a White House news
conference on Oct. 6. Following complaints from consumers, the
bank shelved its plans to impose the fee.  The  Charlotte  host committee is having difficulty raising
money because it’s prohibited from taking funds from
corporations and lobbyists, which parties have relied on in the
past for nominating conventions, the people said.  ‘In-Kind’ Contributions  The host committee is trying to work around the
restrictions, imposed by Obama, by asking for “in-kind”
contributions from corporations and accepting unlimited funds
from non-profit organizations such as charitable foundations
associated with major corporations.  Jim Rogers , chief executive of Duke Energy Corp. and
chairman of the Charlotte host committee, has tried to clarify
the rules for potential donors.  At a Dec. 15 briefing at the Jefferson Hotel in Washington,
Rogers, along with Steve Kerrigan, the convention’s chief
executive officer, sought to enlist federally registered
lobbyists, who are barred from contributing directly to Obama’s
campaign or convention, to get corporate clients to help
underwrite the convention, according to two of the people.  Contributors  The main host committee will accept in-kind contributions
from corporations and cash from corporate foundations,
individual and partnerships, the two people said Rogers and
Kerrigan told the assembled lobbyists and potential donors.
Rogers and Kerrigan also said they were behind their fundraising
goals, the people said.  The committee reserves the right to reject in-kind
contributions and, for example, won’t accept donations from
firms that received TARP funds.  Suzi Emmerling, a spokeswoman for the host committee,
challenged the notion that they were having a difficult time
raising money.  “Our fundraising is right on track,” she said, without
providing the amount raised so far.  A pitch from the host committee outlines four different
tiers for high-level donors and what they can expect to receive
for their contribution.  At the $1 million “presidential” level, donors will
receive a “premier uptown hotel room,” a “platinum credential
package,” a “platinum events package,” as well as “concierge
services.”  At the $500,000 “Gold Rush” level, donors are given a
hotel room, a credential and a “premiere events package.”  Tax Deductible  The fundraising appeal, e-mailed to potential donors before
Rogers’s  Washington  visit in December, emphasized that
contributions to the host committee are tax-deductible.  A separate fund set up to promote the city of Charlotte and
provide “hospitality functions” for the estimated 35,000
people expected to attend the convention can accept direct
corporate contributions and won’t “impose a limit on
contributions,” Emmerling said.  The Republican convention, scheduled for the week of Aug.
27 in Tampa,  Florida , hasn’t imposed similar restrictions on its
donors and will accept contributions from lobbyists and
corporations, said Sean Spicer, spokesman for the  Republican
National Committee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  