-- Obama Ready to Use Military Force to Stop Nuclear Iran, Ex-Adviser Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-10T23:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/obama-prepared-to-use-force-to-stop-nuclear-iran-former-adviser-ross-says.html
No one should doubt that President
Barack Obama is prepared to use military force to prevent Iran
from acquiring a nuclear weapon if sanctions and diplomacy fail,
the president’s former special assistant on Iran said.  Obama has “made it very clear” that he regards a nuclear-
armed Iran as so great a threat to international security that
“the Iranians should never think that there’s a reluctance to
use the force” to stop them,  Dennis Ross , who served two years
on Obama’s National Security Council and a year as Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton’s special adviser on Iran, said in an
interview yesterday.  “There are consequences if you act militarily, and there’s
big consequences if you don’t act,” said Ross, who in a two-
hour interview at the Bloomberg Washington office laid out a
detailed argument against those who say Obama would sooner
“contain” a nuclear-armed Iran than strike militarily.  The administration considers the risks of permitting a
nuclear-armed Iran to be greater than the risks of military
action, said Ross, who last month rejoined the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, a research group.  His comments came after Obama’s top civilian and uniformed
defense officials warned that Iran developing a weapon would
precipitate a U.S. strike.  ‘Red Line’  “Are they trying to develop a nuclear weapon? No,”
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in an interview broadcast
Jan. 8 on  CBS News ’ “Face the Nation” program. “But we know
they’re trying to develop a nuclear capability. And that’s what
concerns us. And our red line to Iran is, do not develop a
nuclear weapon.”  On the same program, General Martin Dempsey, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he has been responsible for
planning and positioning assets to be ready if ordered to take
military action.  Clinton today condemned Iran’s move to begin enriching
uranium to almost 20 percent U-235 at the underground Fordo
underground site near the holy city of Qom, calling the step
“contrary to its obligations” under United Nations Security
Council resolutions. She rejected Iran’s assertion that it needs
the uranium for its research reactor, and urged Iran to return
to nuclear negotiations with the five permanent members of the
UN Security Council -- the U.S.,  France , Britain,  China ,  Russia 
-- and  Germany .  Peaceful Nuclear Energy  The U.S. “goal remains a comprehensive, negotiated
solution that restores confidence in exclusively peaceful nature
of  Iran’s nuclear program  while respecting Iran’s right to the
peaceful use of nuclear energy,” Clinton said.  Iran, the world’s third largest oil exporter, says its
nuclear program is strictly for civilian energy and medical
research.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  issued a report
Nov. 8 citing what the UN watchdogs called evidence of nuclear
activities without a non-military purpose. The U.S. has said the
IAEA report bolsters the case that Iran is seeking the
capability to produce nuclear weapons even if it hasn’t yet made
a decision to go forward with a bomb.  Ross said his conclusion from the IAEA report is that  Iran 
has been careful “to not necessarily cross certain thresholds
that they think could provoke responses, but I don’t think
there’s a whole lot of doubt that they are embarked on a program
that can produce at a certain point weapons.”  Containment Won’t Work  While some Iran analysts have suggested an alternative to
military strikes would be to “contain” a nuclear Iran, much as
the U.S. managed to live with a nuclear-armed  Soviet Union , Ross
said the analogy doesn’t translate to the situation in the
Mideast. Nations in the region, he said, lack equivalent Cold
War-era “ground-rules,” lines of communication and a protected
second-strike nuclear capability, which deterred a surprise
attack during U.S.-Soviet tensions.  A nuclear-armed Iran would set off an atomic arms race
among neighbors, pose a risk of proliferation to other states or
terrorist groups, and increase the chances of a nuclear strike
resulting from miscalculation, he said.  “You don’t have any communication between the Israelis and
the Iranians. You have all sorts of local triggers for conflict.
Having countries act on a hair trigger -- where they can’t
afford to be second to strike -- the potential for a
miscalculation or a nuclear war through inadvertence is simply
too high,” he said.  Serious Consequences  Ross acknowledged that a military strike would have serious
consequences as well, including Iranian retaliation, either
directly or through terrorist proxies around the world, a
possible effort to shut down the  Strait of Hormuz , and a spike
in  oil prices .  Understanding those risks, “nobody uses military force
lightly,” he said, and “nobody commits to using military force
one minute before they have to.”  Crude for February delivery climbed 0.9 percent, to settle
at $102.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  amid
growing concern the dispute between Iran and western governments
may lead to a disruption in Middle East crude exports.  Ross underscored that U.S. willingness to stop Iran from
getting nuclear weapons affects decision-making in other
countries that fear Iran, including Israel and Gulf states. If
the White House abandoned a pledge to stop Iran made by Obama
and President  George W. Bush  before him, the U.S. would lose all
credibility, he said.  Israeli Action  “I wouldn’t discount the possibility that the Israelis
would act if they came to the conclusion that basically the
world was prepared to live with Iran with nuclear weapons,” he
said. “They certainly have the capability by themselves to set
back the Iranian nuclear program.”  Ross said he believes there is still time for diplomacy to
work, as the financial pain of sanctions may yet persuade Iran
to abandon its suspected nuclear weapons program.  “Force is not inevitable,” he said. “Diplomacy is still
the desired means. Pressure is an element of the means.”  Coordinated efforts to tighten penalties, including the
European Union’s preliminary agreement on an oil embargo, new
U.S. sanctions on the Central Bank of Iran, and pressure on
 Japan  and  South Korea  to reduce their imports of Iranian oil,
may finally persuade Iran’s leaders to give up the program
rather than suffer a shutdown of their economy, Ross said.  Hitting Oil Revenue  The latest measures are the first “really affecting the
core of their revenue, which is their sale of oil,” Ross said.
Historically, “when they’re really pressured, they look for
ways out.”  The leaders of Islamic Republic of Iran only accepted a
cease-fire with  Iraq , halted the assassination of Iranian
dissidents in  Europe , and abandoned the enrichment of uranium in
2003 when “it wasn’t worth the cost” anymore, Ross noted.  The latest round of punishing sanctions target oil sales,
which fund a majority of Iran’s government revenues, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Iran is “feeling pain in a much more dramatic way” than
ever, Ross said.  He dismissed threats by certain Iranian officials to
retaliate against oil sanctions by closing the Strait of Hormuz,
through which one-fifth of the world’s oil transits, as
“bluster” aimed to send a message at home and abroad, as
Iranian leaders vie for power in a struggle that Ross said is as
intense as any since the aftermath of the 1979 Islamic
revolution.  The IAEA yesterday confirmed that Iran has begun enriching
uranium to as much as 20 percent U-235 at the underground Fordo
underground site near the holy city of Qom, as Iranian leaders
had pledged to do last year. The site is monitored by IAEA
inspectors to detect any attempt to enrich uranium to the 90
percent level necessary for a nuclear bomb.  “There really is no justification for it,” Ross said of
the latest enrichment activities. “I don’t think there’s a
whole lot of doubt that they are embarked on a program that can
produce, at a certain point, weapons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 