-- Obama Turns His Attention to Where the Money Is: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-01-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/obama-turns-attention-to-where-the-money-is-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Of all the realizations  Barack Obama 
has made in three years in the White House, this may be the most
crucial: The U.S. is a Pacific nation.  Odd as it sounds, the U.S. spent the past decade forgetting
a fact that’s obvious from consulting a map or tracking
 container ships . When George W. Bush’s administration bothered
with Asia, it was all terrorism all the time. Quite odd,
considering how reliant the largest economy became on Asia’s
money during his tenure. The region became America’s banker.  Obama’s pivot east ends the neglect that allowed China to
begin challenging U.S. primacy, and Beijing isn’t happy. It’s
high time for this shift as a crisis-racked  Europe  turns inward
and  Asia  booms. Yet the U.S. must engage Asia more wisely,
constructively and sincerely than in recent decades.  China’s irritation can be seen in what might be termed a
culture war. The Americans and the Soviets had their  Cold War ;
Washington and Beijing are now battling over soft power. First
China took on Google Inc.’s search engine. Now the battle is
over something both bigger and more existential -- saving the
Chinese soul from Western encroachments. A new Cultural
Revolution? Not exactly.  New Cultural Revolution  In a recent Communist Party magazine article, President  Hu Jintao  wrote: “We must clearly see that international hostile
forces are intensifying the strategic plot of Westernizing and
dividing China, and ideological and cultural fields are the
focal areas of their long-term infiltration.” Hyperbole aside,
this is simply an effort to shore up support for Hu’s  government 
by appealing to sentimental nationalism.  Could it be a coincidence that this comes six weeks after
Obama visited Asia with big plans, including a deployment of
troops in northern Australia? China clearly got the memo.  Obama’s Asian shift was solidified days later at the East
Asia Summit in  Indonesia . There, maritime security and
territorial disputes in the  South China Sea  were up for
discussion in ways that irked China to no end. All the talk of
China expanding its soft power is met with skepticism when the
topic of claims to the resource-rich waters of the South China
Sea comes up. The issue encapsulates why many leaders in Asia
welcome the U.S.’s return and view  China (CNGDPYOY) ’s assumptions and
ambitions with wariness.  China has little time for the sensitivities of governments
from  Vietnam  to the  Philippines  to  Malaysia . That attitude fuels
perceptions of a China convinced that its interpretation of
history matters most, be it disputed claims to tiny islands
hundreds of miles from its shores, the motivation behind its
sizable military buildup or the fate of 23 million Taiwanese
voting for a democratically elected president this week.  There’s little doubt over  China ’s trajectory. Barring a
major crisis,  China’s economy  might surpass that of the U.S.
before the end of this decade. Yet there’s great debate about
the merits of China’s belief that world hegemony is its due and
that small economies should pay it tribute with undying loyalty
and natural resources while an undervalued yuan hurts them
economically.  In conversations in Bangkok and  Jakarta (IDGBFRGN)  this week, and
recent ones in  Tokyo  and Seoul, Obama’s intentions in Asia came
up constantly. This much seems clear: Although Asians have loads
of problems with America’s policies and frown on its domestic
politics, many don’t harbor great fears about its long-term
ambitions. Obama’s push for a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade
agreement with nations including  Australia , Malaysia, Singapore,
Vietnam and eventually  Japan  -- China is pointedly excluded --
is being viewed in reasonably warm terms.  Myanmar Beckons  Hillary Clinton’s visit in December to Myanmar, which China
views as being within its orbit of influence, is a fascinating
footnote. The U.S. secretary of State landed there three months
after Myanmar suspended China’s construction of a $3.6 billion
dam, a move that enraged Beijing. Was President Thein Sein
expressing a sudden preference for the West over China? Only
time will tell, but it raises fascinating possibilities.  Anyone who thinks the power shift from the U.S. to China
will go smoothly is dreaming. Possible flash points: currencies,
trade, intellectual property rights, climate change, military
spending,  North Korea , scarce global resources, human rights,
control over cyberspace, Beijing’s coddling of rogue regimes and
China’s vast holdings of U.S. Treasuries. China is also sure to
figure in this year’s U.S. presidential election.  China should forget the soft-power push for the moment and
use its influence to rein in Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang and Iran’s
saber rattling over the Strait of Hormuz. It should accelerate
the rise in the yuan and play by international rules of
commerce, not bending the World Trade Organization to its
benefit at the expense of everyone else.  The U.S. must do its part, too. It’s no longer in a
position to lecture Asia the way Bill Clinton’s White House did.
The 2008 financial crisis and the  Iraq war  before it did great
damage to the American brand and sapped its economic power. The
U.S. must leave the arrogance of the past at the door as it re-
enters Asia. This return must go beyond appearances and be a
genuine partnership.  As China tries to extend its sway in Asia, the U.S. must
realize that its own regional ambitions need some polishing,
too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Jakarta at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 