-- Obamas’ Strong Marriage Produces White House Drama, Dysfunction
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/obamas-strong-marriage-helps-stoke-white-house-drama-dysfunction-books.html
The endpapers provide maps of the
White House, while the front cover shows the First Couple’s
heads in beaming clinch. On the back they’re walking from a
well-lit room into a dark hallway, eyes down, mouths somber.  The iconography that frames  Jodi Kantor ’s “ The Obamas ” is
as curious as her tale of Barack and Michelle’s first 1,000
days: a mix of personal and political, of diary and elegy that
assays “the impact of their partnership ... on the presidency,
the job of first lady, and the nation.”  Kantor, a New York Times reporter, staked her claim to this
turf when she wrote of “the centrality of the Obama marriage to
the president’s brand” in a 2009 feature for the newspaper’s
Sunday magazine. She ended the article by wondering whether they
would learn if “their marriage can both embrace politics and
also at some level stay free of it.”  If you’re scratching your head wondering how two Harvard
Law graduates who had already shared his stints as state and
U.S. senator could stay free of politics while living in the
White House, you’ll want to keep your hand in that position for
repeated nail work. The Obamas’ apolitical hope springs eternal
in Kantor’s view, stoking frustration for them, sowing
dysfunction among their staffs and playing a large part in the
president’s uneven record.  Kantor’s recap of the pre-White House Obamas quickly
establishes that politics was “an uncomfortable fit” for both
of them. The political process Barack found in both senates was
slow, rule-bound, short-sighted. Michelle hated the long
separations caused by campaigning, and she shared her husband’s
sense that little could be accomplished in those chambers.  Welcome to Washington  Once they moved to the capital, the Obamas seemed most in
tune with each other and out of sync with realpolitik when it
came to the health-care bill. It fit “with their shared sense
of mission -- their joint idea that the president’s career was
not about pursuing day-to-day political victories” but about
fundamental change, “about access, opportunity and fairness.”  How did the president nourish his vision, according to
Kantor?  He wouldn’t schmooze for support on the measure and
wouldn’t listen to Democratic legislators saying the bill
couldn’t pass.  He neglected a special election for Ted Kennedy’s Senate
seat in deep-blue  Massachusetts  and lost it, along with “the
Democratic supermajority that was supposed to enable the passage
of the health-care legislation, along with the rest of the
president’s agenda.”  Facing disaster in the midterm elections, he sparked “the
ire of congressional Democrats” for refusing to campaign more.  The First Lady  Amid her pro and con assessment of Barack, Kantor shows how
Michelle, with her East Wing crew, carved out a role in the
White House drawn partly from being Mrs. President, partly from
her own smarts and grit.  She raised her voice to criticize the guest list for the
president’s first  Super Bowl  party. She defined exactly how much
she would campaign for the health-care bill and the midterms,
which was not much. Her  Let’s Move!  campaign against  childhood
obesity  helped persuade  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to cut “fats,
sugars and salt in the foods it sold.” Another program boosted
support for the spouses and children of those in the military.  In a struggling economy, she gaveth and tooketh away.
“Each Michelle Obama public appearance created an average of
$14 million in overall value as measured by the stock prices of
the companies that made the clothing she wore,” according to a
New York University professor. Yet media coverage of a trip to
 Spain  focused on her designer clothes and the cost of operating
the Air Force jet she flew, “$11,351 an hour.”  Dark Times  For Barack, Kantor acknowledges that he passed “an
extraordinary amount of legislation,” including the health-care
bill, but the dark moments seem to linger. The president
misspeaks on the underwear bomber. He shifts on a central
Guantanamo promise. His Oval Office speech on the Gulf oil spill
reveals his frayed ties to the people. The U.S. credit rating
gets downgraded. The  Tea Party  and all its Mad Hatters emerge to
bedevil him.  Even the  Nobel Peace Prize  seems “to underscore an idea
Obama chafed against: the main accomplishment of his presidency
might be his election.”  The president returned to eloquent form in the speech he
gave after the shooting of Gabrielle Giffords last January. And
the killing of  Osama bin Laden  in May was a triumph. In her
closing pages, Kantor also notes signs that the dysfunction is
easing, as Barack starts politicking and roles are clarified.  Behind the Scenes  Kantor’s chronicle can be read just for the key points of
the 1,000 or so days following Obama’s election and some
intriguing behind-the-scenes glimpses of what went awry. There
are strange moments of a gee-whiz tone that sounds forced from a
seasoned reporter, and a few signs of haste in the proofreading,
like an almost verbatim repetition of this point: “It was hard
to name more than one or two Republicans with whom the president
had a close, trusting relationship.”  These are minor issues to trade for the freshness of a
narration that concludes only four months ago.  Kantor unavoidably accepts limitations in the theme of the
Obamas’ marriage. By rarely losing sight of the First Lady, she
sacrifices a more-detailed look at the West Wing. The book gains
considerably, though, from its well-observed, sympathetic
portrait of Michelle. Still, whichever Wing you favor -- or
blame -- in this historical drama, there’s little in “The
Obamas” to make one expect a second act.  “The Obamas” is published by  Little, Brown (MMB)  (359 pages,
$29.99). To order this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net.i   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 