-- Oil Advances for First Day in Four on Iranian Dispute, Euro Debt Meeting
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-10T13:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/oil-advances-for-first-day-in-four-on-iranian-dispute-euro-debt-meeting.html
Oil rose in  New York  for the first
time in four days on growing concern that the dispute between
Iran and western governments may lead to a disruption in Middle
East crude exports.  West Texas Intermediate climbed as much as 2.1 percent as
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  prepared to meet International
Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde today in
Berlin. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can’t
get involved in a dispute between the U.S. and Iran over
sanctions, according to Venezuela’s oil minister  Rafael Ramirez .
President Barack Obama is prepared to use military force to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon if sanctions and
diplomacy fail, his former special assistant on Iran said.  “Iran is still the main reason why WTI surpassed the $100
mark,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen AG in
Vienna, who plans to raise his first-quarter forecast of $82
because of the conflict. “If there is military escalation,
though I don’t think this will happen, Iranian oil exports will
disappear from the global market. If there’s no intensification,
the  risk premium  will be priced out in the next couple of
months.”  Crude for February delivery rose as much as $2.10 to
$103.41 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $103.22 at 1:21 p.m. London time.
Yesterday, the contract slid 0.3 percent to $101.31, the lowest
close since Dec. 30. Prices advanced 8.2 percent in 2011, the
third annual increase.  Strait of Hormuz   Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as $1.56, or 1.4
percent, to $114.01 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a $10.51 premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  “The Iranian situation is really for speculators and
traders to have a bit of fun,” said  Gavin Wendt , founder and
senior resource analyst at Mine Life Pty in Sydney. “When the
situation gets resolved, prices will fall by about $5 to $6.”  Crude in New York has gained 4.4 percent this year amid
Iranian threats to block the Strait of Hormuz in response to
U.S. and European sanctions over its nuclear program. The
waterway carries 17 million barrels of oil a day, according to
the U.S. Energy Department, almost 20 percent of global
consumption.  European Finance Talks  Merkel will meet Lagarde after discussions with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  yesterday. The leaders said after
their talks that they plan to pursue stricter budget rules while
forging a master plan for rescuing the euro and reviving
economic growth in the region. Merkel said euro-area leaders may
complete a new budget rulebook by Jan. 30 and will consider
accelerating capital contributions to the region’s bailout fund.  Iran  has begun enriching uranium at a heavily fortified
underground site, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
yesterday. The European Union is weighing whether to move up a
Jan. 30 meeting of foreign ministers by a week to consider an
embargo on imports of oil from OPEC’s second-largest producer,
according to a diplomat.  “The supply-side shock potential is keeping the oil price
where it is,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney, who forecasts New York crude will average
$110 a barrel this year. “The situation in Europe is impacting
on economic growth, but we think that story is so well-factored
into the market now.”  Closure Unlikely  Iran is unlikely to block the strait because it would
suffer the most, according to  Dennis Ross , who served two years
on the National Security Council as U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s special assistant on Iran. The U.S. hasn’t seen any
efforts to close the route to shipping, Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  said yesterday.  “Any Iranian action in defense of their sovereignty is
Iran’s issue,” Ramirez told reporters in Caracas yesterday,
where Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad met his Venezuelan
counterpart, Hugo Chavez. “OPEC can’t get involved in this
issue.”  A general strike in Nigeria has entered a second day,
threatening shipments by Africa’s biggest oil producer. The
strike so far hasn’t affected the oil exports of Royal Dutch
Shell Plc’s venture, which has the largest operations in the
country,  Tony Okonedo , a company spokesman, said yesterday by
phone from Lagos. Protesters are opposed to the government’s
decision to end fuel subsidies.  U.S. Inventories  Nigeria , an OPEC member, produced an average 2.2 million
barrels a day of crude in December, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It is the fifth-largest supplier of oil to the
U.S. At least 90 percent is pumped by Shell, Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA in joint ventures with
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  Crude supplies in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, probably rose 1 million barrels last week, according
to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News survey an Energy Department report tomorrow. An increase
would match the longest run of stockpile gains since the three
weeks ended May 6.  Gasoline inventories may have climbed 2 million barrels
last week to 222.2 million, the  highest  in almost 10 months, the
survey showed. Distillate-fuel supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, are expected to have gained 2
million barrels.  -- With assistance from Ann Koh in Singapore. Editors:  John
Buckley , Raj Rajendran  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
at   akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  