-- Oil Rises First Day in Four on Iran Dispute, Economic Optimism
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-01-10T21:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/oil-rises-first-day-in-four-on-iran-dispute-economic-optimism.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days on renewed concern that Middle East tension will disrupt
supply and as equities advanced, raising economic optimism.  Crude gained 0.9 percent as the European Union moved up a
meeting to discuss an oil embargo against  Iran  by a week to Jan.
23 and Iran announced another step in its nuclear program. U.S.
and European stocks gained as French business confidence climbed
and Alcoa Inc. reported better-than-forecast revenue.  “There is no way traders are going to short oil if there
is potential for some fighting,” said  Michael Lynch , president
of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “People are feeling a little bit better about
the economy.”  Crude for February delivery climbed 93 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $102.24 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . West Texas Intermediate oil traded on the
Nymex has surged 20 percent in the past three months.  Prices were little changed in electronic trading after the
 American Petroleum Institute  said  oil inventories  rose 397,000
barrels to 334.9 million last week.  Distillate fuels  gained
846,000 barrels to 146.2 million and  gasoline  increased 1.89
million to 221 million, the API said. The February contract rose
87 cents to $102.18 at 4:38 p.m.  Brent oil for February settlement increased 83 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $113.28 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  “We’ve put in at least $10 a barrel, if not more, Iranian
risk premium in the price of oil,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst
with PFGBest in Chicago.  Uranium Enrichment  Iran began enriching uranium at a fortified nuclear site,
the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said yesterday. The move
drew condemnation from the U.S. and France and may accelerate
the imposition of stricter sanctions.  The U.S. State Department said the enrichment represents an
intensification of Iranian violations of United Nations
agreements on its nuclear program. It called on Iran to suspend
enrichment activities.  “Iran is still the main reason why WTI surpassed the $100
mark,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen AG in
Vienna. “If there’s no intensification, the  risk premium  will
be priced out in the next couple of months.”  Iran conducted naval exercises near the Strait of Hormuz,
the waterway through which almost 20 percent of the world’s oil
flows, for 10 days ended early this month.  “Iran’s bellicose verbiage has succeeded in pushing up oil
prices, without closing the Strait of Hormuz, or even firing a
shot in anger,”  Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of the Energy Overview
newsletter in New York and previously an oil trader at MF
Global, said in an e-mail.  President Barack Obama is prepared to use military force to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon if sanctions and
diplomacy fail,  Dennis Ross , his former special assistant on
Iran, said in an interview yesterday.  U.S. Military Force  Oil also followed gains in U.S. stocks as Alcoa, the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, rallied as much as 4.5 percent.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.9 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 0.6 percent. The S&P’s
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained 0.9 percent.  “I see people chasing prices and I see people chasing the
direction of the  S&P 500 ,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in  New York . “Alcoa had good earnings
and corporate profitability is tied to stock market
evaluations.”  In Europe, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.8 percent
after the Bank of France’s  Business Sentiment Indicator (FRBSI)  for
manufacturers advanced to 96 in December from 95 in November,
when it fell to the lowest since September 2009.  The country’s industrial production climbed 1.1 percent in
November, lifted by electronics and refinery output, the
national statistics office Insee said today. Both numbers beat
economists’ forecasts.  ‘A Certain Optimism’  “There is a certain optimism about what’s going on in the
 U.S. economy  and we are feeling a little bit better about
Europe,” said Flynn.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde will meet in Berlin
late today as pressure grows to complete a Greek debt swap
needed to put a rescue plan in place.  The deal, hammered out by European Union leaders, Greek
officials and the nation’s creditors on Oct. 26, called for
bondholders to accept a 50 percent cut in the face value of
their Greek debt, with a goal of reducing Greece’s borrowings to
120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 560,730
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 656,555
yesterday, 9.4 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.39 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  