-- Oil Trades Near a One-Week High as Iran Tension Counters European Economy
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-11T08:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-on-iran-sanctions-tension-economic-optimism.html
Oil traded near the highest
settlement in almost a week as concern that supplies from  Iran 
will be disrupted countered speculation Europe may enter a
recession as it struggles to tame its debt crisis.  Oil pared losses of as much as 0.6 percent after Iran’s
Fars news agency said a nuclear scientist was killed in a bomb
attack in Tehran. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is
visiting China and  Japan  as he seeks support for sanctions
against  Iran’s nuclear program . The Persian Gulf nation has
threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz if its oil exports are
blocked. Germany’s economic growth slowed last year and Spanish
factory output shrank the most since 2009, reports today showed.  “Tensions over Iran have contributed a risk premium of
about $4 to $5 a barrel,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal
at Purvin & Gertz Inc., an industry consultant in  Singapore .
“Europe’s economic outlook is certainly not robust. That’s
taken into account in the oil price.”  Crude for February delivery was at $102.25 a barrel, up 1
cent, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 4:06 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday climbed 0.9
percent to $102.24, the highest close since Jan. 4. Prices are
up 3.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for February settlement rose 18 cents to $113.46
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
futures was at $11.21, compared with $11.04 yesterday and a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Tehran Attack  Mostafa Ahmadi Roshana, a director at the Natanz uranium
enrichment facility in Iran’s Isfahan province and a professor
at Tehran’s technical university, was killed in today’s blast,
Fars said. A magnetic bomb was placed under his car by a person
on a motorcycle, according to the  news agency , which said the
incident was similar to previous attacks on scientists involved
in Iran’s nuclear program.  Geithner is in Beijing for talks with Chinese Premier Wen 
Jiabao and visits Japan tomorrow as he lobbies for sanctions 
against Iran’s atomic program. The Asian countries are the 
largest  importers  of Iranian oil, with China accounting for 
22 percent and Japan buying 14 percent during the first half of 
last year, according to the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration.  “China will be less OK with it than Japan,”  Matthew
Levitt , a former financial intelligence official at the Treasury
Department who is now at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, said about the plan for sanctions.  Europe  Embargo Talks  Oil fell earlier after four diplomats said European Union
talks on blocking imports of Iranian oil are bogged down.
Greece, Italy and  Spain  are trying to soften a U.K. push for a
blanket ban, on concern that a supply shock would add to the
economic damage from the European debt crisis, the diplomats
said, declining to be identified because no final agreement has
been reached. Foreign ministers from the 27 EU member states are
scheduled to decide on sanctions on Jan. 23 in Brussels.  An Energy Department report today may show U.S.  crude
inventories  rose 1 million barrels last week, according to the
median of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that
inventories gained 397,000 barrels.  Gasoline supplies climbed 1.89 million barrels last week,
figures from the API showed. They are forecast to increase 2.25
million barrels in the Energy Department report. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
rose 846,000 barrels compared with an estimate for a 2.25
million-barrel gain.  Goldman Sachs  Oil has risen this year because of an improving economic
outlook rather than tension with Iran, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a report dated yesterday. The bank sees little evidence
of an Iran premium in the oil price and has increasing
confidence that Europe’s debt crisis will be contained in the
region, according to the note from  David Greely , head of energy
research at Goldman in New York.  Germany ’s economic growth slowed to 3 percent last year
from 3.7 percent in 2010, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Spain’s industrial output declined 7
percent in November from a year earlier, the most since October
2009, the National Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  