-- Olympus Shares Surge on Revamp Optimism
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-01-10T03:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/olympus-surges-most-in-37-years-after-company-sues-executives.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  surged the most in
more than 37 years on optimism the Japanese camera maker will
survive a delisting threat and after it took legal action
against executives over a $1.7 billion accounting fraud.  The company plans to overhaul management by April after
suing 19 current and former officials for hiding losses, it said
in a statement today. Olympus will probably be fined by the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, rather than expelled from the world’s
second-biggest bourse, the Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday.  “It’s looking much more likely Olympus will keep its
listing now,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an equity analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. “By suing, the company is making it clear who
was responsible for hiding losses,” which may help the TSE in
its decision to let it remain publicly traded.  Olympus has been reeling since  Michael Woodford  blew the
whistle on inflated takeover costs after he was fired as chief
executive officer Oct. 14. The allegations forced the company to
reveal a 13-year scheme to conceal soured investments dating
back to the 1990s and raised concerns among investors and
lawmakers over Japan’s corporate governance rules.  Olympus jumped as much as 28 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since September 1974, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. It
traded 22 percent higher at 1,287 yen at the lunchtime break.  The company’s auditors filed the legal claims, which
include six current directors, at the Tokyo District Court on
Jan. 8, Olympus said in a statement today.  “Payment of each individual will be decided by the
court,” said Tsuyoshi Kitada, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based
company.  Panel Findings  Directors involved in the scheme to hide investment losses
over more than a decade caused 86 billion yen in damages to the
company, according to the findings of an independent panel
released today.  Olympus is seeking as much as 3.6 billion yen in damages
from executives including ex-Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, it
said. Shuichi Takayama, who took over from Woodford, is being
sued for as much as 500 million yen, the company said.  Former company auditor, Hideo Yamada, and Hisashi Mori,
fired as  executive director  over his role, are being sued for
3.01 billion yen and 2.81 billion yen, respectively, it said.  Olympus didn’t make its current officials immediately
available to comment and repeated attempts since the scandal
broke to get the response of those involved, including visits to
their homes, have failed.  The legal action “spurs optimism that the company will
improve its management structure,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who
helps manage the equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “It may accelerate Olympus’s moves to
resolve its problems.”  EGM  The company last week said it may hold an emergency
shareholder meeting as early as March at which current board
members, including Takayama, will resign and investors will vote
on new management.  The bourse is likely to let the company retain its listing
and will fine it 10 million yen instead, the Nikkei reported
yesterday. The TSE today said no final decision has been made.  The TSE put Olympus on a watchlist to be removed from the
bourse after it admitted to inflating fees to advisers on the
$2.1 billion acquisition of London-listed Gyrus Group Plc in
2008 and overpaying for three Japanese companies. The intention
was to increase goodwill that would subsequently be written off
to mask the investment losses, a separate independent panel
investigating the fraud said last month.  ‘Yes Men’  That panel said it found a culture of “yes men” and a
board that failed in its duty to stop a “rotten” core of
executives from duping auditors, regulators and investors.  Olympus’s biggest shareholder,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , said after Japanese prosecutors raided the camera-
maker’s offices last month that it would maintain support for
the company. Southeastern Asset Management Inc., the company’s
biggest overseas stockholder, and Harris Associates LP have said
the entire board and all executives involved in the fraud must
go.  The company “continues to suffer under shoddy corporate
governance and an utterly discredited board,” Josh Shores, a
London-based principal at Southeastern Asset, said in a Jan. 6
statement. “We maintain that the board should be replaced and a
new board should oversee the company’s revival.”  The company has lost about $5 billion of market
capitalization since firing Woodford and was forced to restate
more than five years of earnings last month to avoid an
automatic delisting after admitting to the cover-up.  Olympus’s net assets fell by 105 billion yen to 46 billion
yen after the restatement.  Criminal Probes  The company, also the world’s largest maker of endoscopes,
faces criminal probes in the U.S. and U.K., as well as  Japan ,
since Woodford made the takeover payments public in October.  Woodford also filed a case in the U.K. last week seeking
damages for the remainder of his four-year contract and
additional costs. The 51-year-old former CEO also abandoned
efforts to regain control of Olympus after failing to gain
support from Japanese shareholders.  Woodford last week said he may also sue in Japan.  “We’ll see suits and countersuits taking place in the next
couple of weeks, if not months.” Eugene Tan, assistant
professor of law at the  Singapore Management University , said
yesterday following Japanese media reports that the lawsuits had
been filed. “It’s all part of the natural fallout to be
expected with each party trying to stake their positions and to
protect their legal interests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  