-- Honda Plans to Build Its Acura NSX Hybrid ‘Super Car’ in Ohio
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-10T01:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/honda-plans-to-build-its-acura-nsx-hybrid-super-car-in-ohio.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which gets the
highest portion of autos sold in the U.S. from North American
plants among Asian and European automakers, will produce its
Acura NSX sports car in  Ohio , President Takanobu Ito said.  Production and sales of the mid-engine V6 hybrid “super
car” will start within three years, Ito said yesterday at the
North American International Auto Show in Detroit. Development
of the car is being shared between engineering groups in the U.S.
and  Japan , Ito said.  “U.S. is where we sell the most, so it makes sense to make
it here,” Tetsuo Iwamura, chief operating officer for Tokyo-
based Honda’s North American unit, said in an interview in
 Detroit  yesterday. The company plans to export the vehicle from
Ohio to Japan and other global markets and is still studying
details of the new production site, he said.  Honda seeks to revive flagging sales after production delays
triggered by natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand  coupled with
unfavorable reviews for some new products led to a 6.8 percent 
sales decline in the U.S. last year. The company, which relies 
on the U.S. for the largest portion of its global sales, got 87 
percent of U.S. vehicles sold in 2010 from its North American 
plants.  Honda  rose  1.6 percent to 2,493 yen as of 9:59 a.m. in
Tokyo trading. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 0.3
percent.  U.S. Production  “This is positive news for investors to know Honda isn’t
stubbornly sticking to domestic production,” said Takashi Aoki,
who helps manage 120 billion yen ($1.6 billion) at Tokyo-based
Mizuho Asset Management Co. “The market for  sports cars  is
bigger in the U.S. and Honda is the first among Japanese
carmakers to cross the line and transfer core vehicle production
overseas.”  The original NSX, developed by an engineering team led by
Ito, was sold in the U.S. from 1990 until 2005. That model, with
an aluminum body, was produced at Honda’s Suzuka, Japan, plant.  The decision to build the second-generation NSX was made
prior to Japan’s March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, Iwamura said.
While the company didn’t provide pricing for the new car,
Iwamura said in a December interview in  Las Vegas  that the model
couldn’t be sold for less than $100,000.  Acura also unveiled yesterday the new ILX model, an entry-
level luxury sedan that goes on sale early this year, and a
revamped version of its compact RDX luxury crossover.  Honda’s U.S. unit is based in Torrance,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  