-- One Marijuana Joint a Week for 49 Years Doesn’t Harm Lungs, Research Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-10T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/one-marijuana-joint-a-week-for-49-years-doesn-t-harm-lungs-research-finds.html
Occasional  pot smoking  doesn’t
appear to harm users’ lungs the way regular tobacco use does,
according to a 20-year study.  At the level of one marijuana cigarette a week for 49
years, or one joint a day for 7 years, there was no decline in
lung function, according to a paper released today by the
Journal of the  American Medical Association .  Marijuana  is the most-frequently used illegal substance in
the  United States , according to the National Institute on Drug
Abuse’s Monitoring the Future Study. Pot smoke contains many of
the same constituent chemicals as cigarette smoke, and until now
it hasn’t been clear whether regular marijuana smoking led to
the same injuries to the lungs, the authors said.  “The thing the dorm stoners in college have to worry about
when they grow up is how to get rid of their cigarette-smoking
habit if they still have it, and how their grades worked out,”
said  Stefan Keresz , a study author and associate professor of
medicine at the  University of Alabama  at Birmingham, in a
telephone interview.  The study, which followed more than 5,000 people for 20
years, is unusual in marijuana research because it involved the
general population, Keresz said. Usually scientists study
addicts because they are easier to find. However, most pot users
don’t get addicted and it’s important to know how the drug use
affects them, he said.  “This tells us long-term lung considerations aren’t the
thing to focus on,” he said.  Tobacco Versus Pot  More than half of the people in the study reported current
marijuana smoking, tobacco smoking, or both at one or more
examinations. Tobacco smokers had eight to nine cigarettes a day
at the peak of their use, versus marijuana smokers reporting
about two or three episodes in 30 days.  At more than 10 years of smoking a daily joint, lung
function seemed to decline although not to a degree that was
statistically significant, the study found.  Marijuana is classified by the U.S. government as a
Schedule I drug, which declares it has no medical use. Previous
studies have shown that the drug can be used to treat glaucoma,
multiple sclerosis, nausea and pain. Intoxication from the drug
can cause distorted perception, difficulty in thinking, impaired
coordination and memory problems, according to the  National
Institute on Drug Abuse .  Lung function was assessed using two tests, the volume of
expiration in the first second of exhaling, and forced vital
capacity, the volume of air exhaled after a full inhalation.
Higher numbers, in both measures, indicate better lung function.  Lung Function  Patients who smoked only tobacco had 24 fewer milliliters
of volume in the first second of an exhalation than an average
nonsmoker; marijuana smokers who didn’t smoke tobacco had 0.7
more milliliters. The pot-only smokers also had 8.2 milliliters
more air exhaled after a full inhalation, compared with those
who smoked nothing, and the tobacco-only smokers had 19
milliliters less.  The way pot is smoked -- taking a long deep breath, holding
it, and then forcefully expelling it -- may also prepare people
to ace the lung function tests, Keresz said.  “Marijuana is clearly an irritative smoke for the lungs,”
Keresz said, citing coughing after taking a “hit” as an
illustration. “But this is may be a small degree of reassurance
to people who may have used it in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  