-- Orange Juice Soars Most Since 2006
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-01-10T16:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/orange-juice-soars-most-since-2006.html
Orange-juice futures rose the most
in five years on speculation that citrus groves in  Florida 
suffered more frost damage than expected last week, with some
forecasters predicting more cold weather.  About 5 percent of the orange groves in Florida’s central
counties, the main growing region, were damaged last week as
temperatures dropped below freezing, said Kyle Tapley, a senior
agricultural meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather. He said the
weather will “turn cooler” next week in the state, the world’s
largest orange producer after  Brazil .  Slumping U.S. inventories helped send orange-juice futures
up almost 39 percent in  New York  since the end of September, the
biggest gain of among the 19 commodities tracked by the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index. Retail prices as of Dec. 24 were up
7.9 percent from a year earlier at $6.12 a gallon, according to
Nielsen data.  “ Orange juice  jumped due to the frigid weather that
permanently damaged some of the crops here,” Jim Garasz, a
principal at Transworld Futures in Tampa, Florida, said today in
a telephone interview. “And there’s more cold weather coming in
here late tomorrow. That spooks the market.”  Orange juice for March delivery jumped the 20-cent exchange
limit, or 11 percent, to $2.0775 a pound at 11:34 a.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, the highest since March 2007. A close
at that price would mark the biggest gain since October 2006 and
leave the commodity up 23 percent this month.  “The market is starting to factor in that maybe there was
more to the damage than initially thought,”  Michael Smith , the
president of T&K Futures and Options in  Port St. Lucie , Florida,
said in a telephone interview.  Hard Freeze  About 25 percent of Florida’s citrus-growing region
suffered a hard freeze during the first week in January, with
temperatures in most other areas cold enough to cause frost,
Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MDA said after the freeze. Oranges
will be damaged if temperatures drop below 28 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus 2 Celsius) for three to four hours.  Some forecasters say the weather will improve in the state.  “We will get a cool shot over the weekend, into the low
40s to mid 40s, but we don’t see any kind of problem like we saw
last week,” Joel Widenor, a meteorologist with Commodity
Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  