-- Morgan Stanley Says Strategist Caron Succeeded by Mutkin
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-10T18:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/morgan-stanley-u-s-rates-strategist-caron-succeeded-by-mutkin-bank-says.html
Morgan Stanley said James Caron,
head of U.S. interest-rate strategy, has left the primary dealer
and his responsibilities will be assumed by  Laurence Mutkin .  Mutkin, head of European fixed-income strategy in  London ,
will become global head of interest-rate strategy, according to
 Sandra Hernandez , a New York-based spokeswoman at Morgan
Stanley. Mutkin has worked at the owner of the world’s largest
brokerage since February 2006.  Caron, 42, joined Morgan Stanley in July 2006 from Merrill
Lynch & Co., where he worked as head of cross-rates strategy,
generating trading ideas for U.S. and foreign government bonds
and derivatives. Caron, who was based in  New York , did not
immediately return calls requesting comment.  In a Nov. 23 telephone interview, Caron said the  Federal
Reserve  would begin purchasing mortgage securities as soon as
June because fiscal policy makers would be unable to agree on
programs to boost the economy. Morgan Stanley is one of the 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the central bank.  Fed officials “can only urge fiscal policy makers to do
the right thing,” Caron said. “If fiscal policy makers screw
it up, then that just means the Fed has to be more aggressive in
terms of what they’re doing.”  Greater Communication  Caron forecast in a Dec. 8 note to clients that the Fed
would step up efforts to communicate its intention to keep
monetary policy accommodative further into the future in order
to spur growth and inflation. “Our core view is that the Fed
will act aggressively to ease financial conditions in the months
ahead,” he wrote.  After Morgan Stanley began 2010 with a forecast that the
 U.S. economy  would strengthen, lead to private credit demand,
higher stock prices and diminish the refuge appeal of
Treasuries, pushing  10-year yields  to 5.5 percent, Caron
apologized to clients in a note published Aug. 19, 2010. The 10-
year yield was 2.58 percent at the time.  Caron has undergraduate degrees in physics and aeronautical
engineering from Bowdoin College in  Maine  and California
Institute of Technology, and a Master of Business Administration
from New York University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  