-- Toyota Says North America to Become Global Auto Export Base
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-11T21:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/toyota-s-inaba-says-north-america-to-become-global-export-base.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest
automaker, will use its North American plants as a bigger source
of vehicle exports as a way to blunt the impact of the rising
yen, said  Yoshimi Inaba , chief operating officer for the region.  The company is now shipping cars and trucks built at North
American plants to 19 countries, including South Korea and Saudi
Arabia, and aims to significantly boost the volume, totaling
16,700 units a year ago, Inaba told reporters at the North
American International Auto Show in Detroit yesterday.  “This is only a beginning,” Inaba said. “The only way to
take advantage of this extremely high yen is to export from this
dollar basis.”  Toyota, along with Japan-based  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) , has already shifted more vehicle production outside
 Japan  to counter the yen’s 8.3 percent rise against the dollar
in the past year, including opening a Corolla small car plant in
Mississippi in late 2011. Exports from the Toyota City, Japan-
based company’s plants in the U.S., Canada and Mexico will
mainly be of niche models not built in Japan.  Nissan’s Plans  Nissan plans to add a third auto-assembly plant in Mexico
to increase vehicle exports from that country to both the U.S.
and across South America, Bill Krueger, vice chairman of the
company’s operations in the Americas, said in an interview this
week at the Detroit auto show.  Carlos Ghosn, chief executive of both Nissan and alliance
partner Renault SA, said in an interview that an announcement
about expanding in Mexico may come within weeks.  Toyota already exports Camry and Avalon sedans, Tundra and
Tacoma pickups, Sienna minivans and Sequoia sport-utility
vehicles to markets in Central and South America and the Middle
East, Inaba said. The company last month begin shipping
Kentucky-built Camrys to  South Korea  for the first time.  Given the scale of Toyota’s global distribution network,
the company should eventually be able to export more vehicles
from North American plants than even U.S.-based automakers,
Inaba said.  As a further cost-saving move, Toyota is also studying
getting more parts or even producing more vehicles in Mexico,
Inaba said.  “Using Mexico as an important base for either parts or
production is no doubt,” Inaba said, without elaborating. “We
are always looking at Mexico. We have a small experience in
Baja, but that is not the end of the story.”  The company has a small factory in Mexico’s Baja
 California , near Tijuana, that builds about 60,000 Tacoma
pickups annually.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts fell 0.1 percent to
$68.60 at the close in  New York . The company’s U.S. sales unit
is based in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Detroit  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  