-- Toyota Looks to Small ‘c’ to Reach Record Prius Sales in U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-11T00:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/toyota-targets-record-u-s-prius-sales-aided-by-new-small-prius.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the biggest
seller of gasoline-electric cars, said U.S. Prius sales will
climb more than 60 percent to a record this year, helped by the
introduction of a smaller version of the hybrid hatchback.  Deliveries of cars bearing the Prius name should exceed
220,000,  Jim Lentz , president of the U.S. sales unit, said
yesterday. He spoke at the North American International Auto
Show in Detroit, where Toyota showed the subcompact five-door
Prius c that goes on sale early this year, priced below $19,000
and offering 53 miles (84.8 kilometers) per gallon in city
driving.  “If you look at the investment we’ve made in Prius in the
U.S., the million-plus sales we’ve had and the fact that these
are very loyal hybrid buyers, now we will be rotating and
bringing those buyers back through to buy more Priuses,” Lentz
said in an interview yesterday. “This time they have much more
choice.”  The Prius c targets entry-level buyers and joins the
standard midsize Prius, Prius v wagon added late last year and
Prius plug-in that also goes on sale this year. Toyota’s targets
last year were derailed after Japan’s record earthquake in March
and the floods in  Thailand  disrupted production.  Toyota fell 6 yen, or 0.2 percent, to 2,620 yen as of 9:43
a.m. in  Tokyo .  Along with a revamped Camry, the Prius family of vehicles
will be the biggest drivers of U.S. sales for Toyota this year,
according to Lentz, who had previously said that Prius sales in
the U.S. would exceed 200,000 in 2012. The company plans to
increase overall deliveries in the market by 15 percent from
2011, he said.  New Plug-In  Along with the expanded Prius line, the company will add
another new hybrid car this year,  Bob Carter , group vice
president of U.S. Toyota brand sales, said late yesterday.  “We’ll introduce a hybrid that has more room than a BMW
X5, is faster than a VW TDi and has higher MPG than a Fiat
500,” Carter said in a speech at the Automotive News World
Congress in  Detroit . While the car will have “near-luxury”
auto features, it will come “with the price and value of a
Toyota,” he said, without elaborating.  Carter declined to say whether the model would be a hybrid
version of Toyota’s Avalon large sedan.  U.S. Prius sales peaked at 181,221 in 2007. Then a global
recession resulted in a collapse in demand and deliveries
reached only 136,463 last year.  Hybrid sales slowed last year to 2.2 percent of U.S. auto
sales, from 2.4 percent in 2010, according to researcher LMC
Automotive. That was mainly because of a plunge in Prius
inventory after natural disasters in Japan slowed production,
Lentz said.  While other automakers haven’t had as much success as
Toyota in selling hybrids, the Japanese carmaker remains upbeat
about the outlook, Lentz said.  Prius is “by far the best execution of hybrid in the
marketplace,” he said. “It’s a core strategy we’re sticking
by.”  Along with the Prius c, sold in  Japan  as the Aqua, Toyota
also showed a concept version of a plug-in hybrid sedan, the
NS4, which may go on sale in 2015.  The closest competitor for the Prius c, Honda Motor Co.’s
compact Insight hybrid, has a starting price of $18,350 and gets
41 miles per gallon, according to Honda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  