-- Mozambique Keeps Lending Rate on Hold at 15% as Inflation Slides
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r e d   K a t e r e r e
-- 2012-01-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/mozambique-keeps-lending-rate-on-hold-at-15-as-inflation-slides.html
Mozambique ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged after lowering it last month,
as inflation in the southern African nation slowed to an almost
two-year low in December.  The standing lending facility rate was kept at 15 percent,
the Maputo-based Bank of Mozambique said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The bank lowered the lending rate 100 basis
points last month. It kept the standing deposit rate unchanged
at 5 percent.  Inflation slowed to 6.1 percent in December, the lowest
level since January 2010, as the currency’s gains helped to curb
price pressures. The central bank reduced borrowing costs last
year to help support economic growth as the debt crisis in
 Europe  undermines the global recovery.  Mozambique’s economy will probably expand between 6.5
percent and 7 percent in 2012, lower than the 7.5 percent
estimated by the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund ,
according to Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance Capital 
in Johannesburg. The economy expanded 6.7 percent in the third
quarter from a year ago, the statistics agency said on Dec. 28.  Mozambique’s metical gained 19 percent against the dollar
in 2011, the second-best performer in the world of more than 160
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank will “cautiously” ease monetary policy,
the government said in a letter posted on the International
Monetary Fund’s website on Dec. 9. GDP will grow about 8 percent
annually in the “medium term,” it said.  The bank will intervene in the  interbank market  to make
sure that  money supply  does not exceed 32.7 billion meticais
($1.2 billion), according to the statement. Policy makers meet
again on Feb. 9, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Katerere in Maputo at 
 fkaterere@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  