-- HP, Dell Chase Apple’s ‘Fashionista’ Buyers With Ultrabooks
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-01-10T23:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hp-dell-target-apple-s-fashionista-buyers-with-new-ultrabooks.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell (DELL)  Inc.
are unveiling slim “ultrabook” laptops at the Consumer
Electronics Show in  Las Vegas  this week, stepping up competition
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s MacBook Air.  Hewlett-Packard introduced a $1,400 laptop yesterday called
the Envy 14 Spectre, which packs a 14-inch screen into a compact
chassis encased in black. Dell, meanwhile, is showing its own
take on the ultrabook -- an industry term created by Intel Corp.
for light, thin laptops.  Personal-computer makers are counting on ultrabooks to
challenge the MacBook Air, Apple’s best-selling laptop, which is
less than an inch thick. Still, Hewlett-Packard isn’t trying to
compete on price: The new Spectre is $100 more than a MacBook
Air with a 13.3-inch screen. Hewlett-Packard is emphasizing the
laptop’s premium features and design, a bid to reach the “savvy
fashionista” market, said Page Murray, a vice president of
marketing at the company.  “There’s always someone who wants to win the race to the
bottom,” Murray said. “It usually ends with a splat.”  The Spectre features a glossy black-glass lid that sits
atop a silver glass palm rest and finger-sensing pad. The
computer has an extra-bright screen, enhanced Beats Audio sound
and a version of  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ’s Photoshop software.  Battery Life  It weighs less than four pounds and can run for nine hours
on one charge,  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard said.
The Spectre goes on sale Feb. 8.  Dell’s new ultrabook, called the XPS 13, starts at $999.
It’s made of aluminum, carbon fiber and glass, and sports a
13.3-inch screen. The laptop, which weighs less than three
pounds and gets eight hours of battery life, will go on sale in
late February.  Vizio Inc. also is showing ultra-thin laptops at the
electronics conference. The company is pushing into the PC
market after shaking up the television industry with its rock-
bottom prices.  For Intel, ultrabooks are an attempt to keep laptops
relevant in an era when many people use handheld devices to surf
the Web. While  Intel (INTC)  is the world’s largest chipmaker, it has
struggled to get its products into tablets and smartphones,
which use processors based on designs from  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)   Voice Commands  Beside defining specifications for ultrabooks’ size and
performance, Intel is taking additional steps to make the
machines more compelling. Intel and Nuance Communications Inc.
said yesterday they will develop software that lets ultrabook
users control the machines with voice commands. Nuance’s Dragon
software would let ultrabook users send e-mail, launch programs,
and play music and video content, Nuance said in a statement.  Even so, ultrabooks will have to be priced right to be
successful,  Jason Maynard , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
 San Francisco , said yesterday in a report.  “They will need to be priced significantly below the
MacBook Air,” he said.  Hewlett-Packard isn’t taking that tack with the Spectre,
though it previously released a lower-cost ultrabook for
business users called the HP Folio. That model, which has a
13.3-inch screen and weighs 3.3 pounds, went on sale Dec. 7 at a
starting price of $900.  Shares of Hewlett-Packard, the world’s  largest PC maker ,
rose less than 1 percent today to $26.69 in New York trading.
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell climbed 1.6 percent to $15.82.  The PC industry is also waiting for the release of
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 operating system, which will enhance
notebooks’ touch-screen capabilities. Microsoft plans to release
the first broadly available test version of Windows 8 in late
February.  Microsoft said today that PC sales may have missed
estimates in the fourth quarter, hurt by flooding in  Thailand ,
which disrupted disk-drive production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  