-- Pacific Equity Won’t Raise Offer for Spotless Without Access to Documents
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-01-10T05:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/pacific-equity-won-t-raise-offer-for-spotless-without-access-to-documents.html
Pacific Equity Partners Ltd., a
Sydney-based buyout firm, declined to raise a A$711.5 million
($734 million) takeover offer for  Spotless Group Ltd. (SPT)  without
access to the cleaning company’s internal documents.  Pacific Equity Partners is willing to engage with
Melbourne-based Spotless on the $A2.68-a-share price it offered
on Dec. 1 and can complete due diligence in four weeks, it said
today in a statement. The bid is 14 percent above Spotless’s
 closing price  today.  Spotless, a facilities and services company which grew from
one dry-cleaning store in 1946, said yesterday that Pacific
Equity must raise its bid to at least A$2.80 a share, including
the dividend to be paid to shareholders, to win a unanimous
board recommendation. By committing to a specific price,
Spotless may hurt the chances of getting an even higher offer,
an investor said.  “I wonder about it as a bargaining position,” said Ellen
Stoddart, a Melbourne-based Spotless shareholder and accountant
who covers the company for the Australian Shareholders’
Association Ltd. “If they allow due diligence and the bid
stands at A$2.80, they won’t have much of a leg to stand on to
argue it higher.”  Spotless fell 0.8 percent to A$2.35 at the close in Sydney
trading, giving the company a market value of A$623.8 million.
The stock hasn’t  traded  above A$2.80 since May 3, 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings Forecast  Pacific Equity Partners raised its original offer for
Spotless from A$2.63 a share on Dec. 1 after the company
rejected its initial approach on Nov. 17. Spotless provided
Pacific Equity with a management presentation last month that
included some earnings forecasts.  Spotless said in the management presentation last month
that earnings before interest and taxes will probably be A$90
million to A$94 million in the fiscal year through June 30, 2012.
It forecast profit on that basis would rise to as much as A$150
million in three to four years.  “There was no information provided that would justify a
valuation above our revised proposal of A$2.68,” Pacific Equity
said today.  Buying Spotless would give Pacific Equity access to a
business that offers corporate services in more than 30
countries. The buyout group, formed in 1998, has about A$6
billion of funds under management.  Pacific Brands Approach  Private equity transactions involving Australian companies
rose 18 percent to $19.5 billion in 2011 from a year earlier,
reaching the highest level since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. buyout firm KKR & Co. approached
Pacific Brands Ltd. over a possible acquisition of the
Australian distributor of the Everlast, Clarks and Dunlop brands,
Pacific Brands said today.  The company was criticized by some investors, including
Orbis Group, after turning down Pacific Equity’s November
approach. That was the company’s second rejection of a bid in
six months. Orbis, Lazard Asset Management LLC and Investors
Mutual Ltd. had agreed to sell their Spotless shares to Pacific
Equity, the buyout firm said in November.  Spotless in May said it rebuffed a A$657 million takeover
offer without naming the suitor.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  made that
bid, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  