-- Packers Assistant Philbin’s Son Found Dead After Falling Through River Ice
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-10T21:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/packers-asst-s-son-found-dead-in-frozen-river.html
The 21-year-old son of Green Bay
Packers offensive coordinator Joe Philbin was found dead in a
frozen river in Oshkosh,  Wisconsin .  Michael T. Philbin was last seen early Jan. 8 after
visiting friends at the  University of Wisconsin  at Oshkosh.
Police began searching the Fox River after a security guard said
a person fell through the ice at about 2:30 a.m. local time and
divers found a body in the river yesterday afternoon.  Police confirmed in a media release today that it was
Michael Philbin’s body that was recovered. Foul play isn’t
suspected and the matter remains under investigation, said
police, who are trying to determine whether alcohol was a factor
in the incident.  “We love Michael so much and will miss him dearly,” Joe
Philbin said in a statement distributed by the Packers. “He
loved his family, friends and life. His memory will live on in
the hearts and minds of all who knew him.”  The Packers, who are preparing to face the  New York Giants 
in the second round of the National Football League playoffs,
canceled player interviews yesterday after learning that
Philbin’s son was missing. Joe Philbin, the team’s offensive
coordinator since 2007, traveled to Oshkosh yesterday, Packers
coach  Mike McCarthy  said.  “The Packers family was saddened to learn of the passing
of Michael Philbin,” Packers General Manager Ted Thompson said.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with Joe, his wife, Diane, and
the Philbin family as they cope with their loss.”  The Packers had the NFL’s highest-scoring offense under Joe
Philbin this season, scoring an average of 35 points while
posting a 15-1 record. His status for the Jan. 15 game against
the Giants isn’t known.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  