-- Pakistan’s Deadliest Bombing in Three Months Kills 20 People in Northwest
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-01-10T08:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/pakistan-s-deadliest-bombing-in-three-months-kills-20-injures-dozens-more.html
A bomb planted in a van near a bus
terminal in northwest  Pakistan  killed 20 people and injured more
than two dozen others in the deadliest blast in the country in
more than three months.  The explosion destroyed cars and shops in Jamrud, a market
town in Pakistan’s Khyber region, one of seven tribal areas
where Taliban guerrillas and other militant groups are fighting
security forces. The blast may have been triggered by remote
control, Kifayatullah Durrani, a spokesman for the local
administration, said by phone in Peshawar city.  Today’s bombing was the biggest since a September suicide
attack on the funeral of a tribal elder opposed to the Taliban,
the  Associated Press  reported. That strike near the country’s
Swat Valley killed 31 people, the  news agency  said.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  in October convened a
conference of political leaders that advocated a conciliatory
approach to the guerrillas amid public pressure to end nearly
seven years of fighting. Senior members of some militant
factions have said they are in peace talks with the government,
while others have denied negotiations have taken place.  Attacks by Islamist fighters have killed almost 9,000
civilians and security personnel since 2009, according to the
New Delhi-based  South Asia Terrorism  portal.  Leaders of Taliban factions in Pakistan agreed at a recent
meeting to end attacks that risk killing civilians and stop
kidnapping for ransom while increasing their strikes against the
country’s security forces, The News daily reported Jan. 3. They
would also continue to support cross-border raids on NATO forces
fighting in  Afghanistan , the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  