-- Paulson, Tepper Said Among Investors Urging Ally to Back ResCap
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2012-01-10T13:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/paulson-is-said-to-join-tepper-among-investors-urging-ally-to-back-rescap.html
John Paulson  and  David Tepper  are
among investors urging Ally Financial Inc. to back Residential
Capital LLC as the government-owned lender weighs options for
the mortgage unit, said three people familiar with the matter.  Paulson & Co. and Tepper’s Appaloosa Management LP are part
of a group of bondholders organizing to seek full repayment of
ResCap’s debts, said the people, who declined to be identified
as the deliberations are private. White & Case LLP represents
the group, which holds $800 million of ResCap debt, according to
a statement from the  law firm  that didn’t name the investors.  As Ally, the former financing arm of General Motors Corp.,
prepares for an initial public offering that will help it repay
$17.2 billion in government bailout funds, its mortgage unit
faces lawsuits over faulty loans that may wipe out the parent’s
profits. Ally is working on a plan to separate itself from those
liabilities, which could involve  selling  ResCap in  bankruptcy
court , one of the people said.  “A forced ResCap filing would be a big mistake and create
significant litigation against Ally,” Gerard Uzzi, a partner at
White & Case in New York, said in the statement.  ResCap is working with lenders, Ally and the Treasury
Department and aims to devise a solution by March, one person
said. The unit may seek permission from bondholders for a
bankruptcy filing that would enable an asset sale, according to
the person.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, didn’t
comment on the bondholder group.  “We decline to comment on speculation,” she said in an e-
mail in response to questions about whether Ally is considering
a bankruptcy filing for ResCap.  Bankruptcy Concern  Tepper didn’t return a call seeking comment. Anthony Morro,
global director of  White & Case ’s restructuring practice,
declined to comment on the members of the bondholder group.
 Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, also declined to comment.  The bondholders began organizing after Ally raised the
possibility of a bankruptcy, according to an investor in the
group, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Ally can’t
legally separate itself from ResCap because it has stripped
assets from the unit, the investor said.  “The bondholders are saying, ‘You can try, but we’re going
to fight you tooth and nail,’” Adam Steer, an analyst at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  ResCap Assets  ResCap has $3.5 billion of bonds outstanding, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its $2.12 billion of 9.625 percent
notes due in May 2015 plummeted 22.6 cents to 56.9 cents on the
dollar on Nov. 9 after a report that the unit hired Centerview
Partners LLP to weigh options, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The bonds climbed 0.8 cent to 76 cents on the dollar
at 4:18 p.m. yesterday.  Assets at ResCap, once one of the largest subprime mortgage
originators, dwindled to $16.8 billion at the end of 2010 from
more than $130 billion in 2006. The Treasury, which owns 74
percent of Ally, failed to find a buyer for ResCap in 2010.  ResCap is involved in 22 securities lawsuits,  Michael Carpenter , Ally’s chief executive officer, said on a conference
call with investors on Nov. 2. The  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  and MBIA Inc. are among the parties that have filed suit
against the company, which also faces state investigations into
foreclosure practices.  Ally may be raising the possibility of a bankruptcy as a
negotiating tactic as it tries to settle those suits, according
to Manal Mehta, a partner at Branch Hill Capital in  San
Francisco .  Negotiating Tactic?  “It’s sort of the trump card that they’re holding out,”
Mehta said in a telephone interview. “‘Either negotiate
reasonably with us or we’ll put the whole thing into bankruptcy
and you’ll get nothing.’”  If Ally does pursue a sale of ResCap through bankruptcy, it
may target buyout firms including Fortress Investment Group LLC,
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC and mortgage servicer Ocwen
Financial Corp., which all considered bids in mid-2010 in a
failed auction for ResCap, people familiar with the talks said
in December.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., one of
Ally’s largest creditors, may also be approached, the people
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at  
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  