-- Paul Maya Joins Bloomberg
-- B y
-- 2012-01-10T15:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/paul-maya-joins-bloomberg.html
                                
Press Release  Named Global Head of Web Properties  New York --  Bloomberg L.P . today announced that  Paul Maya  will
be joining the company as global head of Bloomberg.com and
Businessweek.com. Maya joins Bloomberg from  Turner Broadcasting ,
where he spent two years leading CNN’s digital technology
strategy and product implementation. In his role at Bloomberg,
he will be responsible for the general management, strategic
planning, branding, and best practices for the two consumer-
facing websites. Maya will report to  Andy Lack , CEO of Bloomberg
Multimedia.  “We are delighted to welcome a creative thinker and proven
strategist like Paul to Bloomberg,” said Lack.  “His experience
building digital businesses that integrate news, data and video
will be enormously valuable as we continue to build out our next
generation of global web products.”  “I am thrilled to be joining the talented web team at Bloomberg,
and working with them to grow the powerful combination of
Bloomberg.com and Businessweek.com for global business
executives,” said Maya.  As Vice President, Technology at  CNN  Digital, Maya developed
award-winning mobile and web products for CNN, CNN Money, HLN
and CNN’s international digital properties. He oversaw the
technical development of a portfolio of digital products
including CNN iReport, the CNN Video Experience, CNN Money.com,
CNN.com and various mobile and tablet applications.  Prior to CNN Digital, Maya held executive positions at ABC News
and ABC Digital Media Group, and was responsible for developing
web products for ABC.com, ABC News.com, ABC Family.com, and
Soapnet.com. He began his career as Co-Founder and Chief
Technology Officer of Toggle Entertainment, a company that
developed and marketed software tools needed to create animated,
interactive characters for the Internet and other digital media.  Maya earned a Bachelor of Science from  Carnegie Mellon
University  and a Masters of Business Administration and Master
of Arts from  Columbia University .  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit the Bloomberg Blog
and  http://www.bloomberg.com/about . In addition, follow us on Twitter and
Facebook.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, BNA
and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185
locations around the world.  CONTACT for Bloomberg:  Lauren Meller, +1 212-617-8185,  lmeller@bloomberg.net 
