-- Pennsylvania Fracking Foes Fault EPA Over Tainted Water Response
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/pennsylvania-fracking-foes-fault-epa-over-tainted-water-response.html
When the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency called to say it would start delivering fresh
water to their home, Ron and Jean Carter thought they gained an
ally in a long fight with  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp .  A retreat by the federal government within two days has
left them feeling abandoned yet again in a bid to clean up water
they say was turned toxic by  Cabot (COG) ’s use of hydraulic fracturing
to hunt for gas in  Pennsylvania .  “These agencies were developed to help us, and they
don’t,” Jean Carter said in an interview in her home, which is
about 326 feet (99 meters) from a Cabot well. Although her
reserves of water are sufficient for now, she took it as a snub.
“We just keep getting hurt all the way around, as if we weren’t
hurt enough.”  The Carters and other families in Dimock -- a community of
1,368 and a single, blinking traffic light along Highway 29 in
northeast Pennsylvania -- have come to symbolize the national
debate over the use of fracking, in which water and chemicals
are shot into the earth to free gas or oil from rock formations.
Their case has taken on a new importance as the EPA says it will
test well water in the area, and advised residents not to drink
from their wells -- reversing an earlier, initial determination
that the water was safe.  Dimock residents say their water went bad more than three
years ago. Since then more questions have been raised about the
safety of fracking.  Moratorium Urged  In December the EPA linked fracking to groundwater
contamination in  Wyoming . In September, Pennsylvania’s
environment department cited Cabot for leaking methane into
groundwater in Lenox, 15 miles east of Dimock. Yesterday a group
of doctors called for a moratorium on fracking in populated
areas until the health effects are better understood.  Any crackdown on natural-gas drilling would be trouble for
companies and the fast-growing industry. Cabot was the best
performer last year in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Natural
 gas  prices dropped 32 percent in 2011, driven primarily by the
rise in recoveries from shale formations, according to the U.S.
Energy Department. Fracking accounts for a third of the U.S. gas
supply, up from 14 percent in 2009, it said.  And counties across Pennsylvania and  Ohio  are booming as a
result. Dimock is in Susquehanna County, which had a 7 percent
unemployment rate in November, according to the Department of
Labor, compared with the nationwide rate of 8.7 percent. The
county planning commission said in its last annual report that
managing the drive for gas will be a top challenge.  Economic Boost  Drilling in Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus Shale
formation could mean $20 billion to the state’s economy by 2020,
from $13 billion last year, according to an industry-funded
 study  published by researchers from  Pennsylvania State
University  in  State College .  For some residents, that development comes at a cost.  Norma Fiorentino, 68, who lives less than a mile from the
Carters, said her water well exploded on Jan. 1, 2009, cracking
the concrete top.  “I will never drink my water again,” she said. “Never,
ever, ever.”  Julie and Craig Sautner, who live on the same dirt road as
the Carters, keep milky samples of water on a shelf to show off
its poor quality. They were shocked to get the notification from
the EPA that was the water was safe. EPA’s local community
involvement officer Trish Taylor wrote residents saying there
was no sign “the well water presents an immediate health threat
to users.” A copy of the letter was provided to Bloomberg News.  Don’t Drink Water  After the EPA got the results from Cabot’s own analysis of
local wells from September, agency officials made a return visit
to area homes on the last days of 2011. This time their message
was different, according to residents: Don’t drink the water.  On Jan. 6 Taylor called Carter to ask if she needed a water
delivery. She didn’t. The  Sierra Club  had provided bottled
water. Still, she and other residents took the offer as a sign
of support from federal government. Within two days the pledge
was rescinded.  “We’re left scratching for water now,” Julia Sautner, who
is part of a federal lawsuit with Carter against Cabot, said in
an interview.  Taylor didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment on
the exchange with residents. The national EPA hasn’t decided
whether to provide water, Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman
in Washington, said in an e-mail.  Water, $4.1 Million  Officials from Houston-based Cabot say they have done all
they can to help residents. Although the company didn’t admit
responsibility for the methane in the water, it agreed to
provide families with fresh water, install water filters and pay
each affected family twice the value of their home. Of the $4.1
million the company put aside to pay out claims in Dimock, $1.9
million has been claimed, according to the company.  “Our sampling and data indicate the water is safe,”
George Stark, a company spokesman, said in an interview.
“Cabot, in negotiations with the state, settled this in a way
that was beneficial to all.”  In November, the company stopped providing residents water,
unless they agreed to sign on to the settlement and get the
filters installed. The Carters say the cleaning systems offered
by Cabot won’t remove what they say are chemicals that have
infiltrated their water wells.  For the administration of President  Barack Obama , the fight
in Pennsylvania represents a test for how it will deal with
fracking issues. The EPA has already started regulatory efforts
to force disclosure of chemicals used in the process, regulate
air pollution from drilling and set standards for wastewater
treatment.  Study By 2014  The agency is also conducting an extensive study of the
effect on drinking water, with plans to release the final study
in 2014.  Meanwhile, even those first steps have put the U.S. on the
“wrong track,” threatening to stifle development of the key
natural resource,  Jack Gerard , the president of the  American
Petroleum Institute  in Washington, said Jan. 4.  While Julie Sautner, 49, said she’s disappointed the EPA
didn’t follow through with the water delivery, she’s hopeful the
 Washington  will intervene on their behalf.  “We want to go back and live the way people are supposed
to,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  