-- Perfect World Jumps as Sina Up Most in 12 Weeks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-10T21:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/perfect-world-jumps-as-ny-index-hits-month-high-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
rose for a second day, led by Internet companies, on prospects
the Asian nation will take further measures to spur expansion
after import growth fell to a two-year low.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  advanced 1.1 percent to a
one-month high of 100.81 as trading closed in New York.  Perfect
World Co. (PWRD)  jumped 20 percent after a record slump yesterday,
saying anonymous allegations posted on Chinese-language websites
were “false.”  Sina Corp (SINA) . surged the most since October while
 Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  jumped 9.7 percent after announcing a
plan of recurring dividend payment.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH) 
traded at a 3.7 percent premium over its Hong Kong-listed
shares, the biggest in a month.  China’s December imports rose the least in two years, a
customs bureau report showed yesterday. The central bank cut the
amount of cash lenders must set aside as reserves last month for
the first time since 2008 to help bolster the economy.  “We expect the government to cut the reserve ratio in the
next couple of quarters as well,” said Kelvin Tay, chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management in  Singapore  in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We believe inflation
has peaked in July 2011, that’s why credit easing could kick in
much earlier than expected.” China’s inflation cooled to the
slowest pace in 14 months in November.  Perfect World, a Beijing-based online games developer, said
in a statement yesterday “malicious” allegations followed
“several extortion activities attempting to extort money from
the company” and its chief executive officer. The company
reported the allegations to local government authorities and is
taking legal actions against people involved, it said.  Perfect World Recovers  Perfect World tumbled 27 percent Jan. 9 to a record low of
$8.81 after a posting claiming that the company is being
investigated by U.S. and Chinese regulators appeared on several
Chinese-language websites. Its shares rebounded 20 percent to
$10.53 yesterday.  The company’s “firm response has satisfactorily addressed
investors’ concerns,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in a note yesterday. “We are
incrementally more constructive on the name.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2.7 percent to 2,285.74
yesterday, completing the biggest three-day gain since October
2010. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks climbed 0.9
percent to 1,292.08.  Sina, the provider of a Twitter-like service and the third-
most visited website in China, surged 13 percent to $54.37, the
most since October. Analysts at  Brean Murray  Carret & Co. and
 Roth Capital  Partners LLC reiterated “buy” recommendations
yesterday. Brean Murray maintained a 12-month price target of
$132 and Roth Capital kept its goal at $110.  Focus Dividend Plan  Focus Media, a digital advertising company based in
 Shanghai , leaped 9.7 percent to $20.52, the most since November.
The company will designate 25 percent of its annual adjusted net
income to pay dividends quarterly, starting from 2012, it said
in a statement yesterday.  Focus will also reserve up to an additional 30 percent of
its annual adjusted net income to increase dividend payments or
the size of its share repurchases from this year, it said.  China , the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, down from 9.5
percent growth in the second quarter, and the slowest pace in
two years. December imports rose 11.8 percent from a year
before, the least since October 2009.  China Southern  The American depositary receipts of China Southern,  Asia ’s
biggest carrier by passenger numbers, rose 7.6 percent to
$29.57, the highest since Oct. 27. Each ADR represents 50 common
shares. The company gained 6 percent to HK$4.43, the equivalent
of 57 U.S. cents. The 3.7 percent premium in ADRs was the
biggest since Nov. 30.  Global airport passenger traffic increased 2.9 percent in
November, data yesterday from the  Airports Council International 
in Geneva showed. Airport traffic in the Asia Pacific region
rose 4.8 percent, from 4.4 percent in October.  The ishares FTSE China 25  Index (SPX)   Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 2.3 percent yesterday to
a one-month high of $36.73. The Chinese yuan was little changed
at 6.3150 per dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  The Shanghai benchmark stock gauge is trading at an
estimated price-earnings ratio of 9.4 times. That compares with
14 for Indian stocks, 9.4 for Brazilian shares and 5.6 for
Russian equities.  The government is scheduled to report today inflation data
for December. Consumer prices may have risen 4 percent from a
year ago, the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg showed. That would compare with a 4.2 percent gain in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  