-- Perry Backer’s Anti-Romney Film to Be Run by Gingrich Ally
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-10T20:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/perry-backer-s-anti-romney-film-to-be-aired-by-gingrich-ally.html
A documentary  Newt Gingrich ’s allies
plan to air highlighting jobs lost after takeovers by Mitt Romney’s investment firm was created by a veteran Republican
strategist who says his goal is to make the former Massachusetts
governor a better candidate.  “I wanted people to see what the Democrats are going to do
this guy,” Barry Bennett, who commissioned the film, said in an
interview.  “If I was able to put this together on a shoestring
budget, imagine what they could do for $1 billion. Everybody
needs to know what his baggage is, and let him explain it and
get stronger as a candidate. It’s not fair to the party for him
not to figure this out until next October,” said Bennett, who
is supporting Texas Governor  Rick Perry  in the primary.  Not everyone agrees with Bennett’s tough-love treatment of
the party’s presidential primary front-runner. Republican
strategist Trey Hardin, a senior vice president with Vox Global
in Washington, said he would prefer to avoid intra-party fights.  “Sooner, rather than later, is always better for
information about the candidate to come out,” Hardin said.
“But Republicans beating up Republicans is never a positive
thing when you’re taking on an incumbent president.”  Outside Group Influence  The airing of the documentary in the days leading up to the
Jan. 21 South Carolina primary would provide the most vivid
evidence of the new role of outside groups in political
campaigns.  Winning Our Future, the pro-Gingrich group, received a $5
million donation from one backer,  Sheldon Adelson , a Las Vegas
casino owner and long-time supporter for the former House
speaker, to help finance the media buys. To match that sum under
campaign finance laws, Romney would have to collect 2,000 checks
from individuals made out for the maximum $2,500 donation.  Even with that financing, the pro-Gingrich camp will face
challenges in landing prime television time on short notice.  “It’s not a matter of dollars; it’s a matter of time,”
said Scott Perreault, founder of Scott Political, a nonpartisan
national media buying company based in  Minneapolis . “He could
have $100 million to spend. It’s about what space is
available.”  General managers of five South Carolina television stations
told Bloomberg News they haven’t been contacted about placing a
30-minute political program for airing before the Jan. 21
primary.  Opposition Research Inspiration  Bennett, 47, who once worked for an independent group
backing Perry and left as planned after he helped set it up,
said he got the idea for the film after obtaining opposition
research materials developed on Romney during his 2008
presidential primary bid. Bennett said he acquired the
information after pages identifying the campaign that paid for
it were removed.  After being “stunned” by what he read, Bennett said he
wanted to get the facts out long before President  Barack Obama 
and  David Axelrod , the president’s chief political adviser,
could use the information in the general election.  Republican Filmmaker  To make the documentary, titled “When  Mitt Romney  Came To
Town,” he hired Jason Meath, a former partner in the firm
headed by Stuart Stevens and Russ Schriefer, which worked on
Romney’s 2008 campaign. Meath and Bennett became friends while
working together in the 1990s at the  Republican National
Committee  under then-Chairman  Haley Barbour , the former
Mississippi governor who considered joining the presidential
primary.  The documentary is almost 30 minutes long and focuses on
what happened to employees at four companies taken over by Bain
Capital LLC, which was founded by Romney. Bennett said he sold
the film to Winning Our Future for $40,000, the amount it cost
him to make it.  “I chose four of the Bain investments,” Bennett said. “I
could have chosen 40. It could have been a miniseries. I don’t
have that kind of money.”  A three-minute  trailer  for the film airing on Winning Our
Future’s website sums up the documentary as “a story of greed,
playing the system for a quick buck, a group of corporate
raiders led by Mitt Romney, more ruthless than  Wall Street .”  Ex-Bain Employee Interviews  It shows images of ill and elderly women who lost their
jobs and homes after Bain took over the companies where they
worked. “That hurt so bad to leave my home because of one man
who has 15 homes,” one woman says.  Even with the program’s negative messages and unflattering
images of the former Massachusetts governor -- including one in
which a young Romney is smiling and holding up a dollar, Bennett
said he didn’t expect the movie to hinder Republican efforts to
win the White House next November.  “I have no concern that it’s going to hurt,” Bennett
said. “If we didn’t do it now, David Axelrod is going to do it
next October. It’s going to come out. It’s far better for Mitt
Romney for this to come out now than for it to come out in
October if he’s the nominee.”  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokesman, said she expected such
criticism to come from the opposing party, not her own.  “We expect attacks on free enterprise from President Obama
and his allies on the left, not from so-called fiscal
conservatives,” Saul said. “Governor Romney will continue
talking about his experience in the real economy, his vision for
getting America back to work, and how important it is that we
defeat President Obama in November.”  Television Time Buys  The film will be posted online and possibly aired on
television in  South Carolina , said  Rick Tyler , a senior adviser
to Winning Our Future. The PAC has bought $3.4 million worth of
ad time in South Carolina, though in 30- and 60-second chunks,
not 30 minutes.  Still, Tyler said, “we’re going to give them an
opportunity” to see the documentary.  “It’s a compelling
story,” he said. “We wanted to tell it.” Romney is “well
outside what more venture capitalists consider ethical.”  A pro-Romney PAC, Restore Our Future, is beginning a $2.3
million advertising campaign in South Carolina, according to
Brittany Gross, a spokeswoman.  Ken Goldstein , president of New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, said it would be very expensive for the pro-Gingrich PAC
to buy a half-hour of air time so close to the primary.  Prime Time Costs  Rich O’Dell, president and general manager of CBS’s WLTX in
Columbia, said he would be “pretty hesitant to run the ad in
prime time.” He would not estimate the cost, describing it only
as “expensive.”  O’Dell said the station screens every political ad, whether
from a candidate or an independent committee, and would do that
for the documentary, if the station is asked to run it. He said
today was “huge” for media buys, “the busiest day of the past
year.”  The documentary would be an “odd request,” said John
Soapes, president and general manager of NBC’s WYFF in
Greenville.  Before airing it, he would “have to research the nuts-and-
bolts of what our obligations are to vet it.” He declined to
estimate the cost of a 30-minute spot.  Rita Scott, general manager of CBS’s WCSC in Charleston,
said her station probably wouldn’t have a prime-time spot
available for a 30-minute piece.  To run it on a Sunday at 11 a.m., for example, would cost
$1,500 to $2,500, she said, or she could probably place the ad
on one of the station’s two alternative channels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  