-- Persian Gulf Oil-Tanker Surplus Stays at Two Month Low on Demand
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-01-10T10:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/persian-gulf-oil-tanker-surplus-stays-at-two-month-low-on-demand.html
A surplus of tankers competing to
load 2 million-barrel cargoes of crude from ports in the Persian
Gulf stayed at a two-month low following record vessel bookings
in December.  There are 10  percent more  very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, available for hire over the next 30 days than there are
likely cargoes, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of five shipbrokers and two owners today. That’s
unchanged from Jan. 3 and the smallest excess since Nov. 15.  Oil companies  hired 140 vessels in December, the biggest
monthly tally since at least 2005, according to data from
 Galbraith’s Ltd. (.GALBFIX) , a London-based shipbroker.  Iran ’s threat to
block oil shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz  may cause
traders to stockpile crude and shipowners to seek premiums for
vessels going to the Persian Gulf, Morgan Stanley said in a
report yesterday.  There are between 14 and 19 remaining cargoes for loading
in the  Persian Gulf  for January, Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based
freight-derivatives broker at Marex Spectron Group, said in an
e-mailed note today. That compares with 24 vessels for hire
until Jan. 27, he said.  Daily income  for VLCCs on the benchmark route increased 0.3
percent to $12,053, according to the exchange. Its estimates
don’t reflect speed changes aimed at reducing fuel costs. Owners
can curb those expenses, boosting returns, by reducing a ship’s
pace on a return journey after unloading of cargo.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, rose for a fifth day
yesterday, advancing 0.1 percent to $690.41 a metric ton, data
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed. Fuel costs
jumped 33 percent over the past year, the figures show.  Global fleet expansion of about 7 percent this year will
exceed demand growth of 2 percent, according to the Morgan
Stanley report. Tanker capacity swelled 8.3 percent in 2011,
almost four times faster than its estimates for demand of 2.1
percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  