-- Pfizer’s Read Says Animal, Nutritional Decisions ‘On Track’
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-10T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/pfizer-s-read-says-animal-nutritional-decisions-on-track-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Ian Read  said the company’s decision to sell or spin off its
animal and nutritional health units hasn’t reached a conclusion.  “It is on track and we are happy with the way it is
going,” Read said today during an interview at the J.P. Morgan
Healthcare Conference in  San Francisco . He also said he had no
plans for a large acquisition.  Nestle SA (NESN) , Danone, Abbott Laboratories and  Heinz (HNZ)  are among
potential buyers with nutrition lines of their own. Heinz has an
existing infant food business and no formula line, said Lee
Linthicum, an analyst with Euromonitor International. New York-
based Pfizer’s infant formula lines are also strong in the Asian
and Middle Eastern markets, where  Danone (BN)  and Nestle are weaker,
Linthicum said in a telephone interview last month.  The divestitures are part of Read’s plan to slim the
world’s largest drugmaker and focus on new medicines in the wake
of top-selling cholesterol pill Lipitor facing generic
competition last month.  Those plans don’t include another “mega” merger, Read
said. “I’m very disinclined to be looking at any possibility of
a mega acquisition,” he said. “You never say never, but we
have all the science we need and we have the geographic
breadth.” Instead, the company will look at mid-size “bolt-
on” deals.  Pfizer didn’t make any such purchases in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was a $49.8 million
purchase of the company’s remaining stake in Icagen Inc.  Share Repurchases  Instead, the company authorized a $10 billion share
repurchase program. Read said the stock is undervalued, though
share buybacks “are not a growth strategy.”  Pfizer has been fighting to hang on to sales of  Lipitor (PHAM1150) 
during the 180-day period in which only  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY)  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  can sell the copycat
versions. In the last week of 2011, it had 41 percent of the
market for the drug, according to a report by Bloomberg
Industries.  “It is playing out how we expected,” Read said. The
company has made agreements with insurers to block sales of the
generics in return for rebates from Pfizer. The company has also
distributed cards to patients that offer a discounted copayment
at the pharmacy when they get the brand-name version of Lipitor.  Co-Pay Plan  There have been some hang-ups with the co-pay card plan,
Read said. “Patients are encountering resistance” when they go
to pharmacy with the card, he said. “They have to be
insistent” to get Pfizer’s brand-name version, he said.  Pfizer’s nutritionals unit sells prenatal vitamins and
infant formula worldwide. The nutritionals unit had $1.87
billion in 2010  revenue . The company is also divesting its $3.56
billion animal health unit. Both transactions will be announced
this year and completed from July 2012 to July 2013, said Joan Campion, a Pfizer spokeswoman.  Pfizer acquired the infant nutrition business as part of
its $68 billion takeover of Wyeth in 2009. Read is shedding the
units as part of his plan to slim down Pfizer and focus on
creating new drugs.  Nestle, Danone and  Abbott (ABT)  spoke to financial advisers about
the business, and were likely to bid, people with knowledge of
the process said in July. The people declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Abbott Reaction  Abbott, of  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , is separating its
pharmaceuticals business from one that includes medical devices,
nutritional products and generic drugs. Chief Financial Officer
Tom Freyman said today the split wouldn’t hamper merger and
acquisition efforts if a “valuable” prospect arose.  “If there’s an opportunity that’s useful or valuable to
the company, certainly we would pursue it,” Freyman told
investors today at the  JPMorgan (JPM)  conference. “At this time there
isn’t anything of that nature out there that I’m in a position
to talk about today.”  Freyman said he was aware Pfizer’s looking to divest its
nutritionals unit, and declined to comment further.  “We’re happy with our business,” Freyman said in an
interview today. “I’ll leave it at that.”  Pfizer  gained  less than 1 percent to $21.94 at 4 p.m. New
York time, and has increased 20 percent in the past 12 months.
Abbott rose less than 1 percent to $56.11, and is up 17 percent
in the last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  