-- Philippine Peso Gains as Europe Optimism Boosts Stock Buying
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-01-10T08:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/philippine-peso-gains-as-europe-optimism-boosts-stock-buying.html
The Philippine peso rose for a
second day as signs  Europe  is taking steps to tackle its debt
crisis boosted demand for emerging-market shares. Bonds fell.  The Philippine Stock  Exchange Index (PCOMP)  closed at a record high
after central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday
monetary policy will probably be eased this quarter as inflation
cools. The leaders of France and  Germany  said yesterday a new
budget rule book for nations sharing the euro may be completed
one month ahead of schedule.  “A better situation in Europe today improved risk
appetite,” said Roland Avante, president at Philippine Business
Bank in Manila.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 43.98 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The yield on
the 5.75 percent bond due January 2021 rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 5.50 percent, according to midday
fixing prices from Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas expects  inflation  to be closer
to the low end of a 3 percent to 5 percent target range this
year and next, giving policy makers scope to cut borrowing costs
or reduce the reserve-requirement ratio for banks, Tetangco said.  The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
at 4.5 percent for a fifth meeting in December after two
increases in 2011. It raised  reserve requirements  twice last
year to 21 percent. Policy makers meet to review borrowing costs
on Jan. 19 and again on March 1.  Money-supply growth  accelerated to 7.2 percent in November,
the central bank reported today.  Bank lending , excluding funds
placed with the monetary authority, rose 22.5 percent in the
same period from a year earlier, the most in 33 months, data
showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  