-- Philips Profit Drops as Siemens Says Goals Tough to Reach
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-01-10T13:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/philips-says-weak-european-markets-held-back-its-profits-in-fourth-quarter.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) ’s
earnings fell 45 percent, while  Siemens AG (SIE)  cautioned that its
targets have become harder to reach, as the two European
manufacturers feel the strain of the region’s economic crisis.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization fell to about 500 million euros ($640 million),
from 913 million euros a year earlier, Amsterdam-based Philips
said today. Siemens’ profit forecast for 2012 has become “very
ambitious,” and pressure has increased since November,
according to Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser.  Philips  tumbled  the most in almost five months, as the
world’s biggest maker of  light bulbs  fell short of analysts’
profit estimates because of sluggish demand for health-care
equipment and lighting in Europe. Siemens predicted stagnant
profit for this year in November, as sales growth moderates and
a cooling global economy damps demand for industrial gear.  “Although recent warnings from peers suggested a risk for
Philips, we thought that health care would deliver,” said
Olivier Esnou, an analyst at Exane BNP. “The figures mean that
 Europe  must have been pretty weak across the board and that
Philips’ expectations for high delivery levels in December were
misplaced.” Esnou is reviewing his outperform rating on Philips
and had predicted earnings of 624 million euros.  Philips  fell  as much as 1.15 euros, or 7.4 percent, to
14.50 euros in Amsterdam, and traded at 15.26 euros as of 1:45
p.m. The stock has lost 12 percent in the last six months.
Siemens, based in Munich, was little changed at 75.77 euros.  Van Houten’s Warnings  For Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten, it’s the
second profit warning since taking the helm in April last year.
He has already unveiled a plan to save 800 million euros and cut
4,500 jobs to revive earnings and battle deteriorating demand
for consumer electronics and lighting products.  “It may seem like  van Houten  is continuously issuing
profit warnings,” said Jos Versteeg, an analyst at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers. “But he’s not the one to blame.”  Siemens (SIE) , which competes with Philips in lighting and
medical equipment, has suffered increasing headwinds in the
fourth quarter, Kaeser told the Wall Street Journal, in comments
that were confirmed by the company. The profit forecast for 2012
will require “tough work,” he said.  Philips is scheduled to report full earnings on Jan. 30,
while Siemens holds its annual general meeting and fiscal full-
year earnings conference in Munich on Jan. 24.  ‘Disappointed’  Signs of improvement are showing at Philips’s consumer-
lifestyle operation, making goods from shavers to music players,
the company said today.  “While we are disappointed with the results, we are
confident that by continuing to execute on our change plans, and
delivering on our cost reduction plans, we will improve the
operations of the company,” van Houten said.  Group sales  showed a “mid single-digit” increase from a
year-earlier, the company said. Ebita corresponded to a margin
of 7 percent to 8 percent on a reported basis. Figures exclude
the television business, from which the company has retreated.  Results of the lighting unit were held back by “continued
operational issues” in consumer luminaires and as economic
weakness impacted  price levels  in the consumer lighting
business. Philips said it expects adjusted Ebita in the fourth
quarter to be around 3 percent to 4 percent of sales, with a
comparable sales growth of less than 10 percent.  “The lighting numbers are disappointing,” said Marcel Achterberg, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Petercam. “They
seemed to have made progress in the restructuring of their
supply management, yet this shows they still have a lot to do.”  Added CEO Duties  Van Houten has been in charge of the lighting unit after
division chief Rudy Provoost left to become CEO of  Rexel SA (RXL)  last
year. Philips appointed Pierre Yves Lesaicherre as head of its
lumileds subsidiary yesterday.  Philips said health-care sales had “low single-digit”
growth in the fourth quarter as sales in Europe fell. The unit
had a “strong performance” in the U.S., according to the
company. Siemens and Philips are the two biggest European makers
of medical equipment, and Siemens has suffered setbacks in areas
including diagnostics and advanced cancer therapy.  Van Houten has set a target of increasing Ebita to 10
percent to 12 percent of revenue by 2013, on sales growth of 4
percent to 6 percent. Philips reiterated those targets today.  “Today’s disappointment is just a drop in the bucket of
the program they have announced to meet their 2013 targets,”
said Petercam’s Achterberg, who has a “hold” recommendation on
the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  