-- Pimco Opens Two Dividend Funds Under Ex-Thornburg Managers
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-01-10T16:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/pimco-said-to-open-two-dividend-focused-funds-under-ex-thornburg-managers.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the  money manager  best known for its bond funds, opened two new
dividend-focused equity funds run by a pair of former Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. executives.  The Pimco EqS Dividend Fund and the Pimco Dividend and
Income Builder Fund will invest globally in any size company
without regard to sector, the  Newport Beach , California-based
firm said today in a statement. Brad Kinkelaar, who left
Thornburg at the end of 2008, and Cliff Remily, who left last
year, will manage the funds.  Pimco, under Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian,
started a push into equities more than two years ago as it
sought to reduce its dependence on traditional fixed-income
strategies. The firm hired former U.S. Treasury official Neel Kashkari in December 2009 to lead that expansion. Pimco has
since built three distinct investment teams focusing on “deep
value” global stocks, emerging-market equities and dividend-
paying stocks.  The EqS Dividend Fund will invest in dividend-paying stocks
all over the world, while the Dividend and Income Builder Fund
can invest a portion of its assets in bonds, according to the
statement. The fixed-income part of the fund will be managed by
Eve Tournier. Matt Burdett, who also joined Pimco last year from
 Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg, is an analyst on the fund.  New Normal  The funds will combine Pimco’s global macroeconomic views
with stock-picking by its portfolio managers, the firm said in
today’s statement. Pimco has said it will pursue equity
strategies with a global focus, in line with its “new normal”
philosophy adopted in May 2009 to describe an era of lower
returns, heightened  government regulation , diminishing U.S.
clout in the world economy and a bigger role for developing
nations.  “This is a great strategy in any environment, and it’s
even more true in the new normal, given the low interest-rate
environment,” Kashkari said in a telephone interview.  Pimco, which manages about $1.35 trillion in assets, has
gathered about $5 billion in its stock funds since hiring
Kashkari as head of new investment initiatives. As part of its
diversification, Pimco also opened exchange-traded funds,
distressed debt funds and so-called tail-hedging funds, or
products designed to weather falling markets.  Diversified Offerings  The $244 billion Pimco Total Return Fund, run by  Bill Gross 
and the world’s largest mutual fund, remains the firm’s
flagship. It rose 4.2 percent last year, lagging behind behind
69 percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
prompting the fund’s first yearly redemptions.  The firm’s moves to diversify helped offset those
withdrawals as Pimco attracted $60 billion in net deposits,
driven by its tail-hedging funds, asset-allocation products and
equity funds.  Pimco’s biggest new stock fund is the $2.1 billion Pimco
EqS Pathfinder Fund, run by Anne Gudefin and Charles Lahr,
former portfolio managers at  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  The fund,
which opened in April 2010, buys stocks its managers deem cheap
based on earnings and other measures. It has declined 3.1
percent in the past year, beating 82 percent of similarly
managed funds, according to Bloomberg data.  Global Focus  Pimco, which has more than 90 percent of its assets in
bonds, in March started its first funds under Maria Gordon, the
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  portfolio manager hired to begin
an emerging-markets stock group.  Kinkelaar and Remily said they prefer dividend-paying
stocks outside the U.S. in regions such as  Asia  and  Latin
America . Much like Pimco, which is avoiding investments in
 Europe , the managers said in an interview they are “cautious”
about the region because of the sovereign-debt crisis.  “There is a more robust dividend-paying culture outside
the U.S. and we can find higher yields in almost every sector
and geography than in the U.S.,” Kinkelaar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  