-- Polish Yield Spread Doubles in 750 Million-Euro Bond Sale
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-10T17:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/poland-said-to-add-to-3-75-bonds-in-euros-due-march-2017.html
Poland  faces higher borrowing costs
to sell more of its euro-denominated bonds due March 2017 as
Europe’s debt crisis pushes up yields.  The sale of 3.75-percent notes will total 750 million euros
($958 million) and be priced at 237 basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate, according to a banker involved in the
deal who declined to be identified because the information isn’t
public. The government sold 1.25 billion euros of the same bonds
in March 2010 at a yield 100 basis points above mid-swaps.  Poland is following  Brazil ,  South Africa  and  Indonesia  in
tapping foreign bondholders in the busiest start to a year from
developing nations. It will be the country’s first foreign sale
since Oct. 27, when the government raised $2 billion of 10 1/2-
year bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are in a difficult period for central and eastern
 Europe  right now so it may require an extra premium to place the
bond,”  Luis Costa , emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc.
said by phone from London.  Poland is seeking to finance at least a quarter of this
year’s borrowing needs in January. The European Union’s largest
eastern economy has been punished because of its reliance on the
euro area for 54 percent of its exports, while western lenders
control 59 percent of its bank assets, government data show.  Bond Risk  The euro-area debt crisis sent the cost to insure Polish
bonds using credit-default swaps 136 basis points higher last
year, the biggest increase since 2008. The zloty lost 11 percent
against the euro last year, the fifth-steepest loss among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The zloty gained for a third day, strengthening 0.8 percent
to 4.4585 per euro at 5:48 p.m. in Warsaw. Poland’s five-year
credit default swaps fell six basis points to 288 basis points,
according to CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately-negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The euro will remain Poland’s “main currency for debt
management,” Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said in
an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News, adding
the government isn’t planning to raise a “very large sum” from
today’s sale.  Barclays Capital , Societe Generale SA and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are
managing the transaction, the Finance Ministry said in a
statement on its  website .  German Haven  The debt crisis that began in  Greece  in late 2009 has since
infected Italy and Spain, the euro area’s third- and fourth-
largest economies.  Germany  yesterday sold six-month treasury
bills at a negative yield for the first time amid demand for the
debt securities of Europe’s biggest economy as a haven from the
sovereign debt crisis.  The debt crisis in the euro area and the higher risk
aversion globally mean that “the market is demanding more”
from Poland in terms of yield than in 2010, Ronald Schneider,
who helps manage about $1 billion in emerging-market debt at
Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH  said by phone from Vienna.  “It’s a positive sign that the Eurobond market is open to
central and east European issuer, although Poland is obviously a
strong credit,” he said. “It looks like they’re giving some
concession to the market.”  Emerging-market issuers have raised $29.2 billion so far
this year, the most for a similar period since Bloomberg started
compiling the data in 1999. Developing nations sold $16.4
billion in the same period a year ago, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net 
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  