-- Porsche Joins Rolls-Royce in Chasing Record Sales in 2012: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-01-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/porsche-rolls-royce-chasing-record-sales.html
Happy days are here again for
Porsche, Lamborghini and other elite auto brands.  Porsche SE has better-than-expected orders for the revamped
911 sports car and its biggest backlog ever. Buyers of the
263,000-euro ($335,667) Lamborghini Aventador may have to wait
more than a year for delivery, while demand from China fueled
record deliveries in 2011 for the 107-year-old Rolls-Royce
brand, beating a mark set more than three decades ago.  Sales of high-end cars, including  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) ’s namesake brand and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, may in 2012
surpass the record set before the financial crisis damped
demand, according to IHS Automotive. The market researcher
forecasts sales for the segment in 2012 of 7.02 million cars, up
13 percent from last year’s 6.23 million and beating the
previous record of 6.27 million set in 2007.  Audi AG (NSU) , Daimler and BMW this week all forecast overall
market growth, including the volume brands, of about 4 percent
in 2012. BMW, which also makes Mini and Rolls-Royce brand
vehicles, expects to outpace the market on demand for new
versions of the 3-Series sedan and the 1-Series compact.  “We do see growth next year for the overall car market and
an accelerated growth for premium cars,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s
sales chief, said this week at the  Detroit auto show . “There’s
no doubt that the confidence of the customers in the premium
segment has grown quite quickly.”  Emerging Markets  The makers of very expensive cars are pushing beyond their
traditional markets in the U.S. and  Europe  to emerging
economies, where a new class of wealthy is looking to flaunt
their success, said Dave Sargent, vice president of automotive
research at J.D. Power & Associates in Troy,  Michigan .  “The future looks pretty rosy for these companies,”
Sargent said. “Now you got places like  Russia  and China where
there’s a lot of people with a lot of money all of a sudden.
It’s like having lots of lottery winners all at the same time.
When people come into a lot of money, one of the first things a
lot of them will do is buy a super car.”  Backed by an 18-month order backlog for the Aventador and a
six-month wait for the Gallardo, Lamborghini expects to beat
last year’s deliveries of 1,600 cars in 2012, even with demand
in  Italy  weak because of the debt crisis, Stephan Winkelmann,
head of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Lamborghini brand, said in an interview
in  Detroit  this week.  Delivering Dreams  “We are conservative with our expectations,” said
Winkelmann. “Our purpose is not to deliver big numbers, but to
deliver dreams for a very select group of people.”  Production of the Aventador is now at full capacity, with
900 cars due to be assembled at the Italian company’s factory in
Sant’Agata Bolognese, Winkelmann said. In addition to the
Aventador, Lamborghini will start building the 1.6 million-euro
Sesto Elemento super car, he said.  “Customers have become tired of pushing back purchases
year after year and are returning to old buying habits,”
 Wolfgang Duerheimer , chief executive officer of Volkswagen’s
Bentley, said last week. “If the economy doesn’t let us down,
there’s a good chance that we can approach the 2007 record” in
deliveries this year.  The Crewe, England-based brand is targeting a “robust”
double-digit percentage growth in deliveries. Bentley plans to
take advantage of the stronger demand by adding 25 dealers this
year to its current 161 sales outlets worldwide. Expansion will
focus on China, Russia and mainland Europe.  Convertible Continental  Sales growth is expected to be fueled by deliveries of the
new $205,600 Continental GTC convertible. V8 engines for the
entire Continental line will also boost demand, Duerheimer said.  The carmaker plans to expand its lineup and expects to
decide in the first quarter on adding a sport-utility vehicle,
which would be priced at more than $140,000, Duerheimer said.
The company is also considering an extended-wheelbase version of
the Mulsanne and more variants of the Continental, he said.  Rolls-Royce said this week that growth in all regions drove
deliveries 31 percent higher to 3,538 cars last year, beating
the previous record set in 1978 by 191 vehicles.  China  became
Rolls-Royce’s biggest market in 2011, three years ahead of a
target the company set in February.  “Overall, I am optimistic that we will see the next record
year for Rolls-Royce Motor Cars in 2012,” CEO Torsten Mueller-
Oetvoes told Bloomberg Television in a Jan. 9 interview.  Maserati SUV  Maserati plans to boost deliveries by more than fivefold to
about 35,000 in 2014 as it adds models and dealerships
worldwide, especially in emerging countries. The Italian
carmaker owned by Fiat SpA will build its first sport-utility
vehicle from next year in Detroit. It wants to sell at least
20,000 SUVs a year, with the major market being U.S. and China,
Chief Executive Officer Harald Wester said yesterday.  “We have an aggressive plan for the future,” he said.
“My dream is to get to 55,000 units sold a year” when all the
new models come to the market. “It has never been done before
in the luxury sector, it can be done.”  China became Maserati’s second biggest market after  North
America  in 2011 as sales almost doubled to 780 cars. The Italian
carmaker expects “flat” sales worldwide this year before
introducing new models from next year, Wester said.
Sales rose 10 percent in 2011.  German luxury-car manufacturers’ sales last year were
propelled by demand in China, where they all posted sales gains
of at least 30 percent, led by a 65 percent jump for Stuttgart-
based Porsche. Audi CEO Rupert Stadler estimated this week that
China’s car market will expand about 8 percent in 2012.  The new 911 has orders above Porsche’s expectations, said
 Matthias Mueller , the brand’s chief. The company will also
introduce a revamped Boxster roadster in the second quarter.
Porsche targets beating last year’s sales record of 118,900 in
2012, Mueller said. Still, he advises caution.  “Last time, everybody thought that the luxury segment
would escape the crisis, but in the end we were hit just as
hard,” Mueller said in an interview. “If the economy declines,
we won’t escape it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Detroit at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Detroit at 
 tebhardt@blomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  