-- Pound Weakens, Gilts Slide as China Optimism Damps Safety Demand
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-10T16:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/pound-weakens-to-four-month-low-against-aussie-on-deteriorating-economy.html
The pound weakened against
higher-yielding currencies and gilts dropped as speculation
 China  will take steps to spur economic growth drove stocks
higher, damping demand for U.K. assets as a refuge.  Sterling fell the most against the Brazilian real and the
New Zealand and Australian dollars among the 16 major
currencies. Gilts also dropped for the first time in four days
before German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets with  International
Monetary Fund  managing director  Christine Lagarde  amid optimism
officials are taking steps to resolve the region’s crisis. The
debt office sold 700 million pounds ($1.08 billion) of
inflation-linked bonds at a negative yield.  “Sterling has clearly been benefitting in times of  risk
aversion ,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “If
people are a little bit more confident about  Europe , that
probably translates into a weaker” pound, he said.  The pound weakened 0.6 percent to A$1.5002 at 4:08 p.m.
London time after dropping to A$1.4946, the lowest level since
Aug. 2. Sterling dropped 1.4 percent against the real and slid
0.8 percent versus New Zealand’s currency. It was little changed
at 82.51 pence per euro, and gained 0.2 percent to $1.5487.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed seven basis points to 2.07
percent. The 3.75 percent bond due September 2021 dropped 0.625,
or 6.25 pounds per 1,000 pound face amount, to 114.62. The two-
year rate climbed three basis points to 0.42 percent.  China’s import growth slowed to a two-year low in December,
government trade data showed today, increasing speculation on
monetary easing.  Merkel, Lagarde  Merkel will meet Lagarde at 8 p.m. in Berlin today, while
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will hold talks with Lagarde
tomorrow in Paris. Merkel and Sarkozy yesterday outlined the
increased pace of their response as the financial crisis that
began in Greece in 2009 entered its third year amid concern the
future of the single currency itself was in doubt.  Sterling has advanced 2.5 percent in the past six months,
the third-best performer after the dollar and the yen, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The pound outperformed the euro as
concern the debt crisis was deepening stoked demand for U.K.
assets as an alternative to European ones.  U.K. Rating  Fitch Ratings  will review the U.K. credit grade in the
first half of the year as part of its normal oversight process,
 David Riley , head of the sovereign-debt unit at the company,
said today at a conference in  London .  “There’s not much room for maneuver in the U.K. public
finances,” he said. Fitch has “no plans at this point in time
to change the rating,” and France’s rating is at “greater
risk” of a downgrade, he said.  Additional Bank of England stimulus may not be enough to
revive U.K. economic growth, according to the British Chambers
of Commerce.  The group said it forecasts policy makers will increase
their target for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds to 325
billion pounds in the first quarter.  “This will not achieve its full potential in supporting
growth unless supplemented by the early introduction of a
sizable and effective credit-easing program,” Chief Economist
 David Kern  said.  Linker Sale  The Debt Management Office sold index-linked gilts maturing
in November 2047 at a real yield, or the yield after accounting
for inflation, of minus 0.116 percent.  “We’re probably going to have to get used to auctions with
negative real yields,” said Jamie Searle, an interest-rate
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Linkers look pretty
good value here relative to nominals” because asset purchases
by the  Bank of England  are driving down rates on conventional
gilts relative to inflation-linked debt, he said.  Gilts slipped 0.2 percent this year after returning 17
percent in 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. U.K. inflation-linked bonds earned more than 21 percent
last year, returning 0.2 percent in 2012, the indexes show.  The Debt Management Office will tomorrow sell as much as 3
billion pounds of 3.75 percent bonds due September 2021. It will
auction 3.75 percent gilts maturing in 2052 in the week starting
Jan. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  