-- Profit Drops 88% at Commodity-Trader Cargill
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-01-10T16:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/profit-drops-88-at-commodity-trader-cargill.html
Cargill Inc., the commodity trader
that’s the largest closely held U.S. company, reported fiscal
second-quarter profit fell 88 percent because of commodity
market “challenges” and the drop in sugar prices.  Earnings declined to $100 million in the three months
through November from $832 million a year earlier, the
Minneapolis-based company said today in a statement. Sales rose
17 percent to $33.3 billion from $28.5 billion.  “First, commodity and financial markets were driven more
by political uncertainties than by underlying supply and demand
fundamentals,” Greg Page, Cargill’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “Second, our
performance in the sugar market was poor.”  Cargill, the world’s largest sugar trader, saw the unit’s
results decline after prices for the sweetener rose in early
October and then fell “dramatically” by the end of the month,
Lisa Clemens, a company spokeswoman, said in an interview today.
The company named Ivo Sarjanovic as head of its global sugar
business replacing Jonathan Drake, it said on Dec. 7.  Commodity-based trading and asset management were
challenged by uncertain growth prospects, and overcapacity in
the soybean-processing industry held down margins, Clemens said.  Meat Business  The meat business had “one of their weakest quarters,”
Page said in a statement. The drought in  Texas  and shrinking
U.S. cattle supplies pressured beef margins and higher feed
costs affected the unit, Clemens said. Poultry processing in
 Thailand  was hurt by floods.  The company incurred one-time costs related to its recall
of ground turkey and temporary production shutdown in
Springdale,  Arkansas , she said.  Commodity traders such as Hong Kong-based Noble Group Ltd.,
whose CEO stepped down in November after poor results from its
cotton and carbon-credits units, have been hurt by rising
volatility in commodity markets. Cargill said last month it will
cut as much as 1.5 percent of its 138,000 employees in the next
six months to reduce costs. Cargill also plans to close its  Des
Moines ,  Iowa , soybean crush plant on Feb. 4 amid industry
overcapacity in soy-meal production.  Along with facing challenges in several units, Cargill’s
profit drop this quarter appears even steeper compared to a year
ago because the second quarter of 2011 was its “strongest
quarter ever,” Page said.  Global Markets  Global problems such as the European debt crisis and
political gridlock in the U.S. also affected the markets more
than supply and demand fundamentals, Clemens said.  “Markets have been driven by the daily headlines,” she
said. “That doesn’t provide forward visibility.”  While performance in the agricultural-services segment was
“solid” in the quarter, the “export pull” for grain wasn’t
as strong, Clemens said. The unit includes businesses that buy
grain from growers and provide services such as risk management
and agronomics to farmers.  Boost to Earnings  Cargill’s food ingredients and applications segment was the
largest contributor to earnings in the quarter as several
businesses such as cocoa, sweeteners and starches were lifted by
stronger volume, Clemens said. Some recent acquisitions such as
a condiment business in  Brazil  and a chocolate company in  Europe 
have been accretive, Clemens said.  Cargill is the largest closely held U.S. company as ranked
by  Forbes .  Cargill’s results are “undoubtedly positive” for  Corn
Products International Inc. (CPO) , which makes food ingredients such
as high fructose corn syrup, said Ken Zaslow, a New York-based
analyst for BMO Capital Markets who has an “outperform” rating
on the shares.  The company’s performance is “negative” for commodity
traders Archer Daniels Midland Co. and, to a lesser extent,
 Bunge Ltd. (BG) , as U.S. export demand and margins narrowed on grain
supplies in other regions and amid weak soybean crush margins
and lower freight rates, said Zaslow, who has “market perform”
ratings on ADM and Bunge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  