-- ProSieben Gets European Licenses to Sony’s EverQuest II, DC Universe
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2012-01-10T12:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/prosieben-gets-european-licenses-to-eight-sony-online-games.html
ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  will publish
eight games from Sony Online Entertainment in Europe
exclusively, including “ Star Wars : Clone Adventures” and “ DC
Universe Online ,” as the broadcaster expands online offerings.  The agreement with the  Sony Corp. (6758)  division also includes
online multiplayer worlds  “EverQuest II, ” “Free Realms” and
“Pox Nora,” Unterfoehring, Germany-based ProSieben said in a
statement today.  “The cooperation agreement with Sony Online Entertainment
brings us a big step closer to our goal of becoming one of the
top three publishers in Europe,” said Christian Wegner, head of
media and diversification at ProSieben.  As part of its strategy to become less reliant on
advertising revenue from free television,  Germany ’s biggest
broadcaster last year bought Munich-based free online games
publisher burda:ic with about 7 million players and took a
majority stake in browsergames.de, which has 1.8 million
visitors a month.  ProSieben’s games, online video and other digital ventures
had 243 million euros ($311 million) in revenue in the first
nine months of last year. In October, the broadcaster said it
sees additional revenue potential for those businesses of more
than 250 million euros by 2015.  Sales Beat Target  Sales from the company’s digital and ventures business
exceeded a goal of growing 20 percent in 2011, Wegner said at a
press conference in Munich today.  ProSieben shares were up 2.2 percent to 14.83 euros at 1:39
a.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the company at 3.2 billion euros. Its
shares lost 38 percent of their value last year.  “We didn’t feel we had the right reach in Europe,” said
Sony Online Entertainment President John Smedley at the Munich
meeting. “Our goal is to become the leading free to play
publisher in the world and with the help of ProSieben, we feel
Europe is covered now.”  The companies will share revenue and risk under the terms
of the multiyear agreement, executives said today.  In December, ProSieben struck  deals  to distribute
 Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  games such as “Battlefield Heroes,”
“FIFA Superstars” and “Need for Speed World.” Other games
available on the broadcaster’s games platforms include Bigpoint
GmbH’s “Farmerama” and Marvel Entertainment’s “Superhero
Squad Online.”  Free Games  All the games are free and the companies make money when
players decide to spend anything from 10 cents to 30 euros for
items such as weapons or virtual money that may make the player
more competitive, Achim Kaspers, a ProSieben games manager said
today.  Arnd Benninghoff, the chairman of the digital unit’s board,
said less than 10 percent of players spend money within the
games and that the average a paying player spends per month
varies between 15 euros and 50 euros. He said the online gaming
market in  Europe  is expected to grow 17 percent each year to $5
billion in 2015.  Some of the games licensed by ProSieben were previously
subscription-based and Smedley said that when games such as “DC
Universe” and “EverQuest” became free-to-play, registrations
multiplied.  “A big part of the future is free-to-play,” Smedley said.
“We’ve determined that it is in our best interest to convert
our entire business to free-to-play. That is where we are seeing
an astoundingly high number of gamers coming to the market.”  With more than 200 million registered players each,
Hamburg-based Bigpoint and Karlsruhe, Germany-based Gameforge
AG, are among Europe’s largest online games publishers.  Travian
Games GmbH  in Munich has in excess of 120 million registered
players, according to its Website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  