-- QNB Last Credible Buyer for Denizbank as Bank Sales Founder
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-01-10T16:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/qnb-last-credible-buyer-for-denizbank-as-bank-sales-founder.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  is the last
serious bidder for Turkey’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  after the withdrawal of
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , people familiar with the
process said, underscoring the difficulty banks face offloading
businesses amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  QNB remains interested in Denizbank, the Turkish unit of
the Franco-Belgian lender  Dexia SA (DEXB) , and a deal could be reached
this month if talks are successful, the people said. The parties
may still fail to complete a deal, one of the people said,
declining to be identified because the discussions are private.  Denizbank is the latest bank asset to struggle to find
buyers as the region’s fiscal woes continue and some of the
world’s largest financial institutions seek to raise cash by
divesting units and portfolios. Lenders including Deutsche Bank
AG and  France ’s Societe Generale SA have announced plans to shed
more than $1 trillion in assets, according to Bloomberg data.  “You certainly have a deleveraging process going on across
Europe right now, and it’s an accelerating process” as banks
work to meet deadlines for raising capital later this year, said
Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at  Collins Stewart  in  London .  With few large financial institutions in a position to make
major acquisitions, that leaves buyers who “aren’t the usual
suspects,” such as Middle Eastern banks, among the only
candidates willing and able to do deals, he added.  ’Uncertain Market’  HSBC, based in London, has withdrawn its bid for Denizbank,
people with knowledge of the process said yesterday, following a
similar decision by Sberbank last month due to what it said were
“uncertain market conditions.”  “No official information has come to us from the
interested parties about reports and comments in the media,”
Denizbank said in a filing with the  Istanbul Stock Exchange 
today. “The sale process is continuing.”  Spokesmen for QNB, HSBC and Dexia declined to comment on
the Denizbank process.  Denizbank shares rose 9.7 percent to 12.45 new Turkish lira
at the close in Istanbul after dropping 1.32 percent earlier,
giving it a market value of $4.7 billion. The bank’s shares have
declined 22 percent since last year’s high of 16.05 Turkish lira
on October 19. QNB shares dropped 5.2 percent to close at 145
riyals, the steepest fall in more than two years amid a broader
slump on the Doha exchange.  Autumn Rescue  The Turkish lender was put up for sale last autumn as part
of a rescue plan undertaken by the French and Belgian
governments for Dexia after the debt crisis reduced the bank’s
ability to obtain funding. The Brussels-based firm is putting
its most troubled assets into a so-called bad bank and trying to
sell profitable units, including Denizbank, to raise cash.  Turkey  has been a popular target for deals in recent years
as foreign companies look to tap its $735 billion economy, which
grew 8.2 percent in the third quarter of last year -- a pace
faster than that of any Group of 20 country except  China .  Still, even bank assets in faster-growing economies are
more difficult to sell as buyers stick to the sidelines. Last
month Banco Commercial Portugues opted to keep its Polish unit
after initiating a sale process that people familiar with the
process said had seen bidders drop out.  European banks will need to raise 114.7 billion euros in
capital as part of measures introduced in response to the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis, the European Banking Authority
said last month, 8 billion euros more than the regulator had
estimated in October.  The agency has given the region’s lenders until June 30 to
increase core Tier 1 capital, a measure of banks’ financial
resilience, to 9 percent as a buffer against the sovereign-debt
crisis. The EBA set a Jan. 20 deadline for banks to submit
money-raising plans to supervisors. Those that fail to raise
enough capital on their own will have to turn to their
governments or the European Financial Stability Facility, the
euro region’s bailout fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  