-- Queens Park Rangers Name Mark Hughes to Replace Warnock in Manager’s Job
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-10T13:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/queens-park-rangers-name-mark-hughes-to-replace-warnock-in-manager-s-job.html
Queens Park Rangers appointed  Mark Hughes  as manager, two days after  Neil Warnock  was fired with
the club one spot above the relegation positions in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Hughes, 48, without a club since quitting as Fulham coach
in June, joins on a 2 1/2-year contract, QPR said in a statement
on its website.  “I’m fully aware of the challenge in the short and long
term and I am genuinely excited about the ambition of the
owners,” Hughes said in the statement.  QPR, promoted to England’s top league as winner of the
second-tier Championship last season, has slipped to 17th in the
standings after a run of eight league matches without a victory.
The three bottom teams are relegated at the end of the campaign.  West London-based QPR has fared less well than Norwich City
and Swansea City, the two other clubs that were promoted to the
top division. Its last win was at  Stoke City  on Nov. 19. QPR was
held to a 1-1 tie at third-tier MK Dons in the F.A. Cup third
round last weekend, Warnock’s final match.  Tony Fernandes, chief executive officer of Malaysia’s
AirAsia Bhd, bought a majority stake in QPR in mid-August after
which the club embarked on a spending spree to bring in high-
profile players including midfielder Joey Barton, winger Shaun Wright-Phillips and fullback Luke Young.  Hughes has told QPR that he needs to spend 30 million
pounds ($46.5 million) on players to lift the club clear of
relegation trouble, the Express reported today.  The former Manchester United player guided Fulham to eighth
in his only season with the Cottagers before quitting and
questioning the team’s ambition.  Hughes has also coached Blackburn and  Manchester City 
following a spell as manager of the Welsh national team.  His first match in charge of QPR will be at Newcastle on
Jan. 15, followed by a home replay against MK Dons in the F.A.
Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 