-- Oakland Raiders Fire Coach Jackson After McKenzie Joins as General Manager
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-10T22:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/raiders-fire-coach-hue-jackson-report.html
The  Oakland Raiders  fired first-year
coach Hue Jackson on the same day Reggie McKenzie was introduced
as the franchise’s general manager.  The Raiders had an 8-8 record under Jackson, losing four of
their final five games to miss the National Football League
playoffs after a 7-4 start. Oakland hasn’t been to the playoffs
since losing the  Super Bowl  after the 2002 season.  “There was a need for a change at the head coaching
position,” McKenzie said today at a news conference. “We’re
moving into a new era. I respect coach Jackson, but it’s just
something that I want to do, start anew.”  Jackson had handled some of the Raiders’ player personnel
decisions since owner  Al Davis  died in October, including the
trade that brought quarterback  Carson Palmer  to Oakland from
Cincinnati for first- and second-round draft picks.  McKenzie, 48, is set to take over those decisions after
serving as the  Green Bay Packers ’ director of football
operations since 2008. The Raiders haven’t officially had
someone in the general manager role since Bruce Allen left the
organization after the 2003 season. Davis and his son, Mark, had
largely handled those personnel responsibilities.  “With all things there comes a time when change is
necessary,” McKenzie said. “That time is now.”  The Raiders are now looking for their seventh coach since
2002. Since making their last playoff appearance under  Bill Callahan , Oakland has gone through Norv Turner, Art Shell, Lane Kiffin, Tom Cable and Jackson.  McKenzie, a former linebacker, was drafted by the Raiders
in 1985 and played four of his six NFL seasons with the club.
He’d been a member of the Packers’ front office since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  