-- Rand Gains First Day in 5 as Metals Climb on China Speculation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-10T14:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/rand-strengthens-first-day-in-five-as-metals-rally-china-exports-increase.html
The rand advanced against the dollar
for the first time in five days as metals and other commodity
prices rose on speculation  China  will loosen monetary policy to
bolster economic growth.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 1.3 percent to 8.0796
per dollar as of 3:39 p.m. in Johannesburg. It rose 0.8 percent
against the euro to 10.3426, the strongest level on a closing
basis since Sept. 16.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced to a one-month
high and a  measure  of commodity prices rose for a third day as
the prices of metals including copper, zinc and nickel jumped.
China’s exports rose 13.4 percent last month while import growth
slowed more than estimated, a report today showed, fuelling
speculation the government may loosen monetary policy to spur
economic growth, fuelling demand for raw materials.  “Commodity prices are up, and so-called commodity
currencies including the Australian and Canadian dollars are
also firmer,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in e-mailed
comments. “The rand has also benefitted from these
developments.”  Metals and other raw materials account for 60 percent of
 South Africa ’s exports. The nation’s benchmark stock  index 
gained for a third day, led by commodity producers including
Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.  European Talks  The rand was also buoyed by optimism European leaders are
making progress with plans to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday they may complete their new
budget rulebook by Jan. 30, one month ahead of schedule, and are
considering accelerating capital contributions to the bailout
fund being set up this year to stem the debt crisis. Merkel will
meet the International Monetary Fund’s managing director
Christine Lagarde in Berlin today.  “Sarkozy and Merkel reported progress on the new Eurozone
fiscal pact,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, and colleagues wrote in e-mailed
comments. “Long-term fiscal issues are being resolved.”  Bonds gained after a report showed vehicle sales declined
in December from a year ago, while exports slumped 38 percent in
2011. Signs of weaker economic growth may prompt the  Reserve
Bank  to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 5.5 percent, a 30-
year low.  “These numbers continue to point towards moderately weaker
demand conditions,” Dennis Dykes, an economist at Nedbank Group
Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. The central
bank “is likely to keep policy neutral while the economic
climate remains cloudy.”  The yield on South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.81
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  