-- RBS Sued for Wrongful Dismissal by Trader Fired Over Libor
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   N e t t y   I d a y u   I s m a i l
-- 2012-01-10T10:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/rbs-sued-in-singapore-by-ex-trading-head-business-times-reports.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  was
sued for wrongful dismissal by a former Singapore-based trader
who said the bank accused him of improperly trying to influence
the setting of London interbank offered rates.  Tan Chi Min said the British Bankers’ Association, which
sets the Libor rate, gets input from 16 banks and he was in no
position to influence the rate on his own. Tan sought to recoup
$1.5 million in bonuses he claims he’s owed and 3.3 million RBS
shares, according to the lawsuit filed last month in  Singapore ’s
 High Court .  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, is co-
operating with investigations by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the
European Commission into whether Libor had been manipulated.  Apart from the regulators’ actions, investors have accused
several banks represented on the Libor panel of distorting
market prices by hiding true borrowing costs since as early as
2007. A series of lawsuits filed in 2011 are now winding their
way through courts in Europe and the U.S.  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for RBS,
declined to comment on Tan’s lawsuit. Suresh Nair, a lawyer
representing Tan, also declined to comment.  Tan, the former head of delta trading for  RBS’s (RBS)  global
banking and markets division in Singapore, said in his complaint
that the bank failed to detail the allegations against him and
didn’t specify how he had improperly influenced the setting of
Libor for the yen.  It was his responsibility to provide input to the bank’s
rate setters and it was common practice for other bank employees
to make requests of them, Tan said in the lawsuit.  Benchmark Rate  Libor rates are based on data from banks reflecting how
much it would cost them to borrow from each other for various
periods of time in currencies including dollars, euros and yen.
The rates are compiled daily by Thomson Reuters Corp. for the
British Bankers’ Association.  The benchmark determines  interest rates  on an estimated
$360 trillion of financial instruments around the world,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements . The rate
represents the average of the collected figures, minus several
of the highest and lowest quotes.  The delta trading desks at investment banks handle trades
for clients, typically helping them to speculate on, or hedge
the performance of, a basket of securities.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Netty Idayu Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  