-- RBS Bankers Preparing for Nuclear Winter as Hester Undoes Goodwin Empire
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-01-10T16:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/rbs-faces-nuclear-winter-as-ceo-hester-dismantles-goodwin-s-bank.html
By Thursday lunchtime in London, the
18,900 employees in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s 
investment banking division will know whether they still have
jobs at Britain’s biggest government-owned lender.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, decided to make
the announcement, originally planned for later this month,
because uncertainty in the ranks about jobs was undermining
productivity, said one senior executive who declined to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Hester is reversing a decade of expansion led by former CEO
 Fred Goodwin  that included $140 billion of acquisitions. The
Edinburgh-based lender plans to close its equities and corporate
finance units globally, cutting as many as 5,000 jobs, said two
people familiar with the situation. The cash equities, equity
research, corporate broking as well as mergers and acquisitions
units may also be shut, the people said. Limiting cuts to the
equities unit may not be enough to boost profitability, said
Raul Sinha, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove in London.  “Addressing only the equities business profitability is
insufficient to change the global banking and markets unit’s
return on equity prospects, given that the issues are capital
consumption as well as costs,” said Sinha in a note to
investors.  Banking Review  Hester is extending cuts he made when he reviewed the
bank’s operations in 2009 after he took over from Goodwin, 53.
Since that time he has cut the bank’s assets by about 1 trillion
pounds ($1.54 trillion). He retreated from some markets in  Asia ,
running off loans and selling units including the European
division of commodities-trading business RBS Sempra, which
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . bought for $1.7 billion. At the same time
he expanded the bank’s equities and advisory business on the
continent.  The European debt crisis has forced securities firms to
scale back or close divisions that trade equities in Europe.
 UniCredit SpA (UGC) ,  Italy ’s largest bank shut its European equities
unit in November, joining a growing list of companies including
Nomura Holdings Inc., that have eliminated jobs in the region.  When McKinsey & Co. reviewed RBS in 2009, the management
consulting firm came up with possible scenarios of what the
future might look like for the board to consider. The worst-
case, involving a deterioration in the global economy and  RBS (RBS) 
losing market share, was headed “Nuclear Winter,” according to
a former RBS executive who helped to devise the strategy. The
executive, who declined to be identified because the talks were
private, said that the sovereign debt crisis and new regulation,
including the planned insulation of consumer banking as outlined
by the Independent Commission on Banking in September, had made
the reality much worse.  Fleshed Out  The overhaul, which will be outlined in brief this week and
fleshed out when the bank reports year-end earnings on Feb. 23,
will call for the transformation of RBS into a U.K. and U.S.-
focused consumer bank and lender to companies. The firm will
retain its payment-processing arm under the plan along with a
smaller investment bank focused on underwriting and trading
debt, the people with knowledge of the matter said.  RBS spokesman Michael Strachan and Andrew Whitehouse, a
spokesman for McKinsey & Co. in  London , declined to comment.  The pending move marks a return to how the bank looked in
2004 “before the GBM runaway growth phase,” according to Bruce Packard, analyst at Seymour Piece Ltd. in London.  Acquisition Spree  RBS increased its balance sheet more than sixfold to 2.4
trillion pounds in the seven years to the financial crisis of
2008, as Goodwin sought to push the lender beyond its Scottish
origins. The lender was Europe’s biggest arranger of leveraged
loans from 2004 to 2008. Goodwin’s acquisition spree culminated
in the 72 billion-euro ($92 billion) takeover of ABN Amro
Holding NV with partners Banco Santander SA and Fortis. RBS
acquired the Dutch bank’s Asian and securities units.  RBS’s investment bank accounted for 26 percent of RBS’s
7.85 billion-pound pretax profit in 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. As Goodwin expanded, so too did his
reliance on the unit: By 2007, the securities division generated
47 percent of the lender’s 9.19 billion-pound pretax profit. It
contributed about a third of profit in the first nine months of
last year.  RBS last month was ordered by the government to shrink its
investment bank as part of a strategy to scale back what it
termed “riskier activities.” The bank is 83 percent taxpayer-
owned. Profit in the division fell 42 percent in the first nine
months of 2011. The lender’s shares slumped 50 percent in London
trading last year compared to a 32 percent drop for the 46-
member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  ‘Substantial Drag’  The  shares  gained 5.3 percent to 21.13 pence at the close
in London for a market value of 23.3 billion pounds. That
compares with the government’s break-even price of about 50.2
pence on its 65.5 billion-pound investment in the bank.  “The current difficult revenue environment does not allow
RBS to generate anything like a decent return in its investment
bank,” James Invine and Philip Richards at Societe Generale SA
said in a note. “Global Banking and Markets is a very
substantial drag as it stands today.”  RBS’s investment bank, run by John Hourican since the
departure of Johnny Cameron in 2009, faces higher fixed costs
after new rules on bonuses led banks to pay their employees
higher base salaries as a proportion of total compensation.  The inflated wage bill came just as markets declined,
making it harder for companies to sell shares and make
acquisitions. Global share sales and rights offerings fell about
30 percent to $559.7 billion in 2011 from $803.7 billion in the
year-earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The value of M&A rose 4 percent to $2.28 trillion in 2011 from a
year ago although it’s still almost half of the $4.04 trillion
of announced transactions in 2007, the data show.  “I don’t think they’re being radical enough,” said
 Seymour Pierce ’s Packard. “The revenue is not worth anything if
you can’t control the staff costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  