-- Treasuries Fluctuate Before U.S. Auctions $32 Billion in Three-Year Notes
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-10T17:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/treasuries-fall-after-asian-stocks-gain-u-s-consumer-credit-increases.html
Treasuries fluctuated on speculation
an easing of investor risk aversion may reduce demand at today’s
$32 billion three-year note sale, the first of three auctions of
U.S. notes and bonds this week totaling $66 billion.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose as much as five
basis points to 2.01 percent before dropping to 1.97 percent.
The butterfly chart spread by Treasury two-, three- and five-
year yields show three-year notes may outperform the other two
securities as it approaches the cheapest level in more than two
years, according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  “When you get over 2 percent, buyers start to come back
in,” Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in  New York  at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that are
required to bid at the auctions, said of 10-year note yields.
“The supply coming up puts pressure on the long end. We’re
stuck in a range. People are setting up for the supply.”  Three-year note  yields  were little changed at 0.36 percent
at 12:39 p.m., according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
0.25 percent securities due in December 2014 fell less than
1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 21/32.  Yields on 30-year bonds were little changed at 3.02 percent
after climbing as high as 3.08 percent.  Volatility in the Treasury market has dropped to its lowest
level in almost seven months. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
 MOVE index , which measure price swings in Treasuries based on
prices of over-the-counter options maturing in two to 30 years,
fell to 78.6 yesterday, the lowest point since June 13. The 2011
average was 94.14, with a high of 117.8 on Aug. 8 and a low of
71.5 on May 31.  ‘To the Sidelines’  “The uncertainty and complications in  Europe  are pushing
people to the sidelines,” said  David Ader , head of government
bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group
LLC. “Three-year notes are looking relatively cheap, given the
atmosphere.”  The butterfly-chart spread by Treasury two-, three- and
five-year yields is about negative 37 basis points, approaching
negative 30 basis points, the cheapest level since October 2009,
which makes the security relatively cheap versus the others.  Treasuries were weaker and stocks rallied earlier after a
government report showing  China ’s imports rose 11.8 percent from
a year before, less than all 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, bolstering forecasts for monetary easing.  Time to ‘Reload’  Investors should use any rise in yield as an opportunity to
“reload,” according to  William O’Donnell , head U.S.
government-bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford,  Connecticut , a primary dealer.
“Today’s three-year auction should go quite well,” he wrote in
a note to clients. “The global economic outlook will remain
challenged.”  Treasuries fluctuated yesterday on skepticism that Europe’s
debt crisis will be resolved after the leaders of Germany and
 France  said rules for closer fiscal union among the euro-area
nations may be ready a month early. Demand for havens from the
crisis drove 10-year Treasury yields down more than 140 basis
points, or 1.4 percentage point, in 2011.  Euro-area leaders may complete a new budget rulebook aimed
at containing the crisis by Jan. 30 and are considering
accelerating capital contributions to the region’s bailout fund,
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday. She meets
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde
today in Berlin.  European Concern  “The euro-region crisis is still at the forefront of the
mind of many investors, and this is supportive for Treasuries,”
said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels.
“On the other hand, we’ve seen some improvement in the U.S.
economic data, which would be negative for Treasuries. It is
dangerous to be too bullish, but if there are some dips then we
still favor some buying.”  The three-year notes scheduled for sale by the U.S.
government today yielded 0.39 percent in pre-auction trading.
The record low auction  rate  was 0.334 percent set in September.
Last month’s sale drew a yield of 0.352 percent, with investors
submitting  bids  for an unprecedented 3.62 times the amount of
debt offered.  Ten-year yields will advance to 2.1 percent by March 31 and
2.63 percent by Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.3 percent loss in
January, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
U.S. company bonds have returned 0.2 percent, and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  