-- Treasury Statements Omit Projected TARP Losses, GAO Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-10T19:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/treasury-press-releases-omit-tarp-losses.html
The U.S. Treasury Department has
highlighted projected gains while omitting estimated losses in
press releases about federal bailouts, according to the U.S.
Government Accountability Office.  Treasury statements from the past two years that discuss
the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program’s profitable
investments sometimes include the projected gains for taxpayers,
according to a  report  yesterday from the GAO, a watchdog that
works for Congress. The expected costs have been omitted from
statements about TARP investments that may be unprofitable,
including the government’s  stake  in insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , according to the GAO.  “This inconsistent disclosure of lifetime cost estimates
raises concerns about the consistency and transparency of
Treasury’s press releases and suggests a selective approach that
focuses on reporting program lifetime income and not lifetime
costs,” according to the GAO report.  The overall projected cost for TARP has declined since the
program was authorized in 2008, as banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  repaid rescue funds at a profit
for taxpayers. The Treasury, led by Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , predicted a $70 billion cost as of Sept. 30, down from
$78 billion a year earlier, according to the GAO.  Future press releases on TARP investments will link to
Treasury’s monthly  reports  about estimated lifetime costs and
gains, Tim Massad, the department’s assistant secretary for
financial stability, wrote in a letter to the GAO. The
department’s website also includes a  daily report  on TARP
disbursements and income and annual  financial statements .  Some Treasury press releases have noted costs to taxpayers.
A June  statement  detailing the government’s exit from Chrysler
Group LLC cited the automaker’s repayment of more than $11.2
billion and said that Treasury was unlikely to fully recover the
remaining $1.3 billion of funds committed to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  