-- Treasury Draws Record Demand at $32 Billion Three-Year Note Sale
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-10T22:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/treasury-draws-record-demand-at-auction-of-32-billion-in-three-year-notes.html
The  Treasury (YCGT0025)  attracted record demand
at today’s $32 billion auction of three-year notes as concern
that a resolution to  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is far off
drove investors to the safety of the securities.  The auction’s  bid-to-cover   ratio , which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of notes offered, was 3.73,
the highest since at least 1993, when the government began
releasing the data. Yields on U.S. debt securities were little
changed. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  was meeting
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
as pressure grows to complete a Greek debt resolution.  “There is still strong  risk aversion  in the market,” said
 Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts
Securities LLC in New York. “There is still enough headline
risk out there that it should keep the Treasury market
relatively in check and in this very narrow range.”  The  yield  on the current three-year note was little changed
at 0.36 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader Prices. The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.97 percent.  The three-year notes sold today drew a yield of 0.37
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.371 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the Federal Reserve’s 21
primary dealers.  Indirect  bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 38.5 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 37 percent for the past 10 sales. Direct
 bidders,  non-primary-dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 5.3 percent of the notes
at the sale, versus an average of 11.86 percent for the past 10
auctions.  Volatility Drops  Three-year notes returned 3.4 percent last year, compared
with a gain of 9.8 percent for Treasuries overall, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The butterfly-chart spread by Treasury two-, three- and
five-year yields is about negative 37 basis points, approaching
negative 30 basis points, the cheapest level since October 2009,
which makes the security relatively low cost versus the others.  Volatility in the Treasury market has dropped to its lowest
level in almost seven months. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
 MOVE index , which measures price swings in Treasuries based on
prices of over-the-counter options maturing in two to 30 years,
fell to 78.6 yesterday, the lowest point since June 13. The 2011
average was 94.14, with a high of 117.8 on Aug. 8 and a low of
71.5 on May 31.  Traders on ‘Sidelines’  “The uncertainty and complications in Europe are pushing
people to the sidelines,” said  David Ader , head of government-
bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group
LLC. “Three-year notes are looking relatively cheap, given the
atmosphere.”  The Treasury will sell $66 billion in securities this week,
including $21 billion of 10-year securities tomorrow and $13
billion in 30-year bonds on Jan. 12. The auctions will raise
$30.5 billion of new cash as $35.5 billion of maturing
securities are held by the public, according to Treasury
Department data.  The rise in Treasury yields has been limited in part
because of the European debt crisis. Demand for havens from the
crisis drove 10-year Treasury yields down more than 140 basis
points in 2011.  “The market is not quite a believer in the risk-on
story,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader in New York at  Societe
Generale , one of the primary dealers that are required to bid at
the auction. “There are still a lot of concerns.”  Final Negotiations  Euro-area leaders may complete a new budget rulebook aimed
at containing the crisis by Jan. 30, a month early, and are
considering accelerating capital contributions to the region’s
bailout fund, Merkel said yesterday.  Greece  is in final negotiations to persuade investors to
forgive at least half of its debt, the euro area’s first large-
scale restructuring, as Greeks are told to gird for more
austerity if they want to keep the euro.  More than two months after the accord was announced,
creditors and authorities still need to agree on the coupon and
maturity of the new bonds to determine the total losses
investors would suffer.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.39 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities today as part of its program to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term TIPS in an effort to reduce borrowing costs further
and counter rising risks of a recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  