-- Refco Customers Lose Appeals Bid on Dismissal of Suit Against Executives
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-10T16:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/refco-customers-lose-appeals-bid-on-dismissal-of-suit-against-executives.html
Former  Refco Inc. (RFXCQ)  customers lost a
bid in appeals court to reverse a lower-court ruling that
dismissed their claims against the bankrupt brokerage.  U.S. District Judge Gerald Lynch’s ruling that Refco
executives and its auditor didn’t breach agreements with
customers was upheld by a three-judge panel of the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals, according to a filing today in
 Manhattan .  The plaintiffs included Capital Management Select Fund and
other investment funds that had assets with Refco. They claimed
that Refco executives used securities deposited with the company
as collateral for loans.  “They fail to make sufficient allegations that their
agreements with RCM misled them,” the appeals judges said in
their ruling.  The defendants included former Chief Executive Officer
Phillip Bennett, former Refco Chief Financial Officer
Robert Trosten, former secretary Philip Silverman, and the
auditing firm Grant Thornton LLP.  MF Global, which was spun off from Man Group Plc in 2007,
was built up partly through an acquisition of Refco’s assets.
Refco went bankrupt two months after its August 2005 initial
public offering that raised $670 million, saying Bennett had
hidden hundreds of millions of dollars in bad debt.  Bennett, 60, pleaded guilty to bank fraud and money
laundering in 2008 and is serving a 16-year prison sentence.  New Trial  The fraud conviction of Joseph Collins, Refco’s former
outside lawyer, was reversed yesterday by the same federal
appeals court. The panel found that the trial judge improperly
instructed a juror outside the presence of Collins’s lawyers.  Collins, found guilty in 2009 of helping Bennett and other
executives defraud investors of $2.4 billion, is entitled to a
new trial, the appeals court said. Collins, who is free on bail,
was sentenced to seven years in prison.  The case is Capital Management Select Fund Ltd. v. Bennett,
08-6166, U.S. court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 