-- Republican Senators Say Fed Overstepped Its Role With Advice on Housing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-10T22:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/republican-senators-criticize-fed-recommendations-on-housing.html
Republican Senators Orrin Hatch of
 Utah  and  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  criticized the Federal Reserve
for overstepping its role by making policy recommendations on
how the U.S. government should try new ways to spur the housing
market.  Hatch, the top-ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, said the housing study sent by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to Congress last week, along with recent Fed speeches,
“intrudes too far into fiscal policy advice and advocacy.”
Corker said  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley’s
suggestion last week that  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  reduce the
principal of the loans they guarantee was “absolutely
egregious.”  Fed officials have been increasing their calls for
government measures to boost the housing market after record-low
 interest rates  failed to revive borrowing. Bernanke last week
sent lawmakers a staff study discussing policy options to help
boost the housing market that said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
might have to bear greater losses to stoke a broader recovery.  “I believe that it is important to the interests of the
Federal Reserve, including the independence of monetary policy,
that the Fed refrain from providing any hint of activism
regarding what are clearly fiscal policy choices,” Hatch said
in a letter to Bernanke dated today. “I worry that the
unveiling of your staff’s housing white paper, to ‘provide a
framework for thinking’ treads too far into fiscal policy, and
runs the risk of being perceived as advocacy for particular
policy options.”  ‘Will Respond’  “We have a copy of the letter and will respond to Senator
Hatch,”  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed in  Washington ,
said in an e-mail.  Dudley, Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren and Fed
Governor Elizabeth Duke all also said last week that the U.S.
government should try new ways to spur the housing market,
without agreeing about how much more the central bank needs to
do to bring down interest rates. San Francisco Fed President
John Williams today called for federal programs to support
housing and “tax and spending policies” that would complement
the central bank’s moves.  Dudley said Jan. 6 that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should
allow underwater borrowers, those who owe more on their mortgage
than their home is worth, to pay off their loan below par if
certain conditions are met including that the borrower stays
current on payments.  ‘Wealth Transfer’  “Reducing the principal on home loans for borrowers who
put no money down amounts to a massive wealth transfer from
places like Tennessee, where most homeowners have borrowed
responsibly, to places like California and New York, where
exotic mortgages were widely used to finance a speculative
housing boom,” Corker said in Nashville, Tennessee, before the
Greater Nashville Association of Realtors, according to a
statement from his office.  “It is absolutely egregious that the  Federal Reserve  would
insert itself in this manner and ask people in Tennessee who
played by the rules to bail out reckless borrowers in other
parts of the country,” Corker said.  Krishna Guha, a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  