-- Riley Says There’s a ‘Significant Chance’ Italy Rating to Fall
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-10T10:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/riley-says-there-s-a-significant-chance-italy-rating-to-fall.html
Italy  faces a “significant chance”
of a downgrade by  Fitch Ratings , which is reviewing all European
sovereigns and will make a decision by the end of the month.  “Taking out the crisis premium means a credible
firewall,”  David Riley , head of the sovereign-debt unit at
Fitch, said at a conference today in London. “At the moment, we
don’t have that, and that’s a serious concern with respect to
Italy.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  met yesterday before a European summit at the
end of the month as leaders try to flesh out their latest plan
to end the debt turmoil. Merkel will meet with International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  in Berlin
today, where she said that Greece will be the focus of talks.  Riley said that IMF’s program for Greece “doesn’t seem to
be working.” Greek creditors agreed to a 50 percent writedown
on their debt holdings last year as part of a new bailout
package for the country.  Greece’s economy “is contracting” while the point of the
bailout program was to promote growth, he said. Ireland, which
also received a bailout, “has been more favorably viewed” as
“people can actually see that potentially Ireland can grow its
way out of this crisis.”  Bond Yields  Italian bonds rose today, with the yield on the nation’s
10-year debt slipping 4 basis points to 7.12 percent as of 10:30
a.m. in London. Still, it remains above the 7 percent level that
forced Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek international aid.
Greek bond yields slipped 17 basis points to 35.5 percent.  Fitch is unlikely to cut France’s credit rating this year,
Reuters reported, citing Ed Parker, head of Europe,  Middle East 
and Africa sovereign ratings. The ratings company lowered the
nation’s credit outlook last month and put countries including
Spain and Italy on review for a downgrade, citing Europe’s
failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis.  In a report published today, Fitch forecast a “shallow
recession” in the 17-nation euro area this year “as tough
austerity measures continue to bite and consumer and business
confidence remains weak.”  “The risk of a vicious cycle of stagnating economies
fueling worries over the solvency of some governments and banks
is a real one,” Riley said in the report. “More positively,
the unwinding of the imbalances that led to the crisis is well
underway and the headwinds from deleveraging and austerity
should begin to ease toward the end of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  