-- Sarkozy Pushes Financial Transaction Tax While Seeing Risk of Going Solo
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-10T14:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/sarkozy-pushes-financial-transaction-tax-while-seeing-risk-of-going-solo.html
France will lead the way on taxing
financial transactions in an effort to spur other countries into
joining, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  “If France waits for others to tax finance, then finance
will never be taxed,” Sarkozy said today in a speech in the
eastern French city of Mulhouse.  A unilateral levy is opposed by France’s financial
community and its feasibility was questioned today by one of
Sarkozy’s own ministers. It has become a political challenge for
the president, who faces elections in a two-round vote in April
and May this year and wants to make good on a pledge he made to
impose such a tax when France last year held the presidency of
both the G-8 and G-20 group of countries.  “The idea of a financial transaction tax in France, without
waiting for European partners to implement the same, seems to be
a political move by Sarkozy to show that he remains active even
as he prepares for the presidential election,” Stephane Ekolo,
chief European strategist at Market Securities in  London , said
yesterday. “It will be very difficult to implement such a tax in
a unilateral fashion.”  Some of Sarkozy’s ministers backed off a little from the
plan today.  “This tax only makes sense if it is implemented across
 Europe  because if France goes it alone, obviously it will be
eventually reversed,” Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said in
an interview on France 2 television today.  The French government, long a proponent of the tax, stepped
up its campaign last week. Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said
yesterday that France may present a tax bill in February.
“Someone has to be the first to jump in the water,” he said.  Seeking Support  Still, concern that imposing the tax unilaterally will
prompt markets to penalize France is prompting it to get other
countries to sign up. Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said
today that implementing a financial transaction tax at the
European level would prevent job losses at banks in France.  “France,  Germany  and the  euro zone  will move ahead on
this,” Baroin said today on I-tele. “The question is whether
we are first or last.” Baroin said he’ll discuss the matter
with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in two days.  At a joint press conference in Berlin with Sarkozy
yesterday, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  threw her weight
behind the tax, saying “I’m in favor of thinking about such a
tax in the euro zone.” She didn’t, however, say Germany would
impose such a levy. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said
the tax won’t work unless it’s applied worldwide.  Taxing Issue  The European Commission in September suggested a tax of 0.1
percent on equity and bond transactions and 0.01 percent on
derivatives, which it said could raise 55 billion euros ($71
billion) a year. European Union finance ministers are due to
discuss the levy in March.  Ernst & Young, an accounting company, said in a report that
while the tax itself may raise as much as 37 billion euros in
the EU, its net effect could be negative by between 2 billion
euros and 116 billion euros by decreasing economic activity and
reducing revenue from other taxes.  The U.S. opposes taxes on transactions, preferring bank
levies based on the size of their balance sheets.  The French financial world has spoken out against the tax,
especially if it’s only going to be imposed in  France .  “A tax that’s limited to France would weigh on growth, lead
to a loss of competitiveness, and create a heavy handicap for
the financing of the French economy,” the French Banking
Federation said in a statement yesterday.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist candidate and frontrunner
in the French presidential elections, supports the tax, “but it
obviously can’t work if other countries don’t apply it,” his
campaign aide Michel Sapin said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  