-- HSBC’s Bottomley to Succeed Watkinson in North America Role
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-10T23:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hsbc-names-bottomley-to-succeed-watkinson-in-north-america-role.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
bank by market value, named Stephen Bottomley, who was most
recently running strategy and planning in the Middle East and
North Africa, to oversee commercial banking in  North America .  Bottomley, 52, succeeds Mark Watkinson, 49, who was
reassigned to lead the bank’s operations in Malta after less
than a year in the North America role, according to a statement
from the London-based bank. Bottomley started yesterday in New
York and reports to Alan Keir, the London-based global head of
commercial banking, and to Irene Dorner, the New York-based
president and chief executive officer of HSBC USA.  Stuart Gulliver  has changed the leadership in commercial
banking and North America since he won a succession struggle at
the bank in September 2010 and replaced  Michael Geoghegan  as
HSBC’s CEO at the end of the year. Keir was promoted to global
head of commercial banking in December 2010 and Dorner assumed
some of Niall Booker’s responsibilities when he stepped down as
CEO of HSBC North America in November.  “North America accounts for nearly 15 percent of world
trade, making it a vital international trade hub and an
important regional market for HSBC,” Keir said in the e-mailed
statement today. “In coming years, international trade flows
from the region are expected to grow substantially, especially
with many emerging economies where HSBC has a long-established
presence.”  Bottomley graduated from Loughborough University in the
U.K. in 1982 and has worked at HSBC for almost 30 years, holding
positions including head of European strategy, head of
commercial banking in the U.K. and running commercial finance in
 Europe , according to the bank.  “Steve will lead a growing commercial banking business
here, which is at the center of HSBC’s strategy in the region,”
Dorner said in the statement.  HSBC climbed 2.7 percent to 504.7 pence today in London
trading. The shares have dropped 25 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 