-- Scene Last Night: Rohatyn, Whitehead, Martin Lipton
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-23T23:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/scene-last-night-rohatyn-john-whitehead-martin-lipton-vernon-jordan.html
(Corrects quotation in fourth paragraph of story first
published on Jan. 10.)  Felix Rohatyn  sat near a display
case showing a gold Monopoly set last night at the Museum of
American Finance, greeting admirers.  There was Vernon Jordan, a senior managing director at
Lazard Freres & Co., and Martin Lipton, a founding partner of
Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz.  A special adviser to  Kenneth Jacobs , Lazard’s chairman and
chief executive, the 83-year-old Rohatyn was there to accept the
museum’s John C. Whitehead Award for Distinguished Public
Service and Financial Leadership.  “I’ve worked with Felix for 40 years, starting when I was
special counsel to the city of New York, working with the
Municipal Assistance Corporation,” Lipton said. As MAC
chairman, Rohatyn helped pull New York out of a financial crisis
in the 1970s.  “Felix has been my friend and competitor for more than 60
years,” said John Whitehead, former chairman of Goldman, Sachs
& Co. “He’s a super rainmaker who has worked on more deals than
I like to remember.”  Alan Patricof, managing director and founder of Greycroft
Partners LLC, was caught up in a wave of nostalgia.  “I remember when this was a bank,” he said of the museum,
which is at 48  Wall Street  in a 1928 building that once housed
the Bank of New York. “I worked at 2 Wall Street and 63 Wall
Street. Felix, where was your office?”  “44 Wall Street,” Rohatyn answered, Cipriani bellini in
hand.  That was Lazard’s address, where Rohatyn began his career
in 1948.  “I’d start my day taking the elevated subway downtown, for
a nickel, looking into people’s windows,” Rohatyn said.  He spent 49 years at the firm, leaving in 1997 to serve as
U.S. ambassador to  France .  ‘A Different World’  “I knew extraordinary characters,” Rohatyn said,
mentioning Gus Levy, who led the New York Stock Exchange. “It
was really a different world. Today, I find it very risky, it’s
very complicated. The resolutions are never clear.”  It is the complexity of today’s markets that makes the
museum “more important than ever,” said board member Andrea de
Cholnoky, who recruits financial executives for  Korn/Ferry
International. (KFY)   A current exhibition, “Checks & Balances,” explores how
U.S. presidents have handled financial challenges.  “We’re pro-finance,” said the museum’s president and CEO,
David Cowen, who boasted that last year the number of individual
visitors increased 44 percent, to more than 18,000.  As for what is going on in the workaday world of his
industry, Rohatyn expressed concern. “What frightens me is the
reaction to capitalism is getting very difficult,” he said.
“If we were to head into a recession, the world would not be
kind to us, because we have not been kind to the world.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 