-- Schwab Offers Index-Fund 401(k) Products
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-01-10T20:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/schwab-offering-index-fund-401-k-savings-lineup-to-lower-costs.html
Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , looking to tap
into the increasing popularity of passively managed funds, is
offering sponsors of 401(k) retirement plans a package of low-
cost mutual funds that track a market index.  “We see it as an excellent opportunity to expand our
business,” said Steve Anderson, senior vice president of
retirement plan services. San Francisco-based Schwab serves
about 1.5 million participants totaling about $90 billion in
assets, he said.  Fidelity Investments , based in  Boston , is the
largest 401(k) provider with almost 11.7 million savers.  The Schwab offering uses  index funds  only combined with
investment advice to lower costs and increase savings as
regulators, plan sponsors and investors focus more on fees.
Employers who choose Schwab Index Advantage for their plans can
let workers choose from a lineup of so-called passively managed
index mutual funds from several companies such as Schwab,
Vanguard Group Inc. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said Anderson.  Americans held about  $2.9 trillion  in 401(k) accounts as of
Sept. 30, according to the  Investment Company Institute . Workers
pay an average of 91 percent of the costs associated with
401(k)-type plans, according to a November report by Deloitte
LLP for ICI, the Washington-based trade group for the mutual-
fund industry. The median fee was 0.78 percent of assets, or
about $248 per participant, the 2011 study said.  The Schwab index-fund portfolio will have an operating
expense ratio of about 20 basis points to 25 basis points, said
Anderson. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The offering
will be packaged with an advisory service including annual
rebalancing and individual consultations that will cost another
45 basis points or less, he said.  Guided Choice  The package from Schwab also includes an interest-bearing
savings option insured up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. through Schwab Bank.  GuidedChoice , a San Diego-based independent advisory firm,
will provide the advice and asset allocation services, Anderson
said.  About 32 percent of employers that sponsor 401(k) plans
replaced a fund or manager last year because of performance,
according to a study released yesterday by Callan Associates.
About 45 percent of plan sponsors increased their use of passive
funds in 2011, while 7 percent increased use of active funds,
the  study  said. Net flows into all passively managed U.S. funds
increased 57 percent to about $69 billion in 2010 from about
$44 billion in 2008, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The increase likely is tied to the attention on high fees,
which index funds can help manage, said  Lori Lucas , defined
contribution practice leader for San Francisco-based Callan.  Labor Rules  U.S. Department of Labor rules requiring detailed
disclosure of 401(k) expenses are scheduled to take effect this
year, making it easier for companies and their employees to see
what they’re being charged. The rules may spur small employers
and their workers, who generally pay higher fees for their plans
than larger companies, to shop for better deals, and put
pressure on providers such as mutual-fund firms and insurers to
cut costs.  Schwab also is developing a 401(k) offering comprised
exclusively of index-based exchanged-traded funds, which may be
available by the middle of next year, Anderson said. Shares of
exchange-traded funds, known as ETFs, generally track an index
and trade on an exchange like a stock.  “We really feel three, four, five years from now ETFs are
going to be a much bigger player in the 401(k) space,” said
Anderson. “We feel we are well positioned to introduce that to
the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 