-- Scots Plan Vote on Independence From U.K. in Fall of 2014, Salmond Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-10T19:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/scots-plan-vote-on-independence-from-u-k-in-fall-of-2014-salmond-says.html
Alex Salmond,  Scotland ’s nationalist
first minister, said he aims to call a referendum on
independence from the U.K. in the fall of 2014, a year that will
see the 700th anniversary of the Scots’ defeat of the English at
the Battle of Bannockburn.  He made the announcement today as  Michael Moore , the
Scottish secretary in the U.K.’s coalition government, set out
plans to give Salmond the power to hold the vote, provided he
agreed to accept limits on his powers over its timing and the
wording of the question.  In a statement to House of Commons lawmakers in London,
Moore said the 1998 Scotland Act, which created a Parliament in
Edinburgh with powers over some domestic areas, states that any
act passed by that body that relates to the 305-year-old union
between  England  and Scotland is “not law.” Moore proposed
making an order, in agreement with Salmond, allowing a one-off,
time-limited transfer of powers and said the vote should be held
“sooner rather than later.” Salmond rejected that.  “What Scotland objects to is all the strings they’re
trying to attach to it,” the first minister told Sky News
television. “They’re trying to run the referendum by proxy.
This is the biggest decision for Scotland for 300 years. This
has to be a referendum which is built in Scotland, made in
Scotland, goes through the Scottish Parliament and then is
determined by the good sense of the Scottish people.”  The clash between U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
Salmond, who has dominated Scottish politics for 20 years,
threatens to overshadow British politics until the vote takes
place.  British Empire  The union between England and Scotland in 1707 created the
country that dominated the world for more than a century, with
Scotland providing many of the soldiers, industrialists,
politicians and thinkers who helped build the British Empire.
Former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  is Scottish, and his
predecessor,  Tony Blair , was born in Edinburgh.  An Ipsos-Mori poll last month found almost two-thirds of
Scots wanted the referendum called before 2014 and that 38
percent supported independence, against 57 percent who opposed
it. The company polled 1,001 Scots between Dec. 1 and Dec. 4.  Moore said the government wants to give the Scottish
Parliament the power to hold a referendum by an unspecified
deadline, as long as it is a yes-or-no question, overseen by the
U.K. Electoral Commission. All three main U.K. political parties
oppose independence.  ‘Most Important Decision’  “This is the most important decision we as Scots will make
in our lifetimes,” Moore said. “It’s essential that the
referendum is legal, fair and decisive.”  Moore gave no details on the timings he had in mind. He
said suggestions of a deadline of 18 months “isn’t the position
of the government.”  Under the government’s proposals, an order would be made in
the U.K. Parliament in  London , requiring the agreement of
lawmakers in Edinburgh, that would give the Scottish Parliament
the power to call the vote as long as it abided by certain
conditions. Other options open to Cameron’s government include
passing a bill to hold the referendum itself. The Scotland
Office said a referendum called by the Edinburgh Parliament
would be open to legal challenge in the U.K.’s Supreme Court,
which would be likely to block it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  