-- Seattle Goes Green With Marine Toilets, Big Solar Hat: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/seattle-s-bullitt-goes-green-with-toilets-cooling-hat-james-s-russell.html
In  Seattle , contractors have begun
digging for an office building that will eventually wear what
looks like a big cocked hat.  It’s a solar-panel array topping off the five-story home
for the local  Bullitt Foundation .  When it opens next winter, the Bullitt Center will also
scrub its own water with the aid of composting toilets.  The new building reflects founder Dorothy Bullitt’s
aspiration to turn the Pacific Northwest into a global model of
environmental sustainability.  The foundation sources many of its components locally, and
strives to eliminate toxins in building materials and
ventilating air. Its self-imposed high standards have often been
a challenge to the  Miller Hull Partnership , the project’s
Seattle architect.  These are all requirements of the  Living Building
Challenge , a program to improve health and minimize building
energy use and waste.  Among other things, Miller Hull had to ask manufacturers to
reformulate products and dig into the energy performance of
desktop computers.  Then they had to figure out how to do all this affordably.  Airy Feel  On its small site, the Bullitt’s roof was the only place to
put the solar panels needed to generate the building’s power.  Since Seattle’s ubiquitous clouds admit so little sunlight,
Miller Hull partner Ron Rochon, working with  PAE Consulting
Engineers , had to keep squeezing energy out of the building
design to match the panels’ output.  Geothermal wells will supply most of the heat. Offices will
feel airy with high ceilings that allow much of the space to
forgo electric lights in daytime. Windows will open to cool
breezes during Seattle’s mild summers.  The team slashed the usual energy-wasting systems to such a
degree that desktop computers dominated the building’s energy
demand.  Even so, the building still used too much energy.  The architects and engineers identified slimmed servers and
efficient laptops to reduce a standard computer’s consumption of
1,150 watts to just 250, about the same as two household bulbs.  They talked city officials into letting Bullitt expand the
solar array by projecting the roof over the sidewalk, normally
not permitted. That involved relocating  power lines  and
persuading skeptical neighbors that the roof wasn’t too
intrusive.  There were more hoops to jump through. The foundation hoped
to harvest drinking water from the roof and avoid chlorinating
it.  So far the  Environmental Protection Agency  has nixed that
idea, though the designers are appealing its decision. To treat
all the water used onsite, Rochon’s team found marine toilets
that will deliver waste to a basement composting room. No one
has ever done that, he said.  Well-meaning as they are, I do wonder if many of these
measures are worth the effort. Solar -- for now anyway -- is a
lost cause in such a dim climate, especially in a city largely
driven by clean hydropower.  City Level  Water pollution needs to be tackled at a neighborhood or
city scale, not within individual buildings.  Still, there’s a crazy-like-a-fox quality to the Bullitt
effort. It has encouraged a German high-performance window-wall
manufacturer to build a facility in nearby Everett. A
waterproofing-compound manufacturer called Building Envelope
Innovations has agreed to reformulate its product without
phthalates, a class of chemical compounds that may harm
reproductive health.  Seattle has established a 2030 District in and around its
downtown to achieve carbon-neutrality by the year 2030.  With Congress hopelessly gridlocked about any energy
legislation and  Iran  blustering as usual, Seattle and Bullitt
are pointing the way to a possible future. For $30
million Bullitt won’t just get a handsome, healthy, zero-energy
workplace, but one that incubates job growth.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 