-- SEC Push May Yield New Disclosures of Company Cyber Attacks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-01-10T20:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/sec-push-may-yield-new-disclosures-of-cyber-attacks-on-companies.html
China-based hackers rifled the
computers of  DuPont Co. (DD)  at least twice in 2009 and 2010, hunting
the technological secrets that made the company one of the
world’s most successful chemical makers.  It’s not something investors would have learned from
DuPont’s  regulatory filings , or from those of other companies
victimized by hackers. The 10-K’s DuPont submitted to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over the period don’t
identify hacking as even a significant risk, much less reveal
what two U.S. intelligence officials later said was a successful
case of industrial espionage.  Over the next three months, as publicly traded companies
file 10-K’s, investors may see new admissions of corporate
networks being hacked after the SEC said companies can’t
continue to hold back the details of those incidents.  As cyberspies from China,  Russia  and other countries
ransack the computer networks of one major U.S. and European
firm after the next, the SEC in October offered its new
interpretation of disclosure requirements as applied to
cybercrime. The amount of information that’s forthcoming will
depend on whether company lawyers determine the incidents had,
or will have, a material effect on the enterprise.  Daniel Turner, a spokesman for Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont, said, regarding the previously-reported hack, “We let
our disclosures speak for themselves.”  Serious Breaches  Mandiant Corp., an Alexandria, Virginia-based security firm
that specializes in cyber-based industrial espionage, has
responded to incidents at 22 Fortune 100 companies, said Richard Bejtlich, the firm’s chief security officer. Mandiant estimates
that many more than 20 percent of Fortune 500 companies
experienced serious breaches recently or are dealing with
current ones, Bejtlich said.  When  Google Inc. (GOOG)  announced in 2010 that China-based hackers
had raided its networks, it was a rare example of a U.S. company
publicly revealing a cyberburglary aimed at its intellectual
property -- in this case, its source code.  Google, the world’s largest search-engine firm, said at the
time that at least 34 other major companies were victims of the
same attack. Only two --  Intel Corp . and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  --
stepped forward, and they provided few specifics.  The networks of more than 2,000 companies, research
universities, Internet service providers and government agencies
were hit over the past decade by China-based cyber spies,
according to Joel Brenner, U.S. counterintelligence chief until
2009. A November report by 14 U.S. intelligence agencies said
Russia and other countries also are involved in such activities.  RIM, Boston Scientific  The companies, including firms such as  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , range from some of the largest
corporations to niche innovators in sectors like aerospace,
semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, according to
intelligence data obtained by Bloomberg News.  “It doesn’t square that billions of dollars in
intellectual property is being lost and investors don’t care,”
said Jacob Olcott, a former staff expert on cybersecurity for
the Senate Commerce Committee. In May, the panel asked SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to clarify how cyber intrusions should be
reported under the so-called material fact rule.  “We’re afraid investors don’t know what they don’t know,”
he said.  ‘Risk Factors’  The guidance, which also says companies can’t use vague,
general descriptions of the risks associated with possible
future cyber break-ins when describing “risk factors,” raised
fears that more detail could create a road map for hackers, said
Alexander Tabb, a partner at TABB Group, which advises corporate
clients on  risk assessment .  “I have to agree with some of the critics who say the
guidance is much more useful for the individuals looking to
attack a company than it is for investors,” Tabb said.  The victims of even serious attacks, meanwhile, are largely
silent, often reporting only breaches that fit narrow legal
requirements, such as the theft of credit card numbers or
customer information. Many of the headline-grabbing hacks of
2011, including Sony Corp., Citicorp, and Epsilon Data
Management LLC, involved such data.  “I have not heard any company in any meeting commenting on
this subject or being asked about this subject,” said Fadel Gheit, an oil and gas industry analyst and managing director at
Oppenheimer & Co.  Oil Industry  Yet the oil and gas industry has been a frequent target of
successful cyber-raids -- many originating from  China , which is
on a hunt for global oil reserves.  Beginning in 2009, the networks of at least six major U.S.
and European energy companies were breached by China-based
hackers. The victims included  Exxon Mobil  Corp., Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, ConocoPhillips and BP Plc.  The hackers stole exploration data and computerized
topographical maps, according to several assessments, including
one by McAfee Inc., a security division of Intel Corp., which
didn’t identify the victims. The attacks provided the cyber-
thieves with valuable, confidential assessments of the quality
and accessibility of oil reserves, according to Ed Skoudis,
senior security consultant with InGuardians Inc., a Washington-
based security firm that investigated two of the breaches. He
declined to identify his clients or the origin of the hackers.  Company Filings  The  oil companies ’ financial filings from the period didn’t
assess possible losses or mention the attacks, which became
public through a report by Bloomberg News.  John Roper , a spokesman for ConocoPhillips, and  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Exxon Mobil, said their companies don’t
comment on security matters. Toby Odone, a London-based BP
spokesman, and Kayla Macke, a Shell spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Whatever the potential effect of those attacks, it would be
less than a scenario outlined in December at the World Petroleum
Conference in Doha, Qatar.  WPC attendees were warned that hackers, who are launching
more carefully planned attacks against the industry, could gain
control of computerized release valves that control oil
pipelines, resulting in loss of life, uncontainable fires and
costly court battles, according to a  report  of the briefing by
the Soufan Group, a New York-based security firm.  Investors scouring the financial filings of major oil
companies would have no idea they faced such a risk.  “That is the nightmare scenario,” Gheit said. “It just
has gone over our heads” as investors.  Raids on Companies  In the past five years, cyberspies have raided
pharmaceutical companies, cosmetics makers, chip fabricators and
mining companies. They have stolen blueprints, manufacturing
technology and the chemical formulas of market-leading products,
according to two intelligence officials, who spoke on the
condition their names not be used because of the sensitivity of
the subject.  Often, the officials said, the significance of the hacks
are difficult for the companies themselves to evaluate, Tabb
said.  The costs may depend on factors such as who took the data
and whether they have the ability to use it, or transfer it, to
replicate competitive products.  Those unknowns may lead compliance attorneys to advise
against making incidents public regardless of the new guidance,
said Tabb, especially given concerns over reputational loss or a
backlash by shareholders angry that the company failed to secure
its secrets.  ‘Too Early’  “You will see an increased mention of cybersecurity risk-
factor disclosure as a result of the SEC guidance,” said Amy L. Goodman, co-chairman of the securities regulation practice group
at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. “In terms of disclosure of
actual cyberattacks, I think it’s too early to tell.”  An indication of the conservative inclination in reporting
cybersecurity matters occurred in March 2011, following an
attack against RSA Security Inc., the network security division
of EMC Corp.  In that incident, China-based hackers infiltrated RSA’s
computer network and stole critical technology related to
SecurID, an authentication token used by banks, defense
contractors and government agencies to secure their networks.  It was a devastating attack by several measures, including
the loss of valuable proprietary technology and damage to the
reputation of a company that’s paid for its expertise in
protecting its clients from hackers.  Material Impact  In an 8-K filed on March 17, 2011, EMC told investors that
the event wouldn’t have a material impact on the company or its
financial results.  Kevin Kempskie, a spokesman for RSA, declined to comment on
the filing. Olcott said EMC based the decision on the security
division’s contribution to total company revenue.  Critics, including the lawmakers who sent the letter to
Schapiro in May, said narrow disclosure calculations by
companies skirt several SEC requirements, including the
necessity to disclose when  trade secrets  are compromised.  “Companies will think of every single reason not to report
these incidents, which is why the investor side of things really
needs to take control of these issues,” said Olcott, the former
Senate aide.  Investors haven’t done more to press for details and the
impact of attacks because “they now look at an investing cycle
as maybe a quarter or at most a year,” said Eden Chen,
portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based Lightmark Capital. That’s
too short a time for stolen technology to make a significant
difference in many companies’ fortunes, he said.  “If you are looking at companies for 10 years down the
line you would definitely ask those questions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 