-- SEC Said to Prepare Vote on Cases Against Ex-Stanford Executives
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-01-10T21:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/sec-said-to-prepare-vote-on-cases-against-ex-stanford-executives.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators have proposed sanctions against at
least five former Stanford Financial Group Co. executives and
brokers for their roles in selling investments that fueled R.
Allen Stanford’s alleged $7 billion  Ponzi scheme , according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The SEC’s five commissioners are scheduled to vote Jan. 12
on whether to authorize the enforcement actions, which target
brokers and senior executives at Stanford’s Houston-based
brokerage, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the matter isn’t public. The vote by the commissioners
could still be delayed or tabled, the people said.  The actions, which seek to bar the executives and brokers
from working in the industry and claw back sales commissions,
come almost three years after the SEC sued Stanford and a
federal grand jury indicted him on 21 criminal counts alleging
he used his U.S. brokerage to sell bogus certificates of
deposits for his Antigua-based bank.  The SEC lawyers claim the employees ignored red flags
signaling that they were selling fraudulent products, such as
above-market returns promised on the CDs and outsized
commissions to the brokers who sold them, one of the people
said.  The investigators are treating the cases as a legal test of
whether they can sanction brokers for failing to conduct due
diligence on in-house products, the people said. If successful,
the cases could be replicated against more ex-Stanford brokers
over time, said the person.  Former NASD Official  One of the former Stanford employees whose actions were
reviewed by investigators was Bernerd Young, the former
regulator who later became Stanford’s chief compliance officer.
Young received a notice in June 2010 from SEC investigators that
they planned to recommend an enforcement action against him for
his role in the Stanford matter, according to his broker
records.  Young became the top compliance official at Stanford’s
brokerage in 2006 after having worked for nearly two decades at
the National Association of Securities Dealers, which later
became the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
brokerage industry’s self-regulator. He headed the NASD’s Dallas
office from 1999 to 2003, Finra said in a 2009 report. Young now
works at Magnolia, Texas-based MGL Consulting LLC.  ‘Aggressive Defense’  “If the Commission authorizes the Staff to bring a formal
action against Bernie, it will be met with a fierce and
aggressive defense,” Melinda G. LeGaye, founder and president
of MGL Consulting, said in a statement today. The SEC staff
“has repeatedly changed its focus in an attempt to secure
Commission authorization to bring a formal action against him.”  Young “has continued to cooperate and provide
documentation and detailed explanations to not only refute the
Staff’s allegations but also to assist in their understanding of
events while Bernie was at  Stanford Financial Group ,” LeGaye
said.  Randle Henderson, an attorney for Young, said in a phone
interview that he didn’t know whether the SEC was considering
sanctions against Young. He said he has submitted multiple
briefs to the SEC in defense of his client.  Trial Date  Stanford, 61, has denied the fraud allegations and last
month requested that his Jan. 23 trial date be delayed by three
months after his expert witnesses quit because they weren’t
being paid. He is being held without bail. Stanford’s former
accountants and heads of finance and investment also face
criminal and civil claims.  The SEC has been reviewing the case for more than two years
as Stanford customers and lawmakers criticized investigators for
not catching the alleged scheme sooner. The SEC’s inspector
general said the agency didn’t conduct a meaningful probe of
Stanford’s business until 2005, even though examiners suspected
fraud eight years earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  