-- Sept. 11 Bracelets Come From China Amid ‘Buy-America’ Loopholes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/sept-11-bracelets-come-from-china.html
For last year’s 10th anniversary of
the Sept. 11 terror attacks, U.S. Transportation Security
Administration officials wanted their workers to remember the
thousands who died. So the agency bought 70,000 commemorative
bracelets -- made in China.  The wristbands were among as much as $84 billion in  U.S.
contracts (USBOTOTA)  awarded for foreign goods and services in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, mostly through exemptions from
legislation designed to restrict such deals. Foreign purchases
by federal agencies also included rocket launchers and machine
guns from Bulgaria, as well as generic cholesterol medication
for U.S. veterans that came from plants in  India .  A Buy American Act from 1933 and similar measures since
then have become so riddled with loopholes that some U.S.
lawmakers are saying enough. Three senators proposed legislation
last month to expand domestic preference rules and require
agencies seeking made-in-America waivers to publish their plans
on the Internet and allow time for public comment.  “A major objective of our bill is to demand accountability
and ensure waivers are not being overused to allow for the
purchase of foreign products when there is a quality, American-
made alternative available,” U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a
Michigan Democrat sponsoring the legislation, said in an e-
mailed statement.  In the past five years, federal agencies awarded contracts
valued at more than $500 billion for foreign goods and services,
peaking at $111 billion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Pentagon Purchases  The U.S. Department of  Defense (USBODEFN)  was responsible for more
than 90 percent, or $76.5 billion of spending last year on non-
American goods and services, according to the data. The military
accounts for most U.S. contract awards, and the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  contributed to the surge in overseas spending.  Policies that push government agencies to buy U.S.-made
goods are “one of the more effective ways to leverage tax
dollars to enhance domestic employment,” said  Scott Paul ,
executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, a
Washington-based trade group.  He noted the U.S. has begun making streetcars again, after
domestic preference policies helped United Streetcar, an  Oregon 
manufacturer that began operations in 2005, win work in
 Portland , Oregon, and Tucson,  Arizona .  There are still “glaring” loopholes, Paul said in an
interview. They include exceptions that allow the Pentagon to
buy foreign-made goods for use abroad even as companies such as
New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc. try to win military business for
their U.S.-made products, he said.  ‘Sitting in Warehouse’  New Balance, based in  Boston , made 5,000 pairs of military
footwear that the company believes comply with Defense
Department rules for American-made goods, said Matt LeBretton, a
New Balance spokesman.  “We are the only people foolish enough to invest time and
money into making shoes that the government won’t buy,”
LeBretton said in an interview. “Now they’re sitting in a
warehouse somewhere.”  While Buy-American policies are intended to help stimulate
economic growth and domestic employment, they may shortchange
taxpayers if agencies are paying more to buy U.S.-made goods,
said Stephen Bronars, a senior economist at Welch Consulting in
Washington.  “If we can acquire the products from another country at a
lower cost, it frees up resources that could be allocated to
other things,” Bronars said in an interview. “Rather than
spending more for materials and fixing fewer roads or schools,
you could do more work overall.”  ‘Cheapens Remembrance’  The TSA bracelet purchase has drawn particular scrutiny,
not so much for its economics as for its symbolism. The
wristbands were manufactured in  China  and purchased from TJM
Promotions Inc. of Ocala,  Florida , according to government data
available online.  Paul, the manufacturing trade group leader, said it’s very
easy to find such silicone wristbands made in mass quantities in
the U.S.  “That is absurd,” Paul said. “And it certainly cheapens
the remembrance to have it made in China.”  TSA employees contacted 50 vendors, and conducted extensive
market research that showed the vast majority of wristband
shells were manufactured overseas and customized in the U.S,
Chris Ortman, a Department of Homeland Security spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Bulgarian Launchers  The TSA found four vendors that said their wristbands were
manufactured in the U.S. Those suppliers weren’t able to meet
the government’s delivery date, Ortman said. He declined to
identify them.  The TSA paid $17,500, or about 25 cents per wristband,
including shipping and handling, for the 70,000 bracelets, Greg
Soule, an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Pentagon purchases last year included ammunition from
 Romania , as well as at least $1.2 million for machine guns and a
minimum of $2.1 million for rocket launchers manufactured in
 Bulgaria , according to the data.  The Bulgarian-made machine guns and rocket launchers are
for use by the Afghan army and were exempt from rules requiring
American-made purchases because there are no plans to use the
weapons inside the U.S., Matthew Bourke, an Army spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Defense Department purchases also included staples for
foreign operations such as groceries, refrigerators, washing
machines and interpreter services, as well as ammunition and
armored vehicles.  Good Foreign Policy  “Some of that spending may be a function of a desire to
buy things in local communities where the military is
stationed,” said Larry Allen, president of Allen Federal
Business Partners, a procurement consulting firm based in
Arlington, Virginia.  “When you’re trying to keep people happy with you near
your naval base in Okinawa,  Japan , making a certain amount of
procurements with local companies is, on a macro level, good
 foreign policy ,” Allen said in an interview.  The amount of U.S. spending on foreign goods and services
decreased last year by about 22 percent from about $107.7
billion during the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2010,
according to the latest data available. Some reduction is to be
expected as the U.S. spends less money on wars, said Bronars,
the Washington-based economist. The declining value of the  U.S.
dollar  may also be contributing to a decrease in such spending,
he added.  “The dollar has lost purchasing power relative to some
trading partners,”Bronars said. “It may have been less cost-
effective to buy from foreign vendors.”  New trade agreements may encourage U.S. agencies’ overseas
spending even as the dollar declines, said Dan Jacobs, the chief
executive officer of The Federal Market Group, a Warrenton,
Virginia-based consulting firm.  “In my opinion, Buy American is a joke,” Jacobs said in
an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in  Washington  at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  