-- Shale Drilling Won’t Start Dangerous Quakes, U.K. Scientists Say
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-01-11T12:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/shale-drilling-won-t-start-dangerous-quakes-u-k-scientists-say.html
Drilling for shale gas in the U.K.
won’t cause dangerous earthquakes and poses little risk to the
environment given appropriate safeguards, scientists said.  “Most geologists think this is a pretty safe activity,”
 Mike Stephenson , head of energy science at the British
Geological Survey, said at a briefing in  London  yesterday. “We
think the risk is pretty low and we have the scientific tools to
tell if there is a problem.”  Hydraulic fracturing, a process using water, sand and
chemicals to open fissures in rocks and release natural gas, has
made the U.S the world’s largest natural-gas producer while
raising concerns that the technique pollutes drinking water and
causes earthquakes. Exploration was suspended in northwest
 England  last year after fracturing gas wells caused two tremors.  Fracking, as the process has become known, is unlikely to
start earthquakes stronger than magnitude 3.3 on the Richter
scale, a level that typically causes no damage to property, and
most will be around magnitude 2, said Peter Styles, a professor
of applied and environmental geophysics at Keele University.  Scientists have also developed models linking the volume of
water used during a fracking injection and the scale of
earthquake caused, Bernstein & Co. analyst Bob Brackett said in
a Jan. 6 note. An injection of 10 million gallons or less is
unlikely to cause an earthquake exceeding magnitude 4, he said,
citing U.S. Geological Survey geologist Arthur McGarr.  More Than  Iraq   The U.K. could have more shale gas the previously thought,
Stephenson said. The British Geological Survey is reviewing its
estimates for U.K. onshore shale gas resources. The survey
originally estimated that there is about 150 billion cubic
meters of shale gas onshore, compared with about 300 billion
cubic meters of conventional gas resources.  Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. says it’s found more natural gas
trapped in the shale rock around Blackpool in northwest England
than Iraq has in its entire reserves.  “There is much more shale than we thought under
Blackpool,” the British Geological Survey’s Stephenson said at
the briefing, adding more research remains to be done on the
impact of fracking.  The debate over shale drilling in the U.S. and  Europe  has
intensified in recent months following tremors near wastewater
disposal sites in  Ohio  and concerns about water pollution in
 Pennsylvania . The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is
studying the effects of fracking on drinking water with an eye
on possible nationwide regulations.  Styles said he has examined seismic data from 30 years of
coal mining in the English midlands to assess the threat from
fracking. The research suggests there is a “low” probability
of unconventional gas drilling operations causing major
earthquakes, he said.  Similar Rock  The rock drilled by Cuadrilla, the company that caused last
year’s earthquakes, is similar to that found at the country’s
major coal-mining sites, suggesting potential tremors will be of
a similar or lesser magnitude, he said.  “There’s not an exact analogy to coal mining, but the
seismicity is remarkably similar,”  Styles said at the briefing
organized by the Science Media Center. “If there are going to
be others, they will be about this magnitude and because they’re
of that magnitude they’re very unlikely to cause damage.”  The first tremor set off by Cuadrilla was on April 1 and
measured magnitude 2.3 on the Richter scale. A weaker quake of
1.5 was recorded in May. Earthquakes of magnitude 3.9 or less on
the scale are considered minor or micro, while anything under
4.9 is described as light and is unlikely to cause major damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  