-- Yacht Builder to the Stars Ferretti Bought by China Bulldozer Manufacturer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T11:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/shandong-heavy-to-buy-controlling-stake-in-yachtmaker-ferretti.html
Ferretti Group (FER)  was sold to the
state-owned parent of  China ’s biggest bulldozer-maker, putting
the Communist nation in control of the world’s largest luxury-
yacht builder.  Creditors will sell 75 percent of  Ferretti (FER)  for 178 million
euros ($228 million) to  Shandong Heavy Industry Group -Weichai
Group, according to a statement handed to reporters today in
Jinan, China.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Strategic
Value Partners LLC will also own 12.5 percent stakes in the
Forli, Italy-based boatmaker.  State-controlled Shandong Heavy plans to add superyachts to
its construction and farming products after surging economic
growth boosted China’s number of millionaire households 31
percent in 2010. The deal may help Ferretti, whose  Riva  unit
made boats for  Brigitte Bardot  and  Sean Connery , to expand in
the world’s most-populous nation after a slump in sales after
the 2008 financial crisis left it near bankruptcy.  “ China (CNGDPYOY) ’s super-rich are looking at yachts and jets because
the country has so much money now,” said Richard Tai, luxury-
goods analyst at Shanghai-based research firm China Research &
Intelligence. “It just shows China’s phenomenal economic
development over the past 30 years.”  Ferretti, which also makes  Ferretti , Pershing and Betram
brand yachts, will retain its existing management as well as its
headquarters and production facilities in  Italy , according to a
statement. The company’s yachts can cost more than $100 million.  Olympic Regatta  The deal, which requires approval from Italian regulators,
will take three to six months to complete, Tan Xuguang, Shandong
Heavy’s chairman, told reporters today. Shandong province, which
controls the company, contains the city of Qingdao, a major
naval base and host of the 2008 Olympic sailing regatta.  Ferretti will get 198 million euros of debt financing from
Shandong Heavy, whose units include bulldozer-maker  Shantui
Construction Machinery Co. (000680)  and Hong Kong-listed engine-maker
 Weichai Power Co. (2338)  The deal also includes 100 million euros of
new equity and a reduction in Ferretti’s debt to about 100
million euros.  The yachtmaker may be listed in Hong Kong within five years
of the deal, said Tan. Ferretti sold about 17 vessels in China
last year, he said. The country had about 1.11 million
millionaire households in 2010, according to  Boston Consulting
Group .  “Ferretti is a high-end brand and Chinese consumers have
not yet evolved to such high-end consumption,” Tan said. “Over
the next five to ten years there will be great potential for
yachts in china.”  China Yacht Demand  While there were as many as 400 dollar billionaires in
China, the country only had about 100 Chinese-owned yachts
longer than 60 feet as of May, according to  Rupert Hoogewerf ,
who compiles the Hurun Report of wealthy Chinese. There were
more than 7,000 yachts that size in the U.S. in 2006.  “If the Chinese can use the  labor force  in an intelligent
way, the opportunity is spectacular,” said Marco Elser, a
partner at AdviCorp Plc., a London-based investment banking
firm. Still, it may take until 2020 to turn Ferretti around
because of Italian  labor laws , he said.  Shandong Heavy received financial advice on the deal from
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Houlihan Lokey and ICBC International Holdings
Ltd., according to the statement. King & Wood, Bonelli Erede
Pappalardo and  Akerman Senterfitt (1267L)  acted as legal advisers.  Edinburgh-based RBS and Strategic Value were assisted by
Rothschild and Ernst & Young LLP and by the law firms Ashurst
and  Clifford Chance .  Sunseeker, Brunswick  The potential demand for yachts in China has lured overseas
boat-builders such as Azimut Yachts, Sunseeker International
Ltd. and  Brunswick Corp. (BC)  Domestic companies, including Xiamen
Hangsheng Yacht Building Co., have also begun building
superyachts  Other luxury-goods makers are targeting China as growth of
less than 2 percent in  Europe  and the U.S. stifles demand in
their traditional markets. Supercar-maker Automobili Lamborghini
SpA expected to sell more vehicles in China than in the U.S. for
the first time last year. Coach Inc., the biggest maker of
luxury handbags in the U.S., has predicted that China will
surpass  Japan  as its biggest overseas market within a few years.  Ferretti ceded control to lenders in 2009 when it missed a
loan payment on debt used to finance its leveraged buyout. It
went from planning an initial public offering in 2008 to
reorganizing its debt in a matter of months as it customer base
collapsed in the credit crisis.  In the 2009 debt-restructuring, a group of 100 creditors
led by RBS agreed to convert some of their 1.2 billion euros of
debt to equity to avert a Ferretti bankruptcy. Candover
Investments Plc, which bought majority control of the yachtmaker
in a 2007 leveraged buyout that valued Ferretti at about 1.5
billion euros, ceded its stake in the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  