-- Shirakawa Says Reforms Needed as Loose Monetary Policy Has Costs
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-01-10T20:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/shirakawa-says-central-banks-buy-time-while-structural-reforms-needed.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said there are limits to what monetary policy can
achieve and governments must implement “necessary” reforms to
aid the global economy.  “Providing liquidity as ‘a lender of last resort’ is, in
essence, a policy to ‘buy time,’” Shirakawa said in a speech
late yesterday at the  London School  of Economics. “It is
essential that the necessary structural reforms take place while
time is being bought, as the time that we can buy becomes
progressively more expensive.”  As  Europe ’s debt crisis prolongs the global economy’s
recovery from the financial crisis and recession, central banks
have followed cutting  interest rates  to record lows with
measures such as bond purchases to boost demand. Shirakawa said
that while there’s a risk of “diminishing returns” as loose
policy is extended, that doesn’t reduce the need for central
banks to act.  Shirakawa said the yen’s strength will “hurt the Japanese
economy in the short term.” The central bank lowered its
economic assessment for a second straight month in December,
while sentiment among large manufacturers, which include major
exporters, deteriorated in December from September.  “The reason the yen is appreciating is because the yen is
seen as the least unattractive currency in the financial
crisis,” he said in response to questions at the event. “There
is some evidence for supporting that kind of perception. In
terms of foreign currency funding,  Japan  is a fortress, Japan is
very robust. We are running a surplus on our current account.”  King Cited  Shirakawa quoted  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King , who
attended the event, saying he agreed with King’s comment that
there is “a limit to what monetary policy can hope to
achieve.” Shirakawa also said central banks must be “attentive
to the accumulation of financial imbalances” as well as  price
stability .  “Needless to say, bubbles are not caused by low interest
rates alone,” he said. “However, when the expectation prevails
that low rates will continue for a long period of time, it is
likely to encourage leverage and maturity mismatching between
the assets and liabilities of financial institutions.”  Shirakawa said that the greater the leverage and maturity
mismatches are, the more exposed an economy is to a possible
unwinding. “The bursting of bubbles is the materialization of
such fragility,” he said, adding that the cost of such events
is “unbearably enormous.”  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor also said the “low growth” in
Japan over the past decade was largely due to  demographic
changes , particularly a “rapid aging” of the population, and
he warned other nations may face a similar problem.  “The most significant challenge confronting Japan is how
to adjust to a rapid demographic change that is unprecedented in
developed countries,” he said. “Given that other developed
countries will face the same problems despite some differences
in timing and magnitude, the economic effects of demographics
deserve further study.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  