-- ShoreBank Corp. Seeks Court Protection After Being Closed
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-01-10T19:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/shorebank-corp-files-for-chapter-11-bankruptcy-in-chicago-1-.html
ShoreBank Corp., the holding company
for a  Chicago  lender that served low- and moderate-income
communities before being closed by regulators in 2010, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  under Chapter 11.  ShoreBank said it had about $63.5 million in liabilities
and about $19.2 million in assets in a filing yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago. Eleven of the holding company’s
units also sought bankruptcy.  The bank was closed and its assets sold to Urban
Partnership Bank in August 2010, after ShoreBank failed to raise
the capital it had been required to by regulators. The bank,
which operated 15 branches in Chicago, Cleveland and Detroit,
was forced to write down asset values as residential
rehabilitation loans and condominium conversion loans became
delinquent.  “Many of the bank’s lending neighborhoods in Chicago,
 Cleveland  and Detroit experienced and continue to have some of
the nation’s highest unemployment rates,” ShoreBank Chief
Executive Officer George Surgeon said in a court filing
yesterday. “Record levels of foreclosures have devastated many
of these neighborhoods and real estate values have dropped
significantly.”  The holding company filed for bankruptcy after it reached
an agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in a
dispute over who was entitled to the bank’s tax refunds,
according to the court filing. Under the settlement, the FDIC
will receive $8.5 million.  George Panagakis, a lawyer who represents ShoreBank in the
Chapter 11 case, didn’t immediately return a call to his office
after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the
bankruptcy filing.  ShoreBank, based on Chicago’s South Side, was founded in
1973. In March 2010, the bank was ordered by the FDIC to boost
capital within 60 days, a deadline it missed.  The case is In re ShoreBank Corp., 12-581, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  