-- Software AG’s Biggest Slump in Decade Makes Stock Cheaper Target for HP
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-10T12:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/software-ag-s-biggest-slump-in-decade-makes-stock-cheaper-target-for-hp.html
Software AG (SOW) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest software maker, plunged after fourth-quarter profit and
sales missed analysts’ estimates, making the stock cheaper for
potential acquirers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co (SOW) .  The  shares fell  as much as 26 percent in Frankfurt, the
steepest drop since April 2002, and traded 22 percent lower at
1:22 p.m., giving the company a market value of 2.04 billion
euros ($2.6 billion). Josep Bori, an Exane analyst, said last
week that the company may become a target for Hewlett-Packard or
German peer  SAP AG (SAP) , as Hewlett-Packard’s $10.3 billion takeover
of Autonomy Corp. last year may prompt interest in other
European software companies.  Today’s miss is  Software AG (SOW) ’s second for the 2011 fiscal
year. The Darmstadt-based company reported falling sales of
process-optimization software in the U.S. and said it didn’t
receive the “usual seasonal boost” in its enterprise
transaction services as clients curbed spending amid uncertainty
about economic growth. Software AG specializes in software
consulting services and streamlining business processes.  With today’s decline, Software AG is trading at 6.4 times
estimated 2012 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to  Bloomberg data . In the past three
years, deals involving western European software companies as
takeover targets had a medium multiple of 9.23 times Ebitda.  Analyst Estimates  Norbert Gelse, a spokesman for HP in Germany, today
declined to say whether the company is interested in buying
Software AG. Christoph Liedtke, an SAP spokesman, declined to
comment.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
announced in December it would buy  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF) , which
makes software to manage employee performance, for $3.4 billion
in cash.  Software AG Chief Executive Officer Karl-Heinz Streibich
said Nov. 17 that the company wasn’t for sale and it would
pursue a stand-alone strategy. The software maker, which is 29
percent owned by a foundation set up by co-founder Peter Schnell, has said it wants to double its sales at least every
five to six years, including acquisitions.  Software AG’s fourth-quarter net income was 45 million
euros to 50 million euros and revenue was 290 million euros to
295 million euros, the company said in a statement today. That
compared with average estimates of 70.4 million euros for profit
and 340 million euros for sales in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  Cautious Spending  “We believe that customers have become more cautious
toward spending toward the end of the quarter, given the
situation in the macro-environment, and especially in the
financial industry,” Streibich said on a conference call today.  Software AG (SOW)  fell 6.82 euros to 23.55 euros at 1:24 p.m. SAP
declined 1.25 euros, or 2.9 percent, to 41.53 euros.  Commenting on  Software AG (SOW) ’s results today, Exane’s Bori
said in a note to clients: “Given that we believe this is
macro-driven and not company-specific, long term investors may
want to consider buying on this extreme weakness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  