-- South Korea, Indonesia May Hold Rates on Currency Drop: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-01-11T02:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/south-korea-may-join-indonesia-to-hold-rates-as-currencies-fall.html
South Korea  and Indonesia will
probably keep  interest rates  unchanged this week as a drop in
their currencies risks heightening inflationary pressures even
as the faltering global economy undermines growth prospects.  All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
Bank of Korea to keep the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate 
unchanged at 3.25 percent on Jan. 13 for a seventh straight
month, the longest pause since tightening began in July 2010.
Bank Indonesia will keep the  reference rate  at 6 percent
tomorrow, 13 of 18 economists surveyed predict, while the rest
see a quarter-percentage-point cut.  Europe ’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis has hurt Asian
exports and caused growth to slow from  China  to Singapore, with
the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  last month
compounding risks to regional economies. While the  Philippines 
has said it may ease monetary policy this quarter, elevated
inflation may stay South  Korea ’s hand and a weakening currency
may prevent a resumption in Indonesian rate cuts.  “The European fiscal crisis is dragging on  Asia  and now
possible political instability in  North Korea  is adding to
risks,” said Lee Sang Jae, an economist at Hyundai Securities
Co. in  Seoul . “Still, many central banks including South Korea
will likely hold rates as they also grapple with volatile
foreign-exchange rates and high inflation.”  The Central Bank of  Sri Lanka  kept its benchmark interest
rates unchanged for a 12th straight month, it said in a
statement today. The bank held the reverse repurchase rate at
8.5 percent and the repurchase rate at 7 percent.  Currencies Fall  The faltering growth outlook has caused most Asian
currencies to fall in the past six months, with the South Korean
won declining more than 8 percent as weaker overseas demand
eroded the earnings of exporters from LG Electronics Inc. to
Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker. The won fell 0.3
percent to 1,159.6 against the dollar as of 11:28 a.m. in Seoul
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped more than 7 percent against the
dollar as the central bank lowered borrowing costs in October
and November before pausing last month. The rupiah weakened 0.5
percent to 9,210 a dollar as of 9:28 a.m. in Jakarta.  In  Australia , a report showing retail sales unexpectedly
stalled in November spurred declines in the nation’s currency on
Jan. 9, as traders increased bets that the central bank will cut
interest rates again after quarter-percentage-point cuts on Nov.
1 and Dec. 6.  Exports May Ease  China’s central bank lowered the required reserve ratio for
banks for the first time in almost three years in December to
encourage lending, shifting its stance from fighting inflation
as price pressures eased.  Malaysia’s trade ministry may say today exports rose 12.9
percent in November from a year earlier, after climbing 15.8
percent the previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Germany  may say today its economy grew 3 percent last year
after a 3.6 percent expansion in 2010, according to the median
estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Spain ’s
industrial production probably dropped 5.4 percent in November
from a year earlier after a 4 percent decline in October, while
the U.K. may say its goods-trade deficit widened in November to
8.4 billion pounds ($13 billion) from 7.56 billion pounds in
October, other surveys showed before reports today.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will release its Beige
Book survey, and the  Mortgage Bankers Association  will give data
on mortgage applications for the week ended Jan. 6.  Growth Threats  The  Bank of Korea ’s board has highlighted potential threats
to growth from instability in the North following the death of
Kim Jong Il, which was announced on Dec. 19. The leader’s son
Kim Jong Un, thought to be under 30, succeeded as ruler.  “Geopolitical risks” relating to the North have the
potential to escalate, unnerving financial markets and causing
consumption and investment in the South to contract
“severely,” the bank said in a Dec. 29 statement. Officials
pledged to monitor closely the North Korean situation and
Europe’s debt crisis, that they said contribute to
“substantial” downside risks for Asia’s fourth-biggest economy.  “The leadership transition in North Korea has been smooth
thus far, but geopolitical risks remain, as ever,” said Ma Tieying, an economist with DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore .
“The risk is that North Korea may provoke a confrontation with
the South, should the new leader find it necessary to enhance
his political standing and strengthen his grip on power.”  Accelerating inflation may limit the scope for immediate
rate cuts to protect growth. South Korea’s consumer prices rose
4.2 percent from a year earlier in November and December,
exceeding the central bank’s target limit of 4 percent and
quickening from 3.6 percent in October.  Case for Cut  South Korea’s unemployment rate unexpectedly held at 3.1
percent last month as hiring by the health, welfare service,
wholesale and retail sectors helped offset the effect of slowing
export growth on the job market.  “Sticky inflation” is the only thing in the way of a
South Korean rate cut, said Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Contraction lights have started
to flash, even if they are not bright red for now. The case for
a rate cut by the end of the first quarter has therefore
grown.”  In Indonesia, central bank Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono
said this week the government’s plan to limit the sale of
subsidized fuel may add as much as 0.9 percentage point to
inflation this year. He said earlier this month  Bank Indonesia 
remains mindful of inflation even as it sees room to cut
interest rates further if needed.  The rupiah’s decline has also threatened to raise import
costs in Southeast Asia’s largest economy, even as inflation
slowed for a fourth straight month in December to 3.79 percent,
the lowest level since March 2010.  “We believe that current pressures over the Indonesian
rupiah will prevent the central bank from cutting the rate in
January,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “Bank Indonesia still has
room to cut rates in March as it needs to anticipate the impact
of the global slowdown on domestic activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  