-- South Sudan Says Sudan Blocking Oil Exports, Diverting Crude Via Pipeline
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-10T14:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/south-sudan-says-sudan-blocking-oil-exports-diverting-crude-via-pipeline.html
South  Sudan  accused Sudan of
blocking 3.4 million barrels of its oil exports and said the
northern neigbor is also seeking to divert the flow of some of
its crude by building a new pipeline.  Fuel shipments have been held up in international waters in
the  Red Sea  since Dec. 22 and an oil-laden vessel scheduled to
leave on Jan. 4 has been stopped from leaving  Port Sudan , Oil
Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau told reporters today in Juba, the
capital. Sudan also started building a “tie-in” pipeline between
 PetroDar Operating Co. ’s eastern pipeline and two oil refineries
in Sudan to divert 13 percent of Dar blend crude, he said.  “We will take all the necessary legal actions against
Khartoum and buyers of crude or refined oil that is stolen from
 South Sudan ,” he said. Sudan Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid
Murawih didn’t answer his mobile phone when called for comment.  A dispute between the two countries erupted in November
when South Sudan said Sudan blocked shipments purchased by  China 
International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and Geneva-based
Vitol SA. China publicly urged the two sides to reach an
agreement that would ensure the flow of oil and sent its top
African envoy, Liu Guijin, to the capitals of both nations on
Dec. 7 and Dec. 8 for talks with officials.  South Sudan assumed control of about three-quarters of
Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it seceded on July
9 after an independence referendum. Talks since then have failed
to yield an agreement on the amount landlocked South Sudan will
pay to transport its oil through a pipeline across Sudan.  Letters of Complaint  Dau said the “tie-in” pipeline being built by Sudan will be
ready to connect to the main PetroDar pipeline by Jan. 15.
PetroDar wrote letters of complaint to Sudan and South Sudan
after being requested by Khartoum to connect to the tie-in
pipeline, Dau said.  “They rejected it as an illegal action,” he said.  British Virgin Islands-registered Petrodar’s shareholders
include state-owned  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd (PET)  and the government-controlled Sudan
Petroleum Co., according to its website. Calls to a number
listed on the website didn’t connect and the company didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Juba and Khartoum failed to reach an agreement on the oil
dispute in talks during December. Further African Union-
sponsored negotiations are scheduled to take place on Jan. 17 to
Jan. 21 in  Addis Ababa , the capital of  Ethiopia . Dau said his
government invited the oil companies to sit in on the talks.  Chinese Visit  A delegation that will include Chinese oil executives is
scheduled to arrive in Juba on Jan. 13, he said. During the
visit, the companies will sign new exploration and production
sharing agreements with the government for three blocks, while
contract negotiations continue for three additional blocks.
Since independence, Juba has been negotiating new contracts with
 oil companies , as previous ones were signed with the Khartoum
government.  Dau told reporters that Sudan ordered foreign oil companies
to divert all of South Sudan’s Nile blend crude entitlements for
December to the Khartoum and el-Obeid refineries. He also
accused the Sudanese government of ordering 550,000 barrels of
South Sudan’s Dar blend crude entitlement to be delivered to a
Sudanese buyer, whom he didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 