-- South Africa Stocks: Altron, Anglo, Amplats, BHP, SacOil, Sasol
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-10T15:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/south-africa-stocks-anglo-billiton-sacoil-sasol-are-active.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced for a third day, gaining 0.8 percent to 33,020.16, its
highest close since February.  The following were among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Allied Electronics Corp. (ATN)  , an  investment company 
with interests in communications equipment and power cables,
declined for the first day in three, dropping 1 percent to 22.75
rand. The company’s Bytes Technology Group unit agreed to buy
all the share capital of Unisys Africa from Unisys Corp. and
CyberKnowledge Systems Investments (Pty) Ltd. for an undisclosed
amount.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  , the mining company that makes
up about 9 percent of the benchmark, rose for the first time in
four days, gaining 2.6 percent to 317 rand. Copper gained the
most in a week in  New York  as imports of the metal into  China ,
the world’s biggest consumer, advanced for a seventh month to a
record.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  , the world’s biggest miner,
added 2.6 percent to 253.09 rand.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  , the world’s-biggest
producer of the metal, closed at a one-month high, climbing 1.3
percent to 547 rand. Platinum for immediate delivery jumped as
much as 3.2 percent to $1,471.88 an ounce in London, the highest
since Dec. 13.  Consolidated Infrastructure Group Ltd. (CIL)  , a
developer of high-voltage electrical substations, slid 2.4
percent to 10 rand, its biggest fall in four weeks. The
company’s board is looking for a new independent chairman
following the resignation of Peter Baird, it said in a
regulatory filing today.  SacOil Holding Ltd. (SCL)  , an African oil and natural-
gas explorer, climbed the most in two months, jumping 8.2
percent to 53 cents. The company said it is still considering
proposals and potential transactions, which if successfully
concluded, may have a “material effect” on the price of its
ordinary shares.       Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  , which provides 40 percent of South
Africa’s motor fuel, advanced for a third day, adding 1.1
percent to 394.90 rand. Oil rose for the first time in four days
on growing concern that geopolitical tension in the  Middle East 
may disrupt supply and as higher stock markets raised economic
optimism.  Telemasters Holdings Ltd. (TLM)  , a phone-services
company, closed at its highest since July 2010, surging 3.1
percent to 1.64 rand. Earnings per share rose 28 percent to
23.81 cents in the 12 months through September, the company said
in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net  and Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  