-- Vehicle Sales in South Africa Climb For Second Year on Low Borrowing Costs
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-01-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/south-african-vehicle-sales-gain-for-second-year-on-low-rates.html
South African vehicle sales expanded
for a second year as borrowing costs at a 30-year low helped to
spur  consumer spending , strengthening the recovery in Africa’s
biggest economy.  Sales (NAAMTSYY)  climbed 16 percent to 570,012 last year, the
Pretoria-based National Association of Automobile Manufacturers
of  South Africa  said in an e-mailed statement today. In
December, the number of units sold rose 11 percent.  “2011 turned out to be a year of relatively solid
growth,” the association said. “The positive underlying
momentum should continue into 2012 with demand supported by
historic low  interest rates .”  The  Reserve Bank  kept the benchmark  repurchase rate  at 5.5
percent all last year as policy makers sought to blunt the
impact of a growing debt crisis in Europe. Rising consumer
spending helped to boost business confidence to a six-month high
in December, the South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry
said in a statement today.  Vehicle sales will probably increase 7.2 percent to 611,500
in 2012, based on the assumption that the economy will expand
between 3 percent and 3.5 percent, Naamsa said.  “New vehicle sales over the short to medium term will
remain a function of the performance of the domestic economy
and, in the case of export sales, the sustainability of recovery
in the global economy,” the group said.  The December data doesn’t include any of the vehicles sold
by  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s local unit, the association said yesterday.
Daimler, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , ordered the unit to stop
providing figures as a commission in Europe investigates
allegations of anti-competitive behavior in Europe, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  