-- Sovereign, Company Bond Risk Fall as Investors Pare Crisis Bets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-01-10T16:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/sovereign-company-bond-risk-fall-as-investors-pare-crisis-bets.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European sovereign and corporate debt fell as investors pared
bets the region’s crisis is worsening.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments declined 15 basis points to 368
at 4:30 p.m. in London, the first decrease in seven days. A
decline signals improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said after a meeting with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  yesterday that a blueprint for
budgetary discipline may be ready by Jan. 30, one month ahead of
schedule. Sentiment was also bolstered by speculation China will
ease monetary policy after its import growth fell to a two-year
low in December, and after Alcoa Inc. kicked off the U.S.
earnings season with results that met analysts’ estimates.  “The Merkozy show presents upbeat assessments on the
prospects for Europe, the euro, for jobs and recovery on an
almost fortnightly basis these days,” said  Bill Blain , a
strategist at Newedge Group in London. “The market is in wait-
and-see mode, trying to see which direction the European noise
takes us next.”  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings decreased 31
basis points to 729, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell seven basis points to 173.5 basis
points. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers decreased 17.5 basis points to 278 and
the subordinated index dropped 23 to 505.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  