-- Spain’s Rajoy Says He Broke Tax Pledge as Deficit Widened
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-10T15:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/spain-s-rajoy-says-he-broke-tax-pledge-as-deficit-widened-1-.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said he had to break an election pledge and raise taxes because
the  budget deficit  was higher than forecast.  “In this situation, it was urgent to act,” Rajoy told the
newswire Efe in an interview broadcast on RTVE television. “I’m
not in favor of increasing tax; this measure is only for two
years and we had to take it because I learned on Dec. 27 that
last year we spent 20 billion euros ($25.6 billion) more than
planned.”  Spain missed its deficit target in 2011, according to the
government, and Rajoy announced 14.9 billion euros of spending
cuts and tax increases just after taking office last month to
help narrow the budget gap. Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday that the government must make an “unprecedented
effort” this year to improve the public finances.  “This was fundamental for our country’s credibility and
for our ability to fund ourselves abroad,” Rajoy said. “The
measure was painful but it was absolutely necessary to stop the
spiral in which we could fall.”  The yield on Spain’s  10-year borrowing costs  has risen by
41 basis points to 5.50 percent since the start of the year as
investors question Rajoy’s ability to reorder the country’s
finances and avoid it being engulfed by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis after  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  ‘Fair’ Budget  Rajoy said he had no intention of increasing taxes before
taking office. He said the government tried to be “fair” in
its 9 billion euros of spending cuts and by making higher
earners bear more of the income-tax increase.  “We tried to be fair and asked those who have more
economic resources to make an effort,” Rajoy said.  Rajoy said he would have increased value-added tax had it
been “absolutely necessary.” He said he didn’t as it would
have affected all taxpayers equally and that it’s “not in our
plans to increase VAT.”  Moody’s estimates  Spain  should deliver an adjustment of
about 40 billion euros, or 3.7 percent of gross domestic
product, to meet commitments to the European Union this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  