-- Spotless Investors Threaten to Oust Board as Pacific Equity Offer at Risk
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-01-11T06:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/spotless-investors-may-push-to-oust-board-as-pep-talks-stall.html
Spotless Group Ltd. (SPT)  investors
threatened to oust the Australian company’s board after it
jeopardized a A$711.5 million ($734 million) takeover offer from
Pacific Equity Partners Ltd. by declining to make internal
financial documents available.  Orbis Group, the fourth-largest Spotless investor with an
8.3 percent stake, said it may call a  shareholders’ meeting  to
oust Chairman Peter Smedley and his fellow directors. Investors
Mutual Ltd., which owns 4.5 percent of the stock according to
Bloomberg data, said it’s considering backing such a proposal.  Smedley said Jan. 9 that Pacific Equity must raise its bid
for the Melbourne-based facilities and services company to at
least A$743.4 million to get access to internal financial
documents. Pacific Equity responded yesterday, saying it won’t
increase the offer without studying the documents. The bid is 12
percent above Spotless’s latest  closing price .  “Either the board allows due diligence or they are
removed,” Simon Mawhinney, a  fund manager  at Orbis, said in a
telephone interview yesterday from Sydney. “We appear to have
no other option at this stage. We are incredibly disappointed
with the board because to be preventing due diligence at this
point is obstructive.”  Spotless rose 1.7 percent to A$2.39  today , giving the
company a market value of A$634.4 million. That’s below the
A$2.68-a-share bid from Pacific Equity. The stock hasn’t traded
above A$2.80, the minimum sought by the Spotless board, since
May 3, 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Board’s Duty  A spokesman for Spotless in  Melbourne  declined to comment
on the investors’ intentions yesterday. In a statement today,
Spotless said Pacific Equity’s bid doesn’t take into account the
company’s expected results in three to four years.  “In any control transaction, the duty of the board is to
ensure that the medium- and long-term prospects of the company
are reflected in the value realized for the benefit of all
shareholders,” Smedley said in the statement.  Pacific Equity, a Sydney-based buyout firm that oversees
about A$6 billion, said it is willing to engage with Spotless at
the A$2.68-a-share price it offered on Dec. 1 and can complete
so-called due diligence in four weeks.  The Pacific Equity bid values Spotless at 16.8 times its
most recent  full-year profit , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s above the median ratio of 10.8 among commercial services
companies traded in  Australia , according to the data.  Ready to Accept  Pacific Equity should be allowed to carry out due diligence
on the basis of its current offer, said Simon Conn, a Sydney-
based fund manager at Investors Mutual who is prepared to accept
the bid.  “If it requires changing the board to effect that, then so
be it,” Conn said by phone. “If we have to vote the board out
and get a bunch of directors who are willing to open the books
to due diligence, then maybe that’s what will have to happen.”  By committing to a specific price -- A$2.80 a share -- that
would win directors’ endorsement, Spotless may hurt the chances
of getting an even higher offer, said Ellen Stoddart, a Spotless
shareholder.  “I wonder about it as a bargaining position,” said
Stoddart, a Melbourne-based accountant who covers the company
for the Australian Shareholders’ Association Ltd. “If they
allow due diligence and the bid stands at A$2.80, they won’t
have much of a leg to stand on to argue it higher.”  Second Rejection  Pacific Equity raised its offer for Spotless, from A$2.63 a
share, on Dec. 1 after the company rejected its initial approach
on Nov. 17. Spotless provided Pacific Equity with a management
presentation last month that included some earnings forecasts.  Spotless said in the presentation that earnings before
interest and taxes will probably be A$90 million to A$94 million
in the fiscal year through June 30, 2012. It forecast profit on
that basis would rise to as much as A$150 million in three to
four years.  “There was no information provided that would justify a
valuation above our revised proposal of A$2.68,” Pacific Equity
said yesterday.  Buying Spotless would give Pacific Equity access to a
business that offers corporate services in more than 30
countries. The buyout group, formed in 1998, has about A$6
billion of funds under management.  Private equity transactions involving Australian companies
rose 18 percent to $19.5 billion in 2011 from a year earlier,
reaching the highest level since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. buyout firm KKR & Co. approached
Pacific Brands Ltd. over a possible acquisition of the
Australian distributor of the Everlast, Clarks and Dunlop
brands, Pacific Brands said yesterday.  Spotless was criticized by some investors, including Orbis,
after turning down Pacific Equity’s November approach. That was
the company’s second rejection of a bid in six months. Orbis,
Lazard Asset Management LLC and Investors Mutual had agreed to
sell their Spotless shares to Pacific Equity, the buyout firm
said in November.  Spotless in May said it rebuffed a A$657 million takeover
offer without naming the suitor.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  made that
bid, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  