-- Steve Stricker Wins PGA Tour’s Season-Opening Event by 3 Shots in Hawaii
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-10T05:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/steve-stricker-wins-pga-tour-s-season-opening-event-by-3-shots-in-hawaii.html
Steve Stricker  won the U.S. PGA
Tour’s season-opening tournament in Hawaii for his eighth
victory since 2009, the most of any player over that stretch.  Stricker, 44, shot 23-under 269 over four rounds at the
Plantation Course in Kapalua, Maui, to beat Martin Laird of
Scotland by three strokes at the Hyundai Tournament of
Champions. Defending champion Jonathan Byrd and Webb Simpson,
both Americans, tied for third at 19 under.  Stricker receives $1.12 million for his 12th career PGA
Tour win. He earned his first four wins in 348 starts and has
won eight times in 50 starts since. Stricker entered the
tournament as the top-rated American golfer, at sixth overall in
the  Official World Golf Ranking .  “We played a lot of golf this fall with the Presidents Cup
and then a couple times in December,” Stricker said in a
televised interview. “So I feel that I’m a little further along
than normal, and I played that way this week.”  Stricker surged into the lead by shooting a 10-under 63
during the second round and carried a five-stroke advantage into
the final round.  Stricker’s lead was cut to one shot yesterday before he
made three birdies over a five-hole stretch from No. 8. He
closed his round with birdies on two of the final three holes.  The tournament featured a field of 27 players who won
tournaments on the  PGA Tour  last season. World No. 1 Luke Donald, Rory McIlroy,  Dustin Johnson , Adam Scott,  Phil Mickelson ,  Justin Rose  and Charl Schwartzel were among the
eligible players who skipped the winners-only event.  The PGA Tour next moves to the big island of Hawaii for the
$5.5 million Sony Open from  Jan. 12 to 15  in Honolulu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  