-- Sudan, South Sudan Urged to Cooperate on Undocumented Citizens
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-01-10T14:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/sudan-south-sudan-urged-to-cooperate-on-undocumented-citizens.html
The  United Nations  urged Sudan and
 South Sudan ’s governments to cooperate to determine the fate of
700,000 southerners living in Sudan who remain undocumented.  “They need to come together independent of all other
problems that have not been solved,” the UN’s high commissioner
for refugees,  Antonio Guterres , told reporters today in South
Sudan’s capital, Juba.  South Sudan seceded July 9, leaving unresolved issues
including the status of disputed areas along their border, and
the amount it will pay to transport its oil through a pipeline
across Sudan. With secession, the south took control of about
two-thirds of Sudan’s oil.  Guterres urged both nations to separate those issues from
that of the status of southerners still living in  Sudan . He
travelled to Khartoum today for discussions with government
officials.  South Sudan’s secession left about 700,000 southerners in
Sudan. Khartoum has said their legal status must be determined
by April, though Guterres said it is unclear what form that
might take. Secession has left them without papers defining
their citizenship, or their residential status in Sudan.  “There is a problem that must be addressed, which is the
problem of documentation,” Guterres said. Most are likely to
want to return to their newly independent homeland, he said.  That migration would create logistical difficulties,
Guterres said, noting the poor conditions on barges that take
weeks to reach Juba from staging points in the north. The influx
of returnees expected before the deadline will also add to
challenges faced by South Sudan, which is already struggling to
accommodate about 800,000 returnees, refugees and internally
displaced people, he said.  Jonglei Violence  The situation has been exacerbated by recent violence in
Jonglei state, where tribal clashes have displaced about 60,000
people, according to Lise Grande, the UN’s humanitarian
coordinator for South Sudan. The UN is preparing to airlift aid
to Pibor county where members of the Murle tribe have been
living in the bush without food, water or shelter for two weeks
after fleeing attacks by about 6,000 armed members of the Lou
Nuer tribe.  Grande said the humanitarian operation is “one of the most
expensive and complex” since the signing of a 2005 peace deal
that ended Sudan’s civil war. Of the four communities to receive
aid, only one is accessible by road, leaving air transport as
the only option. She said the UN Humanitarian Air Transport
Service has only one helicopter and appealed to donors to
provide three more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 