-- Supply-Side in Low Demand for 2012 Republicans: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-01-10T00:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/supply-side-in-low-demand-for-2012-republicans-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Supply-side economics is supposed to
be a cheery creed, and its devotees have good reason to be
happy. Keeping the top federal  tax rate  low has traditionally
been their key policy objective. Today, that rate is 35 percent:
It has been lower than that for  only five of the past 80 years .  Yet in this campaign, the keepers of the supply-side faith
are grim. So far the two Republican candidates who have departed
the most from supply-side doctrine have done the best.  All the Republican candidates are calling for more supply-
side policies.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney wants to abolish
the estate tax. Former Senator  Rick Santorum  wants to cut the
top tax rate to 28 percent. But Wall Street Journal columnist
Kimberley Strassel  writes  that both Romney and Santorum (who
finished first and second in the Iowa caucuses, respectively)
are “following Democrats down the class-warfare rabbit hole.”  Neither candidate is talking about raising taxes on the
rich. Romney’s sin is to have proposed reducing taxes on
investments only for people making less than $200,000 a year.
Santorum’s is to have called for tax cuts for manufacturers and
for increasing the value of the  tax exemption  for children.  Blinkered Vision  Some of these objections have merit, and some don’t. (All
of them are overwrought.) There’s no good reason for the
government to give special breaks to manufacturers. Romney’s
proposal seems ineffective either as a way of offering tax
relief to the middle class or of promoting investment.
Santorum’s increase in tax benefits for children, on the other
hand, is a modest but praiseworthy step toward reducing the
federal government’s  overtaxation of parents . Strassel’s
treatment of parents as a special interest with an eccentric
hobby is a reflection of the blinkered vision to which too many
supply-siders are prone.  Purists have long insisted that their supply-side ideas
represent both sound economics and smart politics. But it
doesn’t seem to be working out that way this season.  Last June, former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  tried to
position himself as the boldest tax-cutter in the race,
proposing a reform that brought the top rate down to 25 percent.
He met the supply-side demand for optimism by promising his plan
would yield 5 percent growth for 10 years. Within two months, he
was out of the race.  In August, former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  came out with
his own plan to eliminate almost every tax break -- including
the  child tax credit , which the Wall Street Journal has always
loathed -- and reduce the top tax rate to 23 percent. The
Journal  called  his plan “impressive” and said it “may start
getting him more attention.” It didn’t.  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Perry  proposed allowing people to
pay taxes either under the current  tax code  or under a new one
with lower rates and fewer deductions. The Journal  described 
Perry’s plan as “a chance to rejuvenate his candidacy.” Perry
kept sinking. In December, Strassel  reported  that Gingrich had
started to emphasize his bold tax-cutting plan as a way to
return to front-runner status. She worried that this tactic came
too late to save him. Actually, it doesn’t seem to have even
arrested his slide.  Herman Cain  is the only example of a candidate who moved
ahead in the race based on his advocacy of a bold supply-side
 tax reform . But it was the seeming simplicity of his “9-9-9”
plan that drew fans more than its pro-growth elements, which may
be why the Journal kept its distance. And Cain quickly ran into
trouble answering questions about the plan -- especially
explaining whether it would increase taxes on the poor -- and
had to change it on the fly.  Diminishing Dividends  It’s still a supply-side party. And in none of these cases
could it be fairly argued that the candidate’s tax proposals
caused him to lose altitude. But supply-side boldness clearly
isn’t paying the political dividends its advocates say it
should.  The reasons are not hard to guess. The  deficit (FDETY)  may have
finally gotten so large, and our long-term fiscal outlook so
bleak, that even Republican voters are less enthusiastic about
massive tax cuts that come without matching spending reductions
(as in the Santorum, Gingrich, Perry and Pawlenty plans). And
the proportion of voters who pay the income tax has  fallen a lot 
since the start of the tax revolt in the late 1970s, so tax
plans centered on cutting income-tax rates have less appeal.  I’m still a fan of supply-side economics in general and the
Wall Street Journal editorial page in particular. Taxes do
reduce the incentive to work, save and invest. We should strive
to keep them low. They should be designed to distort economic
decisions as little as possible. But these truths, like any
truths, can be pushed too far.  The progress of the Republican race suggests that supply-
side politics, in its present form, is hitting its limit.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 