-- Assad Vows to Keep Power, Says Conspiracies Trying to Undermine Nation
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-10T16:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/syria-s-assad-says-conspiracies-visible-vows-to-keep-power.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said he wouldn’t abandon his responsibilities as “foreign
conspiracies” aim to divide his country.  “Victory is near” and a campaign by foreign media against
 Syria  has “failed,” he said today at Damascus University in
his fourth national address since protests began in March. The
unrest, which has claimed more than 5,000 lives, according to
the United Nations, will end when weapons smuggling is stopped
and Syria “defeats the conspiracy,” he said.  Assad said Syria embarked on reform after he came to power
in 2000 following his father’s death. A referendum on the new
constitution may be held by March and parliamentary elections by
May, he said, adding that the countries pressuring Syria don’t
care about reform and are using it as an excuse to intervene. He
criticized some Arab states, without naming them, for talking to
Syria about democracy when they lack it.  The speech, broadcast on state television, comes after the
Arab League, which has observers in Syria to monitor the
implementation of an accord to end the crackdown on protests,
renewed calls for the cessation of violence and protection of
civilians. The agreement requires the Syrian government to
withdraw military and security forces from urban areas and to
release political prisoners.  ‘Mostly Defiant’  “The content of the speech was very similar to what we saw
in earlier speeches, where he blamed conspiracies, the West, the
outside world for what was happening in Syria,” said  Chris Phillips , a lecturer in international relations specializing in
the  Middle East  at Queen Mary College,  London . “He offered a
few superficial acknowledgments of faults and a few superficial
‘reforms,’ and a referendum on a constitution in March but there
wasn’t anything of any substance, it was mostly defiant.”  Assad said his priority is to restore security and that
terrorists will be met with an “iron fist.” He denied any
orders had been given to security forces to fire on civilians.  Assad’s government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign
provocateurs for fomenting the protests. He said today that ABC
News last month tried to portray him in an interview as living
in a “cocoon” and gave a distorted picture, showing him as
evading his responsibility.  ‘More Extreme’  Burhan Ghalioun, the leader of the Syrian National Council,
an umbrella opposition group that seeks to topple Assad, said
the government hasn’t learned anything from the past 10 months
of unrest in the country, and is “more extreme now.” He called
on Arab governments to increase pressure on Assad.  Ghalioun, speaking from Istanbul, urged the Arab League to
raise the Syrian situation at the  United Nations  and called for
international protection of civilians.  “The only reply to this speech is the continuation of the
peaceful popular revolution and widening it,” Ghalioun said.  At least 10 people were killed by Syrian security forces in
the eastern town of Deir al-Zour and more than 40 others were
wounded when they fired on protesters today, according to the
U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , which has a
network of activists in Syria and is opposed to the government.  Heavy gunfire and explosions were heard in Homs, the  Local
Coordination Committees , an activist group with members in
Syria, said. At least 24 people, including three women and a
child, were killed yesterday by government forces, according to
the organization. A further 27 people were killed today in
Damascus, Deir al-Zour, Homs, Hama, Idlib and Qamishli, it said.  Arab Sanctions  Arab League  Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi has said he
expects a report from monitors on Jan. 19. The Cairo-based bloc
said it will continue its mission in Syria as long as the
government abides by the terms of the agreement allowing the
monitors. The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.  Eleven monitors were injured in an attack today,  Al Arabiya 
reported, citing the Arab League.  A statement from Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el
Arabi “strongly condemned the irresponsible acts and acts of
violence” against the mission and monitors of the organization.
It said the Syrian government is fully responsible for the
protection of its envoys and the failure to do so in the port
city of Latakia and other areas where mission members are
deployed is a breach of the protocol agreed on.  Efforts by the U.S. and the European Union, which also have
imposed sanctions, for the UN  Security Council  to condemn the
crackdown have been blocked by Russia and  China . The  Security
Council  will discuss the situation in Syria today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  