-- Government Gives Go-Ahead for High-Speed Rail Link From London to North
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-10T18:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/u-k-government-approves-high-speed-rail-line-to-link-london-birmingham.html
The U.K. government approved a plan
to build a high-speed rail link from London to Birmingham and on
to northern  England , making some changes to the route to meet
objections from lawmakers who oppose the proposal.  Transport Secretary Justine Greening made the announcement
in a  statement  today, saying the London-Birmingham route will
open in 2026 with lines to Manchester and Leeds in 2032-33. The
cost of building the line will rise to 32.7 billion pounds
($50.6 billion) from 32.2 billion pounds and the government is
seeking private-sector and European Union funding to help meet
the bill, she told lawmakers in the House of Commons.  There will be additional tunnels to overcome objections
from people living along the line to Birmingham and more than
half of the route will be in tunnels or cuttings, Greening said.
The changes include a longer tunnel through the Chiltern hills,
designated an area of natural beauty, and a new tunnel to reduce
the impact on people living in Ruislip, northwest  London .  “I have decided Britain should embark upon the most
significant transport infrastructure project since the building
of the motorways,” Greening said. “By following in the
footsteps of the 19th-century railway pioneers, the government
is signaling its commitment to providing 21st-century
infrastructure and connections -- laying the groundwork for
long-term, sustainable economic growth.”  ‘Less Spoil’  The Chilterns tunnel will save between 250 and 300 million
pounds on previous estimates because of the reduced cost of
removing soil from the site, Greening said.  “The engineering solutions we’ve found will need less use
of deep cutting, so less spoil, and it’s the removal of that
spoil that causes great expense,” Greening told lawmakers.
Tunneling under the whole of the Chilterns would add 1.2 billion
to the cost of the project, so “that’s why we’re not doing
that,” she said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government says
the high-speed line will boost the capacity of the U.K.’s rail
network, slash journey times and ease overcrowding on existing
lines, as well as allow northern cities better access to
London’s economy.  The West Coast main line from London to northwest England
and  Scotland  is the busiest mixed-use rail route in Europe and
will be operating at maximum capacity by 2024 if no action is
taken, according to Network Rail.  ‘North-South Divide’  “The point of this scheme is that for every pound spent,
it creates 2 pounds of benefit,” Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field told reporters in London today. “It’s vital to our
efforts to rebalance the economy and tackle the problem of the
north-south divide.”  The plan has been criticized by lawmakers in Cameron’s own
 Conservative Party  along with action groups, such as Stop HS2
and The Countryside Alliance, who oppose the construction of the
line through rural areas. Groups opposing the route also say
that the government is overstating the economic benefits of the
project.  “There’s no business case, there’s no environmental case
and there’s no money to pay for it,” Joe Rukin from  Stop HS2 
said in a telephone interview. “You could bring more benefits
to more people more quickly by investing in the existing rail
industry.”  Time Savings  The government estimates that the route will generate
economic benefits of 47 billion pounds and fare revenues of as
much as 34 billion pounds over 60 years. The line will cut
journey times to Birmingham to 49 minutes from about 84 minutes
and to Manchester to 80 minutes from about 127 minutes. There
will also be a link to London’s  Heathrow Airport  by 2033.  Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan has previously said she will
resign her Cabinet post if necessary to vote in Parliament
against the line, which will go through her Buckinghamshire
district.  The minister for  Europe , David Lidington, who represents a
neighboring constituency, also opposes the plans and London
Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Conservative, dropped his original
support for the line over plans for the route through the
capital.  Opponents of the project said there will be protests
against the line, including possible court action against the
government.  ‘Legal Challenge’  “We are not at all happy with the way that this has been
consulted upon and generally handled. I’m certain that the
people that live along the line are going to fight tooth-and-
nail to stop this happening,” Dylan Sharpe, spokesman for the
 Countryside Alliance , said in an e-mailed statement. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if by the end of the week news of a legal
challenge has come out.”  Business leaders welcomed the announcement as a spur to
growth by increasing capacity for freight on routes to the north
of England, as well as improving links to existing transport
networks including  Ferrovial SA (FER) ’s Heathrow and the HS1 high-
speed rail line through the Channel Tunnel to  France  and
 Belgium .  “It is good news that the government has decided to go
ahead with HS2 and we are pleased that proposals we supported
regarding the direct links to HS1 and Heathrow have been taken
on board,” Colin Stanbridge, chief executive officer of the
 London Chamber of Commerce and Industry , said in an e-mailed
statement. “HS2 will increase capacity on the rail network and,
once phase two is complete, will open up Europe to the north of
the U.K., benefiting businesses both in London and across the
country.”  Eurostar Services  HS1, the U.K.’s first high-speed rail line, was completed
in 2007. The route is used principally by Eurostar Group Ltd,
which runs services from London St. Pancras station to Paris and
Brussels. In November 2010, the government agreed to sell a 30-
year contract to run the route to a group led by Canadian
investment funds for 2.1 billion pounds.  No construction contracts for the new line will be awarded
before the next election in 2015, Greening told lawmakers. She
said all of the government figures have been adjusted upward to
take account of “optimism bias” in the estimates.  “It’s going to be political will above all else that it
needs” for the project to be completed, Greening said. “We
can’t afford not to do this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  