-- U.K. Stocks Rise, Led by Mining Companies; Marks & Spencer Gains
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-01-10T16:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/u-k-stocks-rise-led-by-mining-companies-marks-spencer-gains.html
U.K. stocks  advanced as commodity
shares rallied after Alcoa Inc. reported earnings that matched
estimates and as  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  maintained its full-
year profit outlook.  Marks & Spencer, the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer,
gained 3 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group led
mining companies higher as copper rebounded from a one-week low
on record monthly imports of the metal by  China .  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  rose 84.44, or 1.5 percent, to
5,696.7 in  London . Stocks fell yesterday as a meeting between
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  failed to ease concern over the debt crisis. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index climbed 1.4 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index added 1.5 percent.  “Among all the gloomy prognoses for  Europe  next year, one
should not forget that there are still reasons to be cheerful,”
said Fiona MacRae, head of European equities at Alliance Trust
Investments in Edinburgh. “The corporate sector is in much
better financial health than going into the 2008 recession.”  The FTSE 100 fell 5.6 percent last year, at one stage
losing as much as 19 percent from the year’s high, as European
leaders struggled to contain the sovereign-debt crisis and
assure the euro’s survival. The euro area is the U.K.’s largest
export partner.  Kazakhmys, Xstrata  Copper advanced on the London Metal Exchange as imports by
China, the biggest consumer, rose for a seventh month to a
record. U.K. mining companies will respond “strongly” to
economic recovery, analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
wrote in a note, citing  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Rio Tinto
as their top picks.  Kazakhmys jumped 5.9 percent to 1,037 pence. Xstrata
rallied 3.1 percent to 1,043 pence. Rio Tinto gained 3.6 percent
to 3,428.5 pence. BHP, the world’s biggest mining company,
increased 3.4 percent to 2,014 pence.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, kicked off the
U.S. earnings season yesterday. It reported a fourth-quarter net
loss, excluding restructuring costs, of 3 cents a share,
matching the average projection from 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Marks & Spencer  climbed 3 percent to 317.7 pence. The
company reported increased holiday sales led by gains in its
food unit and maintained the full-year profit outlook as cost
reductions offset discounts on apparel.  Cost Savings  Marks & Spencer said gross margins, or profit as a
percentage of sales, will be lower than its previous guidance
for “broadly flat” profitability. That will be offset by
additional cost savings, it said, without being more specific.  Revenue at U.K. stores open more than a year increased 0.5
percent, excluding value-added tax, in the 13 weeks ended Dec.
31, the company said. U.K. food sales rose 3 percent, beating
the 2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  jumped 9 percent to 62 pence. The U.K.’s
second-biggest department-store chain reported holiday sales
that beat analyst estimates and said it expected pressure from
commodity costs to ease.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , the world’s largest
hotel chain by rooms, rose 2.9 percent to 1,230 pence, its
highest since July 27. InterContinental was named a most-
preferred stock at Citigroup Inc.  Game Group Plc (GMG)  plunged 44 percent to 3.8 pence, its lowest
since at least May 1989, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
News. The electronic-games retailer said it may fail next month
to meet its loan covenants for fixed-charge coverage and
leverage, based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization. The debt-service covenant should be met
“satisfactorily” given the year-end cash position, Game Group
said.  The company recorded a 13 percent drop in like-for-like
sales in the eight weeks to Jan. 7 due to challenging market
conditions and promotional measures by rivals. Full-year sales
are now likely to show a 10 percent decline, rather than the
Nov. 16 estimate of 7 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  