-- U.K. RICS House-Price Index Shows Property-Market Strains Remain
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/u-k-rics-house-price-index-shows-property-market-strains-remain.html
A U.K.  house-price index (UKRXPBAL)  showed the
 property market  continued to face strains last month from a
deteriorating economic outlook and stretched consumers,
according to the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors.  The gauge by London-based RICS gained one point to minus 16
from the previous month, it said in a statement today. The
reading is the highest since July 2010. A separate British
Retail Consortium report showed retail sales rose in December.  “It’s encouraging that sales activity held up relatively
well toward the end of the year,” Ian Perry, RICS housing
spokesman, said in the statement. Still, “continuing problems
with the economy and the ongoing instability in the  euro zone 
seem to be weighing heavily on the U.K. housing market.”  The report is the latest to show the sovereign debt crisis
in  Europe  is restraining demand for property in Britain, after
Halifax said last week prices fell to the lowest level in 2 1/2
years. The  Bank of England  will probably maintain emergency
stimulus for the economy at this week’s policy meeting.  RICS’ measure of sales per surveyor fell to 15.2 in
December from 15.4 in November. A gauge of expected sales
dropped to zero from 4, and its measure of new buyer inquires
declined to 2 from 7.  London recorded a price gauge of 20 in December, and the
capital was the only one of 12 regions tracked by RICS to show a
positive result. The measure for the West Midlands was the
weakest, at minus 56, followed by  Scotland , at minus 51.  U.K. property prices (UKHBSAMM)  fell 0.9 percent in December from the
previous month to an average 160,063 pounds ($247,000),  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax division said Jan. 6. That’s the
lowest since July 2009.  Interest Rates   The Bank of England will hold its  key interest rate (UKBRBASE)  at a
record-low 0.5 percent on Jan. 12, according to all 53
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It will also keep its
bond-purchase plan at 275 billion pounds, according to the
median estimate of 41 economists in a separate poll.  In its report, the BRC said  sales at stores (KPRSLFLS)  open at least
12 months, measured by value, rose 2.2 percent from a year
earlier. In the three months through December, food sales showed
a 2.1 percent increase from a year earlier, while non-food
dropped 1.2 percent. Overall sales were up an annual 0.2 percent
for the quarter.  “A solid December hasn’t rescued a pretty miserable
year,” BRC Director General Stephen Robertson said in the
report. “2010 is expected to be an equally challenging year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  