-- U.S. November Job Openings and Labor Turnover Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-01-10T15:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/u-s-november-job-openings-and-labor-turnover-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
November job openings and labor turnover rates.  There were 3.2 million job openings on the last business
day of November, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported
today. The hires rate (3.2 percent) and separations rate (3.0
percent) were little changed over the month. The job openings
rate has trended upward since the end of the recession in June
2009. (Recession dates are determined by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research .) This release includes estimates of the
number and rate of job openings, hires, and separations for the
nonfarm sector by industry and by geographic region.  Job Openings  The number of job openings in November was 3.2 million,
unchanged from October. Although the number of job openings
remained below the 4.4 million openings when the recession began
in December 2007, the level in November was 1.0 million higher
than in July 2009 (the most recent trough for the series). The
number of job openings has increased 30 percent since the end of
the recession in June 2009.  The number of job openings in November (not seasonally
adjusted) was little changed over the year for total nonfarm,
total private, and government. Several industries saw increases
in the number of job openings over the year, while the number of
job openings decreased for finance and insurance, professional
and business services, and federal government. The Midwest and
South regions had increases in the number of job openings and
the West experienced a decline over the year.  Hires  In November, the hires rate was little changed at 3.2
percent for total nonfarm. The hires rate was essentially
unchanged over the month in all industries and regions. The
number of hires in November was 4.1 million, up from 3.6 million
in October 2009 (the most recent trough) but below the 5.0
million hires recorded when the recession began in December 2007.
The number of hires has increased by 15 percent since the end of
the recession in June 2009.  Over the past 12 months, the hires rate (not seasonally
adjusted) was little changed for total nonfarm, total private,
and government. The hires rate increased over the year in arts,
entertainment, and recreation and was essentially unchanged in
every other industry. The hires rate was essentially unchanged
in all four regions.  Separations  The total separations figure includes voluntary quits,
involuntary layoffs and discharges, and other separations,
including retirements. Total separations is also referred to as
turnover.  The seasonally adjusted total separations rate was little
changed in November for total nonfarm, total private, and
government. Over the year, the total separations rate (not
seasonally adjusted) also was little changed for total nonfarm,
total private, and government.  The quits rate can serve as a measure of workers’
willingness or ability to change jobs. In November, the quits
rate was little changed for total nonfarm, total private, and
government. The number of quits rose from 1.5 million in January
2010 (the most recent trough) to 2.0 million in November,
although it remained below the 2.8 million recorded when the
recession began in December 2007.  The number of quits (not seasonally adjusted) in November
2011 rose for total nonfarm over the year, but was little
changed for total private and government. No industries or
regions experienced a significant change in the number of quits
over the year.  The layoffs and discharges component of total separations
is seasonally adjusted only at the total nonfarm, total private,
and government levels. The layoffs and discharges rate was
essentially unchanged in November 2011 for total nonfarm, total
private, and government. The number of layoffs and discharges
for total nonfarm was 1.7 million in November, down from a peak
of 2.5 million in February 2009. For the 16 months ending in
November 2011, the number of layoffs and discharges has been at
or below 1.8 million--the level at the start of the recession.  The layoffs and discharges level (not seasonally adjusted)
for total nonfarm and total private was little changed over the
12 months ending in November 2011, while the number of layoffs
and discharges for government declined. Over the year, the
number of layoffs and discharges declined for nondurable goods
manufacturing, federal government, and state and local
government. The number of layoffs and discharges increased in
arts, entertainment, and recreation over the year.  All four
regions experienced little change in the number of layoffs and
discharges.  The other separations series is not seasonally adjusted. In
November 2011, there were 270,000 other separations for total
nonfarm, 225,000 for total private, and 45,000 for government.
Compared to November 2010, the number of other separations was
little changed for total nonfarm, total private, and government.  Relative Contributions to Separations  The total separations level is influenced by the relative
contribution of its three components -- quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations. Other separations is
historically a very small portion of total separations; it has
rarely been above 10 percent of total separations. The
percentage of total separations attributable to the individual
components has varied over time at the total nonfarm level, but
for the majority of the months since the series began in
December 2000, the proportion of quits has exceeded the
proportion of layoffs and discharges. For most of the months
between November 2008 and November 2010, however, the proportion
of layoffs and discharges was equal to or greater than the
proportion of quits. Since November 2010, the series have
returned to their historical pattern. In November 2011, the
proportion of quits for total nonfarm was 49 percent, and the
proportion of layoffs and discharges was 42 percent.  Net Change in Employment  Large numbers of hires and separations occur every month
throughout the business cycle. Over the 12 months ending in
November 2011, hires totaled 48.6 million and separations
totaled 47.2 million, yielding a net employment gain of 1.4
million. These figures include workers who may have been hired
and separated more than once during the year.  The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey results for
December 2011 are scheduled to be released on Tuesday, February
7, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. (EST).  Technical Note  The data for the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
(JOLTS) are collected and compiled monthly from a sample of
business establishments by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).  Collection  In a monthly survey of business establishments, data are
collected for total employment, job openings, hires, quits,
layoffs and discharges, and other separations.  Data collection
methods include computer-assisted telephone interviewing,
touchtone data entry, web, fax, e-mail, and mail.  Coverage  The JOLTS program covers all private nonfarm establishments
such as factories, offices, and stores, as well as federal,
state, and local government entities in the 50 states and the
 District of Columbia .  Concepts  Industry classification.  The industry classifications in this release are in
accordance with the 2007 version of the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS).  In order to ensure the highest
possible quality of data, State Workforce Agencies verify with
employers and update, if necessary, the industry code, location,
and ownership classification of all establishments on a 3-year
cycle.  Changes in establishment characteristics resulting from
the verification process are always introduced into the JOLTS
sampling frame with the data reported for the first month of the
year.  Employment.  Employment includes persons on the payroll who worked or
received pay for the pay period that includes the 12th day of
the reference month.  Full-time, part-time, permanent, short-
term, seasonal, salaried, and hourly employees are included, as
are employees on paid vacations or other paid leave.
Proprietors or partners of unincorporated businesses, unpaid
family workers, or persons on leave without pay or on strike for
the entire pay period, are not counted as employed.  Employees
of temporary help agencies, employee leasing companies, outside
contractors, and consultants are counted by their employer of
record, not by the establishment where they are working.  Job openings.  Establishments submit job openings information for the last
business day of the reference month.  A job opening requires
that: 1) a specific position exists and there is work available
for that position, 2) work could start within 30 days regardless
of whether a suitable candidate is found, and 3) the employer is
actively recruiting from outside the establishment to fill the
position.  Included are full-time, part-time, permanent, short-
term, and seasonal openings.  Active recruiting means that the
establishment is taking steps to fill a position by advertising
in newspapers or on the Internet, posting help-wanted signs,
accepting applications, or using other similar methods.  Jobs to be filled only by internal transfers, promotions,
demotions, or recall from layoffs are excluded.  Also excluded
are jobs with start dates more than 30 days in the future, jobs
for which employees have been hired but have not yet reported
for work, and jobs to be filled by employees of temporary help
agencies, employee leasing companies, outside contractors, or
consultants. The job openings rate is computed by dividing the
number of job openings by the sum of employment and job openings
and multiplying that quotient by 100.  Hires.  Hires are the total number of additions to the payroll
occurring at any time during the reference month, including both
new and rehired employees, full-time and part-time, permanent,
short-term and seasonal employees, employees recalled to the
location after a layoff lasting more than 7 days, on-call or
intermittent employees who returned to work after having been
formally separated, and transfers from other locations.  The
hires count does not include transfers or promotions within the
reporting site, employees returning from strike, employees of
temporary help agencies or employee leasing companies, outside
contractors, or consultants.  The hires rate is computed by
dividing the number of hires by employment and multiplying that
quotient by 100.  Separations.  Separations are the total number of terminations of
employment occurring at any time during the reference month, and
are reported by type of separation--quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations.  Quits are voluntary
separations by employees (except for retirements, which are
reported as other separations).  Layoffs and discharges are
involuntary separations initiated by the employer and include
layoffs with no intent to rehire; formal layoffs lasting or
expected to last more than 7 days; discharges resulting from
mergers, downsizing, or closings; firings or other discharges
for cause; terminations of permanent or short-term employees;
and terminations of seasonal employees. Other separations
include retirements, transfers to other locations, deaths, and
separations due to disability.  Separations do not include
transfers within the same location or employees on strike.  The separations rate is computed by dividing the number of
separations by employment and multiplying that quotient by 100.
The quits, layoffs and discharges, and other separations rates
are computed similarly, dividing the number by employment and
multiplying by 100.  Annual estimates.  Annual estimates of rates and levels of hires, quits,
layoffs and discharges, other separations, and total separations
are released with the January news release each year.  The JOLTS annual level estimates for hires, quits, layoffs
and discharges, other separations, and total separations are the
sum of the 12 published monthly levels.  The annual rate
estimates are computed by dividing the annual level by the
Current Employment Statistics (CES) annual average employment
level, and multiplying that quotient by 100.  This figure will
be approximately equal to the sum of the 12 monthly rates.  Note
that both the JOLTS and CES annual levels are rounded to the
nearest thousand before the annual estimates are calculated.
Consistent with BLS practices, annual estimates are published
only for not seasonally adjusted data.  Annual estimates are not calculated for job openings
because job openings are a stock, or point-in-time, measurement
for the last business day of each month.  Only jobs still open
on the last day of the month are counted.  For the same reason
job openings cannot be cumulated throughout each month, annual
figures for job openings cannot be created by summing the
monthly estimates.  Hires and separations are flow measures and
are cumulated over the month with a total reported for the month.
Therefore, the annual figures can be created by summing the
monthly estimates.  Special collection procedures  An implied measure of employment change can be derived from
the JOLTS data by subtracting separations from hires for a given
month.  Aggregating these monthly changes historically produced
employment levels that overstated employment change as measured
by CES at the total nonfarm level.  Research into this problem
showed that a significant amount of the divergence between the
CES employment levels and the derived JOLTS employment levels
was traceable to the Employment Services industry and to the
State Government Education industry.  In the former industry,
businesses have a difficult time reporting hires and separations
of temporary help workers.  In the latter industry, employers
have difficulty reporting hires and separations of student
workers.  BLS now devotes additional resources to the collection,
editing, and review of data for these industries.  BLS analysts
more closely examine reported data that do not provide a
consistent picture over time, and re-contact the respondents as
necessary.  Analysts work with the respondents to adjust their
reporting practices as possible. Units that cannot be reconciled
but are clearly incorrect on a consistent basis are not used,
they are replaced by imputed values using standard techniques.  Sample and estimation methodology  The JOLTS survey design is a random sample of 16,000
nonfarm business establishments, including factories, offices,
and stores, as well as federal, state, and local governments in
the 50 states and the District of Columbia.  The establishments
are drawn from a universe of over 9.1 million establishments
compiled as part of the operations of the Quarterly Census of
Employment and Wages (QCEW) program.  This program includes all
employers subject to state Unemployment Insurance (UI) laws and
federal agencies subject to Unemployment Compensation for
Federal Employees (UCFE).  The sampling frame is stratified by ownership, region,
industry sector, and size class. The JOLTS sample is constructed
from individual panels of sample units drawn on an annual basis.
The full annual sample consists of one certainty panel composed
of only large units selected with virtual certainty based on
their size and 24 non-certainty panels.  Each month a new non-
certainty panel is rolled into collection, and the oldest non-
certainty panel is rolled out.  This means that at any given
time the JOLTS sample is constructed from panels from three
different annual sampling frames.  The entire sample of old plus
new panels is post-stratified and re-weighted annually to
represent the most recent sampling frame.  Additionally, the
out-of-business establishments are removed from the old panels.
The annual sample is supplemented with a quarterly sample of
birth establishments (i.e., new establishments) to better
reflect the impact of younger establishments in the JOLTS sample.  JOLTS total employment estimates are benchmarked monthly to
the employment estimates of the Current Employment Statistics
(CES) survey.  A ratio of CES to JOLTS employment is used to
adjust the levels for all other JOLTS data elements.  JOLTS business birth/death model  As with any sample survey, the JOLTS sample can only be as
current as its sampling frame.  The time lag from the birth of
an establishment until its appearance on the sampling frame is
approximately one year.  In addition, many of these new units
may fail within the first year.  Since these universe units
cannot be reflected on the sampling frame immediately, the JOLTS
sample cannot capture job openings, hires, and separations from
these units during their early existence.  BLS has developed a
model to estimate birth/death activity for current months by
examining the birth/death activity from previous years on the
QCEW and projecting forward to the present using an econometric
technique known as X-12 ARIMA modeling. The birth/death model
also uses historical JOLTS data to estimate the amount of “churn”
(hires and separations) that exists in establishments of various
sizes.  The model then combines the estimated churn with the
projected employment change to estimate the number of hires and
separations taking place in these units that cannot be measured
through sampling.  The model-based estimate of total separations is
distributed to the three components--quits; layoffs and
discharges; and other separations--in proportion to their
contribution to the sample-based estimate of total separations.
Additionally, job openings for the modeled units are estimated
by computing the ratio of openings to hires in the collected
data and applying that ratio to the modeled hires.  The
estimates of job openings, hires, and separations produced by
the birth/death model are then added to the sample-based
estimates produced from the survey to arrive at the estimates
for openings, hires, and separations.  Seasonal adjustment  BLS seasonally adjusts several JOLTS series using the X-12
ARIMA seasonal adjustment program.  Seasonal adjustment is the
process of estimating and removing periodic fluctuations caused
by events such as weather, holidays, and the beginning and
ending of the school year.  Seasonal adjustment makes it easier
to observe fundamental changes in the level of the series,
particularly those associated with general economic expansions
and contractions.  A concurrent seasonal adjustment methodology
is used in which new seasonal adjustment factors are calculated
each month, using all relevant data, up to and including the
data for the current month.  JOLTS uses moving averages as seasonal filters in seasonal
adjustment.  JOLTS seasonal adjustment includes both additive
and multiplicative seasonal adjustment models and REGARIMA
(regression with autocorrelated errors) modeling to improve the
seasonal adjustment factors at the beginning and end of the
series and to detect and adjust for outliers in the series.  Alignment procedure  JOLTS hires minus separations should be comparable to the
CES net employment change.  However, definitional differences as
well as sampling and non-sampling errors between the two surveys
historically caused JOLTS to diverge from CES over time. To
limit the divergence, and improve the quality of the JOLTS hires
and separations series, BLS implemented the Monthly Alignment
Method. The Monthly Alignment Method applies the CES employment
trends to the seasonally adjusted JOLTS implied employment trend
(hires minus separations) forcing them to be approximately the
same, while preserving the seasonality of the JOLTS data.  First,
the two series are seasonally adjusted and the difference
between the JOLTS implied employment trend and the CES net
employment change is calculated. Next, the JOLTS implied
employment trend is adjusted to equal the CES net employment
change through a proportional adjustment. This proportional
adjustment procedure adjusts the two components (hires,
separations) proportionally to their contribution to the total
churn (hires plus separations).  For example, if hires are 40
percent of the churn for a given month, they will receive 40
percent of the needed adjustment and separations will receive 60
percent of the needed adjustment. The adjusted hires and
separations are converted back to not seasonally adjusted data
by reversing the application of the original seasonal factors.
After the Monthly Alignment Method has been used to adjust the
level estimates, rate estimates are computed from the adjusted
levels.  The monthly alignment procedure assures a close match
of the JOLTS implied employment trend with the CES trend. The
CES series is considered a highly accurate measure of net
employment change owing to its very large sample size and annual
benchmarking to universe counts of employment from the QCEW
program.  Using JOLTS data  The JOLTS data series on job openings, hires, and
separations are relatively new.  The full sample is divided into
panels, with one panel enrolled each month.  A full complement
of panels for the original data series based on the 1987
Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system was not
completely enrolled in the survey until January 2002.  The
supplemental panels of establishments needed to create NAICS
estimates were not completely enrolled until May 2003.  The data
collected up until those points are from less than a full sample.
Therefore, estimates from earlier months should be used with
caution, as fewer sampled units were reporting data at that time.  In March 2002, BLS procedures for collecting hires and
separations data were revised to address possible underreporting.
As a result, JOLTS hires and separations estimates for months
prior to March 2002 may not be comparable to estimates for March
2002 and later.  The federal government reorganization that involved
transferring approximately 180,000 employees to the new
Department of  Homeland Security  is not reflected in the JOLTS
hires and separations estimates for the federal government.  The
 Office of Personnel Management ’s record shows these transfers
were completed in March 2003.  The inclusion of transfers in the
JOLTS definitions of hires and separations is intended to cover
ongoing movements of workers between establishments.  The
Department of Homeland Security reorganization was a massive
one-time event, and the inclusion of these intergovernmental
transfers would distort the federal government time series.  Reliability of the estimates  JOLTS estimates are subject to both sampling and
nonsampling error.  When a sample rather than the entire
population is surveyed, there is a chance that the sample
estimates may differ from the “true” population values they
represent.  The exact difference, or sampling error, varies
depending on the particular sample selected, and this
variability is measured by the standard error of the estimate.
BLS analysis is generally conducted at the 90-percent level of
confidence.  That means that there is a 90-percent chance, or
level of confidence, that an estimate based on a sample will
differ by no more than 1.6 standard errors from the “true”
population value because of sampling error.  Estimates of
sampling errors are available upon request.  The JOLTS estimates also are affected by nonsampling error.
Nonsampling error can occur for many reasons, including the
failure to include a segment of the population, the inability to
obtain data from all units in the sample, the inability or
unwillingness of respondents to provide data on a timely basis,
mistakes made by respondents, errors made in the collection or
processing of the data, and errors from the employment benchmark
data used in estimation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  