-- U.S. Gold’s McEwen Says Prices Will Drive Acquisitions
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-01-10T16:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/u-s-gold-ceo-mcewen-says-metal-prices-will-drive-acquisitions.html
(Corrects mine location in 12th paragraph.)  U.S. Gold Corp. (UXG)  Chief Executive
Officer Rob McEwen said gold companies will seek acquisitions
this year as higher metal prices boost their cash reserves.  “There’s a lot of opportunity out there,” McEwen said in
an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Toronto bureau.  Gold miners are seeking to replace resources and increase
production of the commodity, which posted its 11th straight
annual increase in 2011.  “The seniors and the intermediates have watched these
higher metals prices cause their treasuries to fill up very
quickly,” the founder and former CEO of  Goldcorp Inc. (GG)  said.
“And that’s going to burn a hole in their pocket.”  Rising metals prices have resulted in a “proliferation”
of small companies, McEwen said. These companies are vulnerable
to takeovers because their access to capital is limited, he
said. There may be more mergers of so-called juniors as a
result.  McEwen said he sees gold rising to more than $2,000 an
ounce in 2012, reaching $5,000 an ounce in three to five years.  Gold futures reached a record $1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6
on the Comex in New York. Gold for February delivery rose 1.7
percent to $1,635.70 at 10:30 a.m. today.  Large gold producers should seek to increase their share
prices by substantially increasing dividend payments, McEwen
said.  Minera Acquisition  “You’re starting to see increases announced, but not of
the magnitude that I think they could afford to do,” he said.  McEwen proposed in June that Lakewood, Colorado-based U.S.
Gold buy  Minera Andes Inc. (MAI)  to form a new company to be named
McEwen Mining Inc. He is CEO and the biggest shareholder of both
companies, whose boards agreed to back the deal in September.
Investors of both companies are scheduled to vote on the
transaction on Jan. 19.  “We view the merger as matching excess cash flows from
Minera Andes with the capital needs of U.S. Gold,” Adam P. Graf, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a
note to clients today.  U.S. Gold will need approximately $75 million to construct
its El Gallo project in  Mexico  and begin construction of the
Gold Bar project in  Nevada , said Graf, who rates U.S. Gold a
“buy.”  Minera Andes shares rose 4.7 percent to C$1.77 at 10:38
a.m. in Toronto. U.S. Gold rose 4.8 percent to $3.91 in  New
York .  McEwen Mining, which will have assets in Argentina, Mexico
and Nevada, will target qualification for the  S&P 500 index 
during 2015 and will probably seek an acquisition before then,
McEwen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  