-- Hungary Sells Target Amount of Bills as Yield Climbs to Highest Since 2009
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-10T12:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hungary-sells-target-amount-of-bills-as-yield-climbs-to-highest-since-2009.html
Hungary  sold its target amount of
debt at an auction at the  highest  cost in 2 1/2 years as the
country’s chief negotiator traveled to  Washington  to meet with
the  International Monetary Fund  on a bailout.  The government sold 45 billion forint ($183 million) in
three-month Treasury bills as the average yield rose to 7.98
percent, the highest for that maturity since August 2009. Tamas Fellegi, the minister leading foreign aid talks, started
discussions with the IMF in Washington yesterday, state news
service MTI reported, citing a statement from the country’s
embassy there.  The forint fell to a record low against the euro last week
after the IMF and the European Union broke off talks with
Hungary after Prime Minister Viktor Orban refused to withdraw
new central  bank regulations  the institutions objected to.
Markets rebounded after Orban said he is ready to accept “any
kind” of  credit line  that strengthens the country’s market
financing.  “Market tensions eased following the relatively
constructive announcements late last week,”  Gyula Toth , a
Vienna-based strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a research
report today. “All eyes are on the meetings between IMF and
Fellegi in Washington.”  Aid Talks  Hungary’s official aid talks won’t resume until the
government proves that a new law doesn’t infringe on the
independence of its central bank, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman
for the European Commission, which holds the power to authorize
any aid package, told reporters in Brussels Jan. 5.  “From an IMF/EU point of view, I wouldn’t even send the
team before the central bank law is changed,”  Koon Chow , a
London-based strategist at  Barclays Capital , said in a telephone
interview today.  The forint gained 0.8 percent to 313.37 per euro by 12:29
p.m. in Budapest, compared with 315 at the end of last year.  Hungary needs to secure a bailout from the IMF in the first
half of 2012 to restore market confidence, Paul Rawkins, head of
the emerging Europe sovereign ratings group at  Fitch Ratings ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.  “Hungary’s problems are very country specific; there are
problems in the region, but a lot of Hungary’s problems are of
its own making,” Rawkins said. “As a result, they undermine
confidence and it’s very hard to restore that confidence.”  Fitch cut Hungary’s ratings below investment grade on Jan.
6, following similar moves from  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service last year, saying doubts remain as to whether
the government will submit to conditions for aid. Fitch has a
negative outlook on Hungary, indicating a probability greater
than 50 percent of a further downgrade in the next two years.  Hungary’s  10-year notes  advanced for a fourth day, cutting
yields 7 basis points to 9.79 percent, the lowest since Dec. 28.
The benchmark BUX stock index gained 0.9 percent as OTP Bank
Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rallied 2.2 percent.  Hungary
also sold the full amount planned at a sale of six-week Treasury
bills yesterday.  “So far market optimism is founded on Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s empty phrases,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a research report today.
“Premature euro-forint shorts are therefore an easy way to get
caught out at present as the negotiations with the international
backers still bear considerable potential for disappointment. We
remain euro-forint bulls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  