-- Hungary Needs IMF Accord in First Half to Restore Confidence, Fitch Says
-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-10T10:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hungary-needs-imf-accord-in-first-half-to-restore-confidence-fitch-says.html
Hungary needs to secure a bailout
from the  International Monetary Fund  in the first half to
restore market confidence, said Paul Rawkins, head of the
emerging Europe sovereign ratings group at  Fitch Ratings .  “Hungary’s problems are very country specific; there are
problems in the region, but a lot of Hungary’s problems are of
its own making,” Rawkins said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. “As a result, they undermine confidence and
it’s very hard to restore that confidence.”  The IMF and the European Union broke off talks last month
on Hungary’s bid for a bailout after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
refused to withdraw legislation that the institutions said may
undermine the central bank’s independence. Hungary’s chief
negotiator Tamas Fellegi started preparatory talks with IMF
representatives in  Washington  yesterday and is scheduled to meet
IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde on Jan. 12, state
newswire MTI reported.  “Hungary isn’t going to fall over tomorrow, it has some
cash in the bank, but it certainly needs to have a deal within
the first half,” Rawkins said.  The forint and Hungarian stocks gained on the report that
Fellegi, the minister in charge of securing international
financial aid, had started negotiations.  Hungary’s currency advanced 0.4 percent to 314.30 per euro
by 11:27 a.m. in Budapest. The benchmark BUX stock index gained
0.6 percent as OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rallied
1.7 percent. Tamas Fellegi,  started talks with the IMF in  Hungary is open to bailout talks without any preconditions
and would accept “any kind” of  credit line  that strengthens
market financing, Orban said on Jan. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  