-- Municipal Bond ETF Declines Most Since August After Rallying for Five Days
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-01-10T19:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/municipal-bond-etf-declines-most-since-august-after-rallying-for-five-days.html
The biggest exchange-traded fund
tracking the municipal  debt market  fell the most in five months
after a weeklong rally pushed it to the highest price relative
to its bonds since 2009.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund  lost 1 percent
to $109.83 as of 2:41 p.m. in  New York , falling from a record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF rose 2.5
percent in the previous five sessions, the biggest advance since
January 2011, after declining bond sales by states and local
governments made the security one of the only ways to capture
gains in the municipal market.  Eric Lichtenstein of Knight Capital Group said the tumble
may reflect arbitragers trying to narrow the gap between the
ETF’s price and the value of its underlying securities. The
decline on a day in which municipal bonds were appreciating came
after the fund surged to a 2.4 percent premium to its net asset
value yesterday, the highest in three years.  “That premium triggered some people to put it back in
line,” Lichtenstein, the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based managing
director of ETF trading at Knight, said in a telephone interview
today. “The market makers are supposed to keep these in line,
so when they get to a level where it’s not consistent with
historical trends, that’s when the market makers step in.”  The iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund climbed 0.3
percent to $110.93 yesterday to extend its five-day gain to 2.5
percent. That compared with a 0.8 percent five-day advance in
the S&P Municipal Bond Index, on which the ETF is based.  Mimicking Munis  Gains in the ETF, known by its ticker symbol MUB, beat the
underlying debt because money managers who have run out of bonds
to buy are using it to mimic returns in the municipal market,
according to Dodd Kittsley, the New York-based head of the due
diligence group at BlackRock Inc.’s iShares unit. States and
cities sold  $258.26 billion  of fixed-rate debt in 2011, down
from $407.68 billion the year before, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The supply in the muni market’s been highly
constrained,” Kittsley, whose firm oversees $3.3 trillion, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The  premium’s  really a
reflection of MUB as an access vehicle for the market and
reflects this asymmetric liquidity in the underlying.”  Yields on benchmark 20-year municipals fell  9.1 basis
points  on Jan. 9 to 3.3 percent, the biggest one-day drop since
Dec. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Large orders of ETFs are made through so-called authorized
agents of the sponsors, who purchase blocks of the underlying
assets and trade them with the fund to create new shares. The
mechanism helps an ETF’s share price stay close to its net-asset
value as investors  arbitrage  discrepancies between the fund
shares and underlying holdings.  ‘Just Holding’  Illiquidity in the municipal market can raise costs for
authorized agents and increase the price of the ETF. Issuance
fell after the federal Build America Bonds program, which
offered states and localities a 35 percent subsidy on interest
costs, ended on Dec. 31, 2010.  Investors have put more than $32 million into the ETF in
the week through yesterday and more than $471 million in the
last year, data compiled by New York-based XTF Inc. show.  “If you have an illiquid market and there’s not much
supply out there, everyone’s just holding onto their bonds, then
any sort of creation is going to move the price of the ETF even
if it’s a small one,” said Timothy Strauts, a Chicago-based ETF
analyst at Morningstar Inc., in a telephone interview.  Whitney Prediction  Municipals outperformed other asset classes after the
“hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults predicted by
bank analyst  Meredith Whitney  in December 2010 didn’t happen.
States and cities in the $3.7 trillion municipal market
withstood the longest recession since the 1930s as they reduced
spending to close deficits and tax collections rose for eight
consecutive quarters through Sept. 30, the longest stretch of
gains since 2008, the Census Bureau said Dec. 20.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
largest bond fund, has boosted holdings of U.S. municipal debt
to the most in more than five years and may buy more. Adding
securities that outperformed Treasuries, stocks and commodities
last year may bolster  Bill Gross ’s $244 billion Total Return
Fund, which lagged behind others in 2011. It returned 4.16
percent compared with the average 4.78 percent of its peers last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This seems to a very logical place to expect  asset
allocation  in the new year,” said Nicholas Colas, the New York-
based chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEX Group LLC. “The
world is searching for yield and worried about the incremental
taxes implied by ever-rising federal debt. Munis are at the
intersection of those trends.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  