-- UniCredit Share Plunge Seen Deterring Banks in Europe From Selling Stock
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-01-10T10:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/unicredit-plunge-seen-deterring-eu-banks-from-selling-shares.html
A 45 percent drop in  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
shares over four days after Italy’s biggest bank announced a
rights offer may deter European lenders from asking investors
for help to meet requirements that they replenish capital.  “Every bank will be trying to avoid doing a rights issue
even more now,” said Peter Braendle, a  fund manager  at
Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich. “The decline is really
amazing. It doesn’t send a good signal.”  Shares of Milan-based UniCredit closed at a 23-year low of
2.286 euros yesterday after posting an unprecedented decline
since the lender set the terms of its 7.5 billion-euro ($9.6
billion) stock sale on Jan. 4. Today, the shares rose as much as
7.8 percent and were 5.2 percent higher at 2.40 euros at 11:27
a.m. in Milan.  The bank is seeking buyers for new shares at a discounted
price of 1.943 euros apiece. The offering, which runs through
Jan. 27, was guaranteed by a group of 26 underwriters, led by
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , which have agreed to
buy any leftover stock.  UniCredit decided to sell new shares after the European
Banking Authority gave the region’s lenders until June 30 to
raise 115 billion euros to increase core Tier 1 capital to 9
percent as a buffer against the sovereign-debt crisis. The EBA
set a Jan. 20 deadline for banks to submit money-raising plans
to supervisors. Those that fail to raise enough capital on their
own will have to turn to their governments, or, as a last
resort, the European Financial Stability Facility.  ‘Huge Challenge’  The  rights to buy new stock  rallied 52 percent today after
sliding 65 percent yesterday, their first day of trading.  Banks are selling profitable businesses and curbing lending
to improve  capital ratios  and avoid government bailouts, even
after the  European Central Bank  provided unprecedented three-
year loans to avert a credit crunch. Italian banks borrowed 210
billion euros from the central bank in December from 153.2
billion euros in November,  Bank of Italy  data shows.  Italian banks are struggling to attract foreign capital as
debt contagion threatens to engulf the nation and drive the
economy deeper into contraction. The lenders’ biggest investors,
Italy’s banking foundations, are strapped for cash.  “The sharp fall in UniCredit’s stock underscores the huge
challenge for Italian and euro-zone banks to raise fresh money
from shareholders,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London . “As long as Italy’s
problems loom large in the minds of investors, it will be
extremely difficult for other Italian lenders to raise equity.”  Santander, Commerzbank  UniCredit was told last month by the EBA to raise 8 billion
euros in additional capital, the lender said.  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA , Italy’s third-largest bank, said it has a
capital shortfall of 3.3 billion euros. The shares have  dropped 
24 percent since Jan. 4, valuing the bank at 2.27 billion euros.
 Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA  said it needs 1.4 billion euros,
and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  requires 2.7 billion euros to comply with
the EBA’s target.  The credit rating of Italy, along with that of  France ,
 Germany  and a dozen other euro-zone countries, was put under
review for a possible downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 5.  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , which had a capital shortfall
of 15.4 billion euros, the largest under the latest round of EBA
stress tests, avoided tapping shareholders in part by exiting
profitable operations outside its home market. Santander said
yesterday it had plugged the capital gap by selling assets and
swapping preferred shares for stock.  Commerzbank Outlook  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, needs 5.3
billion euros in capital, the most among the six German lenders
deemed to have a deficit. The Frankfurt-based firm is fighting
to avoid a second taxpayer-funded rescue by lowering costs,
disposing of assets and retaining earnings. “Capital raising”
is listed as an option, according to slides published late
yesterday for a presentation that  Eric Strutz , the bank’s chief
financial officer, was scheduled to hold in  New York .  Monte Paschi said in December that the EBA’s target is
“not appropriate” for retail banks. The Siena, Italy-based
lender is considering measures including the conversion of
hybrid bonds to core capital and changes in its accounting
methods to meet the threshold. The firm is weighing the sale of
assets and securitization transactions for as much as 1.8
billion euros, La Stampa newspaper reported Jan. 3.  For some banks, selling stock is complicated by a lack of
funds among their biggest shareholders.  88 Foundations  “Monte Paschi cannot ask for money from existing
investors, because they haven’t got any,” said Fabrizio Spagna,
chairman of Axia Financial Research. “In such a situation, it
would be hard to find banks available to underwrite the offer.
If the situation of Italian banks should worsen, I expect and
hope that  Italy  intervenes to save the banks.”  Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which owns 48.4
percent of the bank, had to renegotiate an agreement with
creditors last month after the Monte Paschi shares it used as
collateral for the loan plunged in value.  Italy’s 88 regional foundations, which oversee 49 billion
euros of assets, half of which is invested in banks, have backed
banks’ capital-raising efforts over the past four years.  Italian lenders had called for more time to meet the mid-
2012 deadline for raising the money. The EBA capital measures
are inappropriate in their “method, merit and timing,”
Giovanni Sabatini, director general of Italy’s banking
association, said Dec. 6.  Book Value  Banks should look to the private, rather than the public,
sector to bolster reserves by cutting bonuses, retaining
earnings or issuing shares, the EBA said in a Dec. 9 statement.
Regulators won’t allow firms to cut lending to companies to meet
the 9 percent capital requirement, the agency said.  “Only the narrowest of actions” to run down loans and
other assets will be allowed, the EBA said.  Capital requirements  for banks are set as ratios of their
reserves compared with assets weighted according to their
riskiness. Regulators can make an exception if a bank is
transferring part of its loan book to another company, so that
overall lending to the real economy isn’t reduced, the EBA said.  UniCredit, which holds about 39 billion euros of Italian
sovereign debt, will need to convince investors that its current
valuation of 0.18 times tangible book value doesn’t reflect the
bank’s potential. The stock slide since Jan. 3 was caused by
“technical factors” and other issues not directly related to
the bank itself, UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told employees yesterday.  UBS AG analysts today upgraded their rating on UniCredit to
“buy,” citing the stock’s slide and the bank’s measures to
reduce the profitability gap with other lenders, according to a
note sent to clients today. UBS is among the group of banks that
have guaranteed the offer.  “With every quarter that the economy worsens, it reflects
on banks’ balance sheets,” said Joao Soares of Bain & Co., who
has advised Italian, Irish and Portuguese banks. “We’re in a
spiral. As things stand right now the situation is more likely
to deteriorate than improve. It would be very beneficial to
banks to get more time to raise capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  