-- Ban at U.S. Grand Canyon Pits Tourism Against Mining
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-11T22:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/uranium-ban-at-u-s-grand-canyon-pits-tourism-against-mining.html
(Corrects to remove reference to Skywalk in sixth
paragraph of story published Jan. 10)  An Obama administration  ban  on new
uranium mining near the Grand Canyon, the second most-visited
U.S. national park, has touched off a debate over jobs from
mining and tourism in a state that relies on both industries.  The ban “comes at the expense of hundreds of high-paying
jobs and approximately $10 billion worth of activity for the
 Arizona  economy,” Arizona Governor Janice K. Brewer, a
Republican, said in a statement.  U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , who signed the 20-year
ban yesterday at the National Geographic Society headquarters in
Washington, said it was part of an effort to safeguard the $3.5
billion spent by visitors to the national park each year.  “Tourism, leisure are very much a part of job creation of
the  United States ,” Salazar said. “The jobs associated to the
Grand Canyon are not jobs that can be exported anywhere, those
are truly American jobs.”  The ban will prevent new uranium and other hard-rock mining
on about 1 million acres near the Grand Canyon National Park,
which was visited by 4.5 million people in 2010, second to the
Great Smoky Mountains. Previously approved mining and new
projects on claims and sites with existing rights will be
allowed, potentially leading to development of as many as 11
uranium mines, according to a statement from the  Interior
Department .  Denison, Vane  Large stretches of very remote desert land, including an
area tourists pass through on their way to the popular North
Rim, were put off limits.  Denison Mines Corp. (DML) , Concentric Energy Corp. and  Vane
Minerals Plc (VML)  own uranium mines in Arizona, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Denison’s operations are in the Grand
Canyon area, about 200 miles north of Phoenix.  David Newton, chief executive officer of Vane Minerals,
said in an e-mailed statement that the news “is disappointing,
particularly given the strong local and regional support for
mining from various governmental offices, it was not
unexpected.”  The company has adjusted its business plan to focus on
copper exploration as well as gold and silver activities in
 Mexico .  Praise From Environmentalists  The U.S. ban drew praise from environmentalists, such as
the  Pew Environmental Group  that said the ban would help protect
drinking water for 25 million people. Mining companies still
have legal access to the majority of public lands in the western
U.S., including national parks and forests, Jane Danowitz, who
directs Pew Environment’s public-lands program, said in the
statement.  Sandy Bahr, director of the Grand Canyon Chapter of the
 Sierra Club , said “The Grand Canyon is an economic engine for
northern Arizona. Uranium mines are here today, gone tomorrow
but the pollution they leave behind is here for a very long
time.”  Representative Rob Bishop of Utah, chairman of the House
Natural Resources subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and
Public Lands, said the ban would keep the country dependent on
foreign sources for uranium.  ‘Overwhelmingly Detrimental’  “Banning access to the most uranium-rich land in the
United States will be overwhelmingly detrimental to both jobs in
Utah and Arizona and our nation’s domestic energy security,”
Bishop said in an e-mailed statement.  He was one of several Republicans who issued statements
criticizing the ban and the job-creation record of President
 Barack Obama .  Mining in northern Arizona poses no environmental threat
and would create thousands of jobs, Senator  Orrin Hatch , a  Utah 
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement.  Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain  and 10 other
senators introduced legislation in October to block the
Interior’s 20-year ban. The bill was assigned to the Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, headed by  Jeff Bingaman 
a New Mexico Democrat, and hasn’t been scheduled for a hearing.  In a press conference at the Arizona state Capitol in
Phoenix, Republican Representative Paul Gosar predicted the ban
would generate support for a companion bill in the House.  “By taking the action they did today, the administration
undermines U.S. energy independence and the economic well-being
of communities in my district and ultimately the nation for
generations,” Gosar said.  Mohave County, which encompasses part of the Grand Canyon,
will consider filing litigation to stop the ban with a coalition
of other local governments, Buster Johnson, the Republican
chairman of the Mohave County Board of Supervisors, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  