-- Urban Outfitters Falls Most in Three Years After CEO Resigns
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-01-11T21:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/urban-outfitters-says-senk-resigns-as-ceo.html
Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  fell the most
in three years after saying Glen Senk resigned as chief
executive officer and that co-founder Richard Hayne would take
over to try to reverse the retailer’s yearlong profit decline.  The shares  tumbled  19 percent to $23.93 at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since Dec. 11, 2008. The
Philadelphia-based company’s  stock  dropped 23 percent last year.  Senk, 55, resigned Jan. 9, Urban Outfitters said yesterday
in a statement after the markets closed. He will be the new CEO
of David Yurman Inc., the New York-based jeweler and watchmaker
said in a statement today.  The operator of Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free
People stores is turning to its co-founder after net income
declined for four straight quarters. Hayne, 64, helped start the
company in 1970 and has been chairman since it was incorporated
six years later, Urban Outfitters said.  “The news is shocking and disappointing,” Anna Andreeva,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in  New York , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Obviously, the company has been
somewhat challenged under his leadership in the last year, but
this challenges the recovery.”  Senk, who joined the company almost 18 years ago as
president of Anthropologie, said in November that the retailer’s
troubles stemmed from “a fashion issue, plain and simple.” The
style choices that missed consumers’ tastes were forcing the
retailer to cut prices to clear excess inventory, eating into
its profit margins.  Bad Publicity  Adding to the earnings woes was a spate of bad publicity,
triggering a backlash from many of its target shoppers in their
teens and 20s.  In May, jewelry designer Stevie Koerner accused Urban
Outfitters on her website of copying her “The World of Love
Series,” which featured U.S. states cast in silver with cut-
outs of hearts.  Users on Twitter, including singer  Miley Cyrus , accused
Urban of stealing and tried to start a boycott. Urban responded
on its website that it would continue to sell the jewelry,
saying that the idea of state-shaped necklaces wasn’t unique to
Koerner and that several sellers on the craft website Etsy sold
similar designs.  In June, the Navajo nation sent Urban a letter demanding
that the company pull the Navajo name from a line of purses, t-
shirts and underwear meant to evoke American Indian culture, and
a petition  on the website change.org asking the retailer to
remove the clothing gathered more than 16,000 signatures.  A search of the word “Navajo” on the retailer’s website
returns no items, and pieces previously in the collection are
now simply labeled as “printed.”  “The company is in good hands with Richard Hayne,”
Andreeva said. “But Glen Senk is seen as the driving force with
inventory management, so this news is disappointing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  