-- Rupert Murdoch’s Wedding Singer Sues News Corp. Over Phone Hacking
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-11T11:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/murdoch-wedding-singer-sues-news-corp-.html
The British pop star who sang at
 News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding in 1999, when she
was 13 years old, sued the company over claims its News of the
World tabloid later hacked into her voice mails to get stories.  The lawsuit by Charlotte Church and her parents, James and
Maria, was filed last month in  London  and made public this week.
She is suing News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit and its former
private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who was jailed for phone
hacking in 2007 and re-arrested last month in a new probe.  Church, 25, told a judge-led inquiry into press ethics in
November that another News Corp. tabloid, The Sun, may have
intercepted her messages to report her pregnancy in a 2007 news
article, before she’d told her friends and family. Police gave
Church proof Mulcaire and the News of the World targeted her
phone starting when she was 17 years old, she told the inquiry.  News Corp., based in  New York , closed the News of the World
in July to help contain public anger after it was revealed the
168-year-old tabloid hacked into the voice mails of a murdered
school girl in 2002. About 70 lawsuits have been filed by
celebrities, politicians, athletes and other public figures
whose phones were allegedly hacked by the tabloid.  “The only claim issued at the moment is in relation to
News of the World,” Church’s lawyer, Mike Brookes at Lee &
Thompson in London, said in an e-mail.  A group of six “test cases,” including a complaint by
actor Jude Law, is scheduled to go to trial next month, to help
calculate damage awards. Police have said about 800 people may
have had their messages hacked.  ‘Looked Upon Favorably’  At the inquiry, Church said she waived her 100,000-pound
($154,290) fee for singing at Murdoch’s wedding in New York,
because she was told she would “be looked upon favorably by Mr.
Murdoch’s papers.” The tabloids still targeted her, she said,
including the Sun’s website, which she said had a “countdown”
clock to her age of sexual consent.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for London-based News
International, which publishes the tabloids, declined to comment
on the new lawsuit. The company has denied Church was offered
favorable coverage for waiving the performance fee, or that the
Sun had a countdown clock to her 16th birthday.  Church believes a voice mail from her doctor may have been
intercepted when she was pregnant because no one else knew about
the development at the time other than her partner, she said at
the inquiry being overseen by Judge Brian Leveson. The inquiry
is separate from the lawsuits and three related police
investigations, which have yielded more than 20 arrests.  Church, a Welsh soprano, was a child prodigy when she sang
at the 2002 closing ceremony for the Salt Lake City Winter
Olympics, among other events. She was on a 2010 Sunday Times
Rich List of young music millionaires.  The case is Church v. NGN Ltd.,  High Court  of Justice
Queens Bench, Case No. HQ11D04687.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  