-- Vestjysk Bank Hits Two-Decade Low as Rescue Options Dwindle
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-10T16:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/vestjysk-bank-hits-two-decade-low-as-rescue-options-dwindle-3-.html
Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA)  dropped to the
lowest price in Copenhagen trading in at least two decades after
local media said Denmark’s biggest banks won’t contribute to a
rescue.  Shares in the lender, based in Lemvig, Denmark, fell 1
krone, or 6.1 percent, to 15.50 kroner in the Danish capital.
That’s the lowest since at least October 1989. The bank’s market
capitalization slipped to 194 million kroner ($33 million).  “I have difficulties seeing this being an independent bank
going forward,” said Lars Holm, a Copenhagen-based analyst at
Danske Markets. He has a “sell” recommendation on the stock.  The lender, which has issued about $1.38 billion of state-
backed bonds that expire by 2013, said Dec. 20 the Financial
Supervisory Authority ordered it to raise its writedowns by
about 550 million kroner, double the reported figure, to
accurately reflect impairments. Most of  Denmark ’s banks have
been frozen out of funding markets since the February failure of
Amagerbanken A/S triggered senior creditor losses. Two other
Danish lenders have collapsed since then.  Commitment  A conference call yesterday that included executives from
Danske Bank A/S, Nordea Bank AB’s Danish unit, Jyske Bank A/S
and Sydbank A/S, as well as representatives from the Danish
Bankers Association, ended with an agreement not to rescue
Vestjysk Bank, Borsen said today. The banks concluded Vestjysk
must either survive on its own, be taken over by the state bank
resolution agency, or become at least partially government-
owned, the newspaper reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  The call raises questions about the banking industry’s
commitment to solving Denmark’s banking crisis, Ole Sohn,
Denmark’s minister of business and growth,  said  in an interview
with Ritzau Finans.  Denmark passed its fourth bank rescue package last year
when the government agreed to take over the struggling parts of
a bank if the healthy operations were acquired by another
lender.  “The banking sector naturally will meet its obligations as
they were formulated in the agreement on a series of
consolidation initiatives,” Joergen Horwitz, the bankers
association’s director, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Strategic Options  Vestjysk is “not in a deep crisis” and will meet its
funding requirements by tapping a three-year lending facility
that the Danish central bank made available on Dec. 8, Frank Kristensen, the bank’s chief executive officer, said.  “We are not even close to going bankrupt or anything like
that,” Kristensen said in a phone interview today.  Vestjysk Bank is reviewing various strategic options and
had asked Bankers Association members to comment on one at
yesterday’s call, Kristensen said. He declined to specify what
the strategic option presented to the members was. He said it
wasn’t a takeover by another bank and that Vestjysk doesn’t have
concrete plans to exercise its option to convert hybrid capital
to shares, which would give the government an ownership stake.  Vestjysk Bank was seeking a guarantee from the banking
industry for a 500 million-krone share capital issuance,
broadcaster TV2 said today, without citing anyone.  Hybrid Core Capital  “I’m confident that Vestjysk Bank will exist as an
independent bank,” Kristensen said.  In a separate statement to the Copenhagen stock exchange,
the bank said it’s continuously monitoring its funding and
capital structures and its strategies, and will make changes
public if and when any are made.  Denmark’s government has lent 1.4 billion kroner in hybrid
core capital to Vestjysk Bank, according to the  website  of
Denmark’s bank wind-down agency the Financial Stability Company.  The government can opt to convert its hybrid capital in
Vestjysk to equity to avert another failure, bringing its stake
in the bank to more than 50 percent, Danske’s Holm said.  “After the government has a majority holding, the state
would try to sell it,” he said. “There are rivals who would no
doubt be interested in the good assets.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net  