-- BNY Mellon, Visa, Countrywide, Morgan Stanley in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-10T12:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/visa-us-bancorp-countrywide-j-j-morgan-stanley-in-court-news.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and
federal prosecutors are close to settling some claims in a
government lawsuit accusing the bank of overcharging customers
for foreign-exchange trading, according to a court filing.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan requested a one-
week extension for BNY Mellon to respond to the complaint
because the two sides “are presently close to reaching an
agreement that would resolve certain claims,” according to
letter filed yesterday with U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan.
The judge granted the request, according to the court docket.  Bharara sued New York-based BNY Mellon on Oct. 4, the same
day the bank was sued by  New York  Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman  for allegedly defrauding public pension funds of $2
billion over 10 years. Attorneys general in Virginia and Florida
and some California counties filed similar complaints.  The cases center on the pricing of small foreign-exchange
transactions handled automatically by the custody banks on
behalf of pension funds, a service known as standing
instruction. In some of the cases the banks have said they acted
as a principal, selling one currency for another in arms-length
transactions at a set price that customers were free to accept
or reject.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, didn’t return a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment on the government’s court
filing after regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. The Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
11-6969, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Park City Eatery Balks at Credit Card Fines in Rare Court Fight  Stephen and Cissy McComb say they managed their Italian
eatery in Park City, Utah, for more than two decades without
running afoul of security rules of  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
-- until they were accused of mishandling data and opening the
door to $1.26 million in fraud.  The McCombs, who opened  Cisero’s  in 1985, are now in a
legal fight with the bank that processed their credit charges
and, indirectly, with what they say are card networks that
change rules without notice, impose unfair one-sided contracts
and allow the taking of money from merchants’ accounts with no
proof of fault, Bloomberg News’s Thom Weidlich reports.  The couple sued, saying they didn’t break MasterCard and
Visa rules, that there was no security lapse and that no acts of
fraud were specifically claimed. The fraud was conjured from
unexplained and unsupported data, they said in court papers
filed in state court in Park City. Their suit may be the first
court challenge to penalties under the card networks’ security
procedures, said one of their lawyers, W. Stephen Cannon.  The McCombs are in litigation against  Elavon Inc. , an
Atlanta-based payment-processing company, and US Bank. Both are
units of  US Bancorp (USB) , Minnesota’s largest bank.  US Bancorp is a middleman in Cisero’s credit business, out
of sight of customers who may be aware only of Visa, MasterCard
and the banks that issue the cards.  As the so-called acquiring bank, US Bank provided Cisero’s
with access to payment networks and maintained an account from
which it paid the restaurant for credit-card purchases, the
McCombs said. Elavon processed the payments.  The McCombs  countersued  in August after US Bancorp  sued
them  for $82,692 in fines imposed by Visa and MasterCard.  Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for US Bancorp, said in an e-
mail that the bank denied any liability will fight the lawsuit.  Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Visa,
and James Issokson, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Their companies
aren’t defendants in the case.  The case is Elavon Inc. v. Cisero’s Inc., 100500480, Utah
Third Judicial District Court, Summit County (Park City).  For more, click here.  Wall Street Groups Seek Delay of CFTC Position Limits Rule  Two Wall Street groups asked a federal appeals court to
delay a U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule that
limits commodity speculation, saying the regulation is already
imposing “irreversible harms.”  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
an emergency request yesterday in  Washington  urging a three-
judge panel to put the rule on hold while the court considers
their legal challenge. The groups asked the court to issue a
ruling by Jan. 27.  “The rule will force market participants to forgo
efficient trading strategies, impair their ability to hedge
against risks, and potentially require them to restructure their
businesses,” the groups said in the filing. “These costs will
mount now absent a stay, and they would be impossible to recoup
if the rule is invalidated -- as it likely will be.”  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken last year’s Dodd-Frank law, filed
lawsuits challenging the rule in two federal courts in
Washington last month.  They argue that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-
Frank when it decided to impose the restrictions. The
associations also said the CFTC failed to properly weigh the
rule’s costs and benefits.  In yesterday’s filing with the U.S. Court of Appeals, the
groups argue that their challenge will likely succeed, noting
that a majority of commissioners concluded the rule was
unnecessary and would have rejected it “but for one
commissioner’s mistaken view that Congress required it.”  They said the rule will impose costs on the economy because
some companies may not invest in other companies as a way of
avoiding the aggregation requirements.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
the filing.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. CFTC, 11-01491, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Banks Blame Countrywide for U.K. Mortgage Losses in 97 Suits  Suninder Sandha bought his luxury apartment in  Coleorton
Hall , a 19th century country mansion near Leicester in central
England, using a 1.2 million-pound loan ($1.86 million) from
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in 2005.  When the property market collapsed two years later, Sandha
couldn’t make his mortgage payments and Barclays seized the
apartment, selling it for 500,000 pounds. The lender has now
sued  Countrywide Plc (CWD) , whose surveying unit valued it at the peak
of the boom, for its losses, according to court papers,
Bloomberg News’ Kit Chellel reports.  The suit is one of 38 filed last year in  London ’s High
Court against Countrywide, the nation’s largest residential
property broker, by lenders including Barclays,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and GMAC-RFC. That’s more claims than any of the four
largest U.K. banks faced in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As many as 97 lawsuits have been filed since 2007
against Countrywide, bought that year by private-equity firm
Apollo Management LP.  “These banks have incurred huge losses and they are
looking for someone to blame,” said Alexandra Anderson, a
partner at law firm Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP representing
surveyors including Countrywide. “Often the blame is
themselves, and the lending practices they had.”  Countrywide, now also owned by  Oaktree Capital Management
LLC (OAKTRZ)  and Alchemy Partners LLP, said in an e-mailed statement it
had seen a considerable increase in professional negligence
claims, particularly from now-defunct lenders.  “We will continue to defend our position when we believe
we have fulfilled our responsibilities,” Countrywide said. “If
an error is made, then we do seek to settle with claimants.”  The London company isn’t affiliated with Countrywide
Financial Corp., the Calabasas, California-based subprime lender
acquired by Bank of America Corp. in 2008.  Barclays spokeswoman Emma Austin declined to comment on its
lawsuit. U.K. telephone directories online didn’t list an
address for Sandha since he left Coleorton Hall and the lawsuit
didn’t provide details of where he is now. Apollo spokesman
 Charles Zehren  declined to comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Clean Water Act Tool Used by EPA Questioned at High Court  U.S. Supreme Court justices voiced concern that the
Environmental Protection Agency is overreaching in enforcing
federal statutes, signaling that they may blunt a favorite
agency enforcement tool.  Hearing arguments yesterday in a case involving an  Idaho 
couple seeking to build a new home, the justices suggested they
are likely to rule that people accused by federal regulators of
violating environmental laws have a right to immediately take
their case to a federal judge.  The case, which has with ramifications for energy companies
and manufacturers, may weaken the EPA’s so-called administrative
compliance orders. The agency issues as many as 3,000 such
orders each year to businesses and individuals, demanding an end
to alleged environmental violations and applying so much
pressure that those accused typically give in before the agency
has to justify the action before a judge.  The fight involves a 0.63-acre property near the banks of
Priest Lake in northern Idaho. In 2007 Chantell and Michael
Sackett had begun preparing the land to build a three-bedroom
home, when EPA officials ordered work to halt. The agency said
that the property was a wetland and that the Sacketts couldn’t
build without obtaining a permit under the Clean Water Act.  The EPA then ordered the Sacketts to restore the land by
removing piles of fill material and replanting the vegetation
they had cleared. The written order threatened the couple with
fines of as much as $32,500 a day.  The Sacketts contend they have a constitutional right to
seek judicial review of that administrative compliance order
right away. A federal appeals court said the couple had to wait
until regulators sought to enforce the order by asking a federal
court to impose a fine.  The Obama administration and the EPA argue that the couple
has ample avenues short of going to court for contesting the
order without risking fines. Among other options, the Sacketts
could apply for a permit, the government said.  Justices from across the ideological spectrum yesterday
questioned the adequacy of those options and the government’s
contention that Congress didn’t authorize judicial review of
administrative compliance orders.  The case is Sackett v. EPA, 10-1062, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For more, click here.  J&J (JNJ)  Opposes  Texas  in $1 Billion Risperdal Marketing Trial  Johnson & Johnson , which has lost judgments of almost $660
million over the marketing of its antipsychotic drug Risperdal,
began a trial yesterday in which Texas is seeking damages of
more than $1 billion.  State Attorney General Greg Abbott accused J&J of paying
officials to get Risperdal on approved drug lists, marketing it
for unapproved uses to children and the elderly, and lying about
its effects. The case in state court in Austin was filed by a
whistle-blower and joined by the state, which is seeking
repayment of Medicaid payments.  Texas is asking for reimbursement of $579 million, said Tom
Melsheimer, a lawyer for the whistle-blower. The amount could be
tripled by jurors under state law. In addition, jurors will
decide the number of violations and set a penalty of as much as
$10,000 apiece, if the state wins.  “It’s going to be massive,” said Patrick Burns of the
advocacy group  Taxpayers Against Fraud . “They’ll lose in Texas,
and then they’re going to face litigation from stockholders for
failing to settle this.”  The result may be a record false-claims verdict, Burns said
by phone from Washington.  A jury weighing only the claim that the company downplayed
the drug’s risks awarded Louisiana $257.7 million in 2010. A
judge in South Carolina last year ordered J&J to pay $327
million over Risperdal sold in the state.  J&J and its Janssen unit, which sold Risperdal, deny any
wrongdoing.  “We are committed to ethical business practices, and have
policies in place to ensure that our products are only promoted
for their FDA-approved indication,” Teresa Mueller, a J&J
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The  company  will fight the
allegations, she said.  Jury selection in Austin started yesterday. The trial is
scheduled to last about three weeks.  The case is State of Texas ex rel. Jones v. Janssen LP, D-
1GV-04-001288, District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  CVC Didn’t Know of F1 Payments to Gribkowsky, Court Told  CVC Capital Partner Ltd.’s managing partner told a Munich
court he wasn’t informed about payments made to former
Bayerische Landesbank Chief Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky over
the 2005 sale of Formula One racing.  Donald MacKenzie, who testified at Gribkowsky’s bribery
trial in Munich yesterday, said he and CVC only heard about the
issue when the German press reported it a year ago. MacKenzie
said Formula One Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone first
told him he didn’t know about the payments before explaining
them at a Feb. 2 meeting.  Prosecutors charged Gribkowsky, who managed Munich-based
BayernLB’s interest in Formula One, with accepting bribes,
breach of trust and tax evasion. They claim he received $44
million in bribes to facilitate the sale of the bank’s 47
percent stake in Formula One to CVC.  Gribkowsky demanded $50 million from Ecclestone as a reward
for consenting to the deal and threatened to disclose possible
tax violations by the Bambino family trust run by Ecclestone’s
wife at the time, prosecutors said. Gribkowsky denies the
charges.  MacKenzie testified he wasn’t informed about a separate
agreement under which Ecclestone would get $100 million. While
it may have been a breach of the Formula One sales agreement not
to disclose it, arrangements in which shareholders pay
executives an incentive are common, said MacKenzie.  “Had I known about it at the time, I would have understood
it,” he said. “We would have renegotiated the terms of the
deal, though, and that would have delayed it.”  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Potential Suits  MF Global U.K. Administrators Threaten Client Money Lawsuits  Administrators at  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) .’s U.K. unit said
they have threatened to sue large financial institutions who
were unwilling to release money they held for the failed
broker’s clients.  Some companies “have a number of positions across the
group and they are generally hesitant” to hand over
unsegregated funds worth a total of more than 1 billion pounds
($1.5 billion), Richard Heis, the lead administrator at KPMG
LLP, told MF Global clients and creditors at a meeting in London
yesterday.  While administrators had encountered few problems
persuading outside institutions to release segregated funds,
which are protected, unsegregated accounts were tied up because
of “legal arguments about potential set-off,” Heis said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
Citigroup Inc. and LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. were among the
depository institutions holding cash and assets for MF Global
customers, according to documents released by KPMG.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., based in New York, was the fifth-
largest financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31 after making losing bets on European
sovereign debt. KPMG was appointed to supervise the special
administration of the broker’s London unit.  Spokesmen for JP Morgan, Citigroup, LCH and BNY Mellon
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  New Suits  Corzine Sued by Montana Farmers Over Futures Account Money  Jon Corzine, former chief executive officer of collapsed
commodity brokerage  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , was sued for fraud
by Montana farmers who claim he oversaw the misappropriation of
their commodity trading account funds.  The lawsuit filed yesterday by three farmers and a cattle-
raising operation in Montana seeks to represent a nationwide
group of commodities futures customers whose money went missing
amid the $41 billion bankruptcy of MF Global, parent of the
futures brokerage that is being liquidated. A trustee is looking
for $1.2 billion or more in money missing from commodity
customers’ accounts.  Corzine, the former governor of  New Jersey , and other
executives at MF Global made “knowingly false statements” to
induce the plaintiffs to enter into contracts with the
brokerage, according to the complaint filed in federal court in
Missoula, Montana.  The executives failed to disclose to customers that their
money was used to finance MF Global’s bad bets on European
sovereign debt, the farmers said in the complaint.  The lawsuit also names  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , MF Global’s
clearing broker and custodian, as a defendant, alleging it
failed to detect suspicious activity at the brokerage and aided
and abetted in the fraud.  Corzine has said he doesn’t know where the missing money is
and didn’t authorize any misuse of customer funds that may have
occurred. Corzine is the defendant in at least nine lawsuits
before a federal judge in Manhattan that seek compensation for
losses from the company’s bankruptcy, according to court papers.  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the lawsuit. Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment about the complaint.  The case is Klinker v. JPMorgan Chase., 12-0005, U.S.
District Court, District of Montana (Missoula).  Olympus Sues President, 18 Other Executives Over Fraud  Olympus Corp. (7733)  said it is seeking damages from its
president, Shuichi Takayama, and 18 other current and former
 executives  over their roles in a $1.7 billion cover-up of
losses.  The Japanese camera maker’s auditors filed the claims at
the Tokyo District Court on Jan. 8, Olympus said in a statement
yesterday. The company’s shares surged as much as 28 percent on
investor optimism that it would keep its listing on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange that had been under threat because of the fraud.  Olympus managers involved in the scheme to hide investment
losses over more than a decade caused 86 billion yen ($1.1
billion) in damages to the company, according to the findings of
an independent panel released yesterday. Former President
Michael Woodford, who was fired after he challenged the  board  on
takeover and accounting practices, is also taking legal action
against the company over his dismissal.  “It’s all part of the natural fallout to be expected with
each party trying to stake their positions and to protect their
legal interests,” Eugene Tan, assistant professor of law at the
Singapore Management University, said yesterday following
Japanese media reports that the lawsuits had been filed. “We’ll
see suits and countersuits taking place in the next couple of
weeks, if not months.”  The company is seeking as much as 3.6 billion yen ($46.8
million) in damages from executives including ex-Chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, it said. Takayama, who took over after
Woodford, is being sued for as much as 500 million yen, the
company said in a statement yesterday.  Former company auditor, Hideo Yamada, and Hisashi Mori,
fired as executive director over his role, are being sued for
3.01 billion yen and 2.81 billion yen, respectively, it said.  Olympus spokesmen weren’t immediately available to comment,
and repeated attempts since the scandal broke to contact
officials involved, including visits to their homes, have
failed.  The company inflated fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaid in
purchasing three Japanese companies with the intention of
increasing goodwill, the independent panel investigating the
fraud said last month.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-CDR Financial Executives Plead Guilty in Fraud Case  Former CDR Financial Products Inc. Chief Financial Officer
Z. Stewart Wolmark and Vice President Evan Zarefsky pleaded
guilty in a multimillion dollar scheme to rig municipal bond
investments.  The pleas yesterday before U.S. District Judge  Victor
Marrero  in federal court in New York came a week before opening
arguments were scheduled to be heard in a trial over alleged
bid- and auction-rigging in the municipal bond market. CDR
founder and former chief executive officer David Rubin and his
Beverly Hills, California-based firm pleaded guilty on Dec. 30.  Wolmark, 56, admitted in court yesterday to manipulating
bids during his tenure at CDR from 1998 to November 2006.  “During that period I participated with others in an
agreement to allocate and rig bids,” he said. “I also
knowingly participated in an agreement with others to manipulate
the bids in return for inflated fees paid to CDR,” he said.  CDR was hired by public entities that issue municipal bonds
to act as their broker and conduct what were to be competitive
bidding process for contracts for the investment of municipal
bond proceeds, according to prosecutors. Instead, CDR employees
allegedly took kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments.  Wolmark and Zarefsky, 37, each pleaded guilty to two counts
of conspiracy and one count of wire fraud. They face as long as
35 years in prison on all counts, the judge said.  Zarefsky told Marrero that soon after he joined CDR in
April 2000, he became involved in the conspiracy.  “I knew that it was wrong but then later I subsequently
came to understand that it was unlawful,” Zarefsky said.  Sharis Pozen, Acting Assistant Attorney General in charge
of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division said, “Our
investigation into the municipal bond derivatives industry has
now led to guilty pleas by 12 financial executives and charges
against six others.”  In court, Michael G. McGovern, a lawyer for Wolmark, and
Daniel L. Zelenko, a lawyer for Zarefsky, told the judge they
disputed the length of the sentences their clients face as
calculated by the government.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, 09-cr-1058, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Trader David Slaine Helped Lead to Rajaratnam, U.S. Says  David Slaine, a former Galleon Group LLC employee who
pleaded guilty to criminal charges, was crucial to the
prosecution of Zvi Goffer’s insider-trading ring and helped lead
investigators to Raj Rajaratnam and Primary Global Research LLC,
U.S. prosecutors said.  Slaine wore a wire to record dozens of conversations with
Goffer and others, helping to spur what became the biggest probe
of insider trading at  hedge funds , prosecutors from the office
of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said yesterday in a
letter to U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan. Calling Slaine’s
cooperation “nothing short of extraordinary,” the government
asked for leniency when he’s sentenced.  “Evidence gathered by Slaine played a role in, among other
things, the successful prosecution of Raj Rajaratnam and his co-
conspirators, as well as the defendants in the Primary Global
Research case,” according to the letter. “His assistance was
the launching point for many successful and ongoing criminal
investigations of multiple insider trading networks.”  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified at the trial of Goffer, his
brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman that he cooperated
with federal agents for about 2 1/2 years to try to avoid
prison.  Slaine faces as long as 25 years in prison when he’s
sentenced.  A co-founder of Galleon Group, Rajaratnam reported to
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayer, Massachusetts, last month
to begin an 11-year prison sentence. He was convicted by a
federal jury in May of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities
fraud for trading on inside information.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Refco Lawyer Collins’s Conviction Thrown Out on Appeal  The conviction of Joseph Collins,  Refco Inc. (RFXCQ) ’s former
outside lawyer, was reversed by an appeals court that found the
trial judge improperly instructed a juror outside the presence
of his lawyers.  Collins, convicted in 2009 of aiding Refco’s former chief
executive officer Phillip Bennett and other executives defraud
investors of $2.4 billion, is entitled to a new trial, a three-
judge panel of the New York-based federal appeals court said in
a ruling yesterday.  Collins was convicted of five of 14 criminal counts against
him, including two counts of wire fraud, two counts of
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy. Jurors were unable
to reach a verdict on the other nine counts. During
deliberations in the case, jurors told the judge that there had
been threats of violence in the jury room, with one juror
threatening to cut off the finger of another one.  “We cannot say with fair assurance that the judgment was
not substantially swayed by the district court’s errors in this
case,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin wrote in an opinion
yesterday.  “After this long fight, we are very gratified by the Court
of Appeals’ decision,”  William Schwartz , a lawyer for Collins,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Collins, a former corporate lawyer with the Chicago firm
 Mayer Brown LLP (1120L) , was accused of helping Refco’s management
conceal transactions from lenders and investors that hid losses
incurred by the New York-based firm. He was sentenced to seven
years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-1170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Grossman Succeeds Barron as Chief Legal Officer  Morgan Stanley’s chief legal officer, Frank Barron, is
leaving this year and will be succeeded by Eric Grossman, who
was most recently global head of legal.  “To ensure a seamless transition, I have asked Frank to
remain ‘of counsel’ to the firm through mid-year,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer James Gorman said yesterday in an
internal memo to employees. “Frank will step down from the
Operating Committee but remain on the Management Committee until
his departure.” Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, confirmed the memo’s contents.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
hired Barron, 60, in July 2010 after Gary Lynch, then the firm’s
chief legal officer, said he planned to leave. Grossman, 44, had
been a candidate for Lynch’s job before Barron, a litigation
partner at  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP , joined the bank, a
person briefed on the matter said last year. Grossman joined
Morgan Stanley in 2006 and is a former partner at  Davis Polk &
Wardwell .  News Corp. (NWSA)  Hires Williams & Connolly’s Zweifach as Top Lawyer  News Corp., embroiled in a hacking scandal that saw it
shutter one of its U.K. newspapers in July, hired Gerson
Zweifach, a partner with law firm  Williams & Connolly  LLP, as
group general counsel.  Zweifach, 58, will be a senior executive vice president,
reporting to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert
Murdoch, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement.  “We are fortunate to have such a renowned attorney join
our company as we navigate the rapidly changing media
landscape,” Murdoch said in the statement.  Zweifach, who has worked at Washington-based Williams &
Connolly for almost 30 years managing antitrust and libel cases,
succeeds  Lawrence Jacobs , who left in June to pursue other
opportunities. Janet Nova, a board member of the News
International unit, who served as interim general counsel for
the past six months, will remain with the company.  As top legal officer, the new general counsel will probably
become point person for News Corp.’s handling of the phone-
hacking scandal which led to the closing of the company’s News
of the World tabloid in the U.K. and at least 21 arrests. Board
member Joel Klein, a former federal prosecutor, is overseeing
the company’s internal probe of its newspaper journalists’
actions.  Hong Kong  Law Firm Deacons Plans Independent Expansion in  China   Deacons, Hong Kong’s oldest law firm, plans to remain
independent as it prepares for the expansion of its three
offices in China when rules are changed to let overseas firms
advise on local laws.  “We want to replicate our Hong Kong capabilities on the
mainland when regulations permit,” Deacons Executive Partner
Jeremy Lam said in a Jan. 4 interview. Lam said he hopes Hong
Kong firms such as Deacons will be allowed to advise on Chinese
law within the next five years.  Deacons , founded in 1851 in what was then a British colony,
was the first non-Chinese law firm to be allowed a third
representative office on the mainland in 2005, eight years after
Hong Kong returned to Chinese rule. China has given law firms
from the city, which retains a separate legal system,
 preferential access  to the country.  While Deacons has been approached by U.S. law firms Lam
declined to identity, it isn’t discussing strategic alliances
with anyone and is pursuing a strategy of independence, he said.  That contrasts with other Hong Kong firms such as Johnson
Stokes & Master which has merged with Chicago-based Mayer Brown
LLP to form the Asian city’s largest law firm with 201 fee
earners, according to trade publication Asia Legal Business.  In other mergers, Arculli Fong & Ng combined with Beijing-
based King & Wood’s Hong Kong office in 2009, and that
partnership will merge with the Hong Kong office of Australia’s
Mallesons Stephen Jaques to have more than 130 lawyers.  Deacons, with 191 lawyers in Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Beijing
and Shanghai, ended alliances with San Francisco-based Graham &
James LLP in 2000 and with the 600-lawyer Australian firm
formerly known as Sly & Weigall in 2009.  The Hong Kong firm ended its remaining alliances with firms
in Taiwan, Malaysia and Thailand at the end of last year, Lam
said.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 