-- Wall Street Groups Seek Delay of CFTC Commodity Speculation Limits Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-10T00:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/wall-street-groups-seek-delay-of-cftc-commodity-speculation-limits-rule.html
Two Wall Street groups asked a
federal appeals court to delay a U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission rule that limits commodity speculation, saying the
regulation is already imposing “irreversible harms.”  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
an emergency request today in Washington urging a three-judge
panel to put the rule on hold while the court considers their
legal challenge. The groups asked the court to issue a ruling by
Jan. 27.  “The rule will force market participants to forgo
efficient trading strategies, impair their ability to hedge
against risks, and potentially require them to restructure their
businesses,” the groups said in the filing. “These costs will
mount now absent a stay, and they would be impossible to recoup
if the rule is invalidated -- as it likely will be.”  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken last year’s Dodd-Frank law, filed
lawsuits challenging the rule in two federal courts in
 Washington  last month.  ‘Flawed’ Analysis  They argue that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-
Frank when it decided to impose the restrictions. The
associations also said the CFTC failed to properly weigh the
rule’s costs and benefits.  In today’s filing with the  U.S. Court of Appeals , the
groups argue that their challenge will likely succeed, noting
that a majority of commissioners concluded the rule was
unnecessary and would have rejected it “but for one
commissioner’s mistaken view that Congress required it.”  They said the rule will impose costs on the economy because
some companies may not invest in other companies as a way of
avoiding the aggregation requirements.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
today’s filing.  The CFTC, on Jan. 4, asked the appeals court to dismiss the
challenge claiming it doesn’t have jurisdiction to consider the
lawsuit. The agency said that the district court must first
consider a challenge to the rule.  Banks, Asset Managers  In response to questions from the district court judge, the
groups said last month they didn’t oppose putting the district
court case on hold while the appeals court considers the
challenge.  The groups, in today’s filing, said the appeals court has
jurisdiction to consider the case.  The two associations represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other banks
and asset managers.  The rule is among the most controversial provisions of
Dodd-Frank, and spurred more than 13,000 public comments to the
CFTC from supporters including Delta Air Lines Inc. and
opponents such as  Barclays Capital . The agency voted 3-2 at an
Oct. 18 meeting to approve the final regulation, with
Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia , both Republicans, voting in
opposition.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. CFTC, 11-01491, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 