-- Washington Governor Gregoire Seeks Refiner Fee to Fix Roads, Run Ferries
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/washington-governor-seeks-fee-on-oil-refiners-to-fix-roads-1-.html
Washington (STOWA1)  Governor Christine Gregoire, whose state ranks sixth in U.S. oil-refining capacity,
wants to charge a fee on the industry to help maintain roads,
bridges and ferries over the next decade.  Gregoire, 64, proposed a charge of $1.50 a barrel to
provide funds for the $3.6 billion maintenance plan in her final
State-of-the-State speech yesterday in Olympia, the capital. She
said the work would create 5,500 jobs, urging lawmakers to pass
the plan and the proposed fee.  “Our  oil companies  are getting all the profit and leaving
us with the bill,” said Gregoire, a Democrat who isn’t seeking
re-election in November. “We can do better.”  Washington needs about $1.5 billion to close a deficit in
its current two-year budget and replenish reserves, Ralph
Thomas, a spokesman for the state financial management office,
said by e-mail. The governor also said lawmakers should ask
voters to pass a temporary  sales-tax increase  to 7 percent from
6.5 percent, which would raise an estimated $494 million. Oil
company representatives said a fee would likely push up prices.  The  state  Transportation Department will be short $3
billion to maintain and operate highways and ferries over the
next 10 years.  Washington  is among nine states that don’t tax
wages. Voters rejected adding such a levy on the wealthiest
residents in 2010.  Pain at Pumps  “Raising hidden taxes on the gasoline and diesel fuel that
the people of Washington state rely on is the wrong idea at the
wrong time, and will cause pain at the pump for everyone living
in and traveling through the state,” Charles T. Drevna,
president of the National Petrochemical & Refiners Association,
said yesterday in a statement.  “Raising energy taxes will make Washington state less
attractive to businesses and to tourists, and could threaten
jobs,” Drevna said, calling it “a sure-fire way to make times
even tougher.”  Gregoire’s fee would apply to barrels refined in the state
for transportation purposes and needs to pass the Legislature to
take effect, Karina Shagren, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail. The
taxable products include oil for fuel and for making asphalt
used on roads, she said.  Opposed in Past  “Wholesale taxes like this we have opposed in the past,
and I would imagine we would this as well,” Bill Kidd, a
director of government affairs for London-based  BP Plc (BP)  in
Washington state, said by telephone.  Jill Davis , a U.S. spokeswoman for The Hague-based  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (BP\) , and Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman for  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) 
in San Antonio, both referred questions to the Western States
Petroleum Association.  Gregoire’s proposal may affect gasoline, diesel and other
oil-products markets “up and down the supply chain” depending
on whether the tax applies directly to refineries or at the
pumps, said Tupper Hull, a spokesman for the refiners’ group in
Sacramento,  California .  “We don’t know how it will ultimately be administered, if
it’s ever approved,” said Hull, whose group represents
companies including  BP (BP/)  and Shell. “But there’s no question that
a tax on crude oil makes it more expensive to produce
transportation fuels for businesses and consumers.”  Rich Johnson, a spokesman for Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , often
used as a price benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, rose 1.75
cents to a premium of 5.5 cents against gasoline futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Washington has the second-highest state gasoline tax in
the country,” Hull said. “Washington consumers are already
paying a substantial tax to support the state’s transportation
infrastructure.”  Washington in 2011 trailed  Texas , Louisiana, California,
Illinois and Pennsylvania in oil-refining capacity, according to
U.S. Energy Information Administration figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 