-- Water Risk in Supply Chains Draws Investor Scrutiny
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-10T12:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/water-risk-in-supply-chains-draws-investor-scrutiny.html
     Jonas Kron is worried about water. The  investment adviser 
at Trillium Asset Management, a $900 million  fund manager  that
focuses on environmentally sustainable investment, fears the
world’s dwindling supply of fresh water is hurting the
companies he has invested in. For most of the year, Kron has
led a shareholder challenge to J. M. Smucker, the strawberry
jam maker that also owns Folgers coffee. Kron says the company
hasn't demonstrated it's prepared for the market changes that
are sure to come as climate change reduces the size of the
world’s coffee growing area. The conversation has been
difficult in part because corporate leaders still seem unaware
they need to factor water risk into their financial
projections, says Kron. "We're not talking about charity
here," says Kron. "These are investors seeking to have the
company address the risks in its supply chain."  Smucker’s says it’s hedging against potential increases
in raw material prices, but Mother Nature, Kron points
out, can defeat any hedge. “At a certain point, you need to
deal with the fundamental, underlying fact that these are
crops grown with soil, sunlight, and water, and you can’t
escape the laws of nature.”  Most companies act as if the water they have today will
be there tomorrow, says Brooke Barton, who runs water programs
at Ceres, an environmental group in  Boston  that worked with
Trillium and others to create an online checklist aimed at
helping investors and companies assess efforts to manage water
risk. With the world’s population expected to grow to 10
billion by the end of the century from 7 billion today, and
the need for fresh water increasing twice as fast as a larger
middle class emerges in the developing world, the competition
for scarce water resources is unprecedented. "Water is
something that should be keeping CEOs up at night," says
Barton.  Coca-Cola Inc. has been collecting data on water for
years, and its models can predict water stress in some basins
through the year 2095. Working with the World Resources
Institute, an environmental think tank in  Washington  its
helped (with partners including Bloomberg.com parent Bloomberg
LP) create an online tool called Aqueduct that lets companies
assess the water risk of placing a factory or a business in a
particular location. At its launch in October, the site showed
only a low-resolution map of water stress across the globe.
Early next year it expects to show comprehensive data from
four river basins:  China ’s Yellow River,  Australia 's
Murray-Darling; the Colorado in the U.S. and the Orange-Senqu
in Southern Africa.  "It's not just running out of the water you need to run
your plant," says Rob Kimball, Program Coordinator for WRI's
Aqueduct program. "It can show up in your supply chain - no
water for crops or for shipping your products or for the  power
plants  you rely on. If you're not ahead of this, you are going
to get surprised."  Local partners - farmers, local governments, neighbors
and other companies using the same water - need to understand
how water's used - and what the risks to it are, a lesson
Coca-Cola learned the hard way. In 2004, a Coke bottling plant
in  India ’s Kerala state was shut by local authorities for
using too much water. Wells into the local aquifer were
running dry, leaving farmers with nothing to irrigate their
crops. Coke was blamed for depleting the area’s water table
and local elders ordered the plant shut. Though Coke convinced
a court in a two-year trial that drought was to blame for the
dry wells, and Coke’s own water was actually drawn from a
different aquifer, the bottling plant is still shut. “We won
every court case to the supreme court, but that had no
influence,” says Joe Rozza, Coke’s director of water
sustainability.  Coke had been gathering data on water stress for
years, but the Kerala case prompted the company to rethink its
water strategy and factor in local farmers, towns, nearby
factories and local government leaders. "We lost the public
perception battle," says Coke spokeswoman Lisa Manley. Now the
company requires every one of its plants to assess its water
risk, share that information with the local community and
create a water protection plan.  As the Aqueduct maps come on line, Coke hopes its data
will help ease the global water crunch. “When companies look
at water resource management or community water partnerships
most of them relegate that to Corporate Social
Responsibility, more of window dressing,” says Rozza. “So when
a big brand says I am having a hard time making the business
case to my company to think about water, we can say we’ve done
it before and here’s how.”  Diageo, the maker of Johnny Walker whiskey and Guinness
stout says it's successfully reduced water use to battle
droughts, rapidly growing populations, and a growing demand
for fresh water to grow the hops and grain it buys from
farmers, brew, distill and cool its beers and liquors and make
and clean the bottles it fills. “No water, no beer,” says
Roberta Barbieri, the company’s Global Environmental Programs
Manager. Breweries in Kenya and  Ghana  have had to halt
production when water ran low. In  Scotland , water shortages
and rising pollution blocked the expansion of the
Cameronbridge distillery, named Scotland’s most polluting
industrial site in 2005 by the Scottish Environment Protection
Agency. A $100-million investment cut wastewater discharge by
30 percent, and used distilling byproducts to make biogas for
a steam boiler, instead of dumping them into the Firth of
Forth. “It was important for us to demonstrate to the
authorities that we were using water sustainably,” says
Michael Alexander, Diageo’s head of environmental policy.  The need to understand water risk is creating business
opportunities for consultants including auditing firm
Deloitte, which is developing an online platform with the
International Business Leaders Forum to help companies who
share a water basin work out joint solutions to water stress.
“We are essentially reinventing the water industry,” says Will
Sarni, head of Deloitte’s sustainability consulting practice  Trillium’s Kron is betting that more companies will
eventually realize they need to factor  climate change  and
water risk into their bottom line. Smuckers dismissed his call
to account for the risk to its sources of coffee, even as the
motion won support from owners of 30% of voting shares at this
year’s annual meeting. Kron notes that companies actively
dealing with  carbon emissions  are outperforming their peers.
“It will be real interesting to see if a similar relationship
will be observed between water management performance and
stock value. Come and talk to me in a year.”
 