-- WebMD Plunges After Ending Sales Talks; Chief Executive Gattinella Resigns
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-10T21:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/webmd-scraps-discussions-on-possible-sale-of-medical-information-company.html
WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD) , the Internet
provider of medical information, plunged the most in almost six
months after saying it ended discussions on a possible sale of
the company and the chief executive officer resigned.  WebMD dropped 29 percent to $26.25 at 4 p.m. New York time,
its biggest drop since July 18. Net income will be
“significantly lower” in 2012 as drugmakers buy fewer ads and
competition from social networking sites increases, the New
York-based company said in a statement today. Chief Financial
Officer Anthony Vuolo will serve as interim CEO.  WebMD was among companies  Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) . was interested in
owning as part of a tax-efficient asset swap with  Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) . and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , three people with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this month. The company was undergoing
due diligence by potential acquirers, which it didn’t name, when
it decided to break off talks, WebMD said in the statement.  “The uncertainty at WebMD has become chaos in our view,”
George I. Askew, a Washington-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., told clients in a note today. “We would not be buyers of
the shares of WebMD until the turmoil surrounding the company
subsides, and we believe that is several quarters away.”  Icahn’s Plans  Vuolo replaces Wayne Gattinella as CEO, WebMD said. In
November, billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who owned about 10
percent of shares, said he planned to urge Gattinella to
repurchase as much as $1 billion in shares. A call to Icahn’s
New York office wasn’t immediately returned.  Kate Hahn, a WebMD spokeswoman, declined to comment in a
telephone interview when asked to provide more details about
Gattinella’s departure or why the company ended discussions
about a sale.  Askew reiterated his “hold” rating on the shares, citing
WebMD’s “very bad” forecast for 2012 sales and earnings.
Before today, five  analysts  rated the stock a “buy” versus six
with holds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said it expects 2011 sales and profits to come
between the “low-end and midpoint” of projections it made on
Nov. 2. That  forecast  called for adjusted earnings of 25 cents
to 34 cents a share for the fourth quarter and sales of $147
million to $157 million. WebMD said today that revenue may fall
2 percent to 8 percent in 2012, with sales declining more in the
first half of the year and improving in the second half.  “Fundamentals could remain choppy for some time,” said
Mark May, a Barclays Capital analyst in  New York , in a note to
clients. “While an activist like Icahn could emerge, we
estimate the probability of this outcome is challenging. And the
recent unsuccessful sale process does not add confidence to the
company’s options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  