-- White Trash Trio Freed From Prison With Aid From Filmmakers: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/white-trash-trio-freed-from-prison-with-help-from-filmmakers-greg-evans.html
Eighteen years and 78 days -- that’s
how long the young men known as the West Memphis Three spent in
prison for crimes they almost certainly didn’t commit.  HBO ’s “ Paradise Lost 3: Purgatory ,” the latest and most
satisfying chapter in a remarkable trio of documentaries,
might be as close to justice as this case allows.  Fifteen years after filmmakers Joe Berlinger and Bruce
Sinofsky brought the case to national attention with the first
“Paradise Lost” film, “Purgatory” brings the saga to its
bittersweet resolution.  Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin and Jessie Misskelley were
released from prison last August through a perverse bit of legal
arcanum called an Alford plea -- their admission that prosecutors
probably had enough evidence to convict them even though they
still maintained their innocence. They were finally freed after
being resentenced to time served.  The first “Paradise Lost,” subtitled “The Child Murders at
Robin Hood Hills,” presented evidence (or, more accurately, the
prosecution’s lack thereof) that prompted a grassroots campaign
to free the defendants.  “We were poverty-stricken white trash,” Echols, the only one
originally sentenced to death, says in “Purgatory.” Without the
earlier films, he adds, the state “would have murdered me and
swept it under the rug.”  Stepfather Suspects  In 1993, three 8-year-old boys were found nude, hogtied and
bludgeoned to death in the woods of West Memphis,  Arkansas .
Police suspicion fell almost immediately on a trio of local
teenage misfits who wore black, listened to heavy metal and took
an adolescent interest in the occult.  Berlinger and Sinofsky revisited the case in
“Paradise Lost 2: Revelations,” which focused attention
(misguidedly, it turns out) on a victim’s stepfather.  That suspect, John Mark Byers, came across as an angry,
eccentric hillbilly who seemed a likelier villain than any of the
baby-faced convicts. Byers makes a vivid return in “Purgatory,”
only now he has joined celebrities such as  Johnny Depp , Eddie Vedder and Natalie Maines of the Dixie Chicks in advocating for
the trio’s exoneration.  “Purgatory” presents an unflattering portrait of another
victim’s stepfather, Terry Hobbs, whose history of violence and
deception raises more questions than it answers.  Neatly fashioned as a stand-alone film (you needn’t have
seen the first two to follow along), “Purgatory” has an appeal
beyond its true-crime roots. In footage from the early ‘90s, the
West Memphis Three profess a heartbreaking optimism, and look
almost as young as the boys they didn’t murder.  “Paradise Lost 3: Purgatory” airs Jan. 12 on HBO at 9 p.m.
 New York  time. Rating: ****  ‘Down Easy’  Television audiences who know Anna Deavere Smith from her
roles on “The West Wing” and “Nurse Jackie” can see another side
of her -- actually numerous sides -- in PBS’s “ Let Me Down Easy .”  Smith wowed theatergoers in the 1990s with her one-person
plays in which she performed, verbatim, dialogue from interviews
with participants in  Brooklyn ’s Crown Heights riots and the Los
Angeles violence sparked by the beating of Rodney King.  “Let Me Down Easy,” taped for PBS’s “Great Performances” in
 Washington  last February, tackles health care, illness and
mortality -- big, sprawling subjects that the play doesn’t quite
pull together.  The characters in “Let Me Down Easy,” all played by Smith,
include doctors, patients, a Buddhist monk, Smith’s aunt and more
than a few celebrities. If the cameras can’t disguise the play’s
disjointedness, they certainly capture Smith’s charm and razor-
sharp intelligence.  “Let Me Down Easy” airs Jan. 13 on PBS at 9 p.m. New York
time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 