-- Why CSR's Future Matters to Your Company
-- B y   S u s a n   M c P h e r s o n
-- 2012-01-10T17:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/why-csr-s-future-matters-to-your-company.html
     More and more, companies are building long-term
commitments to corporate social responsibility (CSR). In 2012
the rise in consumer activism and mobility, the Occupy
movement, 24-hour accountability (thanks to social media), and
global resource depletion will force every enterprise, large
and small, to make CSR a focal point. Four particular areas
stand out among many.  Employee Engagement: There will be a
continued growth in employee-engagement programs. If the
economy continues to falter, we will see more corporations
supporting NGOs and nonprofits via employee volunteer
programs, rather than just writing checks. A recent
sustainability study by Green Research found that 80% of major
corporations are planning to invest significantly in employee
engagement in 2012. According to Gallup, 86% of engaged
employees say they very often feel happy at work, compared to
11% of the disengaged. Additionally, companies with highest
levels of employee engagement saw increases in their bottom
line: On average they improved 19.2% in operating
income, while companies with lower levels declined 32.7%
(Towers Watson). Engaged organizations also grew profits as
much as three times faster than their competitors. The
Corporate Leadership Council reports that highly engaged
organizations have the potential to reduce staff turnover by
87% and improve performance by 20%.  Cause-Marketing: Cause-marketing programs will multiply.
These programs are
created when a for-profit and nonprofit partner to drive
revenues, exposure, and fundraising dollars to the
non-profit's cause. Why will these programs continue to appeal
to corporations this year? Cause-marketing provides businesses
with legitimacy, along with a partner that has issue
expertise. If done authentically, such programs can enhance a
firm's reputation in the eyes of stakeholders, leading to
public good, the viral sharing of information and potentially
increased revenues. Marketing experts agree. According to a
PRWeek/Barkely PR Cause Survey in 2010, two-thirds of brands
now engage in cause marketing, up from 58% in 2009. The same
survey found that 97% of marketing executives believe this to
be a valid business strategy.  The Skeptical Consumer: As social media platforms
continue to grow beyond their pre-teen years (Twitter was only
being used by 12-14 percent of the population in early
2011), consumers will demand more transparency from
corporations and nonprofits. My firm, Fenton, along with
GlobeScanconducted a survey this year, and one of the most
telling insights was the call for nonprofits and NGOs to
engage directly with their donors and stakeholders.
Additionally, smarter consumers now have online tools
(BrandKarma, GoodGuide, Positive Luxury, and
more) to help them interact directly with organizations, track
corporate practices, and share their demands in real-time with
marketers. Those companies and nonprofits that invest in
engaging with such consumers will reap benefits.  Board-Level Involvement: With regards to board oversight
in CSR, the informed investor evaluates risk, return potential
and financial performance while incorporating
environmental, social and governance into his/her analysis.
According to Fay Feeney, CEO of Risk for Good, "Boardrooms
will see CSR issues presented to them in many ways:
reputations risks, ESG proxy, political spending, hydraulic
fracturing, natural resource management, supply chain, board
diversity and more. Those boards that close the focus gap on
CSR will bring strategic insights to their CEOs."  In 2011, The National Association of Corporate Directors
(NACD) Public Company Governance Survey asked about the
highest priorities for the board. The highest priority at 72%
was strategic planning and oversight and amongst the lowest
was CSR at 2%. The data suggests that boards will be playing
catch up in 2012 on CSR as it is integrated into strategic
planning.  Also 2012 will see some CSR issues that became part of
the mainstream conversation in 2011 escalate in interest. For
example we'll see an increased focus on conflict minerals, as
global smart phone sales continue to grow exponentially and
the expected passing of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires
publicly-traded companies to disclose where their minerals
come from. Additionally, given the complexity of global supply
chains, we'll witness continued discussion around
the prevention of human trafficking and slavery intersection.
There will undoubtedly be further discussion, debate and
action on these controversial topics.  Twenty years ago, CSR was limited to corporate
philanthropy and for some businesses, the adherence to
environmental legislation. What we see today is a far more
complex picture and an ever-widening stakeholder universe. I
predict that within the next few years, CSR will be a
requirement for all organizations and will positively affect
their bottom lines. Good business will be the norm.  Susan McPherson is a Senior Vice President at Fenton and
regularly speaks and writes on corporate
responsibility, social entrepreneurship, international
development and social change. 