-- Will Republicans Cooperate With Obama Like It’s 1996?: Ron Klain
-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 2012-01-10T00:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/will-republicans-cooperate-with-obama-like-it-s-1996-ron-klain.html
Newt Gingrich ’s return to prominence
may not last, but it should stir memories of the last time he
was a major figure on the national scene. Indeed, revisiting the
events of 1996 allows us to imagine a different scenario for
this election year than most observers expect.  Back in 1995, as in 2011, powerful Republican leaders
(including Gingrich, then speaker of the House) faced a
Democratic president who had been weakened by a stinging midterm
defeat. They blocked the president’s initiatives, and tried to
use their power in Congress to bring him down. By the end of
1995, gridlock had reached a new high with the government
shutdown and the failure of budget talks between the White House
and Congress. Sound familiar?  Most experts expected things to get even worse in 1996.
Then, a few things happened to change that outcome.  Bill Clinton , the Democratic president, regained his footing,
sharpened his message for re-election and was buoyed by
improving economic news. Congress grew less popular as voters
became dissatisfied with the lack of progress and
obstructionism. There were mounting signs of another tidal wave
election, this one to sweep out the new Republican members who
had been seated in the previous election. As 1996 unfolded, the
party lost enthusiasm for its lackluster emerging nominee,  Bob Dole .  Surge of Legislation  The result: Gingrich and fellow Republican leaders in
Congress decided to work with Clinton to pass a raft of
important legislation. These included a balanced budget deal, an
extension of health-care coverage (the Kennedy-Kassebaum Act)
and sweeping welfare reform.  Congressional Republicans decided that working with the
Democratic White House to improve the standing of Congress with
the public was more important than continuing to obstruct the
president’s agenda as a way to ensure he served only one term.  Could the 2012 election year shape up the same way? Could
the most do-nothing, gridlocked Congress in memory change
direction, and could its members decide to save their own
political hides? Might congressional Republican leaders choose
to produce results by cooperating with President Barack Obama,
even if it undercuts the party’s front-runner for the
presidential nomination,  Mitt Romney ?  The odds of this happening this year are long. Yet, in
recent weeks, the first signs of a reversal have emerged.  The payroll-tax standoff that the president won before
Christmas was the first indication that such a dynamic could
take shape. Although Obama was applauded for his resolve and
persuasion, that achievement was equally evidence that the laws
of political gravity are finally taking hold: Congressional
Republicans cannot defy the public’s demands for action on the
economy indefinitely without suffering political costs.  The Republican lawmakers who were blocking the extension of
the  payroll-tax cut (FFSTEMPL)  -- in an extreme attempt to weaken Obama’s
re-election by foiling his initiatives to strengthen the economy
-- couldn’t withstand the damage to their own prospects. In the
end, they decided to do what was in their own political
interests -- and Obama’s -- rather than what benefited Romney.  In the weeks that have followed, there have been further
developments that could result in a turnaround in congressional
attitudes toward working with the president. Obama’s approval
rating has risen, strengthening his political hand, while the
public’s perception of Congress remains at an all-time low.  Better economic news -- such as the recent report of a
reduction in unemployment -- reinforces this dynamic.  Lukewarm Front-Runner  Finally, the growing sense that Romney will be the tepidly
accepted nominee by default -- much as Dole was in 1996 -- is
forcing Republicans to reconsider what price they are prepared
to pay to advance his political interests.  True, the partnership of Clinton, Gingrich and Senate
Majority Leader Trent Lott in 1996 had some features that are
absent now: most prominently, the peculiar role of a top
presidential adviser who provided counsel to both ends of
Pennsylvania Avenue (Dick Morris, who served as an important go-
between for Clinton and Lott); Gingrich’s ability to make his
rank-and-file accept bipartisan bargains, a skill the current
speaker,  John Boehner , doesn’t possess; and the lack of an
aggressive, far-right grass-roots movement like today’s  Tea
Party  that threatens Republicans who want to work with the
president.  In addition, the twin impacts of reapportionment and
redistricting (and the breakdown of Senate seats up for election
in 2012) mean that there are fewer Republicans at risk this year
from a “sweep-the-bums-out” wave than there were in 1996. That
may allow the party’s lawmakers to withstand more heat from the
public as they keep their presidential nominee afloat.  Even so, Obama has some assets that Clinton lacked in 1996.
First, the White House’s “We Can’t Wait” campaign has more
effectively made congressional obstruction a central election
issue than was the case in early 1996.  Second, Democrats have the majority in one of the two
legislative chambers. As a result, they don’t need Senate
Republican leaders to help achieve progress, they just need
seven nervous Republican senators to line up with Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  on a few crucial votes.  Third, congressional Republicans today have far less of a
personal investment in the Romney candidacy than they did in
that of their old friend and colleague, Dole, a Senate leader
from  Kansas .  The president’s recent rhetoric and actions -- the crisper
stump speech, the recess appointment of  Richard Cordray  to head
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau -- don’t endanger
bipartisan cooperation. In fact, they make progress more likely
because they show Republicans that the president can score
points without them, if need be. The Republicans’ political
dilemma grows more acute each time Obama wins a confrontation.  Second Thoughts  Certainly, hard-core Republicans in the House and those
with safe seats in the Senate are likely to block progress in
2012 and spend political capital to advance the Romney cause.
But the president’s higher standing, his sharper election-year
instincts, his communications strategy and signs of an improving
economy will give his congressional opponents second thoughts
about the slash-and-burn strategy they have followed for the
past three years.  Just as they caved to Obama on the payroll-tax extension to
save their own skins, they could find it useful to hand him wins
in 2012 on  energy policy , fiscal policy and job-creation
initiatives as a way of enhancing their own standing with angry
voters.  Think it can’t happen? Ask Gingrich.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 