-- Won Leads Advance in Asian Currencies, Driven by European Debt Optimism
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-10T08:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/won-leads-advance-in-asian-currencies-driven-by-european-debt-optimism.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by  South Korea ’s won and Taiwan’s dollar, as European leaders
stepped up efforts to tackle their debt crisis, bolstering
demand for emerging-market assets.  The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index (ADXY)  snapped a four-day
decline after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met yesterday to flesh out a blueprint
on budgetary discipline. Merkel said it may be ready by Jan. 30,
one month ahead of schedule. The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of
shares rose for a second day.  “Sentiment remains positive, which underpins Asian
currencies in general,” said  Nizam Idris , a currency strategist
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Singapore.  The won strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,156.69 per dollar in
Seoul, after losing 1.3 percent in the past three days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan ’s dollar gained
0.5 percent to NT$30.051 and Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.3
percent to 3.1435.  The won rose the most in almost three weeks after South
Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday foreign
central banks are showing growing appetite for the nation’s debt
and the government will work with them to limit volatility in
cross-border capital flows, Yonhap Infomax reported.  “Today’s gains in the won can be seen as a reaction to
declines in the past three days,” said Yun Se Min, a Seoul-
based currency dealer with Busan Bank. “The finance minister’s
comments yesterday increased awareness about government
intervention to stem currency volatility.”  ‘Positive Sentiment’  The ringgit strengthened by the most in a week even as a
government report showed today that  Malaysia ’s factory output
rose the least in four months in November. Taiwan’s dollar
rallied as traders shrugged off official data yesterday that
showed the island’s exports increased 0.6 percent in December
from a year earlier, the least since 2009.  “The export numbers were bad, but the positive sentiment
across Asian markets today overrode that,” said James Wang, a
fixed-income trader at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. “Market
moves are going to be limited before the presidential election”
on Jan. 14, he said.  China’s economy won’t have a hard landing this year, and
housing prices are unlikely to collapse, said Yu Yongding, a
former central bank adviser, at a forum in New York yesterday.
The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s fixing 0.1 percent
stronger at 6.3171 per dollar. The yuan was little changed at
6.3145.  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht advanced 0.1 percent to 31.73
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Philippine peso  gained 0.3 percent to 43.98, while Indonesia’s
rupiah fell 0.5 percent to 9,198.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  