-- Hybrids in U.S. Lose Appeal to Gas-Efficiency
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/hybrids-in-u-s-losing-appeal-as-vehicles-run-on-less-gas-cars.html
It’s a sign of the times when
Cadillac is staking its comeback on a compact car that boasts
fuel economy approaching 40 mpg.  Cadillac’s ATS sedan is one example of how carmakers at the
Detroit auto show are putting new emphasis on small, powerful
models with more fuel-efficient engines as  sport-utility
vehicles and even hybrids take a back seat.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
luxury brand brags that the ATS will run on a turbo-charged
four-cylinder engine that kicks out 270 horsepower while still
offering robust fuel economy. At the same time,  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
said it’s dropping plans for a hybrid version of its popular
Escape SUV.  While past auto shows have been stocked with gas-electric
hybrids and SUVs, slow hybrid sales have brought a dose of
reality to the industry. Carmakers are realizing they can give
buyers what they want and avoid the expense of electric motors
and batteries by shrinking cars and wringing better fuel economy
from traditional gasoline engines.  “The advantages of hybrids are getting harder to
justify,” said Scott Corwin, a vice president with consulting
firm Booz & Co. in  New York . “It’s the cost differential.
Consumers are rational and they understand the cost of
ownership.”  Hybrid sales slowed last year to 2.2 percent of U.S. auto
sales, from 2.4 percent in 2010, according to researcher LMC
Automotive.  Hybrid Challenge  The challenge with selling hybrids is that gasoline engines
have become more efficient and the cost of hybrids hasn’t come
down fast enough to justify the added expense for many buyers,
said  David Champion , senior director of the Auto Test Center at
the Yonkers, New York, magazine  Consumer Reports .  He pointed to  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Civic, which gets 32 mpg in
combined city and highway mileage, and the Civic hybrid, which
gets 44 mpg. The hybrid version of the car saves a consumer $322
in fuel a year, according to the Environmental Protection
Agency. Given the added sticker price, it would take more than
six years to get the money back on a similarly equipped car at
today’s fuel prices.  Mike Jackson , chief executive of  Fort Lauderdale , Florida
auto retail chain AutoNation Inc., said that 75 percent of
customers come into his showrooms and want to talk about
hybrids. Only about 2.5 percent of AutoNation sales are hybrids.  “What happens from the 75 percent consideration to the 2.5
percent commitment?” Jackson said in an interview. “They look
at the price premium for the technology, which is already
subsidized and discounted, and say ‘the payback period is too
long; not for me.’ It’s a back-of-the envelope conversation on
the part of the American consumer.”  Hybrid Premium  After 10 years of hybrids in the U.S. market and oil near
$100 a barrel, consumers still aren’t ready to pay the premium
for hybrid models, said Reid Bigland, president of Chrysler
Group LLC’s Dodge brand. Bigland yesterday introduced the Dodge
Dart, which won’t have a hybrid version when it begins
production in the second quarter.  “The delta you get in fuel-economy lift with a hybrid is
continuing to shrink because of the efficiencies with the
internal combustion engine” through direct engine,
turbochargers and advanced transmissions, Bigland said in an
interview. “The pure economics are a tough case.”  The  Chevrolet  Volt plug-in hybrid gets people into the
showroom, said Chris Perry, Chevrolet’s vice president of U.S.
marketing. With fewer than 8,000 sales last year, consumers
often went to a Chevy dealer to look at the Volt and bought
something else.  Half the Price  Often, buyers will look at the Volt and then opt for a
Cruze compact or Equinox SUV. The Cruze starts at $16,740 and
gets a combined 30 mpg or more depending on which version of the
car the consumer chooses. That’s about half the price of a Volt
even after a $7,500 federal tax credit.  “Some people come in and say, ‘The Volt is fantastic but
for my needs the Cruze is better,’” Perry said in an interview.  Carmakers are even trying to squeeze more out of their
expensive  sports cars . Mercedes-Benz is bragging about fuel
economy for its vaunted SL coupe.  On the eve of the Detroit auto show,  Daimler AG (DAI)  CEO Dieter Zetsche bragged that the new $119,000 coupe is lighter and more
fuel efficient that its predecessor.  “Saving weight means saving gallons,” Zetsche said.  The new 2013 SL is 22 percent more efficient that the car
it replaces, Zetsche said. With the 306 horsepower V-6 engine,
the car gets about 35 mpg, Mercedes said on its website.  Role of Hybrids  Hybrids will still be an important part of every
automaker’s strategy. Ford showed off two new hybrid versions of
its Fusion family sedan at the auto show today. At the same
time, the company said it would cancel plans for a hybrid
version of the Escape. Toyota’s new Prius C, meanwhile, costs
just $19,000 and gets 50 mpg.  The biggest opportunity for  fuel efficiency  remains with
the gasoline engine, not electric cars or hybrids, for the next
decade, said Xavier Mosquet, a senior partner at  Boston
Consulting Group  in  Detroit  who was one of the advisers to the
U.S. bailout of GM and Chrysler.  The battery in an electric car still adds $10,000 to the
price of a car at current technology costs and it will be
difficult to reduce that penalty in the near future, he said.  By contrast, improvements in an internal combustion engine
may improve fuel economy by 40 percent with costs of $2,000 to
$2,500 per model by 2020, according to a July 2011 Boston
Consulting study Mosquet helped write comparing costs and
benefits of gasoline engine improvements versus hybrid and
electric car technology.  EPA Mandate  Other changes such as weight reduction and better
aerodynamics may cut fuel use by 5 to 10 percent each for costs
ranging from $100 to $250 per car by 2020, Boston Consulting
said in the study.  The challenge for carmaker will be long-term fuel economy
goals. Environmental Protection Agency regulations mandate that
carmakers meet a fleet average of 54.5 mpg by 2025.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of  Fiat SpA (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC, said the skepticism over electric cars and
plug-in hybrids “is well justified.”  At the same time, he said, “if anyone thinks they will
meet future EPA rules solely with internal combustion engines,
they are smoking an illegal substance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  