-- Youngstown Opens Mills Again as States Jockey for Fracking Jobs
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-01-10T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-10/youngstown-opens-mills-again-as-states-jockey-for-fracking-jobs.html
Thirty-four years after Black
Monday, the day Youngstown Sheet & Tube announced shutdowns
marking the end of the Ohio city’s steel era, a $650 million
mill is coming to life thanks to the natural-gas drilling boom.  The factory for  Vallourec SA (VK) ’s V&M Star will have 350
workers and produce seamless pipes used in hydraulic fracturing,
also known as fracking. It’s part of a development that an oil
and gas industry study calculates will mean more than 200,000
jobs and $22 billion in economic output in Ohio by 2015 -- and
which has neighboring states looking to get in on the action.  The new mill is rising about two miles (3.2 kilometers)
from an injection well for disposing of wastewater from fracking
that has been closed after 11 earthquakes shook the Youngstown
area last year. States that sit atop shale formations are
cashing in on the drilling and the expanding businesses that
support it, even as the Ohio Department of Natural Resources
reviews the earthquake data and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency studies the effects of fracking on drinking
water with an eye on possible nationwide regulations.  “This will be the biggest thing to hit the state of Ohio
economically since maybe the plow,” Aubrey K. McClendon, chief
executive officer of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most active
U.S. oil and natural-gas driller, said during an energy summit
that Governor  John Kasich  convened in Columbus in September.  Shell Plans  Drillers have turned to fracking -- a process that injects
water, sand and chemicals into rock to free natural gas -- in
shale formations including the Marcellus and Utica below Ohio,
 New York , Pennsylvania,  Maryland , West  Virginia  and parts of
Kentucky and  Tennessee . A boom in production helped cut prices
32 percent last year.  While some shale-gas development is anchored to the
drilling sites, states are jockeying for spinoff investments
such as a “world-scale” natural-gas processing plant that
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said it plans to build in Ohio,
Pennsylvania or West Virginia.  All three states say they have offered incentives to Shell,
and Kasich flew to Houston in November to hand-deliver letters
of support for the project.  “States compete every day for every business they can
find,” Keith Burdette,  West Virginia ’s secretary of commerce,
said in a telephone interview from Charleston. “Suddenly,
there’s this vast new array of manufacturing opportunities that
may be returning to this region of the country, and I think
we’ll all be aggressively looking for every opportunity.”  Emulating Texas  Development of the shale-gas industry is one of
Pennsylvania’s top priorities, C. Alan Walker, secretary of
community and economic development, said in a Jan. 4 interview
in Harrisburg. Republican Governor Tom Corbett has said he wants
the state to be the “Texas of the natural-gas boom.”  Texas wants to be the Texas of the gas boom, too. Half of
the eight most active U.S. oil- and gas-drilling regions are in
the state, according to a December  presentation  by Pioneer
Natural Resources Inc., a Dallas-based exploration and
production company.  Oil and gas employment in the state increased by 18
percent to almost 238,000 during the year ended Oct. 31 and now
exceeds the peak of the last energy boom in October 2008,
according to the  Texas Petro Index , a survey compiled by
Amarillo economist Karr Ingham.  Bridge to Future  In Youngstown, which has lost more than half the 168,330
residents it had in 1950, V&M Star may help make the area the
Utica Shale’s supply-chain capital, said Eric Planey, a vice
president at the Youngstown/Warren Regional Chamber.  “I look at it as being a bridge from our past to our
future,” Planey, whose father worked at Youngstown Sheet & Tube
for 40 years, said in a Dec. 8 interview. “Our past was
exclusively steel. It looks like our future is going to be
significantly a part of the oil and gas and energy business.”  Even so, an  Ohio  State University analysis concluded last
month that the industry study, prepared for the Ohio Oil & Gas
Energy Education Program, “greatly overestimates” the economic
impact. Environmental groups, including the  Natural Resources
Defense Council , say that job-hungry states are moving too fast
to capitalize before fracking’s consequences are known.  Vanessa Pesec, president of the Network for Oil and Gas
Accountability and Protection in Northeast Ohio, pointed to the
earthquakes in the Youngstown area last year that she blames on
the disposal well, including a 4.0-magnitude temblor on New
Year’s Eve.  “This is a short-term boom with long-term negative
impacts,” Pesec said in a telephone interview.  Moratorium Urged  Yesterday, doctors at a conference on fracking in
Arlington, Virginia, said the U.S. should declare a moratorium
on the drilling process until the health effects are better
understood.  David Mustine, general manager for energy of JobsOhio, the
state’s development arm, said Ohio has strong regulations and he
doesn’t think the complications from fracking will slow
development. The state is benefiting from direct investment as
well as jobs and lower natural-gas prices, he said. Oklahoma
City-based Chesapeake alone has spent almost $2 billion in Ohio
to acquire drilling rights, said McClendon, its CEO.  The money that drillers such as Chesapeake are paying
landowners for leasing rights and royalties is buoying local
economies, said Brad Hillyer, a lawyer in Uhrichsville.
Landowners are being paid as much as $5,200 an acre plus
royalties as high as 20 percent of the money from gas produced
at a well, said Hillyer, who is negotiating leases.  No New Trucks  C.H. McCutcheon, general manager of Elder Ag & Turf
Equipment Co. in East Palestine, estimated in a telephone
interview that 25 percent of his business this year came from
sales of equipment costing as much as $100,000 or more and paid
for by lease payments that farmers received.  “If you take a look in western  Pennsylvania  and parts of
eastern Ohio, if you go to the implement dealership, there ain’t
no new tractors, red or green, and if you go to the local car
dealership, there ain’t no new trucks,” Dale Arnold, director
of Ohio Farm Bureau Federation’s energy services, said in an
interview from Columbus.  The development “could bring an economic resurgence really
to all of Ohio,” Kasich told reporters last month.  The impact is evident in Pennsylvania.  Collections of business taxes from oil and gas drilling in
that state from January through November last year increased to
$385.2 million, more than double the 2008 tally and a 64 percent
increase from 2010, according to the revenue department.  Employment Gains  Employment by businesses directly involved in Marcellus
shale  grew  114 percent in the first quarter of 2011 from the
same period in 2008, according to the Pennsylvania Center for
Workforce Information and Analysis. Wages in Marcellus
industries average $76,036, compared with the state average of
$46,222, according to the center.  Pennsylvania wants to attract manufacturing related to
drilling to “reindustrialize the state,” said Walker, the
economic development secretary, who is former president of
Bradford Energy Co.  The big prize is the so-called cracker plant that Shell
plans in Ohio, Pennsylvania or West Virginia. An announcement is
expected during the first quarter, Kelly op de Weegh, a company
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. The plant would
“crack,” or process ethane from natural gas to produce
ethylene, which is used in the chemical and plastics industries.  Andrew Carnegie  The company will invest as much as $4 billion, Walker said,
an amount he said equals what  Andrew Carnegie  put in U.S. Steel
in the early 1900s.  The project will require as many as 10,000 construction
jobs and “several hundred” full-time positions at the plant,
op de Weegh said in an e-mail. For every plant job, there would
be seven support workers, Walker said.  Walker, Ohio’s Mustine and West Virginia’s Burdette all
declined to discuss what incentives their states are offering.  The states also are competing in other ways. In a letter to
legislators in November urging them to consider shale bills,
Corbett cited Ohio’s “broad and sweeping law” that pre-empts
local ordinances and is being used as a “carrot” to draw
businesses.  Ohio officials point to predictability in rules “as they
continue to attempt to lure Pennsylvania jobs and investment
across our western border,” Corbett wrote.  “We are certainly mindful of what the other states are
doing,” said Patrick Henderson, Corbett’s energy executive.
“The governor is committed to being as competitive as we can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  