-- 
Hollywood Finishes Lackluster Summer With Lift From ‘Help’

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-06T22:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/-the-help-is-top-movie-for-3rd-week-as-summer-movie-season-ends.html
“The Help” topped the U.S. box
office for a third weekend, taking in $19.9 million for  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and DreamWorks Studios over the four-day Labor Day
holiday to close out a lackluster summer for Hollywood.  “The Debt,” an espionage thriller, opened in second place
with $12.9 million in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.
Weinstein Co.’s “Apollo 18,” also making its debut, was third
with $10.7 million.  “The Help,” a civil rights-era drama that rose to No. 1
in its second week, underscores Hollywood’s challenge in keeping
up with changes in audiences’ tastes. While studios bet heavily
on 3-D and superhero movies, total revenue for the summer season
grew less than 1 percent to $4.38 billion. “The Help” and
“Bridesmaids,” a screwball comedy also led by women, were
among the surprise winners.  “Given how much 3-D was out there, it should have made
more money,” said  Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo,
another industry tracker. “3-D has been a gimmick in the past,
and there’s no evidence to suggest it’s much more than a gimmick
now.”  The summer movie season produced record revenue, as higher
prices for three-dimensional films countered a drop in
attendance, Hollywood.com said. The growth hasn’t been enough to
lift year-to-date sales, which were down 4.1 percent to $7.46
billion. Attendance fell 1.4 percent for the summer season and
is down 5.1 percent year-to-date.  ‘Potter,’ Allen  Summer 2011 was marked by notable successes, as well as
duds. “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows -- Part 2,” from
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., is the top-grossing 2011 film
as of Sept. 5, with $1.31 billion in worldwide ticket sales
since its July 15 release, according to Box Office Mojo.  Director  Woody Allen  scored his highest-grossing film ever
with “Midnight in Paris,” which has collected $98.9 million
worldwide for  Sony Corp. (6758)  since its May 20 release.  Superheroes didn’t always fare as well with fans as they
did against villains.  “Thor,” from Walt Disney Co.’s Marvel division, led the
pack with $448.5 million in worldwide sales against a production
budget estimated at $150 million by Box Office Mojo.  “ Green Lantern ” from Warner Bros. managed $214 million in
worldwide sales compared with its $200 million production cost.  “The big bets of the summer were largely disappointing,”
Gray said.  ‘The Help’  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures , benefiting from
agreements to distribute films from Marvel and  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , leads the box office this year with domestic
revenue of $1.42 billion, according to Box Office Mojo. Warner
Bros. is second at $1.35 billion, led by “Harry Potter” and
“The Hangover II.”  This past weekend, “The Help” was first after debuting
four weeks ago in second place. The film about black maids in
the racially segregated South has collected $124.3 million since
its Aug. 10 release.  Second place’s “The Debt,” a Miramax movie distributed by
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Focus Features , tells the story of three Israeli
Mossad secret agents and their efforts in 1966 to track down a
Nazi war criminal. The film opens in 1997, as two of the now-
retired spies, played by  Helen Mirren  and  Tom Wilkinson , learn
shocking news about their third colleague. Sam Worthington is
also featured.  New Releases  “Apollo 18” uses what appears to be decades-old NASA
footage of a mission that never actually occurred to reveal why
the U.S. has stopped sending people to the moon. The last of the
real manned lunar missions was  Apollo 17 , which launched in
December 1972.  Relativity Media LLC’s “Shark Night 3D” opened in fifth
place with $10.1 million. In the movie, a weekend at a lake
house in the Louisiana Gulf turns into a nightmare as sharks in
fresh water set upon seven vacationers.  The movie cost about $28 million to make, according to
IMDB.com.  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” the prequel to the 1968
classic, fell to fourth from third, taking in $10.3 million in
receipts. The movie from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox
revives the franchise that began with the original film about a
world where apes dominate humans.  The film features  James Franco  and has taken in $162.6
million since it opened Aug. 5.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 5.6 percent to
$107.1 million over the four-day U.S. holiday from the year-
earlier period, Hollywood.com said.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
Sept. 2 through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 