-- 
A $31 Billion Loss Creates the Biggest Tea Party: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-09-04T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/a-31-billion-loss-creates-biggest-tea-party-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Few people in their right mind would
find any good in a $31 billion loss. In India’s case, it may
just be the best thing that has happened in a very long time.  Let’s flash forward 20 years to what school kids will learn
about recent events. Sure, they may hear about  Anna Hazare , the
anti-corruption activist whose hunger strike shamed a
government. More than anything, they may learn than Hazare was a
symbol of the national sense of disgust over an opaque phone-
license deal that squandered $31 billion.  While that’s a big figure anywhere, it’s appalling in a
nation in which 76 percent of its 1.2 billion people live on
less than $2 a day. As public anger soars, history will probably
record this loss as the proverbial last straw.  Walking the streets of India’s cities, I can’t help but
feel the biggest democracy is seeing its own Tea Party movement.
Only unlike America’s, which is fiscally conservative and
libertarian in nature,  India ’s is about the government doing
more -- ending the stifling bureaucracy and offering better
services. This could just be the Indian turning point for which
investors have waited.  “I think a genie has been let out in India that won’t get
back into the bottle,” said Jesse Lentchner, Hong Kong-based
Asia Pacific chief executive officer for BTIG LLC, a broker
dealer. “It all started in 1991, and what we’re seeing now
suggests reform is accelerating.”  Free-Market Reforms  Now is also an apt time to look back two decades. It was
then that  Manmohan Singh  brought free-market reforms to India as
finance minister. He scrapped red tape and removed the state-
enforced restraints on various industries, paving the way for
today’s 7.7 percent growth.  Yet as prime minister since 2004, he and his government
have dragged their feet on attacking the rampant corruption that
leads to too many Indians being mired in poverty. There is a
sense that his failure to use the rapid growth of the mid-2000s
to upgrade the economy was a huge missed opportunity.  Last year’s humiliating Commonwealth Games in  New Delhi 
should have ended the complacency. The international media were
aghast at shoddy construction, work delays, claims of tainted
swimming-pool water that some athletes say caused “Delhi
belly,” a dengue-fever outbreak and 100-roll packs of toilet
paper going for $80.  The phone-permit sale predates the Commonwealth Games,
though a steady diet of disclosures emerged in recent months. In
November, Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  resigned
amid allegations that a 2008 auction of phone licenses was
rigged and cost the state tens of billions of dollars. The
audacity of the alleged fraud, the dollar amount and the
government’s tepid response outraged the nation. With each
passing month of inaction by Singh and the president of his
Indian National Congress party,  Sonia Gandhi , public ire grew.  Fever Pitch  Things began reaching a fever pitch in June, when police
used teargas and batons to break up an anti-graft protest in New
Delhi and evict yoga guru  Swami Ramdev , who had joined the
movement. Hazare’s hunger strike got more attention, partly
because of the government’s ham-handed response.  Arresting Hazare was just plain nutty. So was Singh, once a
highly respected development economist, in attacking anti-graft
protests as a danger to India’s democracy. Singh showed that he
had missed the point completely. The whole reason for the public
anger is that India’s democracy is failing the masses.  The parallels between the Indian and U.S. Tea parties
reflect public anger at elites, rather than the substance of
their grievances. Most Indians don’t want the government out of
their lives -- they want it to do better by them. Indians are
less antagonistic toward public spending than their American
counterparts and instead demand that it benefit the broader
economy.  As in the U.S., India’s version of the  Tea Party  seemed to
come out of nowhere to alter the political landscape in sudden
and unpredictable ways. For too many years, politicians pooh-
poohed the need to clean up India. In 2010, the nation ranked 87
out of 178 countries in Transparency International’s Corruption
Perceptions Index, tied with Albania and Liberia.  Grass-Roots Anger  India needs change, and the grass-roots fury coursing
through New Delhi and Mumbai shouldn’t be downplayed. It’s real,
it’s raw and it’s set to explode anew if  politicians  renege on
their pledge to tackle graft. On Aug. 27, as both houses of
Parliament passed a resolution to do just that, one could sense
the electricity in the air.  “We’re seeing history in the making here,”  Adi Godrej ,
the billionaire chairman of Godrej Consumer Products Ltd., told
me in Mumbai. “Whatever happens from here, our economy will be
better off for it.” Added Krishnamurthi Venkataramanan, head of
engineering and constructions projects at Larsen & Toubro Ltd.
in Mumbai: “Indians have had enough, and these protests mean
the government can no longer ignore corruption.”  Observers are free to quibble with the details. Some worry
about creating a massive new bureaucracy that merely centralizes
corruption. Others claim it’s better to enforce graft laws
already on the books. There’s also concern that this is all
window dressing. Once the crowds disperse, nothing will change
in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  They are missing the point. Indians are fed up with how
prosperity is eluding so many of them. They are disheartened to
see China racing ahead while they walk past shantytowns and
child beggars every day. And now India’s brand of Tea Party
movement has had a taste of success. If you think this genie is
going back in the bottle, you’re dreaming.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Mumbai at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  