-- 
Al Pacino Goes Italian, Bonds With Oscar Wilde in Venice Movie

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/al-pacino-goes-italian-bonds-with-wilde-bono-as-film-premieres-in-venice.html
Al Pacino  sparked collective
hysteria last night at the  Venice Film Festival , as he picked up
a lifetime achievement award and screened his personal tribute
to  Oscar Wilde .  “Wilde Salome,” is a mixed bag: a documentary about the
author, a filming of Wilde’s play “Salome,” and a diary of
Pacino’s directing adventures. Pacino, a 71-year-old Italian-
American, cheerily pays visits to Wilde’s old haunts, and
interviews U2’s Bono, a Wilde enthusiast.  At his red-carpet premiere, the actor -- sporting a goatee,
a black suit, and an open-neck black shirt -- collected a trophy
and a watch as the 2011 winner of the  Jaeger-LeCoultre  Glory to
the Filmmaker Award (which  Sylvester Stallone  won in 2009). In a
brief speech, Pacino broke into what sounded only remotely like
Italian.  “What am I doing standing here speaking English?” said
the actor. “I’m an Italian, for God’s sake!” The audience
clapped and roared back, “grande Al!”  Confessing he’d forgotten his lines, he pulled a crumpled
piece of paper out of his pocket to describe his movie, then
gave up and said, “See what you think, OK?”  Hours earlier, before an assembly of reporters, Pacino
removed his blazer to reveal a white shirt so shiny it looked
like polyester. The moderator asked him to define “Wilde
Salome.”  Film Confusion  “I guess what I tried to do is create a story, but you’re
quite right, I don’t know what it is,” said the self-
deprecating star. “I’d like to say it’s a documentary and it’s
not a film, but it’s not a documentary either, so I’m confused
too.”  By examining the life of Wilde and linking it to “the
struggles we were having to put a play on,” Pacino said, he
hoped “it would be revealed by the end of the movie what I was
trying to say. Well, at least it would have been revealed to
me.”  Besides greeting one reporter with “buongiorno,” Pacino
showed a lack of fluency in his parents’ native tongue. He later
admitted to speaking only “double-talk Italian” -- even though
he felt “Italian inside,” and was known for gesturing too much
on movie sets.  Pacino was inspired to make the movie when he saw the play
“Salome” in  London . It resonated deeply, as did the life story
of Wilde.  Translucent Dress  The other catalyst was Jessica Chastain -- the actress
recently praised for her role in Terrence Malick’s “The Tree of
Life.” She is Pacino’s Salome, the Biblical temptress who
demands St. John the Baptist’s head on a plate. In the climactic
scene, the tall red-head shakes off her translucent red dress
and shimmies frenziedly, half-naked.  Chastain said “Salome” was her first movie, and said
Pacino taught her acting tricks that she applied in “Tree of
Life.” He was an unintrusive director, she said, and after a
year of read-throughs of her part in  New York  and  Los Angeles ,
“he shot it, like, in a week and a half!”  The film has plenty of talking heads, including Wilde’s
grandson; the playwright Tom Stoppard; and the writer Gore Vidal, who describes Wilde as “one of the early socialists,”
whose ideas were more feared than his homosexuality.  To Bono, Wilde draws “not just gay people: anyone who
feels their part in society is being marginalized.”  At the news conference, Pacino was asked what he would do
next. He joked that his future was “blank.”  “I always say that I’m going to be selective, but I never
am,” he said with a grin. His “resolution” with movie
proposals now, he said, was that “I’m going to do it only when
I feel it’s the thing to do for me.”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Farah Nayeri in  Venice  on 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 