-- 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers Hall of Fame End Lee Roy Selmon Dies After Stroke

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/tampa-bay-buccaneers-hall-of-fame-end-lee-roy-selmon-dies-after-stroke.html
Lee Roy Selmon, a Pro Bowl defensive
end and first member of the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  to be inducted
into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, died yesterday, two days
after suffering a stroke. He was 56.  “For all his accomplishments on and off the field, to us
Lee Roy was the rock of our family,” Selmon’s family said in a
statement. “This has been a sudden and shocking event and we
are devastated by this unexpected loss.”  Selmon entered the  National Football League  as the No. 1
overall pick of the expansion Buccaneers in the 1976 draft after
winning two national championships during an All-American career
at the University of  Oklahoma .  He became a cornerstone of the young franchise and was
voted the NFL’s Defensive Player of the Year in 1979, when he
had 11 sacks and helped the Buccaneers to their first winning
season and an appearance in conference championship game.  “This is an incredibly somber day for Buccaneer fans,
Sooner fans, and all football fans,” the Glazer family, which
owns the Buccaneers, said in a statement. “Lee Roy’s standing
as the first Buc in the Hall of Fame surely distinguished him,
but his stature off the field as the consummate gentleman put
him in another stratosphere. Put simply, he was first class.”  Selmon’s NFL career was cut short by a back injury that
forced him to miss the 1985 season. He was enshrined in the Hall
of Fame in 1995 after totaling  78 1/2 sacks  and making six Pro
Bowl appearances during his nine-year NFL career.  Defensive End  “Lee Roy exemplified the very qualities that earn an
individual a place in the Hall of Fame,” said Steve Perry,
President of the Canton, Ohio-based shrine. “He not only helped
define the Tampa Bay Buccaneers but established himself as one
of the best ever at the defensive end position.”  Selmon remained in  Florida  following his retirement,
opening a  chain of restaurants  in his name and serving as
athletic director at the  University of South Florida  for four
years. At South Florida, Selmon helped build the football
program and led the school’s move to Conference USA and then the
Big East Conference. Selmon, who started as an assistant
athletic director at South Florida in 1993, stepped down as the
school’s athletic director in 2004 for health reasons.  “We all loved him and we’re all deeply saddened,” USF
President Judy Genshaft said in a statement. “We’re a better
university because of Lee Roy Selmon. He was an incredible role
model, who cared about all of our student-athletes, no matter
what sport. He built an incredible legacy and he will never be
forgotten.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  