-- 
Samsung Puts Galaxy 10.1 Tablet on Hold as Apple Wins German Court Order

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-05T07:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/apple-wins-german-injunction-on-new-galaxy-tab.html
Samsung Electronics Co. lost a
chance to showcase its latest tablet computer at one of the
world’s largest electronics shows after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a second
injunction blocking Galaxy Tab sales in Germany.  Samsung, Apple’s closest rival in tablet computers, pulled
the just-unveiled Galaxy Tab 7.7 out of the  IFA  consumer-
electronics show in Berlin after a Dusseldorf court on Sept. 2
granted Apple’s request to ban sales and marketing of the
product,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said
by telephone yesterday.  Samsung and Apple, maker of the iPad, are involved in legal
disputes across three continents, as Apple -- also one of the
biggest customers for the South Korean company’s chips and
displays -- claims the Galaxy devices copied its iPhone and
iPad. Last month, the Dusseldorf Regional Court granted Apple a
temporary sales ban on the earlier Galaxy Tab 10.1 model in 26
of the 27 European Union member countries.  “Samsung respects the court’s decision,” Chung said
yesterday, adding that the company believes it “severely limits
consumer choice in  Germany .” Samsung will pursue all available
options, including legal action, to defend its intellectual
property rights, he said.  Chung couldn’t confirm if Samsung has received the court
order, while  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple,
couldn’t immediately comment on the ruling.  Samsung shares fell 4.9 percent, the most since Aug. 18, to
731,000 won at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul trading, extending
their drop this year to 23 percent. The benchmark Kospi index
declined 4.4 percent today.  Lost Sales  The Dusseldorf court’s August ruling, scaled back to only
Germany on jurisdictional grounds, could have cost the Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung sales of as many as half a million
units this year, according to an estimate by  Strategy Analytics .  Tablet computer sales could reach about 2.4 million units
in Germany this year, rising from 0.6 million in 2010, making it
 Europe ’s third-largest market after the U.K. and France,
according to  Neil Mawston , an analyst at the research company.  Samsung had planned to show the Galaxy Tab 7.7 along with
other mobile devices at this year’s IFA, which has become a
battleground for companies seeking to lure European consumers to
alternatives to the iPhone and the iPad.  iPad Rival  The South Korean company, which doesn’t disclose how many
tablets it has sold, aims to increase sales of tablet computers
more than fivefold this year from 2010, when the original Galaxy
Tab running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software went on sale.  Samsung had about a 16 percent share in the tablet market
in the first quarter, trailing the iPad’s 69 percent, according
to Strategy Analytics.  Legal disputes between the two technology companies began
after Apple charged Samsung with “slavishly” copying its
products in an April suit filed in the U.S. Samsung, which holds
the second-largest number of patents in the U.S., countersued in
Seoul,  Tokyo , Germany and California.  In  Australia , Samsung agreed to push back introduction of
the Galaxy Tab 10.1 until the end of September, the second delay
in a month.  A preliminary court ruling in the Netherlands last month
ordered Samsung to halt some sales of its smartphones after Oct.
13, without extending the ban to tablet computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  