-- 
Apple Employees Search Home for ‘Lost Item’ Joined by Police

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-04T23:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/apple-employees-with-police-along-search-home-for-lost-item-.html
Apple Inc. employees, accompanied by
San Francisco police, searched a city home, police said,
following reports that an employee at the technology company
lost an unreleased prototype iPhone.  Four San Francisco police officers went to the home in the
500 block of Anderson Street in the Ingleside district with
Apple employees after the company contacted the police for help
in finding “a lost item,” the police said in a statement
yesterday.  “The two Apple employees met with the resident and then
went into the house to look for the lost item,” the police
said. “The Apple employees did not find the lost item and left
the house.”  CNET  reported  on Aug. 31 that an Apple employee lost an
unreleased iPhone. The device was taken from a Mexican
restaurant and bar and may have been sold on Craigslist, a
website that offers online classified ads, for $200, CNET
reported. An Apple employee last year lost a prototype iPhone in
a bar.  San Francisco police said in their statement about the
search that Apple employees didn’t want to make an official
report. A police spokesman didn’t return phone calls seeking
comment.  No Company Comment  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined comment.  Apple plans to introduce another version of the iPhone soon
that boasts a stronger chip for processing data and a more
advanced camera, two people familiar with the product said in
June. The device will include the A5 processor, the more
powerful chip that Apple added to the iPad 2 tablet device
earlier this year, along with an 8-megapixel camera, up from the
5-megapixel model in the iPhone 4, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the details aren’t public.  A faster chip will enable speedier loading of programs and
help the device vie with handsets being introduced by rivals
such as Samsung Electronics Co. that are powered by Google
Inc.’s Android software.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s best-
selling product and turned the company into the world’s biggest
smartphone maker. After winning customers from Research In
Motion Ltd. and Nokia Oyj, Apple is sparring with Google for
leadership in the market for mobile-phone software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  