-- 
Happy Contingent Labor Day, Temp Workforce: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-09-04T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/happy-contingent-labor-day-temp-workforce-alice-schroeder.html
Where are the jobs? Of all the
questions coming out of the financial crisis, this is the big
one. In August, the  U.S. economy  added no new jobs for the first
time in 11 months.  Persistent low employment is part of a complex global
picture of supply and demand, but there’s one factor that should
be getting more attention: U.S. companies don’t want to hire
people.  Employees come with a host of costs and liabilities. When
there’s work, it makes more sense to find a way to get it done
without putting someone on the payroll.  A loyal, experienced workforce is an important asset for a
company to sacrifice. Yet many people who would prefer to be
employed full time at permanent jobs will be working on a
contingent basis, taking temporary jobs and working as
independent contractors, as the economy slowly recovers.  This trend is now so widespread that the pattern is likely
to become permanent. You can see it in the numbers. Every time
the U.S. economy emerges from a recession, a leading indicator
is an upturn in the temporary jobs market. According to Staffing
Industry Analysts, which follows the business of temporary
employment, in the first quarter of 2011 the staffing industry
grew an impressive 19 percent. By some broadly defined measures,
contingent workers already represent 25 percent of the workforce
-- a figure that’s steadily rising.  Enormous Gulf  Over the long term, that’s not necessarily bad. Younger
people are more mobile and don’t want to be shackled to one
employer by their benefit packages. Older people would rather
have some opportunity to work than none at all. Contingent work
has the potential to partially bridge the enormous gulf between
the secure work and high benefits that former generations
enjoyed, and today’s scant supply of either one.  What is an employee? There is no single definition either
in applicable laws or common understanding, but let’s describe
it as somebody who has a full-time job that includes at least
the minimal benefits of workers’ compensation and unemployment
insurance. Even at the tiniest companies, full-time workers
usually have these robust, statutorily mandated forms of
insurance. They come with onerous record-keeping requirements
that are extremely expensive for employers to administer in
addition to the cost of the benefits themselves.  Tax Avoidance   Employers work hard to minimize these costs. States are
vigorously enforcing laws to prevent SUTA dumping (State
Unemployment Tax Avoidance), in which companies move employees
among subsidiaries to game the numbers that drive their
unemployment tax rates. An easier way to minimize unemployment
insurance costs is to not hire permanent employees in the first
place -- one significant reason for the growth of the contingent
workforce.  Another cost of having permanent employees is the liability
associated with anti-discrimination laws. This includes the
expense of administering legal compliance, training employees
and insuring against the inevitable lawsuits. Turning to
contingent workers relieves this burden because these workers
sign up to be fired the day they’re hired.  The package of other benefits that companies provide also
deters them from adding employees. Health insurance is a huge
cost. Retirement plans are another. Companies have been
unburdening themselves from their pension contributions, but
even if a plan is 100 percent employee-funded, it’s expensive to
administer.  Hiring, Firing  Other, smaller expenses add up: matching plans for
charitable gifts, diversity programs, meetings to decide whether
to have casual Fridays. Companies will not get rid of these
costs, but can make the most efficient use of resources through
contingent labor. In this model, human resource departments
manage labor procurement from a network of sources, considering
all costs, including the most basic.  Hiring, firing and rehiring is the most fundamental cost of
having employees: From interviews, background checks, drug
tests, benefits processing and training on the way in, to the
cost of reversing all that on the way out. If someone is hired
to replace the departing employee, the process begins again. You
can see how much easier it is to save the money by hiring an
independent contractor or a worker from a staffing agency.  The aging of the U.S. workforce interacts with the cost of
hiring and benefits in a way that hurts full-time employment.
Older workers cost a company disproportionately in benefits, and
companies can’t discriminate against them in firing, which makes
them reluctant to hire. Contingency work is going to be a
solution for many people. It is flexible for the worker even
though it provides less security, and is growing more common,
and better respected, in professional fields like law,
accounting and finance.  Pressure Won’t Abate  The pressure on companies to move further in this direction
is unlikely to abate in a muted economic recovery. A business
that has $1 billion of revenue and 100 permanent employees will
always be judged more favorably by  Wall Street  than an identical
business with 500 permanent employees. Companies are rewarded
for financial flexibility, which means constantly shifting their
cost structure toward variable rather than fixed costs. It is
only a matter of time before chief executive officers begin
bragging about how much their contingent workforce contributes
to  shareholder value  and productivity.  ( Alice Schroeder , the author of “The Snowball:  Warren
Buffett  and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on Wall Street, is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 