-- 
Aussie, Kiwi Drop Most in Week as Merkel’s Loss Spurs Europe Debt Concerns

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-09-05T07:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/aussie-new-zealand-dollars-decline-on-merkel-loss-tightening-bank-credit.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
currencies dropped to the lowest level in a week against the
dollar and the yen amid concerns Europe’s debt crisis is
damaging public support for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party and making it harder for banks to borrow among themselves.  Both currencies sank before reports that economists said
will signal slower growth in the 17-nation euro area. The so-
called kiwi depreciated against all but one of its major peers
as Asian stocks dropped and New Zealand’s Treasury said weaker
than anticipated global growth may weigh on exports and
commodities. The Australian dollar fell before tomorrow’s
central bank meeting at which policy makers are forecast to
leave  interest rates  unchanged.  “Merkel’s election loss undermines the whole euro-zone and
has put the euro under pressure and there’s also talk of more
bank funding problems in  Europe ,” said  Tim Kelleher , the
Auckland-based head of institutional foreign-exchange sales at
ASB Institutional, a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .
“The Aussie and kiwi will come off, but should find buyers on
dips.”  Australia’s dollar fell to $1.0568 as of 5 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0645 in  New York  on Sept. 2, after reaching $1.0563, the
lowest level since Aug. 29. It also dropped to a weekly low of
81.08 yen from 81.75 yesterday, before trading at 81.13.  New Zealand’s dollar touched its lowest level since Aug.
29, falling as low as 83.97 U.S. cents and 64.46 yen. It later
traded at 84.09 cents from 84.81 cents last week, and 64.56 yen
from 64.14.  Merkel’s Loss  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  suffered its fifth
election loss this year after she failed to sway voters in her
home state with a campaign based on her handling of Europe’s
debt crisis. The  Social Democrats , the main opposition party
nationally, took 36.1 percent to win yesterday’s vote in
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, ZDF television projected.  Banks are seeking to retain their liquidity, making
interbank lending more difficult, as funding from money and
capital markets becomes harder to obtain, ABN Amro Group NV
Chief Executive Officer Gerrit Zalm said yesterday on the Dutch
television program “Buitenhof.” Banks are reluctant to lend to
competitors with “big positions in weaker countries’ debt, for
instance,” he said.  Slowing Growth  European services and manufacturing growth fell to 50.9
last month, the slowest pace in almost two years, according to
economists polled by Bloomberg News before Markit Economics
releases final August figures for its euro-area purchasing
managers index. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2.6 percent and Standard &
Poor’s 500 futures signaled the U.S. stocks gauge may also
extend its losses.  The  New Zealand dollar  declined for a third day after the
Treasury said economic growth forecasts for the country’s
trading partners are lower than assumed in May’s budget and they
are likely to be reduced further before an economic update is
published prior to the November election.  “This weaker international outlook will be taken into
account in our forecasts of the New Zealand economy,” the
Treasury said in a report on its website. “To some degree it
may be offset by the stronger domestic economy, but some impact
on export volumes and commodity prices can be expected.”  RBA Rates  The Australian dollar’s decline was limited as all 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that the  Reserve Bank 
of  Australia  will keep interest rates unchanged at its policy
meeting tomorrow.  A Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps trading shows
a 22 percent chance the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will cut its
benchmark rate by 25 basis points tomorrow, compared with a 100
percent probability that was indicated on Aug. 19.  “There’s a very small probability that they’ll cut and as
that becomes clear, we’ll see sentiment strengthen towards the
Aussie dollar,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at
ICAP Australia Ltd.  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Increased Profits  Demand for the Aussie was bolstered after government data
showed gross operating profits increased 6.7 percent in the
three months ended June from the first-quarter, above the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a 2.9 percent increase.  TD Securities Inc. said the profit data suggests an
“upside risk” to Australian growth which will be reported on
Sept. 7. “A solid GDP outcome should put a solid floor under
the Australian dollar,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities, wrote in a research note today.  TD Securities and the Melbourne Institute released a
separate report today which showed a gauge of Australian
consumer prices declined in August for the first time since
October 2009. Prices slid 0.1 percent last month after a 0.3
percent increase in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  