-- 
Australia’s Swan Says ‘No Doubt’ About Industries Facing Economic Pressure

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-04T03:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/australia-s-swan-says-no-doubt-about-industries-facing-economic-pressure.html
Australia's economy, particularly
industries such as manufacturing and retailing, is under
pressure as households restrict spending and the high currency
curbs returns from exports, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “There’s no doubt there are pressures in our economy,”
Swan said today in his weekly economic note. “Many industries
like manufacturing and retailing are doing it tough as they
battle with cautious household spending and a high Australian
dollar.”  Swan is waiting for second-quarter gross domestic product
figures on Sept. 7 to show the economy resumed its expansion
after a 1.2 percent contraction in the first three months of the
year as flooded coal mines, railways and farmland hurt exports.
GDP probably grew 1 percent, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  “It’s taken longer than expected to get coal production
back up and running, but we have seen a recovery in exports in
recent months,” Swan said.  Reports last week showed retail sales advanced for the
first time in three months in July and mining projects boosted
second-quarter business investment.  Australia’s dollar has gained 17 percent against the U.S,
currency the past year, which is hampering exports outside the
resources industry where demand from  China  and other Asian
nations has bolstered prices.  Swan’s comments echo the  Reserve Bank  of Australia which
said Aug. 5 in industries other than mining and related sectors
“the high  exchange rate  and subdued levels of retail spending
mean that the trading environment is likely to remain
difficult.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep the cash target unchanged
at 4.75 percent on Sept. 6 according to all 25 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe   ptighe@bloomberg.net  