-- 
Australian Labor Lawmakers Back Gillard

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-04T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/australian-labor-lawmakers-support-gillard-continuing-as-prime-minister.html
Australian Labor lawmakers rallied
in support of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who faces a new
opinion poll before parliament resumes next week, after reports
some senior party figures want her to resign.  “Julia Gillard is tough as nails and she’s going to lead
the  Labor Party  for a long period of time,” Deputy Prime
Minister and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told reporters at the weekend.  Gillard will welcome the backing of senior colleagues ahead
of the publication of the latest bi-weekly Newspoll survey due
this week and before party lawmakers gather in Canberra for the
resumption of parliament on Sept. 12. Reports her leadership is
in jeopardy surfaced after the  High Court  last week rejected her
government’s agreement with  Malaysia  on dealing with refugees.  The prime minister’s popularity in Newspoll surveys has
fallen 19 percentage points since she started her job in August
2010 as she moved to introduce a tax on  carbon emissions .
Gillard has also had to defend Labor lawmaker Craig Thomson, who
faces allegations he used a union credit card before he entered
parliament to pay for prostitutes.  “Julia Gillard is very firmly the leader of the Labor
Party and will continue to be, and she has the firm support of
the caucus,” Immigration Minister Chris Bowen said yesterday on
the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Insiders” program. Every
prime minister has “periods of unpopularity” but “that
doesn’t mean she won’t be leading the party to the next
election,” he said.  Lawmakers are considering a plan in which Foreign Minister
 Kevin Rudd , whom Gillard replaced in a late-night party coup in
June 2010, would become leader and Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  would become treasurer, News Ltd. newspapers said, without
identifying which party leaders were urging her to quit. Rudd is
currently recovering from heart surgery.  Next Election  “I will be leading the Labor Party till the next
election,” Gillard, the country’s first female prime minister,
told reporters in Canberra yesterday after a meeting with United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in Canberra. The next
general election is due in 2013.  Gillard this week is also scheduled to meet with European
Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and will also attend
the Pacific Islands Forum in Auckland,  New Zealand .  Labor’s support fell two points to a record low 27 percent
last month, according to a Newspoll survey of 1,147 people
published in the Australian newspaper on Aug. 23. The opposition
Liberal-National coalition attracted 47 percent support, on a
primary vote basis. Gillard’s own approval ratings dropped to 29
percent, according to the survey.  Record Low  Labor officials are bracing for the party’s primary vote to
fall to about 25 percent in the next opinion poll, the
Australian newspaper reported without citing anyone. More than
35,500 respondents in a Sun-Herald online poll at the weekend
want Gillard to go, compared with 3,317 who say she should stay,
the newspaper reported.  “Everybody I speak to is fully supportive of the Prime
Minister,” Minister for School Education Peter Garrett told  Sky
News  yesterday. Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten , named in the
Sydney Morning Herald newspaper as a leadership contender, has
said that Gillard had his support.  Gillard, 49, won the leadership after the party dumped Rudd
because of poor poll ratings amid a battle with miners like BHP
Billiton Ltd. over his plans for a 40 percent tax on resource
profits and after he reneged on establishing a plan to control
carbon emissions.  The former labor lawyer Gillard scaled back the mining tax
and, less than a month after winning the leadership, called a
general election. The August 2010 poll was the closest in 70
years, leading to Gillard negotiating a power-sharing
arrangement with four non-party lawmakers to form a government.  Labor, criticized over its suspension in June of live
cattle exports to  Indonesia , is struggling to garner support for
its proposed carbon tax, a A$36 billion ($39 billion) national
high-speed wireless network and a mining levy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  