-- 
Befriend White Knights to Thwart Australian Hostile Offers, Greenhill Says

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-09-04T21:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/australia-firms-should-find-white-knights-early-greenhill-s-mordant-says.html
Companies in  Australia , where
unsolicited takeover bids are at record levels, should prepare
for hostile approaches by befriending possible white knights
years in advance, Greenhill Caliburn said.  “You need to understand who the potential counter-bidders
are and who you should be making friends with,” Greenhill
Caliburn Co-Chief Executive Officer Simon Mordant said in an
interview in Sydney. “You can’t start to make friends the day
you receive an approach -- that takes months and years.”  Australian companies received $23 billion of hostile or
unsolicited takeover proposals so far in 2011, more than in any
full year since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 1999.
Fosters Group Ltd., advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Gresham Advisory Partners Ltd., on Aug. 23 said it planned to
return A$500 million to shareholders and review assets as it
sought to repel a A$9.5 billion ($10.2 billion) approach by
rival brewer  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   Once an offer is made, it’s already too late for management
to start meeting shareholders or articulate plans for growth,
Mordant said. “If you receive an approach and you start to talk
about strategy for the first time, you have very little
credibility,” he said.  Mordant, 51, and his partners last year agreed to sell
Sydney-based Caliburn Partnership Pty, created in 1999, to
 Greenhill & Co. , the New York-based firm founded by Robert
Greenhill, for as much as $181 million, according to the March
2010 agreement.  Squeezing Buyers  Greenhill Caliburn, as the firm was renamed, is 26th among
arrangers of mergers involving Australian companies in 2011,
Bloomberg data show. The firm advised Coal & Allied Industries
Ltd., which last month squeezed a higher A$1.53 billion offer
out of Rio Tinto Group and Mitsubishi Corp. for the shares in
the company they didn’t already own.  Last year, Greenhill Caliburn helped Lihir Gold Ltd. draw a
sweetened proposal of A$9.7 billion from Newcrest Mining Ltd.  An informed board should know what its company is worth at
the time of any bid, according to Mordant.  “That’s core to the whole debate,” he said. “You’ve got
to understand what the market thinks of you. Companies are
particularly vulnerable when the market doesn’t understand you,
your strategy and where you’re going.”  Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC) , a Brisbane-based miner advised by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., last week accepted an increased bid worth
A$4.8 billion from Peabody Energy Corp. and ArcelorMittal.
Peabody and ArcelorMittal raised their offer after London-based
Anglo American Plc was said to be studying Macarthur’s finances
to examine a potential counterbid.  ‘Cheaper to Buy’  Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 100 index has dropped for
five months after four straight monthly gains. Valuations have
fallen so much that debt-funded takeovers look attractive,
according to an Aug. 28 report by Citigroup Inc.  Even after paying at least 30 percent more than the stock
price of almost half the companies in that index, buyers could
service all the debt used to fund the deals with the target’s
cashflow alone, Citigroup said.  “With large shifts in the equity market, you tend to have
more hostile takeovers,” said Garry Twite, a professor who
specializes in corporate finance at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “It’s cheaper to buy rather than build
in this environment. Friendly mergers tend to be done in periods
of relative stability.”  ‘Sit on Hands’  Ron Malek, Mordant’s co-head at Greenhill Caliburn, said
that in a period of unprecedented market swings, struggling
companies are the most obvious prey. Even so, directors may be
less inclined to embark on takeovers, he said.  “The by-product of volatility can well be that people take
longer to transact or indeed decide to sit on their hands,”
said Malek, 45, who like Mordant is an ex-ABN Amro Group NV
banker. Still, Greenhill Caliburn can earn more than a third of
its revenue from work that isn’t announced, Malek said.  The 40-person firm, which typically chooses to advise one
large company in any industry, is looking to  Graeme Samuel ,
previously chairman of the Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission, to win more business. A former banker with Macquarie
Group Ltd. and co-founder of Grant Samuel in 1988, Samuel last
month joined Greenhill Caliburn to lead the Melbourne office.  “There are very few high-quality people who are culturally
compatible with us in this market,” Mordant said. “If we can
secure two or three senior people like Graeme over the next
couple of years, that would be absolutely fantastic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  