-- 
Tremonti Skips Event Appearance for Budget Talks Amid Italian Bond Plunge

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-05T16:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/berlusconi-moves-to-pass-new-austerity-package-as-general-strike-looms.html
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
canceled a public appearance in northern Italy to rush to Rome
for budget talks as bonds plunged amid concern the government
may backslide on its latest austerity package.  “The minister received a request to head to Rome
immediately to go to the Senate, just as he was coming to
Piacenza,” Stefano Rodota, moderator of the conference where
Tremonti had been scheduled to speak, announced at the event,
which was broadcast live on the Internet.  The Senate will begin a debate tomorrow on Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s 45.5 billion-euro ($64 billion) austerity
package just as CGIL, the nation’s biggest union, holds a strike
across Italy against the measures. Investor concern has been
rising since the government agreed last week to drop spending
cuts and tax increases from the plan, which was announced on
Aug. 5 to convince the  European Central Bank  to buy Italian
bonds in a bid to stem surging borrowing costs.  “The austerity plan runs the risk of becoming a farce and
this weighs on those banks holding lots of  government bonds ,”
Gianmaria Bergantino, a  fund manager  at Bank Insinger de
Beaufort in Rome, said by phone. “As the government doesn’t
seem to be responding to the ECB’s requests, investors are
starting to price in a further budget adjustment within a
month.”  The price of the nation’s 10-year bond fell for an 11th
day, pushing the yield to 5.57 percent, the highest in more than
four weeks. Milan’s stock benchmark FTSE MIB Index closed down
4.8 percent, with  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s
biggest banks, dropping 7.3 and 7 percent, respectively.  ECB Warnings  Officials at the Frankfurt-based ECB have called on Italy
to stick to its budget targets. The austerity package must be
“fully confirmed and implemented,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in Cernobbio, Italy, on Sept. 3. “This is
absolutely decisive to consolidate and reinforce the quality and
credibility of the Italian strategy and creditworthiness.”  Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , who will become ECB
president on Nov. 1, said the central bank’s bond buying is
“temporary” and should not be taken for granted by euro-region
member states. The purchases “cannot be used to circumvent the
fundamental principle of budgetary discipline,” Draghi said,
according to the e-mailed text of a speech in Paris today.  Berlusconi and Tremonti agreed to overhaul the plan after
an Aug. 29 meeting with officials from the co-ruling  Northern
League  party, which opposed parts of the original package that
aimed to balance the budget in 2013.  Tax Evasion   A tax on the highest earners was dropped while cuts to
regional governments were eased. Tremonti said on Sept. 1 that
some lost revenue will be compensated for by a crackdown on tax
evasion and the plan will still meet deficit-reduction goals.  The changes in the package create a shortfall of at least 7
billion euros, Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe
Generale SA in  London , estimates. “The fiscal rigor promised by
Rome to the ECB in August seems to be undergoing a severe loss
of momentum,” he said.  Downgrades of  Italy ’s credit rating now “look probable,”
Societe Generale economists said in a report today, citing the
poor economic and budgetary outlook and “uncertainties over the
availability of market financing.”  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service put the country’s credit rating on
review in May and June, respectively, citing poor economic-
growth outlook.  “For a long time, the spreads between sovereign securities
remained narrow and unresponsive to the different policy choices
and economic performances,” Draghi said today. “Interest rates
reflect today’s new situation: they are higher for countries
with low growth and weaker public finances.”  Yields Surge  The extra premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over benchmark German bunds advanced 44 basis points to
371 basis points, the highest since before the ECB starting
buying Italian bonds Aug. 8. The cost of insuring the nation’s
sovereign debt against default surged, with credit-default swaps
on Italy jumping 24.5 basis points to a record 427.  Shares in Intesa, Italy’s second-largest bank, fell to the
lowest since 1997. UniCredit, the country’s biggest lender,
dropped to lowest since March 2009.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS) , the nation’s third-biggest bank, declined to the
lowest in more than 11 years.  ‘Bad Mistake’  “Recent changes to the original Italian austerity plan
were a bad mistake -- perhaps not so much economically, but they
confirmed the lack of credibility of the current government and
therefore caused extreme political collateral damage on a
European level,” Marius Gero Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, said by e-mail.  The Senate may hold a final vote on the bill by Sept. 7,
Anna Finocchiaro, head of the opposition  Democratic Party  in the
upper house, said in an e-mailed statement. Passage there would
pave the way for the Chamber of Deputies, where Berlusconi has a
narrower majority, to give final approval.  The Senate debate may coincide with the general strike,
which will shut many government offices and disrupt travel and
manufacturing. Alitalia SpA will cancel some flights due to the
strike scheduled for between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m., the airline
said in an e-mailed statement today. Intercontinental flights
are not expected to be affected by the work stoppage, it added.  The austerity plan is “unfair” and will have “depressive
effects,” GCIL leader Susanna Camusso said in Milan on Sept. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  