-- 
Benchmark DAX Retreats to Two-Year Low After Merkel Suffers Election Loss

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-05T15:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/bmw-deutsche-bank-metro-fraport-vw-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated to their
lowest level since August 2009 after German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel ’s party suffered its fifth election loss this year and
European services and manufacturing growth weakened in August.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell to its lowest price since March 2009
as the lender is among 17 sued by the U.S. for $196 billion.
 BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  lost more than 4 percent after Clariant AG,
a Swiss maker of chemicals and paints, cut targets for sales and
profitability this year.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slumped 5.3 percent to 5,246.18 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, its third straight decline.
The gauge has retreated 30 percent from this year’s high on May
2 as reports in Europe and the U.S. spurred concern that the
economic recovery is stalling. The drop has left the DAX trading
at 8 times the estimated earnings of its companies, the lowest
valuation since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 2006. The
broader HDAX Index declined 5.2 percent today.  “Most data points to more risk to the downside at the
moment,” said Matthias Joerss, strategist at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in  Frankfurt . “The German elections will stiffen the
resistance within the CDU and the FDP to the bailout
discussions, but the main drivers today are the lawsuits the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  announced on Friday evening
against 17 financial institutions. The weak European PMI data
aren’t helping either.”  Worst Tally  The  Social Democrats , Merkel’s main opponents nationally,
took 35.7 percent to win yesterday’s election in Mecklenburg-
Western Pomerania, preliminary results show. The chancellor’s
 Christian Democratic Union  had 23.1 percent, its worst tally
since voting began in the state in 1990 after reunification that
year between  West Germany  and the former communist East Germany.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 50.7 from 51.1 in July,
London-based Markit Economics said today. It had initially
reported an unchanged reading of 51.1. A reading above 50
indicates growth.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank, plummeted 8.9
percent to 23.72 euros, its lowest price in more than two years,
as it was among 17 banks to be sued by the U.S. to recoup money
spent on mortgage-backed securities bought by  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac .  The Frankfurt-based lender declined to comment on a
Financial Times report that the U.K. Serious Fraud Office is
examining Deutsche Bank’s packaged securities deals for signs of
wrongdoing. The SFO hasn’t started an official investigation and
is at the stage of gathering evidence, the FT said.  Deutsche Bank  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , speaking at a
financial conference in Frankfurt, said market conditions such
as volatile stocks and sovereign debt remind him of the
financial crisis in the fall of 2008.  “The ‘new normal’ is characterized by volatility and
uncertainty -- not only in respect to market developments, but
also in consideration of the future of the financial branch,”
Ackermann said today at a conference in Frankfurt organized by
Euroforum. “All this reminds one of the fall of 2008, even
though the European banking sector is significantly better
capitalized and less dependent on short-term liquidity.”  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, sank 5.9
percent to 1.81 euros. Banking shares posted the worst
performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index today, losing 5.9 percent as a group.  Chemicals Fall  BASF, the world’s biggest chemicals maker, and Bayer sank
5.6 percent to 44.46 euros and 4.6 percent to 40.83 euros,
respectively. Competitor Clariant forecast full-year sales of 7
billion francs ($8.9 billion) to 7.2 billion francs, down from
an earlier range of 7.8 billion francs to 8 billion francs.
Clariant lowered its margin target range to 12.8 percent to 13.2
percent from an earlier 13.5 percent to 14.5 percent.  Henkel AG lost 6.5 percent to 37.58 euros, its lowest price
in a year. Preferred shares of the maker of Loctite glues and
Persil detergent were downgraded to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Exane BNP Paribas.  Infineon Technologies AG slumped 7.4 percent to 5.27 euros
as  Europe ’s second-largest chipmaker was downgraded to “sell”
from “buy” at Berenberg Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  