-- 
King’s Powers on Banking Mean BOE Needs Improved Governance, Darling Says

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-09-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/boe-s-king-has-too-much-individual-responsibility-darling-says.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
has too much individual power and a board of directors should be
put in place to improve governance of the central bank, former
Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling  said.  Darling said his efforts to tackle the financial crisis in
late 2007 had been hampered by disagreements with King, who he
considered not reappointing for a second term. The former
chancellor was speaking yesterday on BBC 1 television’s “Andrew
Marr Show” before the publication this week of his book, “ Back
from the Brink .”  “The present government wants to make the Bank of England
not just responsible for  interest rates , but also for the
supervision of banks, where its track record is mixed, and also
it’s got this overall responsibility for trying to iron out the
peaks and troughs of the economic cycle,” Darling said. “That
is an awful lot of things to invest in one person.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government, which ousted
Darling’s  Labour Party  from power last year, is scrapping the
current system of bank regulation. The plan will create a
Financial Policy Committee within the central bank chaired by
King, entrenching his responsibility for financial stability as
well as monetary policy.  “The governance of the Bank of England needs to change,”
Darling said told the BBC. The governor “has to be the first
among equals; you need to have a board of directors, not an
advisory committee” such as the current court, he said.  Disagreements  Darling said that as the financial crisis developed, the
Bank of England “didn’t have an adequate or anywhere near
adequate understanding of what was going on in the banking
system.” He said he and King “disagreed with each other as to
what ought to be done.”  “I thought it was essential to get money into the system
to stop the system from freezing,” Darling said. “He was more
concerned about the solvency of banks.”  Asked about the possibility that King would not have been
given a  second term , Darling said that “it was difficult, but
you have to think long and hard about not reappointing a
governor.” Central bank heads “need to be terribly careful
before they openly cross the sitting government of the day,” he
said.  Legal Advice  Extracts from the former chancellor’s memoirs published in
the  Sunday Times  newspaper indicate he sought legal advice on
whether he could force the Bank of England to take action during
the financial crisis.  Darling was told that it “might be legally possible, but
that there would be wider implications,” including a
“disastrous” public row with King, the newspaper said.  In his  BBC  appearance, Darling also spoke of his worsening
relationship with Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , as the two failed
to reach a common policy on tackling a  budget deficit  that
ballooned because of the government’s bailout of British banks
and the recession.  “We had a fundamental disagreement in 2008 as to how bad
this was going to be, and then during 2009 we had this whole
argument about what you do about the deficit,” Darling said.
“Everything I saw in 2008 pointed to us heading for an absolute
meltdown. He took the view that I was exaggerating it, that I’d
been misled.”  ‘Not at the Races’  Without a credible economic policy, “you are simply not at
the races, and our problem was it was so blindingly obvious to
the outside world that the two of us -- Gordon and myself --were
at odds that it really hampered us” in the run-up to the 2010
election, Darling said. “For any government to operate
effectively, there has to be complete unity at the top.”  In the extracts published in the Sunday Times, Darling said
Brown “seemed to have no conception of the effects of his
sometimes appalling behavior on those close to him.”  “Blind loyalty meant that Gordon was only told that which
he wanted -- or could bear -- to hear,” Darling wrote.
“Speaking truth to power never came into it.”  Asked if senior Labour politicians should have done more
about Brown’s style leadership, Darling said: “Perhaps we
should have done something.” The former chancellor said,
though, that he was held back by “a residual loyalty, which I
found very difficult to overcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  