-- 
Bolt Helps Jamaica Close World Championships With 400-Meter Relay Record

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-09-04T15:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/bolt-helps-jamaica-set-400-meter-record-at-world-track-championships.html
Usain Bolt helped  Jamaica  set a
men’s 400-meter relay record on the final day of the world track
and field championships in Daegu,  South Korea . The U.S. finished
atop the medal standings.  Bolt ran the last leg to bring Jamaica through in 37.04
seconds, shaving 0.06 seconds off the team’s record set at the
Beijing Olympics in 2008.  France  won the silver medal, with
Saint Kitts and Nevis the bronze. The U.S. relay team failed to
finish.  “We’re natural born athletes,” Bolt told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “It’s all about running fast. As long as we
got the baton round, I had no doubts.”  Bolt ended the championships yesterday with two medals
after defending his 200-meter title a day earlier. A week ago,
he was disqualified in the 100-meter final for a false start.  Yohan Blake, who took Bolt’s 100-meter title, Nesta Carter
and Michael Frater were also in the relay team for the final.
The U.S. crashed out after colliding with a member of the
British team, which also failed to finish.  The U.S. relay team of Bianca Knight, Allyson Felix,
Marshevet Myers and Carmelita Jeter won the women’s title, while
Christian Taylor of the U.S. claimed the triple jump gold medal
ahead of defending champion Phillips Idowu of Britain.  U.K. Gold  There was a gold for Britain in the men’s 5,000 meters, Mo
Farah atoning for missing out on the 10,000 meters title.
Bernard Lagat of the U.S. was second, with Ethiopia’s Dejen
Gebremeskel winning bronze after countryman Imane Merga was
disqualified.  “I can’t quite believe it,” Farah told the  BBC  yesterday.
“I pictured the 10k on the last lap thinking I came so close
then I’m not going to let anyone pass me.”  South Africa’s Caster Semenya, the defending women’s 800-
meter world champion, was pipped to the title today by Russia’s
Mariya Savinova. Semenya was banned from competing for 11 months
because of questions about her sex after she took the title in
Berlin two years ago. She was cleared to compete in July 2010.  “I’m very happy, it’s good to get back to normal
standards,” Semenya told the BBC. “Now I have to train hard
and go for a world record -- maybe in two or three years’
time.”  Russia ’s Tatyana Lysenko won gold in the women’s hammer,
and Abel Kirui of Kenya the men’s marathon title.  The U.S. tops the final medal standings with 12 gold
medals, eight silver and five bronze.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 