-- 
Bond Market Disbelief Grows With Stevens Holding Rates: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-05T03:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/bond-market-doubt-grows-on-rba-s-steady-rates-australia-credit.html
The rally in Australian  government
bonds , the developed world’s best performers this year, shows
investors disagree with the central bank’s view that resource
investment will support growth and avert interest-rate cuts.  Government securities from one month to 12 years in
maturity yield less than the Reserve Bank’s 4.75 percent
overnight cash rate target even after Governor  Glenn Stevens 
said Aug. 26 inflation remains “concerning.” The RBA will keep
the highest benchmark among advanced economies unchanged
tomorrow, said all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Stevens’s confidence he doesn’t need to lower rates is
underpinned by a projected A$225 million ($238 million) a day in
mining investment and record prices for commodities exported by
the only developed economy to avoid 2009’s global recession.
Investors concerned  Europe ’s debt crisis will stall the global
recovery are betting the RBA will cut borrowing costs by the
most among the Group of 10 currencies in the coming year.  “From the central bank’s point of view, you have inflation
heading towards the top of your band and one of the largest
mining investment booms in history coming through,” said Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia rates strategy at Credit Suisse
Group AG in  Singapore . “It’s very hard to cut rates in that
environment and probably irresponsible to do so unless there is
some very severe trigger.”  Treasury Spread  Ten-year government bond yields dropped 16 basis points
today to 4.25 percent 1:01 p.m. in Sydney, after falling for an
eighth month in August to complete the longest stretch of
declines since 1991. The yield is 226 basis points, or 2.26
percentage points, more than for similar-dated U.S. Treasuries.  The rate on the 10-year U.S. note tumbled 14 basis points
on Sept. 2 to 1.99 percent as the payrolls report showed no jobs
were added in August, stoking speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will increase its purchases of longer- maturity debt.  Australian sovereign debt delivered a 9.2 percent return
this year, the best among 21 developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analyst
Societies.  In Aug. 26 testimony to a parliamentary committee, Stevens
said the RBA has sufficient “ammunition” with rates to respond
to a sudden downturn in the global economy, an outcome he said
he isn’t anticipating. Australian companies and consumers are
better positioned to withstand market volatility than they were
three years ago, he said.  The RBA raised its benchmark by 1.75 percentage points from
October 2009 to November 2010 to control consumer-price gains.
The world’s most aggressive round of rate increases as the
global economy emerged from the financial crisis spurred the
local dollar’s 25 percent gain over the past two years, hurting
exporters.  Rate Outlook  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG predicted the
RBA will lower rates this year after an Aug. 11 report showed
the jobless rate rose in July for the first time since October.  Cash-rate futures showed an 18 percent probability Stevens
will cut rates tomorrow, compared with a 100 percent chance of a
reduction as recently as Aug. 12. The RBA may lower its
benchmark by 125 basis points within a year, a Credit Suisse
index based on swaps trading shows.  Australian companies have been looking past reports showing
weaker U.S. and European growth, spending more on plant and
equipment to meet surging demand from emerging markets in  Asia 
that were the main drivers of the world’s economic recovery over
the past two years.  Mining investment is projected at A$82.1 billion in the 12
months to June 30, 45 percent higher than in the 2010-2011
fiscal year, a government report showed last week.  Profit Surge  A government report today showed business profits advanced
last quarter by more than double economists’ estimates as mining
and utility companies benefited from stronger prices. Gross
operating profits rose 6.7 percent from the previous three
months, while inventories swelled the most in eight years.  Australia ’s investment pipeline helped boost the local
dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, to $1.1081 on
July 27, the strongest since it was freely floated in 1983. The
so-called Aussie recently traded at $1.0596.  Gross domestic product grew 1 percent last quarter, a
separate economists survey showed before a Sept. 7 government
report, as output rebounded from a contraction in the previous
three months spurred by flooded coal mines and farmland.  Weaker Confidence  Consumer confidence  in Australia has weakened in recent
months on signs that parts of the economy are buckling under the
pressure of currency appreciation and the developed world’s
highest borrowing costs. Corporate bond sales have dried up as
the premium investors demand to hold such debt rather than
 government securities  climbed to the most in 2 1/2 years.  The spread widened 39 basis points in August, the biggest
jump since March 2009, and was at 222 basis points on Sept. 2,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Australian unemployment unexpectedly jumped to an eight-
month high of 5.1 percent in July as hiring stalled. The 41,400
net job gain from January through July was the weakest first
seven months of the year since 2003.  Job advertisements fell 0.6 percent in August, an Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. report today showed, matching
the decrease in July.  Manufacturing Slump  Manufacturing has slumped to its weakest in more than two
years, a private report showed last week. BlueScope Steel Ltd.
last month said it will cut about 1,000 jobs because of a
second-half loss due to high raw-material costs and the local
dollar’s surge against its U.S. counterpart.  “While many will jump to the conclusion that even a modest
rise in the  unemployment rate  would be enough to see RBA cuts,
we think that a modest rise is exactly what is required to get
some of the inflation out of the system and keep unit labor
costs under control,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for
HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official. “To see
a direction change by the RBA we think you would need a decisive
rise in the unemployment rate.”  Bond investors are estimating Australian consumer prices
will rise at an annual 2.55 percent pace over the coming five
years, according to the gap between indexed government debt and
bonds that aren’t linked to inflation.  Monthly Inflation  Inflation declined in August for the first time since
October 2009, led by cheaper fruit and vegetables, according to
a private report today. Consumer prices slid 0.1 percent last
month after a 0.3 percent increase in July, according to an
index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute
released in Sydney. Prices rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier
following a 3.2 percent gain in July.  The central bank aims to keep inflation in a 2 percent to 3
percent range on average.  Since Stevens held the overnight cash rate target unchanged
for an eighth straight meeting on Aug. 2, investor confidence
has slumped after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit rating
and as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis deepened.  “If we did see a very dramatic change for the worse in the
global economy, certainly we have plenty of  interest rates  to
play with if need be,” Stevens told lawmakers last month. “In
terms of macroeconomic ammunition, there would be not that many
countries who could say they had more than us in the event of a
really big episode. I don’t think that’s occurring at the
moment.”  Unemployment Concern  Concern that unemployment will rise as global growth
falters are among reasons economists at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank and Bank of America Corp.’s
investment banking unit predict reductions in borrowing costs
this year.  Policy makers in  Brazil , second to Australia among the
world’s biggest exporters of  iron ore , last week cut rates by 50
basis points, citing a “substantial deterioration” in the
global economy.  Stevens, responding to Australian lawmakers last month,
said unemployment hovering near 5 percent is “a low number.”  “When I started at the  Reserve Bank , the notion that you
could have 5-ish percent unemployment and 2-ish or 3-ish
inflation, was a dream,” he said.  Australia’s services industry expanded in August for the
first time in four months, led by growth in finance,
communication and recreation even as a strong currency damped
demand in other areas.  The performance of services index climbed 3.3 points to
52.1, the highest level since April 2010,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  and the Australian Industry Group said in Sydney
today. A figure above 50 indicates expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  