-- 
Bubba Watson Takes 1-Shot Lead Into Final Round of PGA Tour Playoff Event

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/bubba-watson-holds-one-shot-lead-in-u-s-pga-tour-s-second-playoff-event.html
Bubba Watson takes a one-shot
advantage into the final round at golf’s Deutsche Bank
Championship, where Luke Donald and  Phil Mickelson  are among 23
players within four strokes of the lead.  Watson is 11-under par and seeking his third U.S. PGA Tour
title of the season. Yet with such a crowded leaderboard at TPC
Boston in Norton, Massachusetts, he said the second of four
playoff events is still a long way from being decided.  “Anybody has a chance,” Watson said during a news
conference. “It just depends who’s got the hot putter or how
bad the wind is. You just never know because you don’t know what
the weather is going to be, how tough the pins are going to be,
how firm the grass is going to be.”  The third-round leader has never held on to win the
tournament since the advent of the  FedEx Cup  in 2007. After the
Deutsche Bank Championship, the top 70 players in the FedEx Cup
rankings advance to the BMW Championship in Lemont,  Illinois ,
with 30 moving on from there to the season-ending Tour
Championship in Atlanta. The FedEx Cup winner receives a $10
million bonus.  Adam Scott , Jason Day, Jerry Kelly, Chez Reavie and Brendan
Steele are one stroke behind Watson at 10-under.  Donald, the No. 1 player in the  Official World Golf
Ranking , is tied at 9-under with Webb Simpson, Gary Woodland,
Charl Schwartzel and defending FedEx Cup champion Jim Furyk.  Rickie Fowler,  Brandt Snedeker ,  Nick Watney , Geoff Ogilvy,
 Robert Karlsson , Ryan Moore and Blake Adams are 8-under par.  Mickelson shot an 8-under 63 yesterday to join a group of
players at 7-under through 54 holes. Dustin Johnson, who won
last week’s Barclays Tournament in New Jersey, is also 7-under
along with Ernie Els, John Senden,  Zach Johnson  and Sean O’Hair.  “It’s always nice to be in the final group because then
you know what everybody is doing,” said Watson, who shot a 1-
under 70 yesterday to follow up rounds of 68 and 64. “It’s a
good position to be in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  