-- 
Cambridge Beats Harvard Again to Top Spot

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-09-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/cambridge-beats-harvard-again-to-top-spot.html
The  University of Cambridge  has
retained its premier status in the  QS World University Rankings ,
beating  Harvard  for a second year, as U.K. and U.S. institutions
again took the top 10 spots.  The rankings featured six U.S. establishments, with the
remainder coming from Britain.  Yale University  slipped one place
to fourth, while the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  rose
to third from fifth. The  University of Oxford  moved up one spot
to fifth, ahead of  Imperial College London  and  University
College London .  “There’s not much in it but British universities have the
edge on international indicators, particularly international
faculty, the proportion of staff who are from overseas,” Ben
Sowter, head of research for the QS intelligence unit, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a relevant factor.”  Harvard, the world’s richest university, had headed the QS
rankings every year from 2004 until last year, when the provider
of information to educational establishments stopped compiling
the list with Times Higher Education. The U.S. institution took
the top spot in the magazine’s own ranking last year.  The QS rankings are an annual league table of the top 600
universities in the world, devised by surveying each
institution’s reputation among academics and employers. The
respondents are asked how they view each university’s research
output. More than 34,000 academics were surveyed this year.  “While university league tables tend to over-simplify the
rang of achievements at institutions, it is particularly
pleasing to note that the excellence of the transformative
research, research that changes people’s lives, carried out at
Cambridge is so well regarded by fellow academics worldwide,”
 Steve Young , senior pro-vice chancellor at Cambridge, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Funding Changes  Cambridge, the U.K.’s richest university according to a
Financial Times report in September, may face pressure on its
top ranking as the U.K. government makes changes to higher-
education funding, Sowter said.  The government is allowing British universities to treble
tuition fees to as much as 9,000 pounds ($14,600) as it tries to
reduce state funding to the institutions, part of an austerity
drive to cut a  budget deficit .  “If they’ve got less money for research then it will have
an impact” on Cambridge’s ranking, Sowter said. “I think you
will see a more profound effect on U.K. universities further
down the list.”  ‘Good Value’  Harvard charges overseas students an average of $38,000 to
$40,000 a year, while Cambridge charges overseas
students $18,000 to $20,000 a year, according to QS
research.  “Cambridge in an international comparison still looks
good value for money,” Sowter, a University of Nottingham
graduate, said.  Canada’s  McGill University  was the highest placed outside
of the U.S. and U.K at 17th, one ahead of  Switzerland ’s  ETH
Zurich , the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, which
retained its 18th spot. The University of  Hong Kong  was once
again the highest ranking Asian university, moving up one spot
to 22nd.  The average age of the top 100 institutions has dropped
seven years since last year’s rankings, “reflecting the
emergence of newer specialist institutions particularly in
 Asia ,” QS said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  