-- 
Chile Seeks Bodies of Plane Crash Victims

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-09-04T19:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/chile-search-south-pacific-for-plane-crash-victims-after-21-die.html
Chilean authorities were searching
for the remains of victims of a military plane that crashed off
an island in the South  Pacific Ocean , killing all 21 on board,
 Chile  Navy Rear Admiral Cristian de la Maza said today.  The twin-propeller Casa C-212 plane, carrying businessmen,
troops and journalists, went down on Sept. 2 after running out
of fuel as strong crosswinds prevented it from landing, Air
Force Chief General Jorge Rojas said yesterday.  The Navy had five ships, helicopters, submarines and as
many as 600 marines, including rescue divers, searching, de la
Maza said in an interview broadcast on Santiago-based television
station  TVN . The site is the southern side of the Island of
 Santa Clara , part of the nation’s Juan Fernandez Archipelagos,
600 kilometers (375 miles) west of Chile.  “We are focusing our efforts on the surface of the water
and along the coastline,” de la Maza said. “We’ve also had
some results with sonar that we will continue investigating
today.”  Weather conditions in the area were favorable and
authorities will attempt to bring to the surface some debris
found near the crash site, he said.  Rescue Help  Local fishermen are also helping rescue workers troll the
islands’ rocky coastlines for any debris from the wreckage,
Defense Minister Andres Allamand said today, according to  CNN .
All the passengers and crew died instantly when the plane hit
the ocean, Allamand said yesterday after touring the site.  “After the search we took part in with the commander-in-
chief of the armed forces, we reached the conclusion that the
impact was so great that it must have caused the immediate death
of all those aboard the plane,” Allamand told TVN.  The plane was carrying humanitarian aid to the archipelago,
three volcanic islands believed to have inspired Daniel Defoe’s
novel “Robinson Crusoe,” that were devastated by a tsunami
following a February 2010 earthquake in Chile.  The bodies of two journalists, a soldier and a Culture
Ministry employee were flown to Santiago yesterday, presidential
spokesman Andres Chadwick said last night.  Passengers  included businessman Felipe Cubillos, five TVN
journalists, including anchorman Felipe Camiroaga, and eight air
force crew members. Cubillos, 49, had interests in the fisheries
and shipping industries, and began a humanitarian aid program
called  Rise Up Chile Challenge  after the quake left 486 dead and
caused $30 billion in damage.  President Mourns  Chilean President Sebastian Pinera, speaking today at a
military ceremony honoring the dead, decreed two days of
national mourning beginning tomorrow, Chilean newspaper  El
Mercurio  reported.  “While we are going to do everything humanly possible to
find the bodies of the victims, we can’t guarantee the search
will be 100 percent successful,” Pinera said. “We know that
the impact was very violent and the wreckage was spread over a
wide area.”  Chile has one of the best air-safety records in  Latin
America . Its last major disaster occurred in 1991, when a Lan
Airlines SA crash on the south coast killed 20. An air force
crash left 14 dead on the south coast in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net 
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  