-- 
Chirac’s No-Show Jobs Trial Resumes in Paris

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-04T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/chirac-s-no-show-jobs-trial-resumes-in-paris.html
Former French President  Jacques Chirac ’s corruption trial over decades-old claims he misused
Paris funds resumes today after a six-month hiatus to consider a
codefendant’s bid to block the case.  Chirac, who was elected mayor in 1977 and held the post
until 1995 except for a two-year period when he served as prime
minister, is accused of misusing Paris city funds to reward
party loyalists with no-show job contracts. The trial began in
March and was suspended on its second day over a constitutional
challenge that was later rejected by an appeals court.  The age of the charges and a summer of slumping economies
and scandals -- such as Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s sexual assault
arrest -- since the trial’s sudden suspension have distracted
the French public, pollster Jerome Fourquet said, making them
forget they had previously dubbed Chirac “Super Liar.”  “In opinion polls, he’s very popular, the most popular
political figure in  France ,” said Fourquet, deputy director at
Paris-based pollster Ifop. “The moment has passed, the French
have turned the page.”  If convicted, Chirac faces as long as 10 years in prison
for a charge of embezzlement and as much as a 375,000-euro
($533,500) fine on one of abuse of trust. He would also be
ineligible for future political posts. Prior, similar cases
indicate he is unlikely to receive any jail time.  The 78-year-old is the first former French leader since
World War II to stand trial. He’s accused of misusing city money
to benefit his Rally for the Republic Party. Investigations in
Paris and neighboring Nanterre found 28 questionable job
contracts dating from his time as mayor.  Participation  Chirac’s defense will argue that all contracts were for
real city jobs, his lawyer  Jean Veil  said in a Sept. 1 telephone
interview. Chirac won’t attend the opening of the trial and no
decision has been made on whether he will participate at other
hearings, Veil said.  If he doesn’t attend any of the hearings, “that would be a
bit more problematic,” said Fourquet. “It would leave the
impression that we have two types of justice and that he’s not a
defendant like any other.”  Paris and Nanterre prosecutors opposed a trial and the City
of Paris dropped its claim after reaching a settlement. In that
deal the former president and the Union for a  Popular Movement ,
successor to Chirac’s party, paid 2.2 million euros to the city.
Neither admitted guilt and Chirac denies violating any laws.  The investigations were delayed by rules that shield
sitting French heads of state from investigations for anything
short of high treason.  Current French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s cabinet voted
Aug. 31 to allow Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  to testify at the
trial. Juppe, a former prime minister who served as deputy mayor
to Chirac, was found guilty in 2005 in a related trial over the
jobs scandal. He received a one-year ban on holding public
office and a 14-month suspended sentence. He returned to
politics in 2006 and was elected mayor of Bordeaux, and joined
Sarkozy’s cabinet in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 