-- 
Colfax in Preliminary Talks on Offer for Charter

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-04T20:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/colfax-says-it-s-in-early-talks-on-all-cash-bid-for-charter-international.html
Colfax Corp. (CFX) , the Fulton, Maryland-
based manufacturer of pumps and specialty valves, said it’s in
talks to acquire  Charter International Plc. (CHTR) , which already had
attracted a $2.3 billion bid from a U.K. investment firm.  Buying Dublin-based Charter, a welding company and maker of
air- and gas-handling equipment, would “significantly” add to
earnings and provide return on invested capital of 10 percent or
more within five years, Colfax said in a statement today. Colfax
said it would finance the transaction with cash, equity and debt
and expects to maintain its credit rating.  “Colfax considers Charter to be a leading player in key
markets with an attractive business mix and strong technological
capabilities that would fit well with Colfax’s acquisition
criteria,” the company said.  Melrose Plc (MRO)  on Sept. 1 sweetened an offer to acquire
Charter by 10 pence a share to 850 pence, or 1.43 billion pounds
($2.3 billion). Charter opened its books to Melrose, an
investment vehicle created by a former management team of
industrial conglomerate Wassall Plc, after the revised offer.
Melrose is planning an equity placement of about 350 million
pounds ($566 million) to help fund its bid.  Colfax didn’t say what it plans to bid for Charter. On Aug.
23, Charter had said it was holding talks with an unidentified
suitor and in a statement today confirmed the suitor was Colfax.  “These discussions are at an early stage and there can be
no assurance that they will lead to an offer for the company,”
Charter said in the statement.  Charter Sales  Charter had sales last year of 1.72 billion pounds, a 3.6
percent gain from 1.66 billion pounds in 2009. Net profit rose
to 106.6 million pounds last year from 63.5 million pounds in
2009.  Calls to Melrose Plc’s London office and spokesman Nick
Miles after hours weren’t immediately returned. Scott Brannan,
Colfax’s chief financial officer, didn’t immediately respond to
a voicemail left by Bloomberg News seeking comment.  A voicemail left outside office hours for Jonathan Glass,
partner at  Brunswick Group’s  London office, which represents
Charter, wasn’t immediately returned.  Colfax, in today’s statement, said it would raise equity
among “certain existing shareholders” and long-term outside
investors who “share Colfax’s values and vision.” The company
had $62.2 million of cash at the end of June, according to
Bloomberg data.  Colfax said it would be able to maintain its  credit rating 
of BB-/Ba3 or better with an acquisition of Charter.  Capital Structure  The company is “committed to maintaining a prudent capital
structure,” according to the statement. The mix of cash, equity
and debt will leave it with “sufficient flexibility to continue
existing and new initiatives without undue balance sheet risk.”  Colfax had net income of $16.2 million, or 37 cents a
share, on revenue of $541.9 million in 2010. The company on July
29 raised its full-year forecast for adjusted earnings to $1.20
to $1.26 a share from an earlier estimate of $1.12 to $1.22.  The company’s stock fell $1.46, or 5.9 percent, to $23.39
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Sept. 2. The
shares have gained 70 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net  and
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  