-- 
Colfax Mulls Cash Bid for Charter as Melrose Lifts Offer to $2.3 Billion

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/colfax-in-talks-to-acquire-charter-after-u-k-firm-boosts-bid.html
Colfax Corp. (CFX) , the Fulton, Maryland-
based manufacturer of pumps and specialty valves, said it’s in
talks to buy  Charter International Plc. (CHTR)  after a U.K. investment
firm boosted its bid for the company to $2.3 billion.  Buying Dublin-based Charter, a welding company and maker of
air- and gas-handling equipment, would “significantly” add to
earnings and provide return on invested capital of 10 percent or
more within five years, Colfax said in a statement today. Colfax
said it would finance the transaction with cash, equity and debt
and expects to maintain its  credit rating .  “Colfax considers Charter to be a leading player in key
markets with an attractive business mix and strong technological
capabilities that would fit well with Colfax’s acquisition
criteria,” the company said in press release without citing
anyone.  Melrose Plc (MRO)  on Sept. 1 sweetened an offer to acquire
Charter by 10 pence a share to 850 pence, or 1.43 billion pounds
($2.3 billion). Charter opened its books to Melrose, an
investment vehicle created by a former management team of
industrial group Wassall Plc, after the revised offer. Melrose
is planning an equity placement of about 350 million pounds to
help fund its bid.  Colfax didn’t say what it plans to bid for Charter. Since
1999, Colfax has made 10 acquisitions and didn’t disclose terms
on any. The largest acquisition in which Colfax announced annual
sales of the target was the purchase in November 1999 of the
Warner Electric units of Dana Corp., which said then it had
annual sales of about $360 million.  Holding Talks  Charter said on Aug. 23 that it was holding talks with an
unidentified suitor and in a statement today confirmed the
suitor was Colfax.  “These discussions are at an early stage and there can be
no assurance that they will lead to an offer for the company,”
the Charter statement said.  Charter had sales last year of 1.72 billion pounds, an
increase of 3.6 percent over 2009. Net profit rose to 106.6
million pounds last year from 63.5 million pounds a year
earlier. Charter made three acquisitions so far this year,
including paying 100 million euros for Thomassen Compression
Systems BV.  Calls to Melrose Plc’s London office and Nick Miles, an
outside company spokesman, after hours weren’t immediately
returned. Scott Brannan, Colfax’s chief financial officer,
didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail left by Bloomberg News
seeking comment.  A voicemail left outside office hours for Jonathan Glass,
partner at  Brunswick Group’s  London office, which represents
Charter, wasn’t immediately returned.  Raising Equity  Colfax, in today’s statement, said it would raise equity
among “certain existing shareholders” and long-term outside
investors who “share Colfax’s values and vision.” The company
had $64.2 million of cash at the end of June, according to
Bloomberg data.  Colfax said it would be able to maintain its credit rating
of BB-/Ba3, or better, with an acquisition of Charter.  The company is “committed to maintaining a prudent  capital
structure ,” according to the statement. The mix of cash, equity
and debt will leave it with “sufficient flexibility to continue
existing and new initiatives without undue balance sheet risk.”  Colfax had net income of $16.2 million, or 37 cents a
share, on revenue of $542 million in 2010. The company on July
29 raised its full-year guidance for adjusted earnings to $1.20
to $1.26 a share from an earlier estimate of $1.12 to $1.22.  The company’s stock fell $1.46, or 5.9 percent, to $23.39
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Sept. 2. The
shares have gained 27 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  