-- 
Danish Mortgage Bonds Get Boost as Buyers Seek Safe Debt

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-05T09:52:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/danish-mortgage-bonds-get-crisis-boost-as-buyers-seek-safe-debt.html
Denmark’s mortgage bonds may see an
increase in international buyers at refinancing auctions this
month as investors flee  Europe ’s debt crisis in search of the
safest markets.  Nykredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed
covered bonds, estimates foreign investors will increase
holdings of its securities by as much as half to make up close
to 30 percent of the total, it said in an e-mailed reply to
questions last week. The Copenhagen-based lender today began
 selling  80 billion kroner ($15.3 billion) in bonds to refinance
adjustable-rate mortgages in one of this year’s three auctions
for the securities.  European covered-bond sales have climbed as the debt crisis
threatens to envelop Italy and  Spain  and worsening U.S. data
signal the global economic recovery may weaken. Nykredit’s
adjustable-rate notes were given a AAA rating by  Standard &
Poor’s  on Sept. 2. Moody’s Investors Service said a day earlier
it will rate the securities Aa1, the company’s second-highest
grade. The mortgage-backed bonds carry higher ratings than more
than half the sovereigns inside the 17-member euro bloc.  “We’re seeing higher levels of demand from foreign
investors than normal,” Soeren Holm, Nykredit Group’s managing
director, said in an interview. “Danish covered bonds, together
with covered bonds in the whole of Europe, are performing very
well. They’re more or less a safe haven.”  Moody’s Factor  The yield on the one-year adjustable-rate mortgage bond
fell to 1.28 percent at today’s auction after bids exceeded the
amount offered by a factor of eight, Nykredit said in a
statement. The securities yielded 2.1 percent in the April
auction and 1.33 percent at the October auction of 2010,
Nykredit said.  Moody’s, which cut Nykredit’s issuer rating by one level to
A2 on July 1 citing profit risks, had previously criticized
 Denmark ’s adjustable-rate mortgage-debt market as representing a
refinancing risk. Moody’s warning prompted Danske Bank A/S’s
mortgage unit, Realkredit Danmark A/S, to terminate its contract
with the rating company after the lender was told to cough up an
extra $6.2 billion in collateral to avoid a rating cut.  “Moody’s has some opinions about these adjustable-rate
 mortgage loans  which I believe most people don’t share, so we
don’t think that’s a problem at all,” Holm said.  The Nykredit Danish Mortgage Bond Index finished last week
close to its highest since 1993, when the gauge was started,
reaching 377.20. The index hit a high of 377.50 on Aug. 19.  Credit-Default Swaps  European sovereign  default risk  rose to a record on Sept. 2
following the weakest U.S. payroll data since September 2010.
The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default
swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 11 basis points
to 310 in  London , surpassing an all-time high closing price of
308 on Aug. 26.  Nykredit will auction bonds from Sept. 5 until Sept. 20,
the Copenhagen-based lender said last week. The offering
includes 57 billion kroner in krone-denominated fixed-rate
bullet bonds and 23 billion kroner in floating-rate bonds.  The lender said it will offer only 2.1 billion kroner at
today’s auction, less than half of what it had planned, due to a
technical issue with the auction’s system settings.  Nykredit last month created separate capital centers to
split financing for fixed and adjustable-rate mortgages
following Moody’s warning. Fixed-rate loans, which Moody’s gives
a Aaa rating, made up  24 percent  of Nykredit loans as of June
30.  Removes Uncertainty  The high ratings awarded the adjustable-rate mortgage bonds
“removes the uncertainty,” said Jesper Berg, senior vice
president and head of ratings at Nykredit, in an interview. “At
the moment there’s a tendency for investors to search for safe
havens, and there’s no doubt that the Danish mortgage bond
market is being treated as a haven. The rating decision from
Moody’s was the best-case-scenario we’d hoped for or expected
given their announced approach.”  Domestic demand for the new securities probably will rise
as Denmark’s banks look for safe investments for funds backed by
a state guarantee until 2013, Holm said. Banks can’t find
borrowers for the funds as businesses adjust to shrinking demand
in Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy.  “We’re very positive on demand, both domestically and
internationally,” Holm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  