-- 
Diabetic Moms Portend China’s Looming Chronic Disease Crisis

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-04T22:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/diabetic-moms-sipping-sugar-water-portend-china-s-looming-disease-crisis.html
Luo Ting is snacking on a salt-free
cracker in a Beijing maternity ward, part of a regimen to curb
the glucose in her blood that threatens to cause lifelong harm
to the baby she’s due to deliver this week.  Luo, a 29-year-old sales clerk, says she didn’t know
pregnancy could trigger  gestational diabetes  until a test in
April. Now she’s among 15 percent of expecting mothers in
Beijing who develop the condition, which can spur excessive
fetal growth and raises the diabetes risk for them both.  As  China ’s population of diabetes sufferers approaches 100
million, health officials are trying to arrest an obesity-driven
explosion in cases that’s stretching hospitals and striking down
working age men and women. The disease afflicts 1 in 10 adults
in China, making it almost as common as in the U.S., and costs
about $26 billion a year in medical bills, according to the
International Diabetes Federation.  “Their health system in the big cities is completely
overwhelmed now by diabetes,” said Ann Keeling, chief executive
officer of the Brussels-based federation, in an interview.
“They can’t deal with the numbers that they’ve got coming
through.”  The global burden of diabetes and other so-called non-
communicable diseases may hinder development, according to the
 United Nations , which will discuss the issue at a  meeting  in New
York Sept. 19-20. The talks will address research showing how
maternal nutrition influences the risk of obesity and heart
disease for both the mother and child in later life.  Rate Tripled  Luo’s doctor Yang Huixia is studying the link at Peking
University First Hospital, which began screening pregnant women
for gestational diabetes in 1994. The rate more than tripled
from 3-4 percent in 17 years, Yang said. In  Australia , about  5
percent  of women delivering babies in 2008 were diagnosed with
the condition.  The increase may be because about half of pregnant women
put on more weight than recommended, Yang said. Luo said she
gained 4 kilograms in the first three months of her pregnancy,
more than double what she was advised.  Luo’s mother and mother-in-law indulged her craving for
fruit and her favorite dish -- stir-fried chicken with dried
chili and cashew nuts, she said.  “I could eat five oranges at a go,” said Luo, who had a
pre-pregnancy weight of 58 kilograms, within a healthy range for
her 1.62-meter height. “I had meat or fish every day, which I
didn’t before I became pregnant.”  Now Luo is getting six energy-controlled meals a day in the
four-bed ward at Peking University First Hospital, where she was
admitted on Aug. 25.  ‘Quite Tasteless’  “It’s really quite tasteless, but I’m used to it,” Luo
said, reclining on her metal-framed bed.  The willingness for grandparents to over-nourish pregnant
women reflects a mistaken belief that it will produce “healthy,
plump babies,” said Yang. Instead, it may increase the mother’s
blood-glucose level and exacerbate a decrease in insulin
sensitivity caused by the pregnancy.  High sugar levels in the blood can pass through the
placenta to the baby, causing the fetus to increase insulin
production and store excess energy as fat. Fatter babies are
harder to deliver and tend to develop risk factors for diabetes
and stroke in childhood.  Studies in  Hong Kong  found children exposed to excess blood
sugar in the womb had higher  blood pressure  and a greater
tendency toward obesity at age 7 compared with those whose
mothers didn’t have gestational diabetes, said Juliana Chan,
founding director of the Chinese University of Hong Kong’s
 Institute of Diabetes and Obesity .  Warning Sign  “We know these are traits which predict diabetes in the
future,” Chan said in an interview. In addition, half of
pregnant women like Luo who have gestational diabetes will
develop Type 2 diabetes within 15 years, according to Chan, who
is also a consultant endocrinologist at Hong Kong’s Prince of
Wales Hospital.  The tendency to develop gestational diabetes may be greater
in China,  India  and other developing economies, where a legacy
of poverty and hunger led to adaptive biological changes that
helped people survive in times of famine, said Kausik Ray,
professor of cardiovascular disease prevention at St George’s
University of London.  For individuals with metabolisms equipped for deprivation,
calorie-loaded food and a lack of physical activity can be
“toxic,” leading to an earlier onset of obesity-linked
illnesses, Ray said in an interview.  Big Problem  The proportion of overweight adults in China has doubled
over the past 15 years, while the obesity rate has tripled,
according to the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . Now, one in three men and one in four women are
overweight.  The proportion of people undernourished in China fell to 10
percent in 2006 from 15 percent in 1990, according to the
 International Food Policy Research Institute  in  Washington .  “China went through a period of material deprivation in
the 1970s and before that, so whoever had a plump baby at home
had something worth boasting about,” said Yang, the diabetes
specialist. “This is the kind of cultural background that we
have to deal with today.”  Yang’s research has shown women who develop gestational
diabetes are seven times more likely to become diabetic than
women who avoid the condition. The risk is increased further if
they follow traditional postnatal practices, she said.  Ritual Confinement  “There’s a practice called ritual confinement after birth,
where for a period a woman’s parents or mother-in-law will feed
her brown sugar dissolved in water which they believe will
replenish blood lost during birth,” Yang said.  Those with gestational diabetes who follow the practice
typically have elevated blood-glucose levels six weeks after
delivery, when their metabolic problem would normally have
resolved, she said.  More than 92 million adults in China have  Type 2 diabetes ,
a  survey  last year found. Another 148 million Chinese are on
their way to developing the disease, which increases the chance
of dying prematurely from stroke and heart attack, and
complications like blindness and kidney failure.  Reducing mortality from cardiovascular diseases by 1
percent a year in China over three decades ending in 2040 could
generate an economic value equivalent to 68 percent of China’s
2010 real gross domestic product, or $10.7 trillion, the  World
Bank  said in a  report  in July.  “People with chronic illness are often less productive at
work, they tend to work fewer hours and they retire earlier,”
said Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the
 London  School of Hygiene and  Tropical Medicine . The cost of
lifelong medical treatment may also impoverish them and their
families, he said.  Luo, the Beijing mother-to-be, is trying to avoid that.  “I was very scared when I found out I had gestational
diabetes, so I’ve forced myself to control my diet,” she said.
“Our parents are all very understanding, as they knew it’s the
best thing for the baby too.”  --Daryl Loo, Natasha Khan. Editors: Jason Gale, Bret Okeson  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540 or
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  