-- 
Dollar Debt Drops Most Since 2008 on Loan Jitters: China Credit

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-04T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/dollar-debt-drops-most-since-2008-on-loan-jitters-china-credit.html
Chinese companies’ dollar debt is
handing investors the biggest losses in almost three years as
concern bad loans will climb cools appetite for the securities
amid signs the global recovery is losing steam.  The notes fell 1.5 percent in August, the most since global
credit markets seized up in October 2008 following the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to HSBC Holdings
Plc’s Asian U.S. Dollar Bond Index. Only India’s debt performed
worse among issuers from  Asia ’s 10 biggest economies excluding
Japan and  Taiwan . Bonds sold by firms in Singapore, the only
regional economy to be rated AAA by the three largest ratings
companies, gained 1.3 percent, while U.S. Treasuries rose 2.8
percent.  Chinese companies have sold a record $33 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds this year as the yuan strengthened 3.4 percent
versus the greenback and domestic  interest rates  were raised
three times. The cost to protect the Asian nation’s sovereign
debt against default jumped the most in two years in August amid
fears the banking system will need to be bailed out as loans to
local governments turn sour.  “There is growing concern about the financial standing of
Chinese corporations amid a tight credit environment,” said
Takahide Irimura, head of emerging-market research in  Tokyo  at
Kokusai Asset Management Co., which manages about $60 billion of
assets. “Also, investors are generally becoming more risk
averse.”  Evergrande Bonds Fall  Dollar-denominated bonds issued by  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s second-biggest developer by sales, dropped
in August by the most in data going back to June 2010. The yield
on the 13 percent notes due January 2015 climbed 317 basis
points, or 3.17 percentage points, to 14.92 percent, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s 4.25 percent bonds due January 2021 rose last
month, pushing their yield down 35 basis points to 3.85 percent.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.’s 5.125 percent debt
due November 2020 fell, with the yield on the securities
climbing 10 basis points to 5.17 percent.  China’s largest offshore oil explorer, Cnooc is rated Aa3
by Moody’s Investors Service, the fourth-highest of 10
investment grades. Industrial & Commercial Bank, the world’s
biggest lender by market value, is rated three steps lower at
A3, while Evergrande’s B2 rating is five levels below investment
grade.  Credit-Default Swaps  The average yield Chinese companies pay to borrow in
dollars reached a 14-month high of 5.69 percent on Aug. 25, 35
basis points more than it was at the start of last month, an
HSBC index shows. The rate has since declined to 5.44 percent as
better-than-expected U.S. manufacturing and consumer spending
data damped concern the world’s biggest economy is headed for a
recession. The securities, which tumbled 12 percent in October
2008, advanced 0.1 percent since the end of August.  Five-year credit-default swaps for  China ’s debt surged 21
basis points to 108 basis points last month, the biggest
increase since August 2009, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. They touched 123
basis points on Aug. 26, the highest level since May 2009, and
were up seven basis points to 115 on Sept. 2 in  New York .  Contracts for  Brazil  and  Russia  were 143 basis points and
187, respectively, at the end of last month. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually in a contract protecting $10 million of
debt. The derivatives are used to insure debt against non-
payment and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality .  Bailout Risk  Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook on China’s sovereign AA-
local-currency rating to “negative” from “stable” on April
12 because of the risk banks will need to be rescued.
Insufficient data about the debt of China’s local governments is
a “weakness,”  Andrew Colquhoun , Asia-Pacific head of sovereign
ratings at Fitch, said last week in Beijing.  Policy makers have told lenders to set aside more cash to
address concern that the $1.7 trillion in liabilities accrued by
regional administrations building roads and other infrastructure
will trigger the nation’s third banking bailout in less than two
decades. Chinese banks’ non-performing loan ratio fell to 1
percent in the second quarter, from as high as 5.8 percent in
the first quarter of 2008, according to data on the industry
regulator’s website.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Aug. 31 that the country’s top
priority is stabilizing prices and the government doesn’t plan
to alter the direction of economic policies. The yuan gained 0.9
percent against the dollar in August, the biggest advance of
2011, as data showed inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5
percent in July. The currency declined 0.02 percent to 6.3826
per dollar on Sept. 2.  Fed Stimulus  The  Federal Reserve  cut its benchmark interest rate to a
maximum of 0.25 percent in December 2008 and on Aug. 9 pledged
to maintain record-low borrowing costs through mid-2013 to
support the U.S. recovery. The monetary authority has also
announced two rounds of bond purchases to help the economy, a
policy known as quantitative easing that boosts the supply of
dollars. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 26 that further
stimulus measures are possible. The next policy review concludes
Sept. 21.  “If the Fed does have a QE3, or even hint of a QE3 coming
soon, that could potentially cause the credit markets to perform
better going ahead, including dollar debt,” said Wee-Ming Ting,
the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-income at Pictet Asset
Management, which oversees $18.2 billion in emerging-market
debt. “It’s important to be not too negative.” He declined to
disclose whether his fund holds Chinese corporate dollar debt.  Accounting Concerns  The securities lost 3.6 percent in August, the biggest drop
since October 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
Notes sold by corporate issuers in  India  lost 2.2 percent, those
in Brazil fell 1.8 percent and Russian debt declined 1.3
percent, the data show.  Investor appetite for foreign-currency bonds of Chinese
companies may remain weak “for the time being” as concern
persists over the reliability of their financial reporting, said
Kokusai’s Irimura. Sino-Forest Corp.’s shares were suspended
from trading in Toronto on Aug. 26 after the Ontario Securities
Commission said directors of the tree-plantation company may
have engaged in acts “related to its securities” that they
“knew or should have known” perpetuated a fraud.  The world’s fastest-growing major economy is also showing
signs of cooling. Manufacturing growth held near a 29-month low
in August, according to data released last week by the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. A separate HSBC report
suggested output contracted for a second month. UBS AG, Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG lowered economic growth forecasts
for China in August.  “Activity data out of China has not been encouraging,
weighed down by lower external demand,” said Krishna Hegde,
Asia credit strategist at  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore . “The
softening in the economy is also a negative factor for bonds of
Chinese industrial firms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  