-- 
Euro Falls as Merkel Election Defeat, Stock Losses Boost Haven Currencies

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-05T16:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/dollar-rises-against-euro-on-merkel-election-defeat-u-s-slowdown-concern.html
The euro weakened for a fifth day
versus the dollar after an election loss for Germany’s ruling
party stoked concern support is fading for bailouts of  Europe ’s
most-indebted nations, boosting demand for refuge currencies.  The Swiss franc rose against all major peers as Greek two-
year note yields surged above 50 percent and the cost of
insuring Europe’s government bonds from default rose to records.
The Dollar Index climbed to a one-month high as economists said
U.S. data tomorrow will show service industries slowed, adding
to signs global growth is weakening. The yen gained versus the
euro after German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union was defeated in the election in her home state.  “Another state that Merkel’s CDU has failed to secure in
the vote, that’s six now in total, has spurred some euro
selling,” said Lauren Rosborough, a senior strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. on  London . “We’ve got risk aversion
across the board with dollar buying, Swiss buying, gold a little
bit stronger and the euro has been sold off.”  The euro declined 0.7 percent to $1.4106 as of 5:20 p.m. in
London after falling to $1.4061, the weakest level since Aug. 5.
The currency dropped 0.7 percent to 108.40 yen, and lost 1.2
percent to 1.10677 francs. The yen was little changed at 76.89
per dollar.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, climbed 0.5
percent to 75.152, after rising to 75.319, the highest level
since Aug. 5.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares slumped for a second
day, losing 4.1 percent, and gold for immediate delivery rose to
as much as $1,903 an ounce.  Merkel’s Loss  The  Social Democrats , Germany’s main opposition party, won
yesterday’s election in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania with 36.1
percent of the vote, while Merkel’s party had 23.3 percent, ZDF
television projections showed.  The result in the eastern state, where Merkel’s election
district is located, means her national coalition has been
defeated or lost votes in all six German state elections this
year as voters resist her bid to prevent a euro-region breakup
by putting more taxpayer money on the line for bailouts.  “Positioning has turned against the euro again and news
flow isn’t helping,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in an e-
mailed note. Merkel’s defeat “simply adds to the sense that
saving the euro is going to be made more difficult by opposition
from within  Germany .”  Bunds Gain  German 10-year bund yields dropped to a record 1.84
percent, while the yield on similar maturity Greek securities
surged to a euro-era high of 19.34 percent. Credit-default swaps
on  Greece  soared 146 basis points to 2,496, according to CMA.
Contracts on  Italy  jumped 29 basis points to a record 431.5, and
 France  was up 12.5 at an all-time high of 184.  European services and manufacturing growth slowed in August
as austerity measures and waning demand clouded growth
prospects. A composite index based on a survey of euro-area
purchasing managers in both industries dropped to 50.7 from 51.1
in July, Markit Economics said today. A figure above 50
indicates growth.  The  European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  by 33
basis points over the next 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG index based on swaps. Policy makers will leave
the benchmark at 1.5 percent at their next meeting on Sept. 8,
according to all the 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Moving Down’  “If the ECB takes away the tightening bias, it’s going to
take away some support out of the euro,” said Alex Sinton, a
senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland,  New
Zealand . “You would see the euro moving down to the $1.4010
area.”  The yen appreciated for a fifth day versus the euro as
signs the  U.S. economy  is slowing spurred demand for safer
assets. The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 51 last month, the lowest since January 2010,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before the data tomorrow.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged in August, the weakest reading
since September 2010, the Labor Department said Sept. 2.
President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to outline his plans to spur
the economy in a Sept. 8 address to Congress. U.S. financial
markets are shut today for a holiday.  “The market went into payrolls hopelessly optimistic and
that optimism wasn’t rewarded,” said  Robert Rennie , chief
currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp.,
 Australia ’s second-largest lender. “Developments in Europe
justify further  risk aversion .”  The Swiss franc, a traditional haven from market turmoil,
surged 2.4 percent against New Zealand’s dollar and 1.5 percent
versus the Mexican Peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 