-- 
EEF Cuts U.K. Growth Outlook, Says BOE Will Hold Rate Until 2012

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/eef-cuts-u-k-growth-outlook-says-boe-will-hold-rate-until-2012.html
The Engineering Employers’
Federation cut its U.K. manufacturing and economic growth
forecasts and said the  Bank of England  will keep interest rates
on hold until at least next year.  The EEF sees gross domestic product rising 1.1 percent this
year and 2 percent in 2012, cutting a June projection for 1.3
percent and 2.1 percent respectively, Chief Economist Lee Hopley
told journalists at a briefing in London on Sept. 2.  The Bank of England will hold its key  interest rate  at a
record low later this week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists, as the recovery falters and the euro-area debt
crisis weighs on the economy. While data from  Europe  and  Asia 
last week indicated global factory growth is cooling, a
quarterly survey of British manufacturers by the EEF showed they
remain “cautiously optimistic.”  “There is certainly much more of a sense of caution that
we’re picking up,” Hopley said. “But if the recovery trundles
on, then output and orders should continue to grow, but probably
not at the pace that we’ve seen at the back end of last year and
the early part of this year.”  Factory output, which accounts for about 13 percent of the
economy, will grow 2.8 percent this year, the EEF said, lower
than a 3.2 percent projection made in June. The group also cut
its estimate for 2012 manufacturing growth to 2.2 percent from
2.8 percent.  Factory Survey  Of 440 manufacturers questioned between Aug. 3 and Aug. 24,
the number saying sales rose in the past three months exceeded
those reporting declines by 27 percent, the EEF said in the
quarterly survey today. That compares with 28 percent in the
last survey published in June.  A gauge of export orders slipped 5 points to 23 in this
quarter’s survey.  The report contrasts with a gauge published by Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute Purchasing and Supply last
week that indicated U.K. manufacturing shrank the most in more
than two years in August. Other surveys showed manufacturing
shrank in the euro area, Russia and  Taiwan .  With the economic recovery showing signs of faltering, the
Bank of England will keep its benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent on Sept. 8, even though inflation remains more than
double its 2 percent target, according to all 57 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Officials will keep the bond-purchase plan at
200 billion pounds ($324 billion), said all but one of 42
economists in a separate poll.  “If things deteriorate substantially, nothing’s off the
table,” Hopley said, when asked if she thought the central bank
may expand stimulus. She said she doesn’t expect the bank to
raise interest rates this year.  A separate index of new jobs published today by Reed.co.uk,
Britain’s largest recruitment website, held at 122 in August.
The measure is 20 percent higher than a year ago. Reed’s gauge
of salaries fell 2 points to 97.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  