-- 
Megabank Default Risk Falls From Record High After Downgrade: Japan Credit

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-09-05T01:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/megabank-default-risk-falls-most-from-record-high-japan-credit.html
The cost of insuring Japan’s largest
lenders’ bonds is falling more than for any domestic company
after the Moody’s Investors Service downgrade of the nation’s
credit rating sent bank credit-default swaps to a record.  The top banks occupied five of the six biggest swap
declines last week, according to a Bloomberg ranking of
derivative price changes from data provider CMA. Five-year
contracts covering subordinated bonds of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s main banking unit dropped 48 basis points
in the five days ended Sept. 2 to 277.5 basis points. By
comparison, swaps for JPMorgan Chase & Co. subordinated debt
rose to 125 basis points from 118.5 last week.  Debt ratings for  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Sumitomo Mitsui  and Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. were cut one step
by Moody’s on Aug. 24 following its downgrade of Japan to Aa3
from Aa2, reflecting reduced government support in a crisis
scenario. The banks’ debt risk fell last week on optimism a 20-
month slide in Japanese loan demand will reverse in the fiscal
year ending in March, analysts said.  “Traders and investors seem to have shrugged off Moody’s
downgrade on megabanks because the action was largely in line
with their  Japan  sovereign downgrade,” said Katsuhito Sasajima,
a Tokyo-based bank analyst at JPMorgan Chase. “Lending demand
will see year-on-year growth around November as Japanese
companies use the strong yen to acquire and relocate overseas.
With billions of dollars of buyouts out there, the financing
requirements will follow.”  ‘Extreme Stress’  The main lending unit of Mitsubishi UFJ was cut to Aa3, the
fourth-highest investment grade, as was Sumitomo Mitsui Banking.
Mizuho’s two banking units were lowered to A1, the fifth
highest. They remain on review for further downgrade, Moody’s
said last month.  “There is an increasing risk that the government’s
capacity to provide support to banks in a future crisis has
diminished,” the ratings company said in a statement. “Under
conditions of extreme stress, the authorities will become
increasingly selective in their distribution of support, with a
bias in favor of the most systemically important banks.”  The reduction to Japan’s debt grade was the first by
Moody’s since 2002 and reflected deteriorating  credit quality 
across developed nations from  Italy  to the U.S., which lost its
AAA status at Standard & Poor’s this month.  Spreads Flat  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds of
Japanese banks instead of similar-maturity government debt was
unchanged at 45 basis points on Sept. 2 from the day before
Moody’s industry downgrade and little changed from a year ago,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Spreads on
U.S. bank debt were at 254 basis points on Sept. 2.  Credit risk on Mizuho, Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui
began rising in early August as sovereign credit concerns
throughout  Europe  increased and the region’s financial leaders
urged the speedy approval of the euro-area rescue fund. Last
week, default swap prices dropped 47 basis points for Mizuho
Corporate and Mitsubishi UFJ shed 36 basis points.  Japanese banks at the end of March held $1.3 billion in
Greek debt compared with $15 billion held by U.K. banks and $8.7
billion held by U.S. banks,  Bank for International Settlements 
data published in July. Japanese lenders’ holdings of Spanish
debt totaled $25 billion compared with $101 billion and $58
billion in the U.K. and U.S. respectively.  ’Less Exposure’  “Megabanks learned a lot of lessons from the subprime
crisis and the Asian financial turmoil in late 1990s, that’s
helped them stay less exposed to European sovereign debts and
allowed them to fend off offshore risks,” JPMorgan’s Sasajima
said.  The average price of five-year credit-default swaps for
subordinated debt of the three megabanks, Japan’s largest by
market value, climbed to 329 basis points on Aug. 25, the day
after the Moody’s downgrade, from 200 basis points on Aug. 4.
Protection for senior and subordinated debt of 197 global banks
rose to an average 360 basis points from 293.  The yen’s 9.8 percent gain against the dollar in the past
12 months and recent moves among Japanese companies to expand
overseas amid stagnant domestic growth will boost borrowing
demand after almost two years of declines, Sasajima said.  He cites the lift lending received five years ago amid a
surge in acquisitions including  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s 1.45 trillion
yen deal purchase of Vodafone K.K. and Toshiba Corp.’s
Westinghouse Electric Co. deal worth $5.4 billion.  Lending grew 1.1 percent in 2006 as companies tapped bank
loans and corporate bonds to finance their buyouts. Nippon Sheet
Glass Co. also completed a 1.8 billion pounds acquisition of
Pilkington Plc that year.  Lending for M&A  “Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. is perhaps among those that are
stepping up acquisitions abroad,” he said. “2011 will be the
year Japanese companies go into a buying frenzy. A tide of
acquisitions overseas will bring a tide of bank loans along with
it.”  Japanese companies issued 5.15 trillion yen worth of bonds
this year, a 16 percent decline from 6.12 trillion yen a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt dropped to 66
basis points from this year’s peak of 78 basis points on June
10, according to Nomura Securities Co.’s Bond Performance Index.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps rose
five-and-a-half basis points to 146 basis points on Sept. 2,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The government’s benchmark 10-year yields dropped two basis
points to 1.06 percent on Sept. 2 in  Tokyo  at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The rate
reached 0.97 percent on Aug. 19, the lowest level since Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  