-- 
Verizon, Cablevision Customers Lose Access to Tennis Channel

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-04T21:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/tennis-channel-pulls-its-signal-from-verizon-cablevision-amid-u-s-open.html
Customers of  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS pay-TV service lost
access to the Tennis Channel today amid a fee dispute, causing
them to miss some coverage of the  U.S. Open  tournament.  Tennis Channel pulled its signal early today, Jim Maiella,
a spokesman for Cablevision, said in an e-mailed statement. He
declined to say whether the company plans to negotiate a new
agreement with Tennis Channel after their contract expired.
Verizon is trying to negotiate a new deal with Tennis Channel,
Kevin Laverty, a spokesman for the New York-based carrier, said
in an interview.  The blackout means the customers will miss some coverage of
the sport’s only U.S. grand slam event, which includes players
such as  Rafael Nadal  and Roger Federer. Both Cablevision and
Verizon customers can still watch CBS and ESPN’s coverage of the
tournament, which is scheduled to run through Sept. 11.  Tennis Channel asked for “significantly higher” fees,
Maiella said. He said Cablevision customers can see “every
important U.S. Open match” on ESPN, CBS and through an online
service.  Cablevision didn’t agree to new contract guidelines and
“has chosen to drop Tennis Channel,” according to an e-mailed
statement from Eric Abner, a spokesman for Tennis Channel.  Verizon’s FiOS had about 3.8 million TV subscribers as of
June 30, and Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision had about 3.3
million such customers. Both trail larger pay-TV providers
including Comcast Corp., Time Warner Cable Inc., DirecTV and
Dish Network Corp.  The closely held Tennis Channel, based in Santa Monica,
California, is owned by investors that include Apollo Partners
and Bain Capital Ventures, as well as  Andre Agassi  and  Pete Sampras , according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  