-- 
Merkel’s Euro Debt Crisis Gambit Ends in Election Defeat in Her Home State

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-05T13:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/merkel-s-euro-gambit-ends-in-home-defeat.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party suffered its fifth election loss this year after she
failed to sway voters in her home state with a campaign based on
her handling of the euro-area debt crisis.  The Social Democrats, the main opposition party nationally,
took 35.7 percent to win yesterday’s election in Mecklenburg-
Western Pomerania, preliminary results show. Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  had 23.1 percent, its worst tally since voting
began in the state in 1990 after reunification that year between
 West Germany  and the former communist East  Germany .  The result in the eastern state where Merkel’s election
district is located means her national coalition has been
defeated or lost votes in all six German state elections so far
this year as voters resist her bid to prevent a euro-region
breakup by putting more taxpayer money on the line for bailouts.  “Merkel’s problem is that she fails to generate confidence
in her policies and those of her coalition partner,” Gero Neugebauer, a political science professor at the Free University
in Berlin, said by phone. “It’s about the consistency of her
statements” on bailouts for indebted euro countries.  Merkel took her crisis-fighting strategy directly to voters
in eight campaign stops over 18 days, telling election rallies
of the need for euro-area countries to step up deficit cuts and
reiterating her rejection of joint euro bonds. She canceled her
appearance at the final CDU rally two days ago after the death
of her father, aged 85.  ‘Hands Full’  “We’re right in the middle of a debate about the euro and
its future,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin today, defending
her choice of campaign theme. “People are right to expect
solutions. So we have our hands full. At the same time, you
can’t turn every state election into a bellwether for national
elections because then you won’t get anything done.”  The euro fell for a fifth day against the dollar and was
down 0.6 percent to $1.4113 as of 2:56 p.m. in Berlin. Germany’s
 DAX index (DAX)  retreated to the lowest level since November 2009, and
German bunds advanced, with two- and 10-year yields dropping to
record lows amid increased demand for the euro region’s safest
assets.  ‘Lost the Feel’  While “people are worried about the euro and their savings
losing value,” Merkel is using “the wrong words” by talking
about euro bonds, Manfred Guellner, head of the Berlin-based
Forsa polling group, said by phone. “That’s a technocratic,
abstract idea,” he said. “Her problem right now seems to be
that she’s not finding the right tone. Somehow, she has lost the
feel for what moves people.”  Neugebauer said that emphasizing euro bonds during her
campaign speeches was “strategically dumb” because it’s a
theme that unsettles voters.  The anti-capitalist Left Party took 18.4 percent in the
state, making it a potential candidate to enter government as
junior partner to the SPD. The  Social Democrats  have ruled
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, which borders the  Baltic Sea  to
the north and  Poland  to the east, in coalition with Merkel’s CDU
since 2006. Previously, the SPD governed the state with the Left
from 1998 to 2006.  The Greens took 8.4 percent to enter  the state parliament 
for the first time, while the Free Democratic Party, Merkel’s
coalition partner in the national government in Berlin, had 2.7
percent, dropping below the 5 percent threshold needed to win
seats in the state parliament in Schwerin. The anti-foreigner
NPD took 6 percent.  Politics ‘Reshuffled’  The Greens result means that the anti-nuclear party is now
represented in all 16 German state parliaments. The Free
Democrats lost all their seats for the fourth time this year.  The CDU’s losses are partly “due to dissatisfaction with
politics in Berlin,” Karl-Rudolf Korte, a political scientist
at the  University of Duisburg-Essen , said in a ZDF television
interview. “The victory of the Greens shows that the political
center is being reshuffled.”  Merkel’s message of fiscal prudence was targeted at one of
Germany’s economically weakest areas. The local economy grew 0.3
percent last year, the least of any state, even as national
gross domestic product expanded 3.6 percent, according to the
Federal Statistical Office.  Even so, under the so-called grand coalition of Prime
Minister Erwin Sellering’s Social Democrats and the  Christian
Democrats , unemployment has dropped from 18.2 percent in August
2006, then the highest in Germany, to 11.5 percent last month,
the nation’s third-highest. The state hasn’t run a  budget
deficit  since 2005, slashing costs by reducing government
services as the population dwindles.  SPD Gain  The SPD reaped the benefit at the ballot box, increasing
its share of the vote as Merkel’s CDU declined.  “Naturally, the CDU is disappointed about the result,”
 Peter Altmaier , the chief whip for Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc in Berlin, said on ARD television. “We have a lot of
challenges -- think of  Europe , think of the international
economic and currency crisis.”  Polls suggest the coalition parties will also struggle at
the last state election of the year, in Berlin on Sept. 18.  A poor result may force Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition
partner to take a harder line on euro-area bailouts, said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  “Landslide losses” for the coalition parties in both
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and Berlin “could lead to new
inner-party unrest,” Brzeski said in a Sept. 2 note. With the
FDP “searching for a clear political course” as it struggles
in the polls, “an attempt to gain profile on the sovereign debt
issue should not be excluded.”  Merkel said the government has work to do to help stem the
debt crisis and prevent a breakup of the euro region, which
“would start a domino effect that would be extremely dangerous
for our currency system.”  “The fall won’t be boring,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  