-- 
Exxon, Shell Return Workers to Gulf Platforms as Lee Moves Away

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-09-04T20:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/exxon-mobil-shell-return-workers-to-gulf-as-tropical-storm-lee-moves-away.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  returned workers to some oil and natural gas platforms
as Tropical Storm Lee accelerated to the east-northeast, out of
the Gulf of Mexico.  Crews are resuming production in the western Gulf after
inspecting equipment for damage, David Eglinton, a spokesman for
Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, Texas-based said today in an e-
mail. Exxon moved about 140 employees to shore from
approximately 20 structures ahead of Lee. Shell, based in The
Hague,  confirmed  it began returning staff after evacuating as
many as 858 workers.  About 60 percent of oil production from the Gulf,
equivalent to 843,223 barrels per day, remained shut as of 11:30
a.m.  New York  time, according to the  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement . Gas curtailments totaled
2.35 billion cubic feet, or 44 percent, down from 2.9 billion
cubic feet, or 55 percent, yesterday. The bureau said 239 of the
617 platforms in the Gulf were evacuated and 25 of the 70 rigs
currently drilling in the ocean.  The interruptions will be brief, said  James Williams , an
economist at  WTRG Economics  in London, Arkansas. “We’re not
talking about Hurricane Gustav here, moving pipelines up and
down Louisiana like it was spaghetti,” Williams said in a
telephone interview. “This one isn’t a big story. It’s a wet
story.” Gustav struck in 2008.  Production Resumes  Production resumed at  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s Nansen,
Boomvang and Gunnison platforms, the operator said today on its
 website . Its Constitution, Marco Polo, Independence Hub, Neptune
and Red Hawk installations will be staffed and started as soon
as possible, The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko said.  Platforms become accessible as weather clears west to east,
Mike Hurst, chief pilot of  PHI Inc.  in Lafayette, Louisiana.
It’s the largest provider of helicopters to Gulf of Mexico oil
producers.  Normal flights may resume tomorrow over western and central
platforms with service to eastern platforms Tuesday, he said.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s refinery in Pascagoula, Mississippi, is
operating normally, Katherine W. Swetman, a spokeswman, said
today in an e-mail. The unit can process as much as 360,000
barrels per day. More than 10 inches of rain fell in the area
the past four days, the  National Weather Service  said.  All  Exxon Mobil  refineries were operating normally today,
spokeswoman Claire Hassett said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  