-- 
Facebook Lawyers Disclosed E-Mail Passwords in Court Filing, Ceglia Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-04T21:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/facebook-lawyers-disclosed-e-mail-passwords-in-court-filing-ceglia-says.html
Paul Ceglia , who claims a 2003
contract with  Mark Zuckerberg  made him a partner in Facebook
Inc., said the company’s lawyers committed an “egregious and
massive violation” of his privacy by publishing his e-mail
passwords.  Facebook’s lawyers, from the 1,000-lawyer firm Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher LLP, included passwords to Ceglia’s Web-based e-mail
accounts in a court document filed Sept. 1 in federal court in
Buffalo,  New York , according to a filing by Ceglia. The papers
were removed from the public file the next day and Ceglia, in
Ireland, changed the passwords, according to his lawyers.  “Counsel’s baffling misconduct resulted in Ceglia’s e-mail
accounts being accessible to the world for 12 hours,” his
lawyers said in court papers. They said they intend to ask the
court for sanctions and attorneys fees. The lawyers, Paul
Argentieri and Jeffrey Lake, didn’t immediately return voice-
mail messages today seeking comment on the matter. Andrew Noyes,
a  Facebook  spokesman, declined to comment.  The dispute over Ceglia’s e-mails came as Facebook and
Ceglia battle over the exchange of evidence relating to the 2003
contract. In a court hearing in Buffalo last month, U.S.
Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio ordered Ceglia, 38, to give
Facebook access to his Web-based e-mails, which he has said he
used to communicate with Zuckerberg in 2003 and 2004.  Zuckerberg has said he signed a contract with Ceglia in
2003 to do work on StreetFax, a business Ceglia was trying to
start at the time. The contract made no reference to Facebook,
which he started in 2004, according to Zuckerberg.  Facebook Claim  Facebook, which operates the biggest social-network
website, has called Ceglia’s claim to a share in the company a
fraud on the court. Closely held Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , may be valued at $71.2 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, which tracks non-public companies.  At the Buffalo hearing, Gibson Dunn partner  Orin Snyder 
told Foschio that Facebook’s outside computer experts had found
an image of the genuine contract signed by Zuckerberg on one of
Ceglia’s computers. That contract, which the company filed with
the court, refers only to StreetFax and makes no mention of
Facebook.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net  