-- 
Finland Searches for Collateral Compromise as IMF Becomes Latest Detractor

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-05T14:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/finland-searches-for-collateral-compromise-as-imf-becomes-latest-detractor.html
Finland  is stepping up efforts to
find a compromise with Europe on its collateral demands amid
International Monetary Fund opposition to forcing  Greece  to give
euro members extra security for new loans.  “We will seek a solution together everyone can agree on and
one that doesn’t hurt anyone,” Finland’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters today in Helsinki after meeting with
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy . “We are seeking a
solution as soon as possible.”  Europe’s efforts to contain its debt crisis risk unraveling
as individual nations’ demands for collateral, Greece’s
deteriorating economic predicament and wavering commitment to
austerity packages from euro members such as Italy throw any
recovery in doubt.  Europe  is “committed to finding a solution” and will find
one “soon,” said  Van Rompuy . “The credibility of the euro area
and each of its member states is at stake.”  AAA rated Finland’s Aug. 16 announcement it had a bilateral
arrangement with Greece giving it cash collateral in exchange
for its commitment to a second bailout has sparked a torrent of
criticism. Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter warned
Finland’s deal threatened to “blow up” the region’s rescue
mechanism, while Michael Meister, senior finance spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats said such
accords would be “fatal” for the bailout.  IMF Objections  Since then, opposition to Finland’s arrangement has also
come from the IMF. The Washington D.C.-based fund, which has
provided a third of the bailout loans given to Europe so far,
would be denied priority creditor status should concessions such
as the use of collateral be granted to euro members, four people
with direct knowledge of the matter said last week.  Finland’s two-year debt yielded 21.6 basis points more than
similar-maturity German bunds, the second-smallest spread in the
euro region after the Netherlands. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Greece’s two-year note yield has soared above
44.5 percent amid concern Finnish demands may jeopardize its
second bailout package.  Finland’s collateral demands may also trigger a default on
some Greek bonds governed by  English law , because the securities
include conditions that require equal treatment for all
investors.  “It’s not an easy challenge,” Katainen said in a Sept. 3
interview broadcast by YLE’s TV1. “There is some international
law that’s also challenging, but we’re making the effort to
achieve this.”  Influence in Question  Finland’s condition that it get collateral for new Greek
loans was part of a euro-area agreement struck July 21 to
broaden the scope of the bloc’s rescue fund.  Katainen said Finland wants a solution that ensures its
continued involvement in the euro region’s rescue mechanism.  “Our influence is on the line,” he said in the YLE
interview. “We don’t want to shift decision-making to take
place between governments because that would give bigger
governments more say than smaller ones. We support a strong
European Commission.”  The Helsinki-based parliament’s grand committee, the
highest body in Finland’s legislature, has “no strict stance on
what the collateral will be,” committee Chairwoman Miapetra
Kumpula-Natri said Sept. 2. “It’s a matter between the creditor
and debtor and the government is in charge of formulating the
Finnish stance.”  The Nordic country’s original plan to get cash collateral
was proposed by the Greeks, Kumpula-Natri said.  Satisfying Everyone  “The main thing now is that we’ll reach our goal and
Finland gets the collateral and is able to participate in the
Greek bailout,” Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said
Sept. 2. “We are seeking a solution that everyone would be
satisfied with. We shall see when we get that solution.”  Katainen, who leads a six-party coalition, is under
pressure from voters to deliver a collateral accord, without
which his government might collapse, according to Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief economist at Aktia Oyj.  Finland’s anti-bailout party, which calls itself “The
Finns,” last month polled as the country’s most popular,
according to broadcaster YLE. The party saw its backing surge
fourfold in the April election, making it parliament’s third-
biggest. The party’s leader  Timo Soini  has railed against the
costs of funding bailouts and rejects Europe’s ambition of
preventing a Greek default.  “The European Union is breaking its own rules and Finland
shouldn’t have anything to do with it,” Soini said last week.
“This is a disaster. Finland should stay outside and oppose
these measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  