-- 
Michelin-Star Veteran Koffmann Evokes Scent of Village Roasts

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-09-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/michelin-star-veteran-koffmann-evokes-scent-of-childhood-roasts-interview.html
It’s just over a year since Pierre Koffmann, 63, came out of retirement to open a restaurant at the
Berkeley Hotel in  London . Koffmann, who once held three Michelin
stars at La Tante Claire, tells Bloomberg’s chief food critic
Richard Vines about his childhood in Tarbes, southwest France,
and how he went on to become a chef.  “I don’t have a first memory of a meal but in France every
family ate well at that time, 50 years ago,” Koffmann says.
“We were working class and not wealthy, so my mother had to
make the best of what she could get. It wasn’t fillet steak on
the table. If she had a chicken, she would keep the wings, the
feet, the neck, the head, everything, and make a stew. It was
brilliant. It was quite liquid -- no flour at all -- and in it
she would cook pasta. It was one of the best dishes I’ve ever
had. So it’s not a memory of a single meal but of many meals.
Food was very important.  “My mother and grandmother were both good cooks but my
mother was better because she was living in a town. It was only
a small place of 40,000 people but in a town you have a
fishmonger and everything you want. If you live in a village of
1,000 people, the only fish you would usually eat was salted cod
on a Friday because on Fridays you had to eat fish.  “If my grandfather went fishing, he’d take a clear glass
bottle, break off the end and tie it up with a piece of string.
Inside, he’d put some bread. The fish would see the food and
swim inside and be unable to escape. They were only tiny fish
but you could deep fry them without any work at all.  Village Smells  “My grandmother had a big open fire, an open chimney, so
there was a lot of roasting: chicken and rabbit on a spit and my
granddad was in charge of turning the spit. Poor guy: My
grandmother was on his back, like any couple. So you have that
visual image of the chickens and, then the smells were
important, they’re still very important. Saint-Puy was a tiny
village and if you were on top of the hill in winter -- because
everybody burned wood to heat their homes -- there was a
beautiful smell. I’ve never found that smell anywhere else.  “My father was a mechanic at Citroen and my mother worked
for the town council. My grandparents were both farmers on my
mother’s side. Every time I had a holiday, I went to stay with
them. If my mother wanted to make my dad happy, she knew what to
make. He loved cauliflower, cooked but cold, with mayonnaise.
That was one of his favorite dishes. I don’t know why because
it’s not gastronomic. He also liked herring. In  France , we
marinate smoked herring in onions and carrots and eat it with
warm potato salad. Those were his favorite dishes.  Working Holidays  “I wasn’t very good at school and when I reached the age
of 14, they asked me to leave,” says Koffmann. “I tried for
jobs at the French railway, the post office. I went to cookery
school not because I enjoyed food but because it was still
school. If you went to work for the French railway, you were a
man. You had to work like a man. But at school you got your
holidays. It was stupid of me because I didn’t realize that
during your holidays, you had to go and get some work experience
in a kitchen.  “I really enjoyed it. I was happy, I was in my element.
When you are that age, you are still a kid. I’m still a kid now.
Mentally, you are a kid all your life. I always enjoy it. From
school, I went to work in Strasbourg.  “At that time food was different from the southwest to the
east, Strasbourg, to the north, to Brittany, completely
different food. Now, it’s not so different, there’s a lot of
similarity. Then, if you wanted to be a good chef, you had to go
to Provence, Savoie, Strasbourg, to the France of gastronomy. So
I went to Strasbourg and after that I went to the French Riviera
and then I found a job in  Switzerland , in Lausanne.”  “I came to  England  just because I wanted to see England
play France at rugby. I said I’m going to go to England to see
the game and I stayed for six months working at Le Gavroche. The
plan was to spend six months in England and I wanted to move to
America. And now, 41 years later, I’m still here.”  Koffmann’s, Berkeley Hotel, 1 Wilton Place, London, SW1X
7RL. Information: +44-20-7235-1010;  http://bit.ly/khbncX .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 