-- 
India’s Singh Discloses Ministers’ Assets Amid Protests Over Corruption

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-04T07:56:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/india-discloses-ministers-assets-after-hazare-sparks-corruption-protests.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
office disclosed the financial assets of India’s ministers
online after public outrage at corruption sparked protests by
tens of thousands in support of an anti-graft hunger striker.  Singh  declared personal assets  of about 50 million rupees
($1.1 million) on his official website. The man who as finance
minister 20 years ago launched reforms that liberalized the
nation’s economy listed 32 million rupees in savings and term
deposits and a 1996 Maruti car valued at 24,745 rupees. Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  declared his net worth at 12.6 million
rupees and his wife’s at 17.8 million rupees.  The bid for transparency comes after  Anna Hazare , a 73-
year-old activist, endured a 13-day fast against corruption that
sparked nationwide protests last month. The government is
embroiled in a series of graft allegations, including
irregularities at last year’s Commonwealth Games for which
organizers bought $80 rolls of toilet paper, according to an
Economic Times report citing internal documents, and a probe
into the 2008 sale of mobile-phone permits that  India ’s chief
auditor said may have denied the exchequer $31 billion.  The government’s mishandling of Hazare, who was initially
arrested, has eroded public support for Singh’s Congress party
to 20 percent from 30 percent since May, while backing for its
chief rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , rose to 32 percent from
23 percent, according to a  poll  released yesterday by Nielsen
and Star News.  The three-day survey of 9,000 people was carried out
starting on Aug. 29, the day after Hazare ended his hunger
strike, according to the Star News website. It didn’t provide a
margin of error.  Of the 77 officials listed on the prime minister’s website,
net worth declarations weren’t available for five, including
Vilasrao Deshmukh, minister of science and technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  