-- 
Iran’s First Nuclear Plant Connected to National Power Grid, Agency Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-04T12:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/iran-s-first-nuclear-plant-connected-to-national-power-grid-agency-says.html
Iran ’s first nuclear power plant,
Bushehr, has been connected to the country’s national  power
grid , Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization said, according to
state-run  Press TV .  The 1,000-megawatt Russian-built plant joined the national
electricity network with a capacity of about 60 megawatts at
11:29 p.m. local time yesterday, Iran’s nuclear body said,
according to a report today on the news network’s website.  The Bushehr power plant will reach 40 percent of its
capacity at a ceremony to be held on Sept. 12, Press TV said.
Tests will be carried out in coming days to ensure the plant’s
coordination with the national grid, Iran’s state television
said in a separate  report  on its website.  Electricity generation at Bushehr, which Iranian officials
had estimated would start before September 2009, has been
repeatedly delayed because of technical glitches and a dispute
over Iran’s nuclear activities.  The Persian Gulf country is under international sanctions
over its nuclear program, which the U.S. and the European Union
say may be a cover for the development of atomic weapons. Iran
rejects the allegation, saying it needs nuclear power for its
growing population.  Russian and Iranian officials held a ceremony to mark the
opening of Bushehr on Aug. 21, 2010, and Iran began loading fuel
into the reactor in October, a process that it said ended about
a month later. In February, Iran said it was removing fuel rods
following  Russia ’s request for tests to be performed on the
plant.  Iranian officials acknowledged last year that Bushehr’s
computer systems and its centrifuges for enriching uranium had
been affected by malicious computer software, though they denied
this was the reason behind technical setbacks at the plant.
Symantec Corp., the world’s largest maker of computer-security
software, said in a Nov. 12 study that the so-called worm,
Stuxnet, may have been created to sabotage Iran’s nuclear
installations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  