-- 
Israel Stock Index Declines Most in a Month on U.S. Growth Risk, Protests

-- B y   S u s a n   L e r n e r   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-04T14:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/israel-s-stock-index-declines-most-in-a-week-on-u-s-growth-risk-protests.html
Israeli shares slumped the most in
almost a month amid concern the  U.S. economy  may slip into a
recession and after more than 400,000 people demonstrated
against the high cost of living in the Middle East nation.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the maker of over-the-counter drugs, slid for
a second day.  Discount Investment Corp. (DISI) , billionaire Nochi Dankner’s holding company, retreated 5 percent. The TA-25 Index
dropped 4.4 percent, the biggest decline since Aug. 7, to
1,082.47 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv . In the U.S., the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 2.5 percent on Sept. 2.  Hundreds of thousands of Israelis rallied throughout the
country yesterday to protest against rising costs for housing
and consumer goods, urging the government to act to close
social-welfare gaps. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  pledged
to act on recommendations from a panel led by Manuel Trajtenberg, a Tel Aviv University economist, which aim to
provide cheaper housing, daycare and transportation services and
lower food prices.  The declines in Israeli stocks are triggered “80 percent
from overseas and 20 percent from the protests,” said Saar Golan, a trader at Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage Ltd. in Tel
Aviv. “The concern is that the protests will lead to a stricter
regulatory environment for companies and higher taxes.”  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. stocks dropped last week as the S&P 500 posted its
biggest monthly decline in more than a year and a report showing
employment stagnated in August fueled concern the world’s
largest economy may slip into a recession. Payrolls were
unchanged, the weakest reading since September 2010, the Labor
Department said Sept. 2.  Perrigo retreated 5.6 percent, the most since Aug. 7, to
319.2 shekels. Discount Investment declined to 31.43 shekels,
the lowest level since Aug. 28.  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , the company that extracts minerals
from the  Dead Sea  to make fertilizer, tumbled 5 percent, the
most since Aug. 7, to 49.54 shekels. A Ministry of Justice
official proposed imposing an excess profit tax on Dead Sea
Works Ltd., a unit of the company, according to a legal
brief released by the ministry.  Israeli government bonds rose. The yield on the benchmark 5
percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2020 dropped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.37 percent.  In the Persian Gulf, markets resumed trading after a Muslim
holiday last week. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.6 percent
and Abu Dhabi’s gauge decreased 0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
Tadawul All Share Index rose 0.8 percent after rallying 2.1
percent yesterday. Kuwait’s measure jumped 0.9 percent.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  advanced 1.1 percent and Bahrain’s BB All
Share Index was little changed. In North Africa, Egypt’s EGX 30
Index added 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Lerner in Jerusalem at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  