-- 
Key’s Cabinet Marks Quakes That Cost New Zealand $25 Billion, Killed 180

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-04T21:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/n-z-ministers-mark-quake-anniversary-with-christchurch-meeting.html
New Zealand ’s Cabinet meets in
Christchurch today, marking the one-year anniversary of the
first of a series of earthquakes that hit the southern city and
may cost the nation as much as NZ$25 billion ($21 billion).  “We haven’t seen a natural disaster have a bigger impact
on a developed economy in economic terms than this one,” Prime
Minister John Key told  Television New Zealand  today. “We don’t
really know the total cost of this thing. Is it NZ$20 billion?
Is it NZ$25 billon? Nobody’s entirely sure.”  The magnitude-7 quake on Sept. 4, 2010, began a year of
seismic upheaval that included 29 temblors of magnitude 5 or
more, according to the government. A quake measuring 6.3 on Feb.
22 was the deadliest in 80 years, killing more than 180 people
and closing the heart of the nation’s second-largest city, home
to a population of 350,000.  New Zealand’s recovery from a 2009 recession was set back
as resources were diverted to Christchurch, and the government
forecasts a record budget deficit in the year ended June 30 as
it pays for rebuilding. The nation will get an economic boost
from the  Rugby World Cup  that starts in four days time,
attracting an expected 95,000 fans from overseas and generating
an estimated NZ$700 million in spending.  The  government  last week signaled that the NZ$15 billion
damage bill assumed in May’s budget, already about 8 percent of
gross domestic product, is likely to rise because of the extent
of property and land destruction. It more than doubled the
state’s estimated insurance liability to NZ$7.1 billion.  Outside Wellington  It is the first time in 16 years that New Zealand’s Cabinet
has assembled outside the capital city, Wellington, and
ministers will be briefed today by earthquake officials, local
mayors and specialists.  “The government remains totally committed to rebuilding
greater Christchurch and providing a sound future for those who
choose to call the region home,” Earthquake Recovery Minister
Gerry Brownlee said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The September earthquake “kicked off a series of seismic
events the likes of which hasn’t been seen anywhere else in the
world,” he said. “We’ve come a long way since that day,
through some dark and very trying times.”  Six thousand homes in Christchurch and smaller towns in
surrounding districts are on land so damaged they can’t be
rebuilt, while about 10,000 properties are still being assessed
and may be condemned.  Almost 388,000 claims have been lodged with the state-owned
 Earthquake Commission . About 30,000 homes have damage exceeding
NZ$100,000.  September’s quake, centered about 55 kilometers (34 miles)
west of the city, wrecked homes, roads and historical brick
buildings when it struck at 4:35 a.m. on a Saturday morning a
year ago. No-one was killed as the central city was largely
deserted. The Feb. 22 temblor was shallower, centered 10
kilometers away and struck during the lunch hour.  Heritage Properties  About 900 buildings in the city are being totally or partly
demolished, including some of the tallest towers, hotels and
many heritage properties that made Christchurch a favorite venue
of visiting tourists.  Christchurch  Mayor  Bob Parker  and his counterparts from the
neighboring Selwyn and Waimakariri districts placed full-page
advertisements in national newspapers at the weekend, thanking
New Zealanders for their support since the disasters.  The region “is indebted to the generosity and bravery of
everyone who has helped our community,” the mayors said.  The Rugby  World Cup  involves teams from 20 nations.
Organizers had to transfer games away from Christchurch after
the Feb. 22 temblor wrecked the city’s stadium. The  England  and
New Zealand squads have pledged to spend time training in the
South Island city during the competition.  “There were some great people down there who were getting
Rugby World Cup into great shape,” Martin Snedden, chief
executive officer of Rugby New Zealand 2011 Ltd., told
Television New Zealand’s Q+A yesterday. Having to shift those
matches was “by far the saddest thing that has happened in this
project,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe   ptighe@bloomberg.net  