-- 
Nadal Advances to U.S. Open Fourth Round

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-09-04T18:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/nadal-beats-nalbandian-to-reach-u-s-open-tennis-fourth-round.html
Defending champion  Rafael Nadal 
advanced to the fourth round of the U.S. Open with a straight-
sets victory over  David Nalbandian .  Nadal won 7-6 (7-5), 6-1, 7-5 at the National Tennis Center
in New York today. The 25-year-old No. 2 seed from Spain will
play Gilles Muller from Luxembourg or Igor Kunitsyn of Russia
for a place in the quarterfinals at the last Grand Slam tennis
tournament of the year.  Also today,  Andy Roddick , the 21st seed from the U.S.,
plays unseeded Frenchman Julien Benneteau. The evening session
gets under way with fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of the U.K. facing
Feliciano Lopez, the 25th seed from Spain. Day 7 concludes with
2010 runner-up Vera Zvonareva, the second seed from Russia,
against No. 22 Sabine Lisicki of  Germany .  Unseeded German Angelique Kerber became the first player to
reach the quarterfinals, where she’ll play Flavia Pennetta, the
26th seed from Italy.  Kerber beat Monica Niculescu of Romania 6-4, 6-3 today,
before Pennetta rallied from a 6-2 deficit in a second-set
tiebreak to beat Shuai Peng, the 13th seed from China, 6-4, 7-6
(8-6).  Nadal lost his service on a double fault when serving for
the match at 5-3 in the third set. The Spaniard saved another
break point at 5-5 before sealing the win in the next game on
his third match point when Nalbandian double-faulted.  Last American Woman  Serena Williams , 29, won yesterday to assume her accustomed
spot as the only remaining American woman at the tournament.
Williams also was the last American woman in the tournament in
2009 and 2008. She didn’t play last year because of an injury.  Williams entered the tournament as the betting favorite,
with 9-to-5 odds of winning her fourth title, according to Las
Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises Nevada sports books on
setting their gambling lines.  Sloane Stephens, the last of six American teenage women in
the tournament, lost in straight sets last night to No. 16 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, who next plays Williams.  Also yesterday, top women’s seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of
Denmark, a finalist at the 2009 U.S. Open and a semifinalist
last year, defeated American Vania King in straight sets.  Wozniacki, who has held the No. 1 ranking on the WTA Tour
for 46 weeks, next faces Svetlana Kuznetsova, the No. 15 seed
from  Russia  and the 2004 U.S. Open winner, for a spot in the
quarterfinals.  Francesca Schiavone, the women’s No. 7 seed from Italy, and
 Andrea Petkovic , the No. 10 seed from Germany, also won
yesterday.  Federer Wins  In the men’s draw, five-time men’s winner  Roger Federer 
advanced yesterday with a four-set win against Marin Cilic.  Federer, the No. 3 seed from Switzerland, has a record 16
Grand Slam titles and is trying to extend his streak of winning
at least one major title in every year since 2003. He’ll next
play Juan Monaco of Argentina for a chance to reach his 30th
straight Grand Slam quarterfinal.  The top men’s seed, Novak Djokovic of  Serbia , and Mardy Fish, the highest-seeded American man at No. 8, also advanced on
Day 6, along with Janko Tipsarevic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  