-- 
Netanyahu Pledges to Ease Israeli Living Costs

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-09-04T11:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/netanyahu-pledges-to-ease-israeli-living-costs.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  renewed his pledge to ease the cost of living after
weekend protest rallies brought more than 400,000 people onto
the streets.  Netanyahu said he will act on recommendations from a panel
headed by Tel Aviv University economist Manuel Trajtenberg that
are due by the end of September and aim to provide cheaper
housing and bring down prices for food, daycare and
transportation.  “The public debate and the Trajtenberg Committee
discussions are an opportunity for real changes,” Netanyahu
said in remarks broadcast on Israel Radio before his weekly
Cabinet meeting in  Jerusalem . “After receiving the committee’s
recommendations, I will act quickly to bring about the correct
balance between social concern and fiscal responsibility.”  A citizens protest movement that started in mid-July by
planting tent camps in  Tel Aviv ’s fanciest neighborhoods
organized rallies across the country last night that attracted
as many as 450,000 people, according to estimates in Haaretz and
other newspapers.  The protesters “will not give up,” said Itzik Shmuli, a
leader of the movement and chairman of the National Student
Union, addressing a crowd estimated at 300,000 in Tel Aviv.
“They demand change and will not stop until real solutions
come.”  Stocks Fall  Israeli stocks fell the most in a week in the first trading
session after the rally and amid concerns that the  U.S. economy 
may slip into recession. The benchmark TA-25 Index dropped 2.6
percent to 1,102.47 at 1:46 p.m. in Tel Aviv, the biggest
intraday decline since Aug. 25.  Housing prices have increased about 40 percent in the last
three years, in part the result of  Israel ’s slow planning and
construction process, Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer
said on Aug. 1. They rose 13.7 percent in the 12 months through
April-May, about triple the inflation rate, the Central Bureau
of Statistics reported on July 15.  Israel ranked fourth in the Knight Frank Global House Price
Index for the first quarter of 2011, trailing only  Hong Kong ,
 India  and Taiwan. Rent prices increased a monthly 1.1 percent
May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 