-- 
Noda Tells Wary Japanese Nuclear Power Is Needed to Save Economy

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-09-05T02:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/noda-tells-japanese-atomic-power-needed-to-save-economy-as-he-takes-office.html
Japan ’s new Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in his first days in office started to deliver a difficult
message to a public still in shock from the Fukushima nuclear
disaster: Atomic power is needed to save the economy.  Nuclear power provided about 30 percent of the electricity
in the world’s third biggest economy before the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. Now, about 80 percent of Japan’s 54
reactors are offline with more shutting for scheduled
maintenance in the months ahead.  With the majority of opinion polls showing the public
oppose the use of atomic power, Noda needs to convince his
electorate so-called stress tests on reactors will make them
safer to restart. Industry leaders have said they may shift
production overseas if power supplies aren’t stable, threatening
an economic recovery.  “There will be very little reserve electricity for peak
hours in the winter and summer if the operating rate of reactors
keeps falling,” said Yugo Nakamura, an analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. Noda is “trying to avoid economic
disruptions by restarting reactors after safety checks.”  Noda’s predecessor,  Naoto Kan , called for Japan to end its
reliance on atomic power after the world’s worst nuclear
accident in 25 years. Public concern about safety has meant that
reactors closed for maintenance haven’t been allowed to restart,
forcing Japan this year to impose power-savings measures for the
first time since the 1970s.  Shrinking Economy  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3
percent rate in the three months ended June 30, marking three
consecutive quarters of declines, the Cabinet office said last
month.  The new premier seems in agreement with Kan that Japan’s
energy future should shift focus to renewable power, while
saying for the current economy to grow nuclear power is needed.  “It’s a realistic option to use existing plants to a
certain extent and develop nuclear technology until at least
2030 while aiming to decrease our dependency on atomic power,”
Noda said in an article for the Bungeishunju magazine published
on Aug. 10.  “We will build a framework so we can restart reactors shut
for maintenance after ensuring they are safe following stress
tests and gaining the understanding of local residents,” Noda
said on Sept. 2 after appointing his Cabinet.  “It’s important for us to prepare for restarts,” he said
in comments on possible power shortages next year.  Opinion Polls  Sixty-eight percent of respondents to an Asahi newspaper
poll published on Aug. 8 said they wanted Kan’s successor to
continue the policy of phasing out atomic energy.  Noda’s approval rating was 65 percent, according to a poll
published yesterday by the Yomiuri newspaper, the country’s
biggest. The Nikkei newspaper and  Kyodo News  put his popularity
rating at 67 percent and 63 percent respectively. None of the
polls gave a margin of error.  Noda named Yoshio Hachiro, 63, to be Trade and Industry
Minister in his Cabinet lineup, giving him the responsibility to
rebuild the ministry that has played conflicting roles in both
regulating nuclear energy and promoting its use.  The government in July said it would set up a regulator
outside of the ministry and in August, the previous minister,
 Banri Kaieda , fired the country’s top energy bureaucrats in what
he called “sweeping” changes.  Stress Tests  To address public anxiety, the government in July said
electricity companies must carry out the stress tests on all
nuclear stations.  Japan may submit the results of the checks to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  for review, Hachiro said
yesterday on NHK Television.  “The current review system of Japan’s nuclear governing
body has failed to earn the trust of the people,”  Goshi Hosono ,
the minister in charge of dealing with the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, said on the same program.  Plans to build more reactors were also shelved after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused three reactor meltdowns
at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Winning public support for extending reactor lives or
building new ones won’t be easy Kan said on July 22, a comment
repeated by Noda last week.  Nuclear Village  Kan also talked about the power of the so-called nuclear
village, the nexus of the power companies, regulators and
politicians supporting the industry, in highlighting the
difficulties in moving away from atomic power.  “I did feel that I was subject to criticism,” Kan said on
the day he stepped down when asked about his decision to shut a
nuclear station near  Tokyo  to beef up quake and tsunami defense.  The powerful interests behind the nuclear industry, which
powered Japan’s economic rise in the 1970s and 1980s, may make
it harder to reform the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
for Hachiro, who has a background in agriculture.  “Hachiro is capable. But he isn’t strong enough to stand
up to METI bureaucrats,” Minoru Morita, a Tokyo-based
independent political analyst, said by phone on Sept. 2.  Japan’s parliament on Aug. 26 approved a bill to subsidize
electricity from renewable sources, in one of the last acts of
the Kan administration. The use of clean energy sources will
improve the country’s energy security and create new industries,
Noda has said.  Japan should increase clean  energy supply  to 20 percent of
the total in the 2020’s from the current 9 percent, he said in
the Bungeishunju article.  “This crisis has the potential to revive Japanese
industries in the long run,” Noda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  