-- 
Obama in New Jersey to View Damage From Hurricane Irene

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-09-04T19:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/obama-in-new-jersey-to-view-damage-from-hurricane-irene-3-.html
President  Barack Obama , on his first
tour of areas hit by Hurricane Irene, told residents of northern
New Jersey that the federal government would provide “all the
resources” necessary to help them recover.  “I want to make very clear that we are going to meet our
federal obligations,” Obama said in flood-ravaged Paterson, New
Jersey, with GovernorChris Christie at his side. “When one
part of the country gets affected, whether it’s a tornado in
Joplin, Missouri, or a hurricane that affects the eastern
seaboard, then we come together as one country and make sure
that everybody gets the help that they need.”  Obama, who also stopped in nearby Wayne, vowed there would
be no slowdown in delivering aid. Christie, a Republican, has
praised the federal response and told fellow party members in
Congress not to hold up aid while looking for ways to offset the
cost to the budget.  Irene made landfall on Aug. 27 in  North Carolina , and was
downgraded to a storm as it moved north to Mid-Atlantic states
and New England. The storm and related flooding killed dozens of
East Coast residents, damaging roads and buildings and cutting
power to millions.  Obama has signed emergency declarations for  Pennsylvania ,
 Connecticut ,  Delaware ,  Massachusetts ,  Maryland , New Hampshire,
New Jersey,  New York , North Carolina,  Rhode Island , Vermont,
 Virginia  and the  District of Columbia .  Gulf Storm  The president also is monitoring Tropical Storm Lee, which
made landfall on the Louisiana coast and is hitting the state
with heavy rain and wind, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters traveling with the president. Lee has shut more
than half of the oil and natural gas production from the
resource-rich  Gulf of Mexico .  In  New Jersey , there have been nine confirmed Irene-related
deaths, according to Mary Goepfert, a spokeswoman for the state
Office of Emergency Management. Three New Jersey residents died
in other states, she said.  People in formerly flooded areas are returning to their
homes as evacuation orders are being lifted, Goepfert said. All
rivers in the state have crested and are receding. A week after
the storm, 5,318 residences remained without power and 425
people were being housed in eight shelters.  New Jersey’s insured losses due to Irene totaled $751.4
million, and economic losses were $2.1 billion, according to
Kinetic Analysis Corp., a Silver Spring, Maryland-based
disaster-cost forecaster.  Scene in Paterson  Along Fayette Avenue in Wayne, New Jersey, pools of water
remained in the street along with piles of debris and knocked
over fences in front of houses.  “I know it’s a tough time right now,” Obama said to a
group of local residents. “You guys hang in there, alright?”  The Passaic was still moving fast enough to churn up foam
and the river swirled with currents as Obama toured the area.
Some streets now dry near the Passaic look like an old western
town after a dust storm, coated with the dirt left behind when
the flooding receded.  Cab driver Geraldo Parrilla, who served tours in Iraq and
Bosnia during 7 1/2 years in the Army, said the sump pumps in
his house about a block from the still-swollen Passaic River
weren’t able to keep up with the flooding from Irene. The storm
poured more than four feet of water into the basement.  “We’ve been here 22 years and this is the first time it’s
ever been this bad,” Parrilla, 35, said in an interview as he
and family members cleaned out the basement. “I’d say it could
be $35,000 easily. It’s hard. And the fact of the matter is we
have no flood insurance. We couldn’t get it.”  Government Response  Parrilla said Christie deserves credit for visiting the
neighborhood Aug. 31, while the local response has lagged.  “You see who your true neighbors are and how local
government reacts,” he said. “I wasn’t a  Chris Christie  fan
but after the storm my opinion changed.”  Parrilla said he hoped Obama’s visit “puts pressure” on
local officials.  The sound of generators and pumps resounded through the
neighborhood as James Anthony, 39, cleaned out the six-bedroom
home he shares with his mother on North Bridge Street about a
block from the Lafayette Avenue Bridge and across the street
from the river.  Rugs, a television and furniture stood on the sidewalk
outside the home.  “This is all gone,” Anthony said. “We might get mold or
something, so I’ve got to take everything down.”  High-Level Interest  He said he was buoyed by Obama’s visit.  “It’s really big for the president to come to Paterson,”
said Anthony, who works for the department of public works in
nearby Glen Rock. “Somebody on top cares about us. That’s never
happened before.”  The Obama administration is seeking $5.2 billion from
Congress for additional relief aid for disasters not including
Irene. These include costs related to Hurricane Katrina of 2005,
and tornadoes earlier this year in  Missouri .  In a Sept. 1 letter to congressional appropriators, Jack Lew, the head of the White House Office of Management and
Budget, said there is “no question” more money will be needed
because of Hurricane Irene but it was too soon to know how much
because rescue efforts were still under way and floodwaters were
still rising.  “Providing disaster relief to our fellow Americans is a
commitment that crosses all boundaries of geography and
political party,” Lew said in his letter.  Hurricane Katrina  Six years after President  George W. Bush  drew blame for his
administration’s slow initial response to Hurricane Katrina,
Obama and emergency workers said they heeded Katrina’s lessons
about the need for the federal government to respond
preemptively and coordinate with state and local officials.
Katrina made landfall in  Louisiana  on Aug. 29, 2005.  Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator  Craig Fugate  and other officials readied federal assistance days ahead
of Irene’s landfall and reached out to state and local
officials. The president cut short his family vacation in
Martha’s Vineyard by one night to get back to the White House
before the hurricane came ashore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Paterson, New Jersey, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net 
Terrence Dopp in Paterson, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 