-- 
Packer, Ho May Invest $1 Billion in Manila Casino, Gambling Regulator Says

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-09-05T09:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/packer-ho-may-invest-1-billion-in-manila-casino-gambling-regulator-says.html
Australian billionaire  James Packer 
and Lawrence Ho, son of Macau gambling mogul  Stanley Ho , may
invest at least $1 billion in a Manila casino project, the
Philippine gambling regulator said.  “Discussions are still ongoing” with  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , Packer and Ho’s casino venture, said
Cristino Naguiat, chairman of the state-owned Philippine
Amusement & Gaming Corp. “I think they’re serious,” he said in
a Sept. 2 interview in  Shanghai , as he accompanied President
Benigno Aquino on a state visit to China.  The Philippines awarded four licenses in 2008 and 2009 to
operate casinos in a gambling and entertainment complex the
government plans to build in Manila. The Philippines is seeking
to accelerate construction as bettors in  Asia  fuel casino growth
in Singapore and  Macau . Casino gambling revenue in Macau was
four times that of the Las Vegas Strip in 2010 and has grown 47
percent this year to 173 billion patacas ($22 billion).  “The government’s strategy of bringing in key investors is
good as it creates a critical mass,” Leo  Venezuela , a Manila-
based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said today. “You
can’t just have one or two players and call it a gaming center.
You have to have a handful to provide variety and a more dynamic
industry.”  Four Licensees  Each Philippine licensee agreed to invest $1 billion over
five years, Naguiat said. Three of the four that were given
licenses in 2008 to 2009 were a venture between  Genting Malaysia
Bhd (GENM)  and Alliance Global Group Inc., Philippine property
developer  Belle Corp. (BEL) , and Philippine ports magnate Enrique Razon’s Bloombury Investments Holding Inc.  Naguiat declined to name the fourth, saying only that it’s
a Japanese company.  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , a Japanese
maker of so-called pachinko pinball machines, started building
its project in June and plans to open by 2014, Kazuma Ishioka, a
Tokyo-based spokesman, said by phone today.  Melco Crown  fell 3.9 percent to $12.34 in Nasdaq trading on
Sept. 2, paring its gain this year to 94 percent.  The final amount of the investment will change, Naguiat
said, declining to be more specific. State-owned Philippine
Amusement & Gaming, also referred to as Pagcor, operates and
regulates casinos in the  Philippines .  Belle and Bloombury have started construction while the
rest will begin by the first quarter of 2012, Naguiat said.  Tourism Boost  The Philippine government’s move to boost its casino
industry may help meet its goal of increasing  tourist  arrivals
to the archipelago of more than 7,000 islands to 6 million by
2016, according to analysts.  Thailand  had almost 16 million
visitor arrivals last year.  “Unlike Singapore and  Macau , the Philippines has other
attractions,” CLSA’s Venezuela said. “Tourists can go to other
destinations apart from casinos. Aside from that, it’s
strategically located in Asia. It’s a short flight from North
and South Asia.”  The Philippines and China, which provides a steady traffic
of customers to Macau’s casino, said in a Sept. 1 communique
that they plan to double two-way tourist arrivals to 2 million
people in the next five years.  Geoffrey Davis, Melco Crown’s chief financial officer,
didn’t reply to an e-mail and voice message seeking comment.
Gary O’Neill, a spokesman for Melbourne-based  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , and
Maggie Ma, a spokeswoman for  Melco International Development
Ltd. (200) , didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Pagcor Casinos  Lawrence Ho’s Melco International and Packer’s Crown each
own 33.5 percent of Nasdaq-listed Melco Crown, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Ho is Melco Crown’s chief executive
officer and both men are co-chairmen of the company that owns
the City of Dreams and Altira casinos in Macau.  Melco International fell 1.5 percent to HK$8.08 at the 4
p.m. close of trading in  Hong Kong . Crown dropped 0.9 percent to
A$8.15 at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney.  Pagcor  promoted the 1,976-acre gambling and entertainment
complex in 2007 after Congress renewed its license to run gaming
operations in the nation for an additional 25
years.  Pagcor operates 13  casinos  in the country, according to its
website. Its revenue rose 11 percent to 17.2 billion pesos in
the first half and contributed 6.35 billion pesos to the
treasury, the tax bureau and the Philippine Sports Commission,
according to the website.  Manila  Bay  The first phase of Pagcor City, as the project is called,
will include a casino resort and a theme park that will take two
to three years to develop, Efraim Genuino, the company’s
chairman in 2007, said at the time. It will take at least seven
years to complete the project, he said, with most of the
development to be built on land that has yet to be reclaimed
from Manila Bay.  Genuino at the time estimated Pagcor City could boost
overseas visitors into the Philippines by fourfold to 10 million
in five years. About 80 percent to 90 percent of the complex’s
revenue could come from tourists, including those from  China  and
 Japan , he said then.  Alliance Global and Genting’s venture, which operates
Manila’s biggest casino, committed in 2008 to spend about $1.1
billion to develop 91 acres in Pagcor City into a complex of
hotels and a theme park. Belle, which is selling shares in a 4.5
billion peso rights offer this month, plans to open part of its
$750 million Belle Grande Manila Bay casino in the second
quarter of next year, Belle Vice Chairman Willy Ocier said in
April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  