-- 
Palestinians Expect 140 Countries to Back Its Statehood Bid, Shaath Says

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-04T17:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/palestinians-expect-140-countries-to-back-its-statehood-bid-shaath-says.html
About 140 countries are likely to
support a Palestinian bid for statehood recognition at the
 United Nations General Assembly  later this month, according to
Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath.  “Many Palestinian leaders and officials went on separate
tours and visits to convince the world’s countries to recognize
the Palestinian state in the territories occupied by Israel in
1967,” said Shaath, a senior official in Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah faction. His remarks in Ramallah
today were broadcast on Palestinian television.  Palestinian officials have said they are pursuing
recognition at the UN for statehood due to a failure to restart
negotiations with Israel that broke down a year ago over
construction in  West Bank  settlements. Israel has warned that
the Palestinian move might jeopardize the peace process.  The U.S. is making a final effort to restart peace talks
and forestall the Palestinian bid, The New York Times reported
today, citing unidentified American officials. The U.S. opposes
the Palestinian bid for statehood and has veto power in the UN
Security Council.  After traveling to the region last week, European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said her meetings with
Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu indicated  a
“real opportunity” to move forward on peace negotiations.  Economic Capability  The  International Monetary Fund  said in an April 6 report
that the  Palestinian Authority  is capable of running the economy
of an independent state. Though Palestinians have few natural
resources and no independent access to ports, growth in the West
Bank and  Gaza Strip  reached 9 percent in 2010, the IMF said in
the report.  Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza  and east Jerusalem in
the 1967 Middle East war from Jordan and  Egypt . While ceding
much of its power with the 1993 Oslo agreements, Israel
maintained authority over roads, airspace and borders.  Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, taking charge of the
southern border with Egypt, though Israel operates a sea
blockade of the territory and allows only limited exports.  Israel  hasn’t spelled out how it will respond to
recognition of Palestinian statehood in the General Assembly.
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, though, said July 17 that
forcing a vote at the UN would be “the end of the Oslo
Accords.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  