-- 
Qatar’s Bonds Best Performers in August on Flight to Quality: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-05T09:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/qatar-s-bonds-best-performers-in-august-on-flight-to-quality-arab-credit.html
Qatar’s sovereign bonds were the
best performers in the  Middle East  in August as investors sought
refuge from a slowing U.S. economy and a worsening debt crisis
in Europe.  Four of the five best-performing securities among the 32
that make up the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional
Sovereign Bond Index were from Qatar. The fifth was from  Abu
Dhabi . The total return on Qatar’s 6.4 percent bond due 2040 was
7.25 percent last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The JPMorgan Emerging Markets Bond Index returned
0.22 percent. U.S. government bonds had a return of 2.8 percent
in August, the most since December 2008, according to an index
compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  “There has been a global flight to quality since July as
macroeconomic conditions deteriorated in the U.S. and  Europe ,”
Gus Chehayeb, a Dubai-based associate director at investment
bank Exotix Ltd., said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News yesterday. “Bond investors shifted funds into
regional sovereigns with the cleanest and strongest balance
sheets, and for Middle East-focused investors this meant a
capital flight into Qatar and Abu Dhabi.”  Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August,
raising the odds the world’s biggest economy will slip into
recession. Political squabbling over the  U.S. budget deficit 
that led to the country being stripped of its AAA credit rating
and mounting concern about a default in Europe has caused the
S&P 500 share index to drop 8 percent between July and August.  Qatar Gas  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, forecasts its economy will expand 15.7 percent this year.
The country projects a budget surplus of 22.3 billion riyals
($6.1 billion) this fiscal year, and the  International Monetary
Fund  says Qatar will have the world’s fastest-growing economy
for the second straight year in 2011.  The default risk of Qatar and Abu Dhabi, both rated AA by
S&P, climbed less than eight basis points to 102 and 102.1
respectively, since the U.S. lost its AAA rating for the first
time in history, according to data provider CMA. Credit default
swaps for  Japan , also rated AA at S&P, the third-highest
investment grade score, rose 12 basis points to 105.44,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Highest Quality Names  “Because Qatar and Abu Dhabi are the highest quality names
in the region they’re the most sensitive to interest rate
changes like U.S. Treasury yields,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain,
who helps oversee $2 billion in fixed-income assets as chief
executive officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd. in Dubai. “You
also had investors exiting higher yielding names like Dubai to
get into safe-haven trades like the Qatar sovereigns.”  The U.S. government’s benchmark 10-year Treasury yields
declined 57 basis points last month, the most since a 71 basis
point drop in December 2008, touching a record low of 1.97
percent on Aug. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European sovereign  default risk  rose to a record yesterday
after a report showed employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August, adding to signs the global economic
recovery is weakening. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of credit-default swaps insuring the debt of 15
governments rose 11 basis points to 310, surpassing a record
closing price of 308 on Aug. 26. Sovereign-debt difficulties in
Europe pose a threat to the euro and financial institutions in
the region, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in remarks
prepared for a speech in Beijing yesterday.  Oil Prices   The six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes
Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates , of which Abu
Dhabi is the capital, holds about a fifth of the world’s proven
oil reserves. Crude prices jumped more than 30 percent over the
past five years. Oil tumbled 11 percent this quarter and was
trading at $84.95 as of 11:30 a.m. in Dubai.  Both  Qatar  and Abu Dhabi have been spared the protests to
replace autocratic regimes sweeping the Arab world that have
toppled leaders in Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya , and led to violent
clashes in Yemen, Syria and Bahrain.  “Long-dated bonds performed well given how much benchmark
treasury yields dropped, so the Qatar 2030s had a decent run,”
Ahmed Talhaoui, head of asset management at Abu Dhabi-based
Royal Capital PJSC said yesterday. “High-beta names such as
Dubai witnessed a significant spread widening.”  The yield on Dubai government’s 7.75 percent bond due 2020
widened 30 basis points to 6.78 percent in August and on the 6.7
percent bond due 2015 increased 49 basis points to 5.47 percent.
The 2020 notes yielded 6.83 percent today and the rate on the
2015 securities was at 5.55 percent.  Qatar Rate Cut  Qatar’s central bank last month cut its overnight lending
rate and repurchase rate to 4.5 percent from 5 percent. The
overnight deposit rate was cut a quarter point to 0.75 percent.
The move aims to boost credit for spending on infrastructure and
real-estate projects, the central bank said.  Qatar, which will host soccer’s 2022  World Cup , exported
its first cargo of liquefied natural gas in 1996. The country
reached its target of 77 million tons of annual LNG production
early in 2011, making it the world’s biggest producer.  “If the U.S. can come up with a strong and cohesive policy
response over the next couple of weeks, we could see a reversal
in the markets,” Hussain at Mashreq Capital said. “Otherwise
the trend will continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  