-- 
Top-Seeded Wozniacki Fights Back for Win in U.S. Open as Tsonga Ousts Fish

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-06T03:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/rafael-nadal-andy-roddick-win-advance-to-u-s-open-tennis-fourth-round.html
Caroline Wozniacki , the women’s top
seed, fought back from a set down to beat former champion
Svetlana Kuznetsova and advance to the  U.S. Open  quarterfinals.  Wozniacki won 12 of the last 14 games to pull out a 6-7 (6-
8), 7-5, 6-1 victory at the National Tennis Center in New York.
The Dane trailed 4-1 in the second set before mounting her
comeback at Arthur Ashe Stadium.  It was Wozniacki’s fourth straight win over Kuznetsova, the
15th seed from  Russia  who won Grand Slam titles at the 2004 U.S.
Open and 2009 French Open. She also beat Kuznetsova in three
sets in the fourth round of the 2009 U.S. Open.  “I actually thought about the match we played two years
ago and said, ‘I can do this, I can fight back,’” Wozniacki
said in a televised interview. “I kept hanging in there.”  Wozniacki’s win came after three-time women’s champion
 Serena Williams  and men’s top seed Novak Djokovic had straight-
set victories to advance to the quarterfinals at the season’s
final major championship.  Mardy Fish, the highest-seeded American in the men’s draw,
was ousted in five sets by Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of  France . Tsonga,
seeded 11th, moved into the quarterfinals with a 6-4, 6-7 (5-7),
3-6, 6-4, 6-2 win.  Wozniacki, who didn’t drop a set over the first three
rounds, blew a 5-2 lead against Kuznetsova in the first-set
tiebreaker.  Second-Set Recovery  After falling 4-1 behind in the next set, Wozniacki won
four straight games before missing a chance to level the match
on her serve. Wozniacki recovered with a service break of her
own before forcing a deciding set.  Having seized the momentum, Wozniacki won the first eight
points of the final set and went on to close out the win in 3
hours, 2 minutes. Kuznetsova finished with 78 unforced errors to
26 for Wozniacki.  Wozniacki, who failed to reach the quarterfinals at the
French Open and Wimbledon this year, advances to play 10th-
seeded  Andrea Petkovic  of  Germany , who won in straight sets over
Carla Suarez Navarro of  Spain .  Williams, 29, an American seeded 28th after two injury-
marred years, won 6-3, 6-4 in swirling 20 mph (32 kph) wind.  “Oh, man, it was crazy, I just didn’t even go for winners
at some points,” Williams, who has lost 17 games in eight sets
so far in New York, said in a news conference. “I was just
trying to get it over because it was so windy. It just kind of
swirls down there.”  She’ll next play Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia, the
17th seed who upset the women’s seventh seed, Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , 5-7, 6-3, 6-4 to reach the round of eight.  All-Serb Matchup  Djokovic fought off four set points in a tiebreaker en
route to a 7-6 (16-14), 6-4, 6-2 win against Alexandr Dolgopolov, the 22nd seed from Ukraine.  Djokovic will face fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic, the 20th
seed, in the quarterfinals. Tipsarevic had a four-set win
against Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain.  “There’s going to be at least one Serb in the semifinals,
which is great for our country,” Djokovic said in a televised
courtside interview. “This is the first time I play Janko in a
Grand Slam. We’re great friends, it’s not going to be easy
playing him.”  Five-time men’s champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  is
scheduled to play tonight’s final match against Juan Monaco of
 Argentina . Because Wozniacki’s win ended at about 11:30 p.m.  New
York  time, Federer’s match will likely extend well after
midnight in Arthur Ashe Stadium.  The Federer-Monaco winner meets Tsonga, who won the final
two sets to eliminate Fish, who was seeking to become the first
American man to reach the quarterfinals since he reached that
stage with  Andy Roddick  in 2008.  Fish’s exit leaves three Americans in the men’s draw.
Roddick, the 2003 U.S. Open champion and No. 21 seed, plays his
fourth-round match tomorrow, as do No. 28 John Isner and wild-
card qualifier Donald Young.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski at the National Tennis Center at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  