-- 
RBS Move on ATMs May Lead to End of Free Banking, Advocates Say

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-09-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/rbs-move-on-atms-may-lead-to-end-of-free-banking-advocates-say.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
the U.K.’s biggest government-controlled bank, is restricting
holders of 1 million basic accounts to its own automatic teller
machines, a step that lawmakers and consumer groups say may lead
to the end of free ATM use.  RBS will join  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which already bars
basic-account customers from using other banks’ ATMs.  U.K. banks seeking more profit from retail banking, or at
least to cut costs, sometimes face opposition to charges in a
country accustomed to free ATMs and other services. In July, the
Payments Council, a U.K. industry group that sets payment
strategies, reversed a 2009 plan to phase out checks by 2018
following consumer-group and lawmaker protests.  “If the first step is to restrict ATM access, what you’re
seeing is a slow squeeze on those elements of banking that
aren’t as profitable as others,” said Chris Leslie, a Labour
member of Parliament who speaks for the party on financial
affairs. “It chips away at the concept of free banking that
people have grown used to.”  About 73 percent of adults oppose the ATM restrictions by
RBS and Lloyds, with 9 percent in support, according to a  YouGov
Plc  survey commissioned by a rival,  Nationwide Building Society .
The poll, which included 2,464 adults on Aug. 18-19, identified
the banks as “part-owned by the government.”  ‘Not Sustainable’  About 1 million RBS customers will be affected, or less
than 10 percent of accounts, said Victoria Bonner, an RBS
spokeswoman. The changes will be phased in over the next few
months, the bank said. A Lloyds spokeswoman, Siobhan McCluskey,
wouldn’t say how many customers hold the no-frills accounts.
London-based Lloyds is 41 percent owned by the government.  “Using other-bank ATMs incurs a charge to banks,”
Edinburgh-based RBS said in an e-mailed statement. “As we
already offer basic accounts at a cost to us, it is not
sustainable to offer this feature long-term.”  The basic account holders can still use more than 8,000
RBS, NatWest and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  ATMs, plus withdraw cash at Royal
Mail counters, the statement said.  Basic account holders , often
on pensions or government benefits, get cash cards and can
arrange direct debits, but don’t have overdrafts or checkbooks.  “It’s another example of banks rowing back on public
service,” said Paul Green, a spokesman for Saga Group, a
provider of insurance and vacations to people over 50. “RBS,
being 83 percent owned by the taxpayers, I should have thought
everyone in the country has a stake in this bank.”  First Trust Bank, a Northern Irish unit of  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) , also restricts ATM use for basic customers, according
to British Bankers’ Association data.  U.S. Fees  Spokesmen for  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said
they have no plans to curb ATM use. Both banks limit branch
counter withdrawals. HSBC won’t allow them for no-frills
customers, and Santander restricts basic account clients to
withdrawals of at least 300 pounds ($486) at branch counters.  In the U.S., banks charge an average $1.41 for going
outside of their networks, according to  Greg McBride , a senior
financial analyst at Bankrate.com, a unit of Bankrate Inc. The
average surcharge assessed by the bank operating the ATM on non-
accountholders is $2.33, McBride said in an e-mail.  Although a third of the U.K.’s ATMs include a charge to
use, almost 97 percent of all U.K. ATM transactions incur no
fee, according to Link, the country’s ATM network. Banks pay one
another 20 pence to 50 pence when customers use machines outside
their own network, according to the Payments Council.  “If the banks want to charge three pence, and that’s what
it costs them, that’s one thing, but if they want to charge 3
pounds, that’s a different matter,” said Green of Saga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  