-- 
Tropical Storm Lee Makes Landfall in Louisiana, Spreading Rain to Florida

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-09-04T18:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/tropical-storm-lee-makes-landfall-in-louisiana-soaks-gulf-area.html
Tropical Storm Lee picked up speed
and began a jog toward the waterlogged U.S. Northeast after
making landfall and soaking  Louisiana  today. Extensive flooding
is possible along the Gulf Coast and in the Tennessee Valley
tomorrow.  The storm was about 40 miles (65 kilometers) west-southwest
of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, moving north-northeast at 8 miles per
hour as of 1 p.m. local time, the U.S. National Hurricane Center
said in its latest  advisory . Tropical-storm force winds still
lashed the Gulf of Mexico, where 60 percent of oil production
and 44 percent of natural gas output is halted, the U.S. said.  “Flash flooding is the biggest threat with Lee, and will
remain the big story into this week,” Andy Mussoline, a
meteorologist with AccuWeather.com Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania  said in a telephone interview. High pressure
expected to form over the U.S. Northeast may deflect both Lee
and Atlantic Hurricane Katia from areas flooded by  Hurricane
Irene  a week ago, he said.  The center of Lee is expected to move slowly across
Louisiana today. As much as 10.8 inches (27 centimeters) of rain
had fallen through 7 a.m. local time this morning in  New
Orleans , while 10.4 inches came down in Pascagoula, Mississippi,
the  National Weather Service  said.  Electricity Supply  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , owner of Louisiana’s largest utility,
battled rain and wind after restoring electricity this morning
to all but about 3,400 of the 38,000 homes and businesses that
lost it yesterday, Philip Allison, a spokesman for New
Orleans-based Entergy, said today in an interview.  “We had no severe weather yesterday afternoon and evening
so we were able to get crews out in the field,” Allison said.
Power failures rose to nearly 9,400 as of noon today as weather
worsened, the company said on its website. Numbers will
fluctuate depending on local conditions, it said.  Lee eased Louisiana’s worst drought since 1902, according
to the National Climatic Data Center. Rainfall through July was
11 inches lower than average, although August precipitation was
higher than normal, the center said. Most rain missed  Texas ,
where the driest year on record continues.  Offshore Operations  About 60 percent of Gulf oil production and 44 percent of
gas output is shut by the storm, according to the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement. That
equates to about 843,223 barrels of oil and 2.3 billion cubic
feet of gas, the bureau said today on its  website .  Lee probably will keep most offshore oil workers ashore
today, and some of them idle until Tuesday, said Mike Hurst,
chief pilot of PHI Inc. in Lafayette, Louisiana. The company is
the largest provider of helicopters to Gulf oil producers.  “Weather may permit flying to some oil and gas platforms
near the coast today in the western  Gulf of Mexico ,” Hurst
said. “We may reasonably expect to fly normally in the western
areas and some of the central blocks tomorrow.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said today it began returning some
workers to its facilities in the western Gulf. The company
evacuated a total of 858 workers ahead of the storm.  ExxonMobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil company, also is
returning staff to some offshore platforms and has begun to
restore some production, spokesman David Eglinton said today in
an e-mailed message.  The  Storm Prediction Center  said there were eight reports
of tornadoes touching down in Louisiana, Mississippi,  Alabama 
and the  Florida  Panhandle yesterday. Twisters were reported
today in Sumrall,  Mississippi , and Crystal Lake, Florida, with
no damage to structures.  Hurricane Katia  Forecasters said the storm system has the potential to
bring heavy rain to the mid-Atlantic and Northeast beginning
tomorrow.  Parts of the East Coast are still drying from Hurricane
Irene, which made landfall on Aug. 27. It cut a path of
destruction from  North Carolina  to  Maine , leaving 45 people dead
and 6.69 million homes and businesses without power.  Hurricane Katia surged in strength over the Atlantic this
morning, intensifying in six hours to a Category 2 hurricane
with maximum sustained winds of 100 miles an hour at 10 a.m. New
York time. It had been a tropical storm with maximum sustained
winds of 70 miles an hour at 4 a.m. The storm was about 360
miles northeast of the northern Leeward Islands.  Katia may strengthen into a “major hurricane” with winds
of at least 111 miles per hour tomorrow, the hurricane center
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  