-- 
Tropical Storm Lee Makes Landfall, Soaks U.S. Gulf Region

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-09-04T21:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/tropical-storm-lee-makes-landfall-soaks-u-s-gulf-region-3-.html
Tropical Storm Lee picked up speed
and began a jog toward the waterlogged U.S. Northeast after
making landfall and soaking  Louisiana  today. Extensive flooding
is possible along the  Gulf Coast  and in the Tennessee Valley
tomorrow.  The storm was about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north-
northeast of Lafayette, Louisiana, moving north at 5 miles per
hour as of 4 p.m. local time, the U.S. National Hurricane Center
said in its latest  advisory . Lee may stall before heading
northeast sometime tonight, the center said. Tropical-storm
force winds remain in the Gulf of Mexico, where 60 percent of
oil production and 44 percent of natural gas output is halted,
the U.S. said.  “Flash flooding is the biggest threat with Lee, and will
remain the big story into this week,” Andy Mussoline, a
meteorologist with AccuWeather.com Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. High pressure
expected to form over the U.S. Northeast may deflect both Lee
and Atlantic Hurricane Katia from areas flooded by Hurricane
Irene a week ago, he said.  As Lee moves slowly across Louisiana today it will continue
to dump rain, with accumulations of as much as 15 inches (38
centimeters), the center said. Lee will move over southern
 Mississippi  tomorrow. About 10.4 inches had fallen in
Pascagoula, Mississippi, as the center of the storm approached,
the  National Weather Service  said.  Electricity Supply  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , owner of Louisiana’s largest utility,
battled rain and wind after restoring electricity today to all
but about 6,000 of the 38,000 homes and businesses that lost it
yesterday, Philip Allison, a spokesman for New Orleans-based
Entergy, said in an interview.  “We had no severe weather yesterday afternoon and evening
so we were able to get crews out in the field,” Allison said.
Power failures rose to nearly 9,400 as of noon today as weather
worsened, the company said on its website. Numbers will
fluctuate depending on local conditions, it said.  Lee eased Louisiana’s worst drought since 1902, according
to the National Climatic Data Center. Rainfall through July was
11 inches lower than average, although August precipitation was
higher than normal, the center said. Most rain missed  Texas ,
where the driest year on record continues.  Offshore Operations  About 60 percent of Gulf oil production and 44 percent of
gas output is shut by the storm, according to the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement. That
equates to about 843,223 barrels of oil and 2.3 billion cubic
feet of gas, the bureau said today on its  website .  Lee probably will keep most offshore oil workers ashore
today, and some of them idle until Tuesday, said Mike Hurst,
chief pilot of PHI Inc. in Lafayette, Louisiana. The company is
the largest provider of helicopters to Gulf oil producers.  “Weather may permit flying to some oil and gas platforms
near the coast today in the western  Gulf of Mexico ,” Hurst
said. “We may reasonably expect to fly normally in the western
areas and some of the central blocks tomorrow.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said today it began returning some
workers to its facilities in the western Gulf. The company
evacuated a total of 858 workers ahead of the storm.  ExxonMobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil company, also is
returning staff to some offshore platforms and has begun to
restore some production, spokesman David Eglinton said today in
an e-mailed message.  The  Storm Prediction Center  said there were eight reports
of tornadoes touching down in Louisiana, Mississippi,  Alabama 
and the  Florida  Panhandle yesterday. Twisters were reported
today in Sumrall, Mississippi, and Crystal Lake, Florida, with
no damage to structures.  Hurricane Katia  Forecasters said the storm system has the potential to
bring heavy rain to the mid-Atlantic and Northeast beginning
tomorrow.  Parts of the East Coast are still drying from  Hurricane
Irene , which made landfall on Aug. 27. It cut a path of
destruction from  North Carolina  to  Maine , leaving 45 people dead
and 6.69 million homes and businesses without power.  Hurricane Katia surged in strength over the Atlantic,
intensifying to a Category 2 hurricane with maximum sustained
winds of 105 miles an hour, the advisory said. The storm was
about 365 miles northeast of the northern Leeward Islands and
traveling northwest at 12 mph. Katia may strengthen into a
“major hurricane” with winds of at least 111 miles per hour
tomorrow, the hurricane center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  