-- 
Tropical Storm Lee Makes Louisiana Landfall, Cuts Oil Output

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-09-04T09:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/tropical-storm-lee-cuts-gulf-oil-production-as-it-reaches-louisiana-coast.html
Tropical Storm Lee made landfall on
the  Louisiana  coast, lashing the state with heavy rain and wind
after shutting more than half of the oil and natural gas
production from the resource-rich  Gulf of Mexico .  Lee’s center reached the state’s southern coast, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said in its latest  advisory  at 4:41
a.m. New York time, adding that the storm was about 80 miles
(125 kilometers) west of Morgan City, Louisiana, and moving
north at 2 mph. The storm’s maximum sustained winds were close
to 45 mph and tropical storm-force winds stretched as far as 275
miles from its center.  “ New Orleans  is in the bulls-eye of the flooding rain,”
Matt Alto, an AccuWeather.com meteorologist, said on the State
College, Pennsylvania-based forecaster’s  website .  Companies including  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Noble Corp. (NE)  evacuated workers from Gulf rigs and
platforms. About 60 percent of Gulf oil production and 55
percent of natural gas output has been shut by the storm,
according to the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement . That equates to about 844,190 barrels of oil
and 2.9 billion cubic feet of gas, the bureau said yesterday on
its website.  Production Outlook  The Gulf accounts for 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. As much as 91 percent of gas
and 98 percent of oil output in the Gulf may be shut in the next
four days, according to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based company that predicts the effects of natural
disasters.  Oil and gas producers will be watching wind speeds and wave
heights to determine whether and how long to shut operations,
said Jan Vermeiren, chief executive officer of Kinetic Analysis.  James Williams, an economist at  WTRG Economics , an energy
research firm in  London , Arkansas, said Lee isn’t strong enough
to cause any significant damage to energy assets at this point.  “We’re not talking about Hurricane Gustav here, moving
pipelines up and down Louisiana like it was spaghetti,”
Williams said in a telephone interview. “This one isn’t a big
story. It’s a wet story.” Gustav struck in 2008.  Heavy Rain  Ten to 15 inches (25 to 38 centimeters) of rain is expected
to fall in an area from the central  Gulf coast  northward into
the Tennessee Valley, with as much as 20 inches in some areas,
according to the hurricane center. The Florida panhandle may see
as much as eight inches of rain over the next several days.
Rains will cause “extensive flooding,” the center said.  “A few tornadoes will be possible” over portions of
southern Louisiana, southern Mississippi, southern Alabama and
the far western Florida panhandle, the center also said.  The center of Lee is expected to move slowly across
Louisiana today, causing many residents to lose power supplies.
Bobby Jindal, the state’s governor, declared a state of
emergency, saying the storm threatens “extremely heavy,
prolonged” rain over the state and may cause flash flooding and
high tides.  Thirty-five Louisiana parishes declared states of emergency
and officials urged voluntary evacuations in parts of some areas
in the southern part of the state. Yesterday, Jindal deployed
some troops from the Louisiana National Guard to respond to any
emergencies.  New Orleans  Mayor Mitch Landrieu extended a state of
emergency he declared last week after a fire broke out in the
eastern part of the city.  Storm warnings were posted for the Gulf coast from Destin,
Florida, westward to Sabine Pass,  Texas . Mississippi Governor
Haley Barbour declared a state of emergency in several counties
expected to be hit with heavy rain and floods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  