-- 
Russia Fights Cold War Suspicion With Cash in East European Push

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-04T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/russia-fights-cold-war-angst-with-cash-as-crisis-eases-east-europe-drive.html
Russian companies were shut out of
eastern European markets after the fall of the Iron Curtain. The
debt crisis is now offering them a new opportunity to break back
into the region.  Flush with record profits companies including energy
producer TNK-BP, lender OAO Sberbank and Russian Railways are
targeting eastern  Europe  as mounting debt and widening deficits
force governments to sell stakes to raise revenue.  The debt crisis, compounded with a credit squeeze, is
pushing the European Union’s former communist countries to
swallow Cold War-era grudges more than 20 years after the end of
Soviet domination. The value of Russian acquisitions in the
region in the past three years totaled $2.8 billion, compared
with $2.4 billion in the previous 17 years, according to the
United Nations.  “There’s still obviously a legacy of suspicion,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in a
telephone interview. “The financial crisis partly broke that
down because the countries in eastern Europe don’t have the same
access to Western capital that they assumed. There is an
opportunity for Russia.”  Sberbank agreed to buy nine eastern European units of
 Austria ’s  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  in July for an
undisclosed sum in the Moscow-based lender’s first foray outside
the former  Soviet Union . Sberbank is offering 590 million euros
($838 million) for the business, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks.  ‘Global Bank’  “This is our first step in transforming Sberbank into a
global bank,” Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  said on July
15, when he announced the Volksbanken purchase. Sberbank aims to
compete in eastern Europe against western banks such as
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   OAO Russian Railways, the operator of the world’s longest
train network that links Asia and Europe, bid for a controlling
stake in the cargo unit of Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA, the
Polish state railway. PKP received as many as 20 bids for the
subsidiary, which may be worth about 2 billion zloty ($679
million), according to Warsaw-based Rzeczpospolita.  The Russian railroad company is also interested in
 Slovakia ’s Zeleznicna Spolocnost cargo unit, Vice President
Salman Babayev said Aug. 23.  A unit of VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, bought a
majority stake in  Bulgaria ’s state tobacco company for 100
million euros last week.  Lotos Sale  The hunger for investment is changing attitudes in  Poland ,
the European Union’s largest eastern economy that has resisted
Russian investments since breaking from communist rule in 1989.
In the Baltic port of Gdansk, the birthplace of Poland’s anti-
Soviet Solidarity movement, the Grupa Lotos refinery’s majority
stake has been put on sale by the government.  TNK-BP, the Russian oil venture half owned by  BP Plc (BP/) , is
among the bidders and is one of four to have been shortlisted,
Polish news service PAP reported June 30, citing Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Maxim Barskiy. The Lotos sale is part of
Poland’s plan to raise 15 billion zloty ($5.3 billion) from
state asset sales in 2011 to finance the deficit and curb debt.  ‘Grudges Mean Nothing’  “There are no jobs without investment,” Jerzy Borowczak,
who fought alongside former President  Lech Walesa  in Solidarity,
said in an interview. “The most important thing for us is for
Polish refineries to be more competitive. Historical grudges
mean nothing to me.”  Russian mergers and acquisitions from 1990 to 2010 totaled
$15 million in Poland, less than 1 percentage point of the $48
billion in cross-border mergers and acquisitions involving
Polish companies in the period, according to  UNCTAD , a  United
Nations  body that tracks trade and investments. The data reflect
direct purchases of Polish company stakes exceeding 10 percent
where the price was disclosed.  The share of Russian acquisitions in Poland may rise in
part due to the changing attitude of politicians including Prime
Minister Donald Tusk.  There should be “no ideological reasons” to reject
Russian investments even as a “certain amount of caution and
restraint” is warranted because of the dependence on Russian
energy supplies, Tusk said at the Lotos refinery on March 28.  Facing Resistance  Tusk’s opening toward Russia is facing resistance in
Poland. Dawid Jackiewicz, a member of Law & Justice, the largest
opposition party, said he would make Treasury Minister
Aleksander Grad stand trial if Lotos is sold to a Russian
company, Dziennik Gazeta Prawna reported on April 28. Tusk’s
Civic Platform leads Law & Justice 36 percent to 20 percent
ahead of elections in October, researcher CBOS said on Aug. 25.
The survey of 1,051 Poles didn’t give a margin of error.  “It’s hard to treat Russian investors as one would treat,
say, Dutch companies when political opposition describes any
talks with Russians in terms of betrayal of national
interests,” Bartlomiej Sienkiewicz, an analyst at the Polish
Institute of International Affairs in Warsaw, said in a
telephone interview.  Russia  has been prepared to wield its economic muscle in
eastern Europe using other means. OAO Gazprom, the Russian
natural-gas export monopoly, has twice switched off supplies
since 2006 because of pricing disputes with Ukraine, disrupting
deliveries to the European Union in mid-winter.  Gas Dependence  While Gazprom meets about a quarter of the EU’s gas needs,
eastern Europe relies on Russia for the majority of its gas
supplies, with a share that exceeds 90 percent in Slovakia and
Bulgaria, according to a 2009 European Commission working paper.
The EU pledged in May to maintain its strategy for diversifying
import routes and sources of the fuel to lessen its dependence
on Russia.  Hungary, with the highest debt level of any eastern EU
member, said it spent part of its  International Monetary Fund 
bailout loan to buy a 21.2 percent stake in Mol Nyrt., the
country’s largest refiner, from OAO Surgutneftegas, Russia’s
fourth-largest oil producer.  “A country can’t be strong if it’s completely dependent
for its energy needs,” Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , an anti-
communist student leader in the 1980s, said in a live TV address
when he announced the purchase of Surgut’s stake for 1.9 billion
euros in May.  Record Profits  Even so, the biggest corporate profits in history and an
expanding economy are buoying Russia’s pursuit of assets in the
region. VTB joined Sberbank in reporting record net income last
quarter as lending expanded and the share of overdue loans
shrank. TNK-BP said in July the  oil company  is poised for record
annual profit after second-quarter earnings rose 82 percent.  The nation’s combined corporate profits, excluding
financial companies and small businesses, surged 43 percent in
the first half from a year earlier to 4.1 trillion rubles ($141
billion), the Federal Statistics Service  said  Aug. 26.  The recent bids and acquisitions by Russian companies
reflect an “improved political environment” that may further
cement ties in the region, said Simon Quijano-Evans, chief
economist for Europe, Middle East and Africa region at ING Groep
NV in  London .  “The more cross-border activity, whether trade or
investment, you have in the region, the lower the political
noise is going to be,” he said in an interview. “ Obviously
every country has its own interests but the more interaction you
get, the more you remove the barriers that there are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  