-- 
Services Industry in U.S. Probably Grew at Slowest Pace Since January 2010

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/services-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace-u-s-economy-preview.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded in August at the slowest pace in more than a
year, adding to concern the recovery is losing steam, economists
said before a report this week.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 51 last month, the lowest since January 2010, from
52.7 in July, according to the median of 59 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of the Sept. 6 release. A reading of
50 is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. A
Sept. 8 report from the Commerce Department may show the trade
deficit shrank from the highest level since October 2008.  The recovery risks stalling without a pickup among the non-
manufacturing industries that account for about 90 percent of
the economy. A stagnant labor market and bleaker business and
consumer sentiment may require more effort from President  Barack Obama  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to spur
growth.  “The economy has slowed up as attitudes have moved toward
caution and some degree of pessimism,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “We don’t know whether this is going to be a
hiccup or whether we’re basically going to talk ourselves into a
downturn.”  A lack of jobs and an economy that slowed in the first half
of the year have weighed on sentiment, prompting Americans to
limit purchases of non-essential goods and services, and pushing
down share prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined
9.2 percent since the end of the July.  ‘Challenging’ Landscape  “The operating landscape for our industry remains
challenging given the volatility in the financial markets and
the discretionary nature of furniture purchases,” Kurt Darrow,
president and chief executive officer at  La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB) , said on
an Aug. 24 teleconference with analysts. “And as a result, we
remain cautious regarding the consumer.”  The Monroe, Michigan-based maker of living-room recliners
reported first-quarter revenue of $280.1 million, missing the
average analyst estimate of $284.3 million in a Bloomberg
survey.  The Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence slumped
last month to the lowest level since April 2009, and the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has been stuck below minus 40,
the level associated with recessions, since the end of February.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged in August as employers became
less confident about the strength of the recovery. The jobless
rate held at 9.1 percent, and earnings and hours worked declined
as well, reducing the incomes of consumers whose spending
accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  Obama on Jobs  Obama has requested a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8
for an address to unveil his proposals to promote job growth. In
a letter to House Speaker  John Boehner , Obama said that the
nation faces “unprecedented” economic challenges.  For its part, the Fed last month said it would keep its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through the middle of
2013, adding a specific time-frame to its low-rate pledge for
the first time.  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Bernanke said Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “It is clear
that the recovery from the crisis has been much less robust than
we had hoped.”  The Fed on Sept. 7 will release its Beige Book assessment
of economic conditions in each of its 12 U.S. districts.  Gains in exports probably exceeded an increase in imports
in July,  Steven Wood , president at Insight Economics LLC in
Danville,  California , said in an e-mail to clients. The  trade
gap  shrank to $51 billion from the $53.1 billion deficit in
June, according to economists’ median estimate ahead of the
Commerce Department figures due Sept. 8.  A weaker dollar is helping support demand for American-made
merchandise. The U.S. currency has fallen 3.5 percent since the
end of 2010 against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from
the country’s biggest trading partners.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  