-- 
Spain’s Rajoy May Win Parliament Majority, Enabling Tax Cuts, Bank Reform

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-05T10:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/spain-s-rajoy-may-win-parliament-majority-enabling-tax-cuts-bank-reform.html
Spanish opposition leader  Mariano Rajoy  may win a parliamentary majority in November elections, a
survey indicated, strengthening his hand to lower taxes and
revamp the financial industry as Spain’s debt crisis deepens.  The  People’s Party  may win 47.1 percent of the vote,
compared with 32.3 percent for the ruling Socialists, El Mundo
reported yesterday, citing a poll. That would give the party a
majority of seats in the 350-member Parliament in Madrid, the
newspaper said.  Rajoy, who has lost two general elections since becoming PP
leader in 2004, promised a “law for entrepreneurs” that would
include a 5 percentage-point cut in company tax. In a Sept. 3
speech, he also promised a “true restructuring of the financial
sector” and changes to labor and energy-market laws.  The euro region’s fourth-largest economy is holding
elections four months ahead of schedule after an escalation of
the sovereign-debt crisis prompted the  European Central Bank  to
start propping up Spanish and Italian bond markets last month.
If Rajoy wins the November ballot, he will have to tackle
slowing economic growth and  Europe ’s highest unemployment rate
and stem a surge in company bankruptcies.  ‘Tough Times’  “Tough times await us,” Rajoy, 56, said in the text of
the speech in Soutomaior, Spain. “The grave events we have seen
recently in our country, particularly in August, give us a
foretaste of the decisive importance of the months ahead.”  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
rose to a euro-era intraday record of 418 basis points on Aug.
5, prompting the ECB to buy Spanish bonds on the secondary
market. The yield spread widened to 325 basis points today as
investors demanded 5.17 percent on 10-year debt.  “The PP’s commitment to the euro leaves no room for
doubt,” he told a party meeting in  Madrid  today.  Rajoy, whose party has opposed Socialist Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s moves to legalize gay marriage
and ease rules on abortion, said his government would be
“centrist and moderate.”  Focusing on the economy rather than more divisive social
policies may help him win a parliamentary majority, according to
El Mundo’s poll, which showed the PP widened its lead to 14.8
percentage points from 13.8 points in June. That would give the
party a bigger majority than in 2000, when it won 183 seats with
44.5 percent of the vote,  El Mundo  said.  Tax Plan  A poll in El Pais on July 31 gave the PP a 14 percentage-
point advantage, showing Rajoy’s party at 44.8 percent and the
Socialists with 30.8 percent.  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the Socialists’ candidate, has
proposed increasing taxes on the wealthy as he tries to win back
voters angered by Zapatero’s policies. Rubalcaba, a former
deputy prime minister, is also seeking to win over the so-called
“indignant ones,” who have staged nationwide protests since
May, with promises to tackle  Spain ’s 46 percent youth
unemployment rate and slap a new levy on banks.  Spain is trying to avoid following Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  in needing a bailout from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . The PP, which eliminated a deficit
of 6.5 percent of gross domestic product in the eight years it
governed to 2004, has pledged deeper spending cuts to rein in
the euro region’s third-largest budget gap.  Socialist Policies  The minority Socialist government, which has had to seek
the backing of smaller parties for its legislation, has slashed
wages, frozen pensions and cut benefits to shrink the shortfall
to 6 percent of GDP this year from 9.2 percent in 2010.  “We believe the public deficit can be cut by eliminating
superfluous spending and by pursuing an economic policy that
generates growth and therefore revenue for the administration,”
Rajoy said.  The PP leader said he would overhaul the financial industry
if he wins on Nov. 20, without giving details. The Socialist
government has pushed savings banks hit by the collapse of the
property boom into mergers and given lenders a Sept. 30 deadline
to meet tighter  capital requirements .  As banks rein in lending, the number of Spanish companies
that started bankruptcy proceedings rose 20 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, according to data from the
National Statistics Institute.  “We want to free up all possible resources to support our
entrepreneurs, small and mid-sized companies and the self-
employed with tax cuts, among other measures,” Rajoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  