-- 
Strauss-Kahn Returns Home, Charges Dropped

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-04T09:34:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/strauss-kahn-flies-back-to-france-after-rape-case-is-dropped-in-new-york.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , returned to his home in
Paris today after sexual-assault charges against him were
dropped in  New York  last month.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, and his wife  Anne Sinclair  arrived at
their home on the Place des Vosges square in the French
capital’s central Marais district this morning after an
overnight flight from New York, televised images on TF1’s LCI
news channel showed.  Charges against Strauss-Kahn, who had been accused of
sexually assaulting a hotel maid, were dropped on Aug. 23 after
New York prosecutors said the maid lied repeatedly to them and
others. Strauss-Kahn had been a leading contender to run for
president of  France  before his arrest in May.  “All the socialists know that, at some point or the other,
the word of Dominique Strauss-Kahn will be a major trump card
for the left,” Jean-Marie Le Guen, a French lawmaker, said in
an interview on LCI, commenting on Strauss-Kahn’s return.  Strauss-Kahn arrived with Sinclair at Charles de Gaulle
airport, where he advanced through a crowd of journalists before
stepping into a black Peugeot car that took him home,  TF1 images 
showed. The former IMF head won’t make any declaration to the
media today, his spokeswoman Anne Hommel told journalists at
Place des Vosges.  Strauss-Kahn still faces a civil suit by the New York maid,
Nafissatou Diallo. Investigators in France are also probing
allegations that Strauss-Kahn tried to rape writer Tristane
Banon eight years ago, a claim he has denied.  Banon filed a criminal complaint against Strauss-Kahn in
July, saying he assaulted her in February 2003 when she went to
interview him for a book. Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance
minister, has filed a complaint with Paris prosecutors accusing
Banon of slander.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 