-- 
Turkey Will Challenge Israel’s Gaza Strip Blockade at International Court

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-04T10:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/turkey-to-challenge-israel-s-gaza-strip-blockade-at-hague-court-of-justice.html
Turkey  plans to challenge  Israel ’s
blockade of the  Gaza Strip  at the  International Court of
Justice , dismissing a United Nations report that said it was
legal.  Turkey will apply to the court at The Hague next week,
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told state-run TRT television
in an interview yesterday. Davutoglu’s comments came the day
after Turkey suspended military agreements with Israel and moved
to downgrade diplomatic relations.  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government has said
it will take action against Israel for refusing to apologize for
the killing of nine of its citizens on a flotilla to Gaza last
year. It is also demanding compensation and the lifting of the
blockade. Israel says its soldiers acted in self-defense and has
expressed regret for the incident.  A UN report obtained by the New York Times and posted on
its website last week said Israel used excessive force against
the flotilla, though its blockade of Gaza was legal. Davutoglu
told TRT that the report was written by politicians, not judges,
and therefore didn’t have legal status.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today that
while his government regrets the deaths caused by the flotilla
raid, “we need not apologize for the fact that naval commandos
defended their lives against violent activists.”  Netanyahu added that Israel would defend the soldiers who
took part in the flotilla raid “everywhere and in every
forum.” His remarks to the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem
were sent in an e-mailed statement.  Vessel Boarding  Israel has said that in the confrontation followed numerous
warnings for the ships to change course. It also said its
soldiers were attacked with knives and clubs after boarding the
Mavi Marmara, one of six vessels in the flotilla, and seven were
wounded, including by gunfire, after volunteers aboard the ship
grabbed Israeli firearms.  The UN report cited forensic evidence indicating that the
dead were shot “multiple times,” including in the back or at
close range. The findings also said Israeli soldiers faced
“significant, organized and violent resistance” from a group
of passengers on the vessel.  Israel says it needs to maintain a naval blockade on Gaza
to prevent arms smuggling to the ruling Hamas Islamic movement,
classified as a terrorist organization by Israel, the European
Union and the  United States . Palestinians say the blockade
causes undue suffering on the entire population of Gaza and
violates international law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Bentley  at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  