-- 
Workers Play Cards at Indian Factories as Asset Sales Founder

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-09-04T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/workers-play-cards-at-idle-indian-factories.html
Each day, about 2,800 workers punch
their time-cards in and out of  Hindustan Cables Ltd. ’s factories
in  India . They get paid, receive the occasional raise and eat in
subsidized canteens, even though they produce nothing.  The state-owned company, based in Kolkata, hasn’t made any
cable since 2004 and has lost $549 million after cellular
technology made its telephone wiring obsolete. Labor laws which
the  World Bank  says are among the most restrictive anywhere and
tortuous bankruptcy procedures, a legacy of India’s Soviet-era
plan economy, mean the government can’t fire idle employees or
sell assets such as machinery or land.  While tolerance of unprofitable companies sits at odds with
India’s status as the world’s second-fastest growing major
economy, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, rocked by a
spate of corruption scandals, may be wary of changing rules that
keep many in jobs. About a third of India’s 249  state-owned 
firms that make everything from condoms to steel are losing
money -- $3.4 billion in the most recent financial year -- just
as the government misses a goal of raising $8.7 billion this
year selling stakes in companies such as Oil & Natural Gas
Corp., the nation’s biggest explorer.  “It is utterly crazy and everyone knows it’s crazy but
there is nothing the government can do because of the labor
laws,” said  M. Govinda Rao , one of four members of India’s
Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, a panel which
produces periodic reports for Singh’s administration. “The
government is literally throwing money away.”  Kishore Rungta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan
Cables, declined to comment.  Playing Cards  While the government has stopped production at many state-
owned companies, it won’t close the plants. Any firm with more
than 100 employees must gain approval from the labor department
to shutter a factory. Permission has been granted 21 times for
state companies, according to the 2010 Public Enterprises
Survey, yet none have been liquidated.  “At some of these companies people are sitting around
playing cards,” said Nitish Sengupta, chairman of the Board for
Reconstruction of Public Sector Enterprises, which recommends
remedies for unprofitable government units. “Closing a company
is the last measure we take after exhausting every option to
revive it.”  Singh’s coalition government should amend the rules to make
it easier for money-losing firms to close down, though it’s
unlikely to do this any time soon because of concerns about job
losses, said Surjit Singh Bhalla, chairman of New Delhi-based
Oxus Fund Management. In addition, politicians often won’t agree
to close firms in constituencies they treat as personal
fiefdoms, he said.  Miss Target  India’s  policy  since 1991 has been to sell down stakes in
state-owned firms while retaining a controlling interest and
managerial powers, a process the government calls disinvestment.  A slump in stock markets around the world is hindering the
plan. On Aug. 19, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told
parliament that India may miss its target for selling stock this
year as it cannot sell assets “in a market situation where we
won’t get the adequate prices.”  A U.S. credit-rating downgrade, the deepening sovereign-
debt crisis in  Europe  and speculation about another global
recession wiped out more than $4 trillion in stock market value
in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has slumped 18
percent this year.  Bailouts, Salaries  In the years after India gained independence in 1947, it
put key industries in the hands of state-run monopolies in the
mold of the  Soviet Union . While the country’s top 10 state-owned
companies earned a combined net profit of $13.6 billion last
year --  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the largest producer of the fuel,
briefly became the country’s most valuable by market value on
Aug. 18 -- many others still depend on state funds for bailouts,
salaries and running costs.  National carrier  Air India , which loses more cash than any
government-owned company, asked for a 175 billion-rupee ($3.8
billion) bailout this year. That is equivalent to about two-
thirds of the amount  spent on health care  in the world’s second-
most populous country.  Public companies have assets worth $199 billion, which last
year gave an average return on capital of about 4.3 percent. The
government could earn about twice as much putting the money in a
one-year  fixed term  deposit with  State Bank  of India, the
nation’s largest lender.  Laid Off  At state-run  Hindustan Fertilizers Co. Ltd.’s  Haldia
factory in West Bengal, no fertilizer has been produced since it
was assembled in 1979. Built on a small budget, inexperienced
engineers bought parts from the Soviet Union,  Czechoslovakia ,
 Hungary  and  Japan , which when bolted together didn’t work.  It took 24 years for most of the company’s 1,700 employees
to be laid off. About 100 security guards and managers are still
paid to look after the factory as the government debates whether
to revive or sell it. The company has lost about $319 million
since 2002.  “I’ve lost a lot of hair over the last 20 years trying to
work out why governments continue to throw money at these
companies,” says Oxus Fund Management’s Bhalla.  Hindustan Cables’ factories near Kolkata and Hyderabad are
littered with moss-covered debris. Workers leave their
subsidized housing to punch time cards in and out twice a day
before returning home or seeking out alternate sources of
income.  Employees such as P. Nageshwar Rao, 46, who has worked at
the company’s Hyderabad plant since 1995, say they are unlikely
to find new jobs after years of inactivity at the government’s
expense.  “It’s been painful to be unwanted and unproductive,” said
Rao. “Nobody likes to sit idle, even if you are paid for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  