-- 
Yankees Beat Blue Jays for Third Straight Win; Boston Red Sox Rout Rangers

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/yankees-beat-blue-jays-for-third-straight-win-boston-red-sox-rout-rangers.html
Robinson Cano’s two-run double in
the seventh inning helped the American League East-leading New
York Yankees rally to a 6-4 win over the Toronto Blue Jays.  The  Boston Red Sox  (84-54) capitalized on an eight-run
fourth inning last night to rout the Texas Rangers 12-7 and stay
half a game behind the Yankees (84-53) in the Major League
Baseball five-team division.  At Yankee Stadium, the Rangers took a 2-0 lead in the
second inning on a solo home run by Adam Lind and J.P.
Arencibia’s sacrifice fly scoring Edwin Encarnacion. The Yankees
went up 3-2 in the bottom of the inning as  Eduardo Nunez  hit a
run-scoring single before Francisco Cervelli smacked a two-run
homer.  The Blue Jays tied it again in the third inning as  Jose Bautista  drove in Dewayne Wise, then took a 4-3 lead in the
fifth when Wise hit his first home run of the season.  Cano’s two-run double put the Yankees ahead again before
 Nick Swisher  capped the scoring with a single that scored Cano,
giving the Yankees their third straight victory.  Alex Rodriguez , who was back in the lineup with a taped
thumb after missing six games, was walked before Cano stepped up
to the plate.  “Every time I see they walk a guy in front of me, that
pumps me up,” Cano told reporters, “and I say, ‘Come on, now
is a situation where you’ve got to show them they’ve got to
pitch to the guy in front of you.’”  Day of Rest  Derek Jeter  was out of the lineup for a day of rest and
 Mark Teixeira  missed his second game with a sore knee.  Boone Logan (5-2) pitched a perfect 2/3 inning, striking
out one, while David Robertson got his first save. Ricky Romero
(13-10) gave up five runs on eight hits and struck out five in 6
2/3 innings.  At Fenway Park, the  Red Sox  overcame a 3-1 deficit in the
fourth inning with a two-run homer by Jarrod Saltalamacchia and
Carl Crawford’s fourth career grand slam. Dustin Pedroia’s
three-run double in the sixth ended Boston’s scoring.  Erik Bedard (5-9) went six innings, allowing three runs on
five hits and striking out six. Colby Lewis (11-10) gave up
seven hits and four runs in 3 1/3 innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  