-- 
Zebra Mussels Battle Biobullets’s Toxic Pellets in Water Plants

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/zebra-mussels-battle-biobullets-s-toxic-pellets-in-water-plants.html
Biobullets Ltd., a British pesticide
maker, won a grant to develop a pellet known as a “toxic
Malteser” that will control an infestation of zebra mussels
clogging water treatment plants in the U.K.  Biobullets, a Cambridge-based company, said it’s using a
550,000-pound grant ($890,000) from the Technology Strategy
Board, a British government-sponsored body that supports
emerging technologies, as part of a 1.1 million-pound investment
to commercialize its pellets.  The razor-edge mussels wreak havoc along waterways, jamming
pipes in utility plants and dams and cutting the feet of
unsuspecting waders. They spread rapidly because they have few
natural predators, and females can lay up to 1 million eggs a
year. In the Great Lakes region, the economic impact of
biological invaders including zebra mussels is more than $5
billion a year, according to a 2008 report by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  “Zebra mussels are recognized as one of the biggest
invasive pests in the world,” David Aldridge, managing director
of Biobullets, said in a telephone interview. “They like to
attach to pipelines that carry raw water and can form crusts up
to 15 centimeters in thickness. If the pipes are narrow, they
can totally block the pipes.”  Black Sea Migrant  The animals are native to the Black Sea area of Eastern
Europe and may have advanced as far as the U.S. by hitching
rides in the ballast water of ships. The company is currently
trialing its product with Thames Water Ltd. and Anglian Water
Services Ltd., which together said they spend about 1.5 million
pounds a year tackling the problem.  Previously, the only way to remove the mussels was either
by dousing them with chlorine or by scraping them off by hand.
Chlorine isn’t ideal because it can be toxic in drinking water
and the mussels can clamp shut their shells for up to four weeks
to protect themselves when they taste it.  Biobullet’s pellets conceal poison inside an edible outer
coating that the mussels eat. The toxin is deadly to zebra
mussels and harmless to other organisms. Piers Clark, commercial
director at Thames Water, likened them to a British candy with a
chocolate coating over a sugary honeycomb.  “The idea is to trick the mussels into eating something
that will kill them off,” Clark said in an interview. “We like
to call them ‘toxic Maltesers’ because the toxin is wrapped
around a globule of fat that the mussel doesn’t recognize. It
grabs the fat thinking it’s a tasty meal, then gets taken out.”  Tons of Pests  Thames Water removes about 1,000 tons of zebra mussels a
year from its treatment plants, enough to cover 10 football
pitches. Almost 800 tons were recently removed from a single
pipe in Walthamstow, northeast  London , he said.  The mussel infestation has also increased the water
utility’s carbon footprint, forcing it to use more energy
pumping water through the blockages, Clark said.  “In areas where it’s bad, we’re using in excess of twice
the amount of energy we’d typically use,” he said.  Anglian Water spends about 350,000 pounds a year on
additional electricity costs caused by zebra mussels clogging
its pipes, Barrie Holden, water innovation manager at the
Huntingdon, England-based company, said in a statement.  Biobullets is also developing pesticides to control other
invasive species including sea squirts, which grow on native
organisms and smother them to death, Aldridge said.  Invasive organisms outside their natural habitats cost
Britain more than 2 billion pounds a year, according to the Non-
native Species Secretariat, a U.K. advisory board.  “We’re finding many more impacts and more invasive species
moving around the place than we previously thought,” said
Jonathan Grey, senior lecturer in the school of biological and
chemical sciences at Queen Mary University in London. “There
are various species that cause more damage than others and a
classic example of that is the zebra mussel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  