-- 
Zero Freight Rates Fueling CMA CGM Default Risk to 90%: Corporate Finance

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-05T11:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-04/zero-freight-rates-fueling-cma-cgm-default-risk-to-90-corporate-finance.html
Bonds and derivatives tied to CMA
CGM SA, the third-largest container line, are signaling that the
company has a nine in 10 chance of defaulting as the slowing
global recovery pushes freight rates to about zero.  Penalized by the U.S. last month for breaching trade
sanctions with  Iran , Cuba and Sudan, CMA CGM has seen the price
of its $475 million of 8.5 percent notes due 2017 plunge to
47.25 cents on the dollar since they were sold April 14,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. Credit-default swap prices
signal a 90 percent probability of the Marseille-based company
being unable to meet its obligations within five years.  Freight charges collapsed on the Asia-to-Europe lines, the
world’s second-busiest route, as a capacity glut combines with
the slowest growth in trade since 2009. Rates excluding fuel
surcharges were “practically” zero in July and little changed
last month, the worst run ever, according to Menno Sanderse, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.  “Shipping and logistics is a pretty beat-up sector,” said
Louis Gargour, who owns the bonds as the chief investment
officer at LNG Capital LLP, a London-based hedge fund he co-
founded in 2006. “The good side is everybody I know is very
interested in this company at 50 cents on the dollar, although
it’s a gamble.”  CMA CGM was founded by Jacques Saade in 1978 after he fled
to  France  from Lebanon’s civil war. It employs more than 17,200
people and runs a fleet of 394 vessels, according to its
website. The company grew from five employees and a rented boat
into a global operator, ranking behind Copenhagen-based A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S and Mediterranean Shipping Co. SA in Geneva.  Debt, Earnings  The company posted an 8 percent increase in first-half
sales to $7.3 billion and had $675 million of cash at the end of
July, according to a  statement  on its website. CMA CGM said it
had $5.3 billion of net debt at the end of June and recorded
$685 million of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the first half of the year.  That means debt is more than three times Ebitda, compared
with a ratio of about less than one time at Maersk, according to
that company’s earnings report on Aug. 17.  CMA CGM also issued 325 million euros ($459 million) of
8.875 percent bonds maturing in 2019 in April, which were quoted
at 49 percent of face value, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Default swaps on the company’s debt cost 4.8 million euros
upfront and 500,000 euros annually to insure 10 million euros of
debt for five years, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The contracts have risen from
800,000 euros upfront on June 6.  Bonds ‘Whipsawed’  “We are surprised to see the value of the debt drop so
much,” said Michel Sirat, the container line’s chief financial
officer based in Marseille. “Our bonds are whipsawed because of
prevalent fears in financial markets and questions about our
liquidity, but we have a strong cash position and are fully
compliant with our debt covenants.”  The drop in its bonds prompted the company to issue a
statement on Aug. 3, saying it’s taking the “poor performance
very seriously,” and that it doesn’t plan major new investments
this year and next.  CMA CGM is rated B+ by  Standard & Poor’s , which said in a
May report that the company’s rankings are constrained by its
“high operating risk in the cyclical, capital-intensive, and
competitive container-shipping industry.”  Covenants Breached  The container line has about $4 billion of loans, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Covenants on most of its
borrowings were breached in 2009 after a slump in world trade
amid the deepest financial crisis since the 1930s.  CMA CGM received $500 million from Turkish family-owned
company Yildirim in November in return for a 20 percent stake as
it sought to restructure about $5 billion of debt. In May,
Yildirim agreed to buy 50 percent of Malta Freeport Terminals
from CMA CGM for 200 million euros.  Analysts are increasingly bearish on what slowing trade
growth means for shipping company earnings. Maersk, the world’s
biggest container-shipping line, will report a 25 percent slump
in net income to 19.71 billion kroner ($3.8 billion) this year,
the mean of 16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The industry may lose $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year,
said  Philip Damas , director of liner shipping and supply chains
at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in  London . Owners and
operators lost $20 billion in 2009, when the global container
trade contracted for the first time ever, he said.  ‘Risk of Default’  “A lot of companies run the risk of default if freight
rates remain at such a low level,” said  Jacob Pedersen , an
analyst at Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s third-largest publicly traded
lender. “Companies have been taken by surprise this quarter
because just a few months ago they were all sure there would be
a lack of capacity and that would be positive for freight
rates.”  Risk aversion  has wiped out $5 trillion of global equity
market value since July and brought high-yield bond sales to a
halt. A Labor Department report on Sept. 2 showed the world’s
largest economy added no jobs last month while a contraction in
European manufacturing and plunging business and consumer
confidence suggest the slowdown in growth may continue into the
third quarter, members of the so-called shadow  European Central
Bank  council said last week.  Sanctions Violated  Confidence in CMA CGM was also dented after the company’s
U.S. unit paid a  $374,400 settlement  to the Department of
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control last month following
allegations it violated sanctions in exporting goods to  Sudan 
and accepted payments for shipping services in connection with
Cuba and Iran.  The alleged violations of sanction programs took place
between December 2004 and April 2008 and there was no finding of
fault, according to a company statement.  CMA CGM’S MV Victoria container ship was seized by the
Israeli Navy after the shipper of three containers falsely
described cargo contents as lentils when in fact they contained
weapons, the company said on June 1. An Iranian company used one
of its vessels to illegally transport arms to Lagos after
labeling them as “packages of glass wool and pallets of
stone,” the company said in October.  CMA CGM isn’t alone in dealing with maritime disputes.
China Cosco Holdings Co., the state-controlled sea-cargo group,
had at least three vessels arrested in the past two months as
shipowners sought overdue payments, according to court filings
in the U.S. and  Singapore .  CMA CGM is counting on routes to emerging markets such as
 Latin America  and  Russia  to drive growth as  Europe  stands on the
brink of another recession. The company held a conference call
with more than 150 bond investors on Aug. 31 to allay their
concern about the company’s financial position, Sirat said.  “We see strong trades in Latin America, Russia, the  Black
Sea region  and  India , bringing in new avenues for growth besides
the traditional routes of  Asia  to Europe and Asia to the U.S.,”
Sirat said. “I hope our bond prices will recover after we
explained our position to bondholders, because we intend to
continue to access the  bond market .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net 
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  