-- 
‘Spider-Man’ Producers Add Bono Song, Millions for June Opening

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-22T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/-spider-man-producers-add-bono-song-millions-for-june-opening.html
Michael Cohl , lead producer of
“ Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark ,” says he’s “intellectually
confident and emotionally apoplectic” about prospects for the
most expensive musical in Broadway history.  Since he and partner Jeremiah Harris replaced director and
co-writer Julie Taymor in March, a new creative team has
rewritten the book to make it less confusing, Cohl and Harris
said on Thursday. Bono and U2 guitarist The Edge have penned a
new song and improved the ones that have been part of the show
since previews began on Nov. 28.  The production recently began a nearly four-week hiatus to
put in major changes.  Cohl is a concert promoter and former chairman of Live
Nation Inc. He and Harris, chairman and chief executive officer
of Production Resource Group, which provides lighting, audio,
video and scenic equipment for corporate events and Broadway,
took over in late 2009. PRG was owed millions in fees by the
production.  After raising $30 million, they’ve presided over cast
injuries, a half-dozen postponements of its opening and pans
from impatient critics.  I spoke to Cohl, 63, and Harris, 56, at Harris’s office
west of the theater district.  The Budget  Boroff: Is the budget up to $70 million?  Cohl: We’ve always talked about $65. We’ve never talked
about $70. Today we call it $65 plus plus. We’re not going to
talk about the number anymore.  Boroff: The role of Arachne, a mythological character
introduced by Taymor, will be diminished?  Cohl: Fewer lines and spots in the show, yes. But maybe it
will be a more important role, because this time it’s going to
work.  Boroff: Were the reviews helpful?  Cohl: We didn’t learn a lot from them but they did confirm
a lot of what we were thinking. They were more free research.  Boroff: Did your focus groups also tell you that Arachne
and the story were a little confusing?  Cohl: It definitely didn’t stop with Arachne. The story
wasn’t working, it wasn’t clicking.  Enough Time  Boroff: So you came to realize you had to be more active
with  Julie Taymor ?  Cohl: ‘Assertive’ is probably better.  Harris: You have to give the creative team their chance.
I’ve done this many times and gone to the first reading and
thought the show would be terrific only to turn out, it doesn’t
work. We saw what worked and what didn’t work. We gave Julie, I
think, an appropriate amount of time to try to solve those
problems.  Boroff: Did she resist making changes?  Harris: We’re not going to comment on it. We’re still in
settlement negotiations.  Boroff: How likely is it you’ll open on June 14?  Cohl: Here’s a quote from (director) Phil McKinley: ‘I’ve
never not opened on time and this isn’t going to be the first
time.’  Always remember the project was years deep and tens of
millions deep, with an approved script and a hired cast when
Fire and Rescue 92 -- Harris and Cohl -- showed up. A large part
of the screw-up on the dates is thinking we found every
nightmare and every mistake and every lie, and every piece of
crap that the old administration had left.  Dog Poo  Boroff: But you joined in November 2009. What you’re
talking about is over a year later.  Harris: The first thing we had to do was raise $30 million.
And restructure corporately. It took an inordinate amount of
time just to pull that together.  Boroff: You’re both successful men. Are you concerned that
this has hurt your reputation?  Cohl: It might. It’s a matter of the respect of those whose
opinions I care about. Most will recognize that Jere and I
stepped in dog poo and are trying to clean it up and pull off a
miracle. We might not.  Boroff: There’s a snippet of the U2 song “Vertigo” in the
show. Have you discussed borrowing further from the U2 catalog?  Cohl: We have, but not with them! It’s not going to happen.
They’ve written a new song. They’ve changed some of the other
songs to make them work better. They’re working a lot on the
other lyrics to make them flow better.  Boroff: What’s the new song like?  Cohl: Talking rap meets rock.  Harris: It’s the opening of the second act. It will be very
theatrical.  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The interview was adapted from a
longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 