-- 
Acer Reports Lowest Profit in Six Years as Sales Fall Short of Estimates

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-22T10:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/acer-reports-lowest-profit-in-six-years-as-sales-fall-short-of-estimates.html
Acer Inc. (2353)  posted its smallest
quarterly profit in more than six years after slowing demand for
low-cost notebooks caused sales to miss estimates and prompted
its president to quit last month.  First-quarter net income at the world’s second-largest
supplier of  notebook computers  declined 64 percent to
NT$1.2 billion, from NT$3.29 billion a year earlier, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on a statement from the Taipei-
based company today. The average of nine analysts’ estimates
made in the last 28 days was for net income of NT$1.74 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Acer promoted global IT operations chief  Jim Wong  to the
post of president after Chief Executive Officer Gianfranco Lanci
resigned last month. Chairman J.T. Wang plans to restructure the
company to focus on developing products beyond laptops, which
account for 73 percent of sales. Shipments may decline for a
third straight quarter in the three months to end-June, the
Taipei-based company said this week.  Consolidated sales dropped 21 percent from a year earlier
to NT$127.8 billion, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Operating profit, which comprises income from its primary
business of designing and selling electronics, fell 56 percent
to NT$1.93 billion. Net income is the smallest since the second
quarter of 2004.  The shares have declined 43 percent this year to NT$51.10
at the 1:30 p.m. close of trading in Taipei today, compared with
an unchanged benchmark index. Acer lost its position as the
largest maker of portable computers in the fourth quarter and
its share of the overall market dropped again in the first
quarter, according to research firm  IDC .  Chairman’s Apology  Acer said on March 25 that sales in the Jan. to March
period would miss its earlier guidance, the second quarter in a
row it cut its forecast. The company announced Lanci’s
resignation a week later. Chairman Wang said this month that the
board and Lanci clashed over strategy and apologized for
successively revising its sales guidance.  Wong, a 25-year Acer veteran, was also tasked with heading
the company’s new Touch Business Group, which will oversee the
development of tablet computers and mobile phones. The company’s
first tablet, the Iconia Tab A500, went on sale on April 8.  Acer will hold an investor conference April 28 in Taipei,
hosted by Wang, Wong and Chief Financial Officer Tu Che-min.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 