-- 
Thai, Cambodia Border Fight Kills 4 Soldiers, Stoking Tensions

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-04-22T06:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/thai-cambodia-border-fight-kills-4-soldiers-stoking-tensions.html
Thai and Cambodian troops clashed
in a disputed border area today, killing at least four soldiers
in the first major fighting since the  United Nations Security
Council   urged  a permanent cease-fire two months ago.  One Thai soldier died and six were wounded in the fighting,
which occurred several hundred kilometers west of clashes in
February near a United Nations  World Heritage site , Veerachon
Sukondhadhpatipak, the Thai army’s deputy spokesman, said by
phone. Three Cambodian troops were killed in the fighting,
Xinhua reported, citing Cambodian military commander Neak Vong.  “The fighting has stopped now,” Veerachon said. “For the
Thai side, we don’t have a sense of retaliation.”  The clashes reignite tensions along the border that
escalated in 2008 after  Thailand  opposed  Cambodia ’s efforts to
list Preah Vihear temple as a World Heritage Site. Fighting in
February claimed at least 10 lives and displaced 30,000 people.  A few thousand nationalist Thai protesters have blocked a
Bangkok street for three months to demand Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  take tougher measures against Cambodia. He plans to
hold an election in June or July.  The latest fighting erupted when a Cambodian border patrol
encroached on Thai territory, Veerachon said. Cambodian
spokesman Phay Siphan didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  In 1962, the  International Court of Justice  ruled in a 9-3
vote that Cambodia had sovereignty over Preah Vihear. The two
countries have yet to reconcile 10,422 square miles (26,993
square kilometers) of disputed waters in the Gulf of Thailand
that may contain oil and gas reserves.  Thailand’s $264 billion economy is more than 26 times the
size of Cambodia’s. The Cambodian army spent $191 million in
2009, compared with $4.9 billion for the military in Thailand,
according to the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 