-- 
Thailand’s Central Bank Has No Set Level for Baht, Atchana Says

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-22T08:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/thailand-s-central-bank-has-no-set-level-for-baht-atchana-says.html
Bank of  Thailand  Deputy Governor
Atchana Waiquamdee comments on the Thai baht and interest rates.
She spoke in an interview today in Bangkok.  On the baht:  “When we implement our foreign-exchange rate policy, we do
not set the level, and 30 baht is not our level. The movement of
capital flows and the surplus in the current account should
reflect in the appreciation of the baht and the appreciation is
not an overshoot compared with other regional currencies.”  “In terms of competitiveness, we are not losing our
competitiveness because other currencies appreciate as well.”  On interest rates:  Thailand’s real interest rate is minus 1.15 percent, the
lowest in the region, Atchana said.  “The question we have to ask is does Thailand’s economy
need the kind of very eased monetary policy at a time like this?
And the answer is obvious, with inflation on the uptrend and the
economy doing very well. We don’t need the very eased,
abnormally eased monetary policy.  “The current rate is too low if we consider the trend of
inflation going forward, if we consider that the economy is
doing well. Then the negative real interest rate may be harmful
in the medium term when you discourage savings in the country
where we have a lot of investment opportunities going forward.
If you discourage saving because you allow real interest rates
to be negative for a long time, the country will get into some
kind of constraints.”  “The negative real interest rate may result in asset-price
inflation. People will move money to stocks, bonds and real
estate if you allow monetary policy to be eased for a long
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  