-- 
Taipei's Home Prices May Fall for Second Month in April on Tax, Sinyi Says

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-04-22T01:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/taipei-home-prices-may-fall-for-second-month-on-new-sales-tax-sinyi-says.html
Taipei’s existing  home prices  may
fall for a second month in April, the first two-month decline
since the global financial crisis, as a new housing tax deterred
buyers, the island’s biggest real estate brokerage said.  Average existing home prices in  Taiwan ’s capital may fall
in April after dropping 3.2 percent in March from February to
NT$540,000 ($18,642) per ping, equivalent to 36 square feet, Lee
Jian-ming, a researcher at  Sinyi Realty Co. (9940) , said in a phone
interview yesterday. Prices dropped for nine straight months to
February 2009 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  Taiwan’s parliament last week approved the finance
ministry’s proposal to impose a 15 percent tax on investment
properties sold within a year as prices surged to a record. The
tax will be 10 percent for those sold in two years. Premier  Wu Den-yih  said the levy will help damp property speculation and
may come into effect as early as June 1.  “Home prices will likely to fall further in coming months
until they find an initial floor when prices corrected by as
much as 10 percent,” Lee said. “Investors will either lose on
tax or on prices.”  Asian neighbors including Singapore and  China  have also
stepped up efforts to curb housing prices and counter
accelerating inflation in the region. Taiwan’s central bank
Governor Perng Fai-nan said last month the tax, rather than
raising borrowing costs, will be more effective in curbing
property speculation.  Taiwan raised its benchmark interest rate by 0.125
percentage point to 1.75 percent in March, adding to increases
of the same amount each in June, September and December from a
record low of 1.25 percent.  Officials in December capped second-home mortgages in
Taipei at 60 percent of the property’s price from a limit of 70
percent in June, and broadened the curb to other areas, while
also restricting loans using land as collateral to 65 percent of
the real estate’s value. The latest  sales tax  doesn't apply to
owner-occupied homes.     Home prices in Taipei rose 12.2 percent last year to a
record, according to Dave Chiou, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  