-- 
Malaysia Sells National Postal Company Stake in Divestment Plan

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-04-22T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/malaysia-sells-national-postal-company-stake-in-divestment-plan.html
DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , a Malaysian
automotives, construction and banking group controlled by
billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, won a race to become the
biggest shareholder in the Southeast Asian country’s national
postal company.  It will pay 622.8 million ringgit ($207 million), or 3.60
ringgit per share, for a 32.2 percent stake in  Pos Malaysia Bhd. (POSM) ,
according to an e-mailed statement by Khazanah Nasional Bhd.
late yesterday. That’s a 7 percent premium to the company’s
closing share price today of 3.37 ringgit.  Khazanah, an investment arm of the Malaysian government, is
divesting after Prime Minister Najib Razak called on state
organizations to sell down some non-core local commercial
holdings to help boost stock market liquidity and attract
investment. DRB-Hicom beat four other rival bids which Khazanah
didn’t name in the statement.  “DRB-Hicom was chosen based on their overall bid, which
offers not only a defined strategy but also an executable
business plan and an acceptable offer price,” Azman Mokhtar,
managing director of Khazanah, said in the statement. It’s the
buyer’s prerogative whether to make a general offer, he said.  Khazanah, which manages a 75 billion-ringgit investment
 portfolio , is the largest shareholder in some of Malaysia’s
largest listed companies, including power producer  Tenaga
Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , national carrier  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) ,
and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , the country’s second biggest
lender.  State Dominance  More than half of the benchmark  stock index  was owned by
government-linked funds as of June last year, according to
calculations by Bloomberg. The Employees Provident Fund, a state
pension fund, alone accounted for 50 percent of daily volume in
Malaysia’s local equity and bond markets, Najib said in March
last year.  The disposal of Pos Malaysia stake is Khazanah’s first
divestment of an entire stake in a major government-linked
company, the sovereign fund said. CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and
McKinsey & Co. advised on the sale, it said.  The sovereign fund raised 6.2 billion ringgit from
divesting stakes in seven companies last year, including DRB-
Hicom, CIMB,  Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  and  Telekom
Malaysia Bhd. (T) , it said on Jan. 19. This month, Khazanah sold a
30 percent stake in Integrated Healthcare Holdings Ltd., Asia’s
biggest hospital operator, to Mitsui & Co. for 3.3 billion
ringgit.  ‘Natural Fit’  “Pos Malaysia is a natural fit to our businesses,” Khalid
Abdol Rahman, DRB’s group director, said in a separate statement
yesterday. “Our banking and insurance businesses can leverage
on the extensive postal network which can serve to reach the
people, especially in the rural or remote areas.”  DRB, which has a controlling stake in Islamic lender Bank
Muamalat Malaysia Bhd., also wants to leverage of Pos Malaysia’s
virtual retail network and revitalize its logistics business,
Khalid said.  Pos  Malaysia ’s net income fell 59 percent to 6.1 million
ringgit in its fiscal fourth quarter ended December from a year
earlier. The value of its total assets rose to 1.38 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  