-- 
Malaysia Bars Rare-Earth Imports, Starts Review of Lynas Plant

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-04-22T06:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/malaysia-bars-rare-earth-imports-starts-review-of-lynas-plant.html
Lynas Corp. will be barred from
importing raw materials into  Malaysia  until the completion of a
study prompted by health and safety concerns related to a
processing plant the Australian developer of rare earths
minerals is constructing.  The Sydney-based company won’t get a pre-operating license
until the month-long independent review is complete, the
Malaysian government said. The company can continue building its
$220 million refinery in Pahang state while it awaits the
outcome of the panel’s study, Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria,
secretary-general of the Ministry of International Trade &
Industry, told media in Kuala Lumpur today.  “We will never compromise the public interest in the
handling of the Lynas issue,” International Trade & Industry
Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said. “The health and safety of our
people and the environment will continue to receive the highest
priority in our deliberations in this regard.”  Protests, including a march on Parliament, have escalated
following leakages at nuclear  power plants  in Japan after last
month’s earthquake and tsunami. While technologies used in rare-
earth processing are different, local residents and non-
governmental organizations are concerned over radiation risks
and what will happen to the waste.  The company will issue a statement later, Liz Whiteway, a
Lynas spokesperson, said when phoned in Kuala Lumpur today for
comment.  Market Growth  Lynas’s shares have jumped 353 percent in the past year
amid escalating global demand for its minerals used in iPod
music players and crystal displays. The stock rose 2.1 percent
to close at A$2.45 yesterday, ahead of today’s market holiday.  Should it get the all-clear, the refinery will process
rare-earth mineral ores, including neodymium and yttrium, from
Lynas’s Mt Weld mine which is under development in  Western
Australia .  The market for rare earth minerals may double to as much as
$6 billion by the middle of the decade, according to a report by
Ernst & Young LLP analyst Michel Nestour yesterday. The market
is currently valued at $2 billion to $4 billion, he wrote.
Prices for some rare earths jumped more than 1,000 percent last
year,  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the U.S. owner of the largest rare-earth
deposit outside  China , said in December.  China, the biggest holder of rare earths, has clamped down
on mining while cutting export quotas to conserve resources and
protect the environment. The initiative has boosted prices and
sparked concern among overseas users such as  Japan  about access
to supplies. Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are
used in sonar systems, flat-screen televisions, hybrid cars and
computers.  Processing Plant  Lynas’s Pahang plant was due to start operations in five
months, the Malaysian Insider reported on April 20. While the
project had been approved by government, this was subject to
environmental impact assessment, Prime Minister Najib Razak said
in an interview on March 29.  The review panel will be formed soon and will comprise as
many as seven independent experts, Raja Abdul Aziz Raja Adnan,
director-general of Malaysia’s Atomic Energy Licensing Board
told reporters.  Rare earth metals are key to global efforts to switch to
cleaner energy -- from batteries in hybrid cars to magnets in
 wind turbines . Mining and processing the metals causes
environmental damage that China, the biggest producer, is no
longer willing to bear.  China’s rare earth industry each year produces more than
five times the amount of waste gas, including deadly fluorine
and sulfur dioxide, than the total flared annually by all miners
and oil refiners in the U.S. Alongside that 13 billion cubic
meters of gas is 25 million tons of wastewater laced with
cancer-causing heavy metals such as cadmium, Xu Xu, chairman of
the China Chamber of Commerce of Metals, Minerals & Chemicals
Importers & Exporters, said at a Beijing conference on Dec. 28.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 