-- 
Harry & David Creditors Object to Wasserstein Terms for Bankruptcy Loan

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-22T16:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/harry-david-creditors-object-to-wasserstein-benefiting-from-bankruptcy.html
Wasserstein & Co., the buyout firm
that bought Harry & David Holdings Inc. in 2004, shouldn’t be
allowed to benefit from the now bankrupt gift retailer, said
creditors who object to the terms of a $100 million loan.  Harry & David’s request for a loan to fund operations as it
reorganizes in Chapter 11 should be denied or changed, creditors
said in court papers filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington, Delaware. The loan’s terms give unfair advantage to
Wasserstein, including $7 million in new stock of a reorganized
Harry & David and a release from lawsuits, creditors said.  “Wasserstein should not be entitled to pay itself sizable
fees at the expense of unsecured creditors for lending money to
the debtors solely to protect its own interests,” lawyers for
the committee wrote.  Wasserstein, which owned 63 percent of Harry & David’s
stock before the bankruptcy, is also the biggest holder of its
senior notes. It’s the largest lender under the company’s loan
to fund operations in bankruptcy, and proposes to back a rights
offering and give the company management services after
bankruptcy at an “exorbitant fee” creditors said.  Harry & David, based in Medford,  Oregon , already has
interim approval to borrow under the so-called debtor-in-
possession loan.  Stephanie Pillersdorf, an outside spokeswoman for
Wasserstein from the firm Sard Verbinnen & Co., had no immediate
comment.  ‘Primary Beneficiary’  “Wasserstein appears to be the primary beneficiary” of
the bankruptcy, creditors said, noting a $600,000 fee for the
bankruptcy loan, $2 million in new stock in exchange for backing
the rights offering and $5 million in stock for future
management services. The New York-based firm would also have the
right to select two members of the company’s new five-member
corporate board, creditors said.  Creditors, investigating legal claims against Wasserstein,
said the buyout firm would also get a release from any claims
after a period too brief to allow them finish their
investigation.  The case is In re Harry & David Holdings, Inc., 11-10884,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  