-- 
Thailand's Central Bank Willing to Allow Currency Gains, Atchana Signals

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-04-22T08:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/bank-of-thailand-willing-to-let-baht-gain-to-stem-inflation-atchana-says.html
The Bank of  Thailand  is willing to
let the baht appreciate to help contain inflation, and only
plans to intervene if the currency rises at a faster pace than
its regional peers, Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee signaled.  The baht has advanced 7.7 percent in the past year against
the dollar, the third-best performance among  Asia ’s 10 major
currencies excluding the yen, as overseas investors purchased
shares and government bonds to benefit from economic expansion.
It pared earlier losses after Atchana’s remarks today.  “A strong baht helps decrease inflation, especially
imported inflation,” Atchana said in an interview at her office
in Bangkok. “We didn’t resist the trend” of Asian currency
appreciation, she said.  Asian central banks from  China  to Singapore and Thailand are
raising  interest rates  or allowing their currencies to gain as
growth and oil at more than $100 a barrel spur inflation. The
 International Monetary Fund  said this month regional authorities
must quickly tighten monetary and fiscal policies to reduce the
risk that their economies will boom and then bust.  “That will be the trend for most Asian central banks, to
let their exchange rate strengthen to help tame inflation,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Singapore. “Thailand will continue to tighten monetary
policy and we will continue to see capital inflows.”  Central Bank Intervention  The baht reached 29.88 per dollar today, the strongest
level since Dec. 6, as the central bank raised borrowing costs
for a sixth time since June this week and signaled further
increases. The currency pared earlier losses of as much as 0.2
percent, trading 0.1 percent lower from yesterday at 29.94 per
dollar as of 3:03 p.m. in Bangkok, taking the weekly gain to 0.7
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand’s central bank has no target level for the baht,
and intervenes “only when the baht overshoots or undershoots or
doesn’t move in line with fundamentals,” Atchana said.  Overseas investors bought $798.3 million more Thai equities
than they sold this month through yesterday and $3.6 billion
more local government debt, according to data from the stock
exchange and the Thai Bond Market Association.  Southeast Asia ’s
second-largest economy may expand as much as 5 percent this year,
after growing 7.8 percent in 2010, the fastest pace since 1995,
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said this month.  The central bank lifted the one-day bond repurchase rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent on April 20, and
Thailand’s benchmark is higher than a maximum rate of 0.25
percent in Japan and the U.S.  Oil Costs Soar  Thailand, China,  India ,  South Korea ,  Indonesia , the
 Philippines  and  Taiwan  all raised interest rates in 2011 to curb
inflation. Crude oil has climbed 23 percent this year and
reached $113.46 a barrel last week, the highest since September
2008. A stronger currency makes imports of oil cheaper.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said April 9 that stabilizing
consumer prices is the top priority and policy tools including
the exchange rate will be used to “eliminate the monetary basis
for inflation,” while Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution
said last month the bank will allow the rupiah to appreciate to
help manage imported inflation. The Monetary Authority of
 Singapore  said last week it will allow the currency to
strengthen, sending the local dollar to the strongest level
since at least 1981, when Bloomberg began tracking the data.  “If one country intervenes in their foreign-exchange
market, others have to do it as well,” Atchana said. “If you
look at our increase in the international reserves, you see it
is obvious that we intervened in the market.”  Thailand’s foreign reserves have increased by $13.6 billion
this year to a record $185.8 billion as of April 15, compared
with a gain of $34.3 billion last year. The reserves climbed 0.6
percent last week, according to central bank data released today.  Singapore Dollar  Advances  The Singapore dollar has advanced more than 11 percent in
the past 12 months against the greenback. Taiwan’s dollar gained
8.5 percent,  Malaysia ’s ringgit rose 6.8 percent and the Chinese
yuan added 4.8 percent in the same period.  “If your currency appreciates, I don’t see any reason why
we have to resist that because it helps to reduce the inflation
rate of countries in the region,” Atchana said. “We will not
lose competitiveness because of the  exchange rate .”  Thailand’s inflation rate rose to a seven-month high of
3.14 percent in March while  core inflation , which excludes fresh
food and fuel prices, rose 1.62 percent, official data show. The
central bank uses the core measure to guide its monetary policy
and aims to keep the pace between 0.5 percent and 3 percent.  Abhisit has added price controls, kept oil subsidies and
pledged higher wages to ease the impact of rising costs ahead of
a general election he may hold as soon as June. Bank of Thailand
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last week inflation may
climb as much as one percentage point once the government
removes oil subsidies.  The onshore one-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, has increased 115 basis
points this year and reached the highest level since December
2008 on April 7, suggesting growing expectations for higher
rates. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  