-- 
Bank of America Wins Dismissal From Countrywide Mortgage Securities Suit

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-23T20:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/bank-of-america-wins-dismissal-of-countrywide-securities-claims.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was dismissed
from a lawsuit brought by investors who bought mortgage-backed
securities sold by Countrywide Financial Corp., the home lender
Bank of America acquired in 2008.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer granted Bank of
America’s request to dismiss the claim against it on grounds
that it can’t be held liable for actions of a unit, according to
an April 20 order filed in Los Angeles.  The investors failed to show that two separate transactions
in 2008, whereby Bank of America, through a subsidiary, acquired
and transferred the Countrywide assets, were a “de facto”
merger, Pfaelzer said.  The judge had dismissed the lawsuit in November, saying the
investors didn’t sufficiently demonstrate they suffered an
injury for the securities they bought, and that the statute of
limitations had expired for some claims. The judge allowed the
plaintiffs to file an amended complaint to address these
failings before she would rule on Bank of America’s Aug. 20
request to dismiss it from the complaint.  Bank of America said in its Augu. 20 filing that
Countrywide remained a separate, wholly owned subsidiary of the
bank and that, as a parent company, it can’t be held liable for
the mortgage lender’s alleged wrongdoing.  Systematically Disregarded  The investors claim Countrywide systematically disregarded
lending guidelines for the loans it originated and sold as
mortgage-backed securities. The other defendants in the case
include Countrywide entities, the underwriters that sold the
securities, and some of the mortgage lender’s former executives.  Joel Laitman, a lawyer representing the investors, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office after regular business
hours.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed statement
that the bank was gratified by the judge’s decision after
determining the bank and “NB Holdings should not be required to
answer claims that it succeeded to the legacy Countrywide
entities’ liabilities by virtue of allegations involving, among
other things, the merger transaction with Countrywide
Financial” and the bank’s purchase of some “legacy Countrywide
assets for value.”  Pfaelzer held a hearing on March 23 on motions to dismiss
the other claims in the amended complaint and has yet to issue a
ruling on those requests.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 