-- 
Blackwater Guards’ Iraqi Civilian Death Case Reinstated by Appeals Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-22T15:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/blackwater-guards-iraqi-civilian-death-case-reinstated-by-appeals-court.html
The U.S. won a bid to revive its
manslaughter and weapons case against four former Blackwater
Worldwide security guards accused in the 2007 deaths of 14 Iraqi
civilians at a  Baghdad  intersection.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  today reversed the
decision of a lower-court judge, who dismissed the charges
because statements the men made to State Department
investigators may have influenced the grand jury.  “In sifting the record as to taint of the evidence before
the indicting grand jury, the district court made a number of
systemic errors based on an erroneous legal analysis,” said the
appeals court.  Blackwater, the Moyock, North Carolina-based private U.S.
provider of security services, is now known as Xe. District
Judge Ricardo Urbina found that prosecutors, in trying to bring
charges against the guards, sought statements that the men had
been compelled to make to the state department in the immediate
aftermath of the shooting.  In a December 2009 ruling, Urbina said the men gave their
statements under threat of job loss. In doing so, he said they
were by law immune from prosecution for what they said.  The appeals court said Urbina must now “determine, as to
each defendant, what evidence -- if any -- the government
presented against him that was tainted.”  Unarmed Civilians  The government accused the guards of causing the deaths of
14 unarmed civilians and injuring 20 others. Three other
fatalities weren’t included in the charges.  Five guards were charged. The appeals court notes that the
U.S. voluntarily dismissed the indictment against Nicholas
Slatten of Sparta,  Tennessee .  Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the  Justice Department  said,
‘We’re pleased with the ruling and are assessing the next
steps.”  Bruce Bishop, a Washington lawyer who represented the
defendants on the appeal, did not immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  Blackwater was hired to protect State Department personnel.
According to court documents, on Sept. 16, 2007, at least six
members of a convoy opened fire with automatic weapons and
grenade launchers on unarmed civilians near Nisur Square in
Baghdad after a car bomb exploded. None of the victims were
insurgents and many were shot while inside their cars as they
attempted to flee the scene, according to the indictment.  One victim was shot in the chest while standing in the
street with his hands up, the government alleged.  The defendants are Evan Liberty, of Rochester,  New
Hampshire ; Paul Slough of Keller,  Texas ; Dustin Heard of
Maryville, Tennessee; and Donald Ball of West Valley City,  Utah .  The case is U.S. v. Slough, 10-3006, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 