-- 
Blazing Mark Rylance Fuels High-Octane ‘Jerusalem’: Play Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-22T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/blazing-mark-rylance-fuels-high-octane-jerusalem-play-review.html
When Rooster Byron exhales whatever
he’s toking, the smoke comes out in two long streams that might
make you think of a fighter jet taking off.  That’s not the only high-octane image that comes to mind in
describing  “Jerusalem,”  Jez Butterworth’s white-hot play.  And in Johnny “Rooster” Byron, as played with cyclonic
power by  Mark Rylance , Butterworth has created the most
memorable troublemaker since  Jack Nicholson ’s Randall Patrick
McMurphy upended the cuckoo’s nest.  Rooster’s fading claim to fame is that he was once a
daredevil motorcyclist, flying over buses and tanks, until one
challenge too many ended his career and left him with a bum leg.  Now he lives in a ramshackle mobile home in the middle of
the woods, catnip to the local teens hiding out from abusive
parents and looking for the booze and drugs and mostly the safe
haven that Rooster supplies in equally massive doses.  He’s not entirely admirable, but he is magnetically
appealing. Ask him a question and he’ll deliver a tall tale
about his encounter with a 90-foot giant who claims to have
built Stonehenge.  That might lead to an interrogation by Ginger (the
brilliant Mackenzie Crook), one of Rooster’s more age-
appropriate cronies, as to how this giant went unnoticed by the
 BBC . And from there to a critique of that organization’s sad
demise.  Leave, Please  Imported lock, stock and silver Airstream from  London ’s
 Royal Court Theatre , “Jerusalem” takes its title from William
Blake’s brief, beautiful poem about an idyllic England that has
sold its soul to industrialism. Not far from Rooster’s roost, a
sterile housing development is taking form. The local council
wants this bad seed gone.  It’s St. George’s Day, there’s a local fair with morris
dancers and a maypole. And there’s the mystery of Phaedra, a 15-
year-old girl last seen in a fairy costume, wings and all. Would
Rooster know where she’s run off to, her brutish, menacing
stepdad wants to know.  A three-hour epic, “ Jerusalem ” begins with a fairy
singing the lovely poem set to music by Sir Hubert Parry, which
is shattered by rock music blaring from the speakers atop
Rooster’s home. From there we’re off on a harrowing but
frequently hilarious ride, staged with compulsive energy by Ian
Rickson in a setting by Ultz that combines nature in bloom and
humanity in wreckage, lit with dappling realism by Mimi Jordan
Sherin.  We know it will not end well. It’s to Butterworth’s credit
that we are left so conflicted by this meeting with a force of
nature, in the best play of the season.  At the Music Box Theatre, 239 W. 45th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 