-- 
Brown University Considers Dropping Fencing, Wrestling, Women's Ski Teams

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-22T16:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/brown-university-considers-dropping-fencing-wrestling-women-s-ski-teams.html
A  Brown University  committee has
recommended that the school eliminate the men’s and women’s
fencing, wrestling and women’s ski teams and increase the budget
for the remaining 34 athletic programs by 10 percent.  The review was undertaken to assess the role of athletics
at Brown and to prepare a plan that ensures university resources
are being used according to the university’s academic mission,
according to the report.  Brown, in Providence,  Rhode Island , has the third-largest
athletic program in the Ivy League in terms of sports offered
and the smallest budget at $15.2 million, according to the 2009-
2010  Equity in Athletics Disclosure report  available on the U.S.
Department of Education’s website. University President Ruth Simmons and the school’s governing body may make a decision on
eliminating the sports as early as next month, and the teams
would be eliminated for the 2011-2012 academic year.  Brown Athletic Director Michael Goldberger didn’t
immediately return a phone call to his office.  In its report, the review committee said fencing would
require “a large investment in facilities, infrastructure, and
coaching” to bring the program up to par.  The report said the school could not offer “facilities to
support competitive skiing in any reasonable way,” noting that
all practices and competitions now are held in  New Hampshire  and
western  Massachusetts .  It said wrestling is one of the most expensive programs and
causes difficulties complying with Title IX -- the federal law
requiring that women have an equal number of opportunities to
participate as men. There are 28 males and no females on the
wrestling team.  In their most recent seasons, the men’s fencing team
finished 8-8; women’s fencing 3-14; and wrestling 2-10,
according to the Ivy League Sports website.  The  committee’s report  also says that Brown’s coaches and
staff are underpaid and should be brought into line with other
Ivy League schools; the number of admissions slots for recruited
athletes should be reduced by 30 to 195; athletic facilities
need to be upgraded.  According to the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Report,
Brown had the least athletic department revenue in the 2009-2010
academic year: Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut ($36.5
million);  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia ($30.4
million);  Princeton University  in  New Jersey  ($19.5 million);
 Columbia University  in New York ($19.3 million); Cornell
University in Ithaca, New York ($19 million); Dartmouth College
in Hanover, New Hampshire ($18.5 million);  Harvard University  in
Cambridge, Massachusetts ($17.9 million) and Brown ($15.2
million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  