-- 
Chicago Blackhawks Again Avoid NHL Playoff Elimination; Bruins, Sharks Win

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-04-22T05:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/chicago-blackhawks-again-avoid-nhl-playoff-elimination-bruins-sharks-win.html
The  Chicago Blackhawks  beat the
Vancouver Canucks 5-0 in the National Hockey League playoffs to
keep alive the defense of their Stanley Cup title.  Duncan Keith and Marian Hossa had two goals each, and
 Patrick Kane  added another for the Blackhawks at the Rogers
Arena in Vancouver last night.  Chicago , which beat the  Philadelphia Flyers  in June to end
a 49-year wait for a fourth Stanley Cup title, trails 3-2 in
games in the best-of-seven Western Conference series after
winning its second straight. The teams head back to Chicago for
Game 6 on April 24 before returning to Vancouver two days later
for a decider, if necessary.  The Blackhawks are seeking to become the fourth team in NHL
history to overcome a 3-0 series deficit. The Canucks ended the
regular season with the best record in the league.  After losing its first two postseason games at home, the
 Boston Bruins  beat the Montreal Canadiens 5-4 in overtime last
night for their second straight road win and tied their Eastern
Conference series at two games apiece.  Former Canadiens wing Michael Ryder got his second goal of
the game 1 minute, 59 seconds into overtime as the Bruins won at
the Bell Centre in Montreal. The teams return to Boston tomorrow
for Game 5 in the Eastern Conference series.  Also last night, the San Jose Sharks beat the Los Angeles
Kings 6-3 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles and lead their
series 3-1 in games. The Sharks can advance to the second round
in the Western Conference with a home win in Game 5 tomorrow.  Today, the Flyers host the  Buffalo Sabres  in the Eastern
Conference and the Nashville Predators visit the Anaheim Ducks
in the West with both series tied at 2-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  