-- 
China’s Stocks Cap Weekly Decline on Inflation; Yuan Advances

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-22T08:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/china-s-stocks-fall-on-outlook-for-inflation-banks-chalco-drop.html
China’s stocks  fell, driving the
benchmark index to its biggest weekly drop in three months, on
concern the central bank will increase measures to cool
inflation. The  yuan  touched a 17-year high.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.5 percent to 3,010.52
at the 3 p.m. local-time close. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.,
the nation’s largest producer of the metal, dropped 1.5 percent
after reporting lower profit on rising costs.  China Vanke Co. (000002) 
and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  paced declines by developers
and banks. China Southern Airlines Co. advanced among airlines
on speculation a stronger yuan will pare the value of dollar-
denominated debts.  Yuan forwards traded at the biggest premium to the spot
rate in more than five months, reflecting speculation the
central bank will allow quicker currency gains to help tame
inflation. Four  interest-rate  increases and higher bank reserve
requirements have failed so far to curb prices, with the
 consumer-price  index rising 5.4 percent in March.  “The investors are still expecting to see more tightening
measures as inflation remains at a high level,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Faster
yuan appreciation would become part of the government’s efforts
to curb inflation after the central bank gets close to a ceiling
for reserve requirement ratios and interest-rate increases.”  The Shanghai Composite slumped 1.3 percent this week, the
 biggest decline  since the five days ended Jan. 21 and paring the
gauge’s annual advance to 7.2 percent. The CSI 300 Index, which
tracks A shares traded on the country’s two exchanges, lost 0.5
percent to 3,299.94 today.  ‘Great Difficulties’  Chinese companies’ production and operations face
inflationary pressures as prices of imported commodities and raw
materials rise, the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology  said this week. The effects of the price increases
cause “great difficulties” for local businesses, it said.  Aluminum Corp. of China, known as Chalco, sank 1.5 percent
to 11.17 yuan. The company’s first-quarter profit fell 47
percent from a year ago to 331 million yuan ($51 million) on
higher raw-material and fuel costs, according to a statement to
 Shanghai Stock Exchange . Crude prices have risen 34 percent in
the past year.  China’s policy makers may use foreign-exchange tools more
frequently than in the past to tame inflation,  Ba Shusong , a
researcher at the State Council’s Development Research Center,
said in Shanghai today. A “moderate” pace of yuan appreciation
would be effective in dealing with imported inflation, he said.  Currency Gains  The yuan strengthened 0.4 percent this week to 6.5096 per
dollar, its biggest advance since mid-January, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency gained 0.17
percent today and touched a 17-year high of 6.5089, after the
central bank set the yuan’s reference rate 0.11 percent stronger
at 6.5156 per dollar, the highest level since July 2005.  The stronger yuan lifted airlines and paper producers.
China Southern jumped 2.4 percent to 8.93 yuan. Air China Ltd.,
the largest international carrier, added 1.5 percent to 11.66
yuan.  Shandong Chenming Paper Holdings Ltd. (1812) , the biggest
papermaker by market value, rallied 3.8 percent to 8.72 yuan,
its highest close since Nov. 11. A rising yuan will cut the cost
of imported pulp.  “Papermakers and airlines will benefit the most from the
yuan appreciation because of their reliance on imports such as
pulp and aircraft,” said Li Lei, an analyst at China Securities
Co. in Beijing. “The yuan is going to be a major boost for the
companies this year.”  Overseas Debt  A stronger yuan pares the value of dollar-denominated debt
built up by Chinese airlines from buying Boeing Co. and Airbus
SAS planes. Each 1 percent yuan appreciation will add 600
million yuan to Air China’s earnings, according to Rao Xinyu,
head of  investor relations , while China Southern said on March
29 every 1 percent gain in the yuan adds 400 million yuan to
earnings.  China’s government risks a “hard landing” for the economy
by failing to tighten monetary policy quickly enough to cool
inflation, according to independent economist  Andy Xie . The
central bank may raise borrowing costs three or four times
during the rest of the year, the former Morgan Stanley economist
told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  China Vanke, the largest developer, fell 1.5 percent to
8.55 yuan.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  declined 0.7 percent to
13.71 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China  lost 1.4 percent to 2.88
yuan.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the biggest
lender, slid 0.9 percent to 4.54 yuan.  Housing Curbs  The government is determined to control property prices,
the People’s Daily reported today, citing Mu Hong, a vice
director at China’s National Development and Reform Commission.  The government has restricted home purchases and raised
down payments on second mortgages to cap housing prices, which
gained for 19 consecutive months to December and, in March,
climbed in 67 of the 70 cities the government monitors.  Chinese banks and developers are “undervalued” and may
extend gains as the government contains inflation, said Wang Yawei, who manages the flagship fund of  China ’s biggest mutual
fund company.  The nation’s equities may post “small gains” in the
second quarter as the outlook for earnings remains “positive,”
Wang said in a quarterly report. “The short-term inflationary
factors will be effectively offset by the government’s
tightening measures and stay under control.’  --Irene Shen. Editors: Richard Frost, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  