-- 
China Should Use Currency to Curb Inflation, Government Researchers Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-22T12:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/china-should-widen-yuan-trading-band-to-curb-inflation-pboc-academic-says.html
Two prominent Chinese state
researchers added to calls for the government to use the yuan to
help curb inflation that accelerated to a 32-month high in March.  “A moderate acceleration in the yuan’s appreciation would
help China effectively deal with imported inflation”,  Ba Shusong , a researcher at the State Council’s Development
Research Center, said in  Shanghai  today. Wang Yong, a professor
at the central bank’s training center, said policy makers should
let the currency rise faster and widen its daily trading band by
an “appropriate margin” in the second half of the year.  The two academics join a growing number of Chinese
officials and academics who have this month highlighted how the
yuan may aid efforts to curb inflation that is threatening
social stability. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week that the
exchange rate may play a role in reining in prices and deputy
central bank governor Hu Xiaolian said more yuan flexibility
would ease inflation pressure.  “Allowing faster appreciation of the yuan will be an
important policy consideration in the next phase” of deciding
how to tackle price increases as the cost of internationally
traded commodities continues to surge, Wang wrote in a
commentary published in today’s Securities Times. He opposed a
one-off revaluation of the currency.  China ’s crude oil shipments in the first quarter rose 12
percent by volume and 39 percent by value to $43.7 billion. The
cost of iron ore imports jumped 82.5 percent to $27.7 billion
while the amount of metal climbed 14.4 percent, customs data
show.  Record Reserves  Policy makers may use foreign-exchange tools more
frequently than in the past to tame inflation, Ba said today.
China’s foreign-exchange reserves may climb to $4 trillion next
year, which will force the central bank to drain liquidity more
regularly, he said.  The nation’s foreign-currency holdings, the world’s biggest,
rose by the second-largest amount on record in the first quarter
to exceed $3 trillion, the central bank said April 14.  The room for China to raise  interest rates  will be limited
if the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  continue to maintain low rates, Ba
said today.  The People’s Bank of China has raised borrowing costs and
savings rates four times since mid-October. Its benchmark one-
year lending rate is 6.31 percent and the deposit rate stands at
3.25 percent. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s benchmark interest rate
stands at a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Record Gains  Yuan forwards traded at the biggest premium to the spot
rate in more than five months today. Twelve-month non-
deliverable contracts rose 0.3 percent to 6.3235 per dollar as
of 5:22 p.m. in  Hong Kong , 2.9 percent stronger than the onshore
exchange rate of 6.5067, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the largest gain projected since Nov. 11.  The Chinese currency is currently allowed to rise or fall
as much as 0.5 percent against the  U.S. dollar  from a daily
 reference rate  set by the People’s Bank of China. The rate was
fixed at a record high of 6.5156 yuan today.  Yuan appreciation may alleviate pressure on the central
bank to buy foreign currency, which would help ease excessive
liquidity and curb inflation, Wang wrote today. The government
at the same time should strengthen supervision of capital flows
as yuan gains may attract hot money, thereby boosting liquidity
and increasing inflation pressure, he said.  Xia Bin, an academic adviser to the central bank who also
heads the financial research institute of the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said this week that yuan gains will
have a “certain impact” on easing imported inflation pressure
although officials can’t rely on the  exchange rate  alone.  Export Orders  Still, he said current conditions aren’t conducive to
overly fast gains.  The Ministry of Commerce said today there is “relatively
large” pressure for the yuan to appreciate, which has had an
impact on export orders. The ministry made the comments in a
report on China’s foreign trade environment posted on its
website.  --Zheng Lifei, Luo Jun, Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Stephanie Wong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at   jliu42@bloomberg.net 
PBCZ CH <Equity> CN
%CNY 