-- 
DynCorp to Settle Claims of Inflating Costs for Iraq Work for $7.7 Million

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-23T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/dyncorp-to-pay-7-7-million-for-inflated-claims-on-iraq-work-u-s-says.html
DynCorp International Inc., the
largest U.S. contractor in  Afghanistan , agreed to pay
$7.7 million to resolve allegations it submitted inflated claims
for construction work in  Iraq , the U.S. said.  The Justice Department said yesterday that DynCorp and its
subcontractor, The Sandi Group, will settle a whistleblower case
filed in federal court in  Washington . The Sandi Group, accused
of submitting false claims on a police-training contract in
Iraq, will pay more than $1 million.  “The hard work of stabilizing Iraq is challenging enough
without contractors and subcontractors inflating the cost of
rebuilding by making false claims at taxpayers’ expense,”
Assistant Attorney General  Tony West , who oversees the
department’s civil division, said in an e-mailed statement.  DynCorp inflated the costs of building camps at various
locations in Iraq, the U.S. said. The Sandi Group sought
reimbursement for “danger pay” that it falsely claimed was
paid to employees.  The lawsuit, which couldn’t be verified on the court’s
docket, was filed by two former employees of The Sandi Group.
Those former employees, Drew Halldorson and Brian Evancho, will
receive as much as $481,710, according to the  Justice
Department .  DynCorp “cooperated fully with the review of the issues
and is pleased to have reached a resolution,” said Ashley Burke, a spokeswoman for the  Falls Church , Virginia-based
company, in an e-mailed statement.  “The settlement agreement expressly states that DI does
not admit any wrongdoing,” Burke said. “While the company
believes that its actions were appropriate and allowable under
the contract, we are committed to resolving this issue to the
satisfaction of the U.S. government.”  Russell Hugo, executive vice president of Washington-based
The Sandi Group, didn’t return a phone message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 