-- 
Tepco Fails to Get Assurance on Restarting Second Fukushima Nuclear Plant

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-22T06:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/tepco-fails-to-get-assurance-on-restarting-second-fukushima-nuclear-plant.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., the
company at the center of  Japan ’s nuclear disaster, failed to get
an assurance from Fukushima prefecture’s governor that a second
plant in the area can be restarted.  Tokyo Electric President Masataka Shimizu met Governor
Yuhei Sato in the prefectural office in Fukushima city earlier
today to apologize for the accident, said Katsuhiro Kiko, a
spokesman at the local government. Shimizu, who was refused
meetings with the governor on April 11 and March 22, outlined
plans to bring the crisis under control.  Sato told reporters after the meeting that Tepco can’t
restart nuclear  power plants  without safety guarantees,
according to Kiko.  Tepco, as the company is called, is trying to contain
radiation spewing from its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after a
magnitude-9 quake on March 11 unleashed a tsunami that flooded
the station, knocking out cooling systems. Its second plant in
the prefecture was safely shut down in the disaster and accounts
for about 7 percent of Tepco’s capacity.  The central government today started enforcing a no-entry
zone within 20 kilometers (12 miles) of Dai-Ichi as a public
health measure after residents returned to the area to check
their homes. Dai-Ichi is located about 220 kilometers north of
 Tokyo . Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ni plant is about 11 kilometers
south of the Dai-Ichi plant.  Order to Leave  The order went into effect at midnight, the Japanese
government said in a  statement . Residents in areas outside the
zone where radiation has been detected have been given till the
end of May to leave, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
today.  An earlier directive asking about 80,000 residents living
within the 20-kilometer radius to evacuate wasn’t legally
binding. Some have returned to the area to collect belongings
and check their properties against the advice of officials. One
person per household will be allowed to return to their homes
for two-hour periods to retrieve possessions, Edano said
yesterday.  Tepco has been pouring millions of liters of water to cool
the reactors and spent fuel after the accident, which has
flooded basements and trenches near the buildings that house
them. Some highly contaminated water leaked into the sea and the
utility has dumped less-toxic fluids into the ocean.  About 520,000 liters (137,000 gallons) of water with a
level of radioactivity that was 20,000 times the legal limit
leaked into the ocean between April 1 and 6, Junichi Matsumoto,
a Tepco general manager, said yesterday at a briefing in the
Japanese capital.  Radiation Leak  The amount of radiation discharged in the leakage was 4,700
terabecquerels of iodine-131, cesium-137 and cesium-134,
according to a statement from Tepco.  Basements and trenches around the reactor buildings are
also flooded with radioactive water, preventing repairs to the
electrical equipment and cooling systems.  Tepco started pumping contaminated water out of trenches
near one of the reactor buildings, Matsumoto said on April 19.
The company aims to move 10 million liters of the contaminated
water to a storage unit and expects to complete the transfer in
26 days.  About 690,000 liters was pumped out by 7 a.m. today,
spokesman Tetsuya Terasawa said at a briefing in Tokyo.  Tepco will build a seawall to protect its biggest atomic
power station from a tsunami like the one that knocked out the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Crisis Rating  Tepco plans to construct a wall to a height of 15 meters
(50 feet) above  sea level  off the coast of its Kashiwazaki
Kariwa plant northwest of Tokyo, spokeswoman Ai Tanaka said by
phone. Three of seven reactors remain shut at the station after
an earthquake in 2007 caused radiation leaks.  Japan’s government last week raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. The station,
which has withstood hundreds of aftershocks, may release more
contamination than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained,
Tepco officials said.  The company won’t get approval to start the remaining
reactors at Kashiwazaki until it resolves the crisis in
Fukushima, a local government official said on April 6.  Tepco said on April 13 it wants permission to restart the
remaining idled reactors at the Kashiwazaki plant, the world’s
biggest atomic power station, to meet potential shortfalls after
losing generating capacity in the disaster.  Tepco has been criticized by the government for responding
too slowly to the crisis that unfolded at Fukushima after the
tsunami washed ashore. The company also received criticism for
the way it responded to the quake that hit near the Kashiwazaki
station in 2007.  Kashiwazaki should be shut permanently, a group of
scientists said one month after the 6.6-magnitude earthquake hit
the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  