-- 
Tepco to Build Wall for Nuclear Plant After Fukushima Disaster

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-22T03:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/tepco-to-build-wall-for-nuclear-plant-after-fukushima-disaster.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. will build
a seawall to protect its biggest atomic power station from a
tsunami like the one that knocked out its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, causing the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years.  Japan’s biggest power company, known as Tepco, plans to
construct a wall to a height of 15 meters (50 feet) above  sea
level  off the coast of its Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant northwest of
Tokyo, spokeswoman Ai Tanaka said by phone. Three of seven
reactors remain shut at the station after an earthquake in 2007
caused radiation leaks.  Tepco has been battling to contain radiation spewing from
the Fukushima plant after a magnitude-9 quake on March 11
unleashed a tsunami that flooded the station, knocking out
cooling systems. The company won’t get approval to start the
remaining reactors at Kashiwazaki until it resolves the crisis
at Fukushima, a local government official said on April 6.  Japan ’s government last week raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. The station,
which has withstood hundreds of aftershocks, may release more
contamination than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained,
Tepco officials said.  Tepco said last week it wants to get approvals to restart
the remaining idled reactors at the Kashiwazaki plant, the
world’s biggest atomic power station, to meet potential
shortfalls after losing generating capacity in the disaster.  Tepco has been criticized by the government for responding
too slowly to the crisis that unfolded at Fukushima after the
tsunami washed ashore. The company also received criticism for
the way it responded to the quake that hit near the Kashiwazaki
station in 2007.  Kashiwazaki should be shut permanently, a group of
scientists said one month after the 6.6-magnitude quake hit the
area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  