-- 
Euro Rises Toward 16-Month High Versus Dollar on Growth Outlook

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-04-22T10:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/euro-near-16-month-high-before-french-italian-economic-reports.html
The euro strengthened toward a 16-
month high versus the dollar after a report showed French
business confidence was at a three-year high.  The dollar headed for a weekly decline against all its 16
major counterparts as traders reduced bets the  Federal Reserve 
will increase  interest rates  this year. The Australian dollar
traded near a record high as commodity price gains and signs of
quickening growth backed the case for higher borrowing costs.
The yuan rose to a 17-year high amid speculation China will
allow faster appreciation to help temper inflation.  “The euro-zone’s recovery looks solid,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest bank. “As long as
inflation is on the upside, market expectations for European
Central Bank rate hikes will likely persist, which is euro-
supportive.”  The euro climbed to $1.4563 as of 11:06 a.m. in  London  from
$1.4552 yesterday, when it rose to $1.4649, the highest level
since December 2009. The common currency appreciated 0.3 percent
to 119.41 yen. The dollar was at 82.01 yen from 81.85 yen.  Currency trading is forecast to be lower than usual today
due to the closure of markets in the U.K. and U.S. for the
Easter holidays. Asian markets such as  Singapore ,  Hong Kong ,
 Australia  and  New Zealand  were also shut.  French Sentiment  A French index of sentiment among factory executives was
unchanged at 110 in April, the highest since December 2007,
national statistics institute Insee said today.  The ECB, which aims to keep inflation below 2 percent,
raised its key interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to
1.25 percent this month. Policy makers left the door open for
further increases even as a sovereign debt crisis damps growth
in peripheral nations such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland.  The Dollar Index headed for a fourth weekly decline before
the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets to review interest rates
on April 26-27.  The likelihood policy makers will raise the target rate for
overnight lending between banks by December fell to 25 percent
yesterday, from 33 percent a week ago, Fed funds futures showed.
The Fed has kept its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Most of the 50 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last month
said they expected the Fed to keep its bond portfolio stable for
some time after the $600 billion program ends in June.  ‘Hopeless Situation’  “The dollar is in a hopeless situation, paralyzed by low
rates, a fact likely to be reaffirmed by the FOMC next week,”
analysts led by  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in
Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., wrote in a note yesterday.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, slipped less than
0.1 percent to 74.082.  The Australian dollar was poised for a fifth weekly gain
against the greenback as gains in commodity prices and stocks
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets.  “Commodity markets are doing well, boosting the Aussie
dollar’s allure,” Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based market
analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. wrote in a note to
clients.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has climbed 1.7 percent this week
while the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index
has gained 1.3 percent.  Interest Rates  Australia’s benchmark interest rate of 4.75 percent
compares with as low as zero in the U.S. and Japan, attracting
investors to the South Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie climbed 1.7 percent this week. The currency was
little changed today to $1.0747 after reaching $1.0775
yesterday, the strongest level since it was freely floated in
1983.  The yuan headed for a sixth weekly advance. The currency’s
greater flexibility may “ease imported inflation pressures,”
 Hu Xiaolian , a deputy governor at the People’s Bank of China
said, according to the transcript of an April 15 speech
published this week.  Faster appreciation of the yuan may be a tool for curbing
inflation in  China , Wang Yong, a professor at the Chinese
central bank’s training center in the city of  Zhengzhou , wrote
in a commentary published in today’s Securities Times newspaper.  “There’s lingering talk of a possible China revaluation of
the yuan,” said Okasan’s Soma.  The yuan strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.5067 per dollar
after touching 6.5089, the highest since the country unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  