-- 
Ex-Omni Bank Official Levine Gets Five-Year Prison Term for Bank Fraud

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-04-22T19:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/ex-omni-bank-official-levine-gets-five-year-prison-term-for-bank-fraud.html
A former Omni National Bank
executive was sentenced to five years in prison over fraud
charges tied to faltering  mortgage loans  that led to the bank’s
2009 collapse.  Jeffrey L. Levine , 70, one of the Atlanta-based bank’s co-
founders, pleaded guilty in January 2010 to charges he altered
bank records as part of a scheme to cover up defaulting mortgage
loans. U.S. District Judge Owen Forrester sentenced Levine to
prison today after finding his actions were intended to hide the
bank’s true financial condition.  “You managed to participate in the crime of the century,”
the judge told Levine in court. “Globally, the whole financial
industry is on its heels.”  An Omni customer, Delroy Oliver Davy, separately today was
sentenced to 14 years in prison for bank fraud and conspiring to
commit bank, mail and wire fraud. According to prosecutors,
Davy, 38, formed corporations to buy property from Omni and then
sold them to investors at inflated prices.  Davy paid kickbacks to an Omni loan officer to obtain
financing for investors, prosecutors said.  Although both criminal cases involve Omni, they are
unrelated, prosecutors said. Levine was unaware of the kickbacks
Davy paid to the loan officer, prosecutors said.  While prosecutors said Levine cooperated with
investigators, Davy continued to defraud investors “until
today,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gale McKenzie told the judge.  Received Kickbacks  Omni was seized by federal regulators in March 2009 after
examiners found its assets had been depleted by “unsafe and
unsound” banking practices. A probe found Omni officials
routinely doctored bank records to hide non-performing loans and
received kickbacks in exchange for loans.  The bank also attempted to hide the number of foreclosed
properties in its inventory by allowing homes to be sold
multiple times at artificially  inflated prices , regulators
concluded.  Levine, the bank’s executive vice president and second-
largest shareholder, oversaw the institution’s community
redevelopment lending unit from 2000 to 2007, prosecutors said.
The bank developed a niche for lending to small real-estate
investors, regulators have said.  His department made loans to borrowers with credit problems
who sought to rehabilitate housing in poor neighborhoods in
places such as Atlanta, Tampa,  Chicago  and Philadelphia for
quick sales, regulators contend.  Troubled Loans  Levine’s failure to properly document troubled loans left
investors unable to assess the bank’s true financial condition
and caused at least $7 million in losses, federal officials say.  Levine faced a  maximum sentence  of 30 years in prison and a
$1 million fine in connection with the fraud plea.  Omni was among 25 Georgia banks to fail in 2009 as a result
of fallout from the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and
the decline in the  U.S. economy . The state leads the nation with
59  bank failures  since 2008. More than 350 lenders across the
country have been shut down by regulators over the last 2 1/2
years.  The case is U.S. v. Levine, 09-CR-554, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta Division).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley in Atlanta at  dbeasley4@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 