-- 
Gillard Says Japan, Australia to Cooperate on Clean Energy

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-22T03:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/gillard-says-japan-australia-to-cooperate-on-clean-energy-1-.html
Australia and  Japan  agreed to work
more closely on developing sources of clean energy following the
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis that have afflicted the 
Asian nation.  The two countries reaffirmed their commitment to implement
a free-trade agreement under negotiation since 2007, Australian
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said today in a speech in  Tokyo .
Gillard met yesterday with Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and
promised Japan steady supplies of liquefied natural gas and
rare-earth metals.  “I also discussed with Prime Minister Kan our shared
interests in clean and renewable energy,” Gillard said. “We
agreed to explore closer cooperation in this area.”  Gillard’s visit to Japan as part of an Asian tour comes as
the world’s third-largest economy seeks to recover from its
biggest crisis since World War II. The March 11 disaster, in
addition to leaving more than 27,000 dead or missing, has led to
rolling blackouts and affected production at companies such as
Toyota Motor Corp.  In a joint statement following the leaders’ meeting,
Gillard assured Kan that  Australia  would provide a stable supply
of LNG and mineral resources through “commercial market
mechanisms.” Gillard also welcomed investment from Japanese
companies in Australia to develop LNG.  Liquefied Natural Gas  Japan, already the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, may increase purchases of the cleaner-burning fuel
after the nuclear crisis at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi
plant, analysts including David Hewitt at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets have said. Japan may now need a further 14 million
metric tons of the fuel by 2020, he said earlier this month.  Last month’s disaster damaged the Dai-Ichi plant’s cooling
systems, triggering the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in
1986. Australia supplied 20 percent of Japan’s liquefied natural
gas last year, second only to  Malaysia ’s 22 percent, according
to Finance Ministry statistics.  Gillard said yesterday Australia would be a “secure and
reliable” supplier of rare earth metals, which are needed to
make advanced electronics and hybrid automobiles such as
Toyota’s Prius.  In 2010,  China  said it would slash exports of the metals,
souring ties with major users including the U.S. and Japan,
causing prices to surge. China controls more than 95 percent of
the world’s supply of rare earths, which are 17 chemically
similar elements, including neodymium and dysprosium.  Rescue Teams  Australia aided Japan after the quake by dispatching rescue
teams to devastated areas and its military cargo planes helped
carry equipment to the nuclear plant in Fukushima prefecture.
Australia and Japan are increasing military cooperation, Gillard
said today, and the countries are working toward an information-
security agreement that will help them share and protect
classified information.  Gillard is scheduled tomorrow to visit the town of Minami-
Sanriku in  Miyagi prefecture , where an Australian relief team
operated last month. She will then travel to  South Korea  to meet
President  Lee Myung Bak  before ending the trip in Beijing, where
she will meet Chinese President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  