-- 
Gilts Advance as Rate-Increase Outlook Recedes, Euro Debt Crisis Persists

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-22T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/gilts-advance-as-investors-pare-bank-of-england-rate-increase-expectations.html
U.K. government bonds advanced as
investors pared expectations for an increase in the Bank of
England’s benchmark rate and sought the safety of gilts amid
growing concern the European debt crisis is not contained.  Short-sterling futures rose after minutes of the central
bank’s April 7 meeting showed no additional votes for higher
borrowing costs. The yield on U.K. two-year notes fell to the
lowest since January, as those on equivalent maturity Greek debt
surged to records above 20 percent on speculation the nation
will have to restructure its debt.  “It is now looking less and less likely that the BOE will
go in May for their first rate hike,” said  Sam Hill , a fixed-
income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “The
minutes highlight the concerns of the majority of the committee
that risks to growth are to the downside.” Sovereign risk in
 Europe  also “gives a bit of a safe-haven bid for the level of
yields,” he said.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell seven basis points in
the week to 3.53 percent as of 4:38 p.m. yesterday in London.
The two-year note yield dropped seven basis points to 1.13
percent. The pound strengthened 0.8 percent in the week to 87.93
pence per euro. It gained 1.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar  to
$1.6537.  Investors pushed back bets on when the central bank will
announce its first 25 basis-point increase to November,
according to forward contracts on the sterling overnight
interbank average compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc. Before the
minutes’ publication, the first move was expected in October.  Short Sterling Futures  The implied yield on the short-sterling contract expiring
in December gained 12 basis points to 1.18 percent.  Estimated first-quarter growth and consumer confidence data
are published next week.  “Next week’s GDP number we definitely see as a risk to the
downside on growth and that really is going to be a key factor
in holding the MPC back,” said Hill.  U.K. government debt has handed investors a 0.2 percent
return this year, compared with a 2.1 percent loss for German
bonds and 0.4 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 