-- 
Greek, Irish, Portuguese Bonds Slump on Default Bets; German Bunds Advance

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-04-22T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/greek-irish-portuguese-bonds-slump-as-cost-of-default-insurance-surges.html
Greek bonds slumped, pushing yields
up by the most in almost a year, as the cost to insure the
securities against default jumped to an all-time high amid
mounting concern it will have to restructure its debt burden.  Yields on two- and 10-year bonds from Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  all rose to euro-era records this week. Lars Feld, a
member of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic
advisers, said on April 20 that Greek debt restructuring is
probable. German bunds gained after  Standard & Poor’s  put a
“negative” outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit rating, sparking
demand for an alternative to Treasuries.  “The key driver behind this new sell-off is the ongoing
speculation about possible Greek restructuring,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
Germany. “The negative review for the U.S. sovereign rating
added to the pressure, reminding investors again that the
sovereign debt issue is serious and here to stay for the
foreseeable future.”  Greece ’s two-year yields rose 450 basis points to a euro-
era record 23.32 percent as of 4:23 p.m. yesterday in  London ,
the biggest increase since the week ending May 7 last year. The
nation’s 10-year bond yields posted a 110 basis-point gain to
14.93 percent. Portuguese 10-year government bond yields rose to
a euro-era record of 9.43 percent. The yield on the nation’s
two-year note climbed 165 basis points to a record 10.85
percent. Ireland’s two-year note yields rose 254 basis points in
the week, reaching an all-time high of 10.77 percent, while its
10-year bond reached a record 10.48 percent.  Credit-Default Swaps  Earlier this month, Portugal became the third euro-region
country to seek an international bailout after Greece sparked a
sovereign-debt crisis that threatened to splinter the currency
bloc a year ago and then engulfed Ireland.  The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt jumped to a
record 1,325 basis points according to CMA prices for credit
default swaps, signaling a 67.4 percent chance of default within
five years, even as Greek officials said they have no plans for
a debt restructuring. Portuguese default swaps rose to 646, also
a record.  “The yields continue to widen in double-digits even as
some risk-sentiment returns to the market,” Leister said.
“That suggests that despite the levels reached so far it
doesn’t preclude a further widening.”  Bunds Rise  German 10-year bunds rose over the week, pushing the yield
down 10 basis points to 3.27 percent. The country is set to
auction 6 billion euros of 10-year debt on April 27, while Italy
plans to sell index-linked bonds maturing in 2016 and 2021.  European government bond markets are closed on April 22 and
25 for holidays. Trading will resume on April 26.  Consumer prices in  Germany  are forecast to rise 2.4 percent
from 2.3 percent in March, according to the median estimate of
12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the April 27
report.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 2.1
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Greece’s has declined 8.7 percent,
Portugal’s 12.3 percent and Ireland’s 5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  