-- 
Japan Airlines Holiday Bookings Fall as Capacity Cut

-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 
2011-04-23T05:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/japan-airlines-golden-week-bookings-plunge-as-capacity-slashed.html
(Corrects relative airline sizes in second paragraph of
story first published on April 22.)  Japan  Airlines Co. bookings over a
stretch of national holidays starting next week fell by the most
in at least six years as the carrier, which exited bankruptcy
last month, cut capacity to improve profitability.  International reservations for Japan’s so-called Golden
Week from April 28 to May 8 plunged about 33 percent and
bookings for domestic flights dropped 26 percent from a year
earlier, Tokyo-based Japan Air said in a statement on its
website yesterday. All Nippon Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest
listed carrier, had 9 percent more international bookings than
last year as it added services to cities including Jakarta,
Manila and Munich over the past year, according to its website.  Japan’s biggest airlines and global rivals have pared
services after last month’s record earthquake and tsunami left
more than 28,000 dead or missing and crippled a nuclear power
plant, causing it to leak radiation. Holiday reservations fell
amid mourning for the dead, aftershocks, power shortages and the
risk of radiation contamination of food, air and water.  “Reservations for domestic flights this year were made
nearer to the date of travel as a result of the Great East Japan
Earthquake,” Japan Airlines said in an e-mailed  statement 
yesterday.  Capacity Slashed  JAL’s international and domestic capacity will be about 24
percent lower this year than last, according to the statement.
The carrier, formerly  Asia ’s largest by sales, this week said it
would extend reductions in overseas flights because demand has
dropped. The cuts will last until as late as June 1 and include
flights to Honolulu, Beijing,  Shanghai  and  Hong Kong  from  Tokyo 
Narita airport.  ANA on April 7 said it would reduce services from Tokyo to
Sapporo, Fukuoka and Okinawa starting the second week in April
and cut flights between the capital and Incheon,  South Korea ,
and Beijing. The reductions will run through the end of next
month, the carrier said April 14.  Japan’s Golden Week this year features three midweek
national holidays, enabling workers to enjoy a 10-day vacation
by taking just two days off.  The Japan nuclear crisis, coupled with political unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa, has made the first quarter
“very difficult” for the global  airline industry ,  Giovanni Bisignani , the outgoing head of IATA, said March 30 in an e-
mailed statement. Growth in global international passenger
numbers slowed to 6 percent in February from 8.4 percent the
previous month, the airline group said.  Carriers including United Continental Holdings Inc., the
world’s largest, ANA, JAL and Singapore Airlines have trimmed
Japan capacity by cutting services or shifting to smaller
aircraft.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  