-- 
Kazakhstan Said to Seek Sale of Alliance Bank Stake to EBRD After Bailout

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-04-22T11:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/kazakhstan-said-to-seek-a-sale-of-bailed-out-alliance-bank-stake-to-ebrd.html
Kazakhstan wants to sell a stake in
Alliance Bank to the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, potentially making it the first of the Kazakh banks
that defaulted during the financial crisis to attract an
international investor, said three people familiar with talks.  An agreement on the sale may be reached as early as next
month, said one of the people. The three people declined to
provide details on the size of the stake or the price and asked
not to be identified because the negotiations are private.  Alliance Bank, the first Kazakh lender to default in 2009,
completed restructuring $4.5 billion of debt, reducing the
amount owed to about $1 billion, the bank said on March 30 of
last year. The state-owned National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna
holds 67 percent of Alliance’s ordinary shares after the
reorganization. Alliance is the country’s sixth-largest lender
by assets.  Samruk-Kazyna plans to consolidate state stakes in BTA
Bank, Temirbank and Alliance Bank in a new management company,
central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko said on April 19. The
three lenders defaulted in 2009 after credit markets froze and
the country’s property bubble burst.  Alliance Bank narrowed its loss by almost 96 percent to
2.25 billion tenge ($15.5 million) in the first two months from
50 billion tenge in the same period last year, the Kazakh
financial regulator said in March, citing unconsolidated data
under Kazakh accounting standards.  “Alliance Bank is in talks with a potential investor,”
Dmitry Shishkin, a spokesman for the Almaty-based lender, said
today by phone, declining to name the buyer. Evgenia Evstegneeva
and Tatyana Tyo, EBRD officials in Almaty, both declined to
comment when called by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  