-- 
Nevada Senator Ensign Will Resign May 3 to Avoid Ethics Inquiry of Affair

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-22T16:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/nevada-senator-ensign-announces-resignation-effective-may-3-1-.html
Republican Senator  John Ensign  of
 Nevada , saying he wanted to spare his family the emotional
“wear and tear” of an ethics inquiry into an extramarital
affair, said he will resign his office effective May 3.  Ensign, 53, a veterinarian first elected to the Senate in
2000, said in March that he wouldn’t seek a third term next
year. He made his resignation announcement yesterday on his
Senate  website .  He disclosed in June 2009 that he had had an affair with a
campaign worker, Cindy Hampton, whose husband, Doug, was an aide
on his Senate staff. The  Justice Department  said last December
that Ensign was no longer a target of a probe into whether a
severance payment he made to Cindy Hampton was an illegal
 campaign contribution .  “Senator Ensign has made the appropriate decision,” the
Senate Ethics Committee, which had kept looking into allegations
stemming from the matter, said in a statement from committee
head  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, and the vice
chairman, Georgia Republican  Johnny Isakson .  The ethics panel signaled in February it was intensifying
its inquiry by hiring an  outside counsel  to assist in the
investigation, which could have led to public hearings. The
committee will lose its jurisdiction over Ensign with his
resignation. The ethics committee’s statement after the
resignation said it had “worked diligently for 22 months on
this matter and will complete its work in a timely fashion.”  Cost `Too Great'  On his website, Ensign said that “while I stand behind my
firm belief that I have not violated any law, rule, or standard
of conduct of the Senate, and I have fought to prove this
publicly, I will not continue to subject my family, my
constituents, or the Senate to any further rounds of
investigation, depositions, drawn out proceedings, or especially
public hearings. For my family and me, this continued personal
cost is simply too great.”  After the senator acknowledged the affair, Ensign’s parents
paid $96,000 to Cindy and Doug Hampton and two of their
children. A lawyer for Ensign, Paul Coggins, said in July 2009
that the payment was made “out of concern for the well-being of
long-time family friends during a difficult time.”  Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in  Washington , a watchdog group, said
that “given his outrageous conduct, it is unbelievable Senator
Ensign was allowed to linger for so long. At least the senator
will finally be gone and Americans can put this latest
politician-behaving-badly behind us.”  Successor Decision  Ensign resigned his fourth-ranking post in the Senate
Republican leadership after he confirmed the affair.  U.S. Representatives Dean Heller, a Republican, and Shelley Berkley, a Democrat, have already announced their candidacies
for the Senate seat.  Governor Brian Sandoval, a Republican, can name a successor
to fill the seat through the end of Ensign’s term and may select
Heller, making him the incumbent in next year’s election.
Sandoval issued a statement saying “I respect the decision he
has made” and thanking Ensign for his service.  Ensign served two terms in the U.S. House before losing a
1998 Senate race to incumbent  Harry Reid , a Democrat, by fewer
than 500 votes. He ran successfully for the Senate two years
later and was re-elected in 2006.  Reid, now the Senate majority leader, said in a statement
that he has “appreciated John’s partnership in working with me
to address our state’s needs. He was a strong advocate for
Nevada, and worked for many years to improve our state.”  Reid also said, “I know this is a difficult time for the
family and I wish them all well as they work through it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 