-- 
Harvard Campus Murder Suspect Found Guilty in Shooting in Massachusetts

-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-04-22T19:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/new-york-man-guilty-in-2009-drug-linked-harvard-campus-murder.html
A Harvard University murder suspect
was found guilty in the shooting death of an alleged drug dealer
in a campus dormitory in 2009 and sentenced to mandatory life in
prison without parole.  Jabrai Jordan Copney, 22, was convicted today of first
degree murder in Woburn,  Massachusetts , in the death of Justin
Cosby, 21. Copney also was convicted of possession of a firearm
and acquitted of armed robbery. Judge John T. Lu sentenced
Copney after the verdict.  Before the sentencing, the victim’s mother, Denise Cosby,
addressed Copney, whom she called a “punk” who murdered her
son.  “When I think of what you did,” she told Copney, “You
and your bunch of buddies infiltrating the Harvard University
campus and murdering my son, my heart sinks.”  Copney and his lawyer, John Amabile, didn’t speak at the
sentencing.  A former Harvard student and Copney’s girlfriend, Brittney
Smith, is charged with lesser crimes connected to the killing.
Prosecutors said Copney was living in Smith’s dorm room in 2009
and gave him an access card to the building.  Two other men earlier pleaded guilty to manslaughter and
are awaiting sentencing. They are Blayn Jiggetts, portrayed by
Copney’s lawyers as the person who pulled the trigger, and Jason
Aquino of  New York City .  Cosby, an alleged drug dealer, was lured to the
university’s Kirkland House by the three men on May 18, 2009,
prosecutors said. Instead of making a drug transaction, they
intended to rob Cosby, the government said.  Jiggetts, of  Mount Vernon ,  New York , testified that Copney
was the gunman.  Copney’s mother, Yvette Bloom, cried as the verdict was
read, and said outside the court, “I’m hurt. I’m disappointed.
They took the life away from my son at 22 years old.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 