-- 
NFL Owners Oppose Bid by Players to Block Them Receiving Lockout Money

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-22T04:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/nfl-owners-oppose-bid-by-players-to-block-them-receiving-lockout-money.html
National Football League  team
owners asked a U.S. judge not to block them from receiving
revenue tied to a labor lockout, saying that players can’t
object because they have disavowed their union.  “Having taken the position that it is no longer
bargaining,” the National Football League Players
Association can’t claim the owners have caused “injury to
the collective bargaining process” and should be deprived
of funds, owners of the league’s 32 teams said in a court
filing yesterday in federal court in  Minneapolis .  The NFL declared a labor lockout on March 12 after
talks to create a new collective bargaining agreement
failed and the players association said it no longer would
act as a union.  Ten players, led by New England Patriots quarterback
 Tom Brady , sued the league claiming it was violating U.S.
antitrust laws by engaging in anticompetitive practices.  The players have revived a 1992 lawsuit in a current
dispute over $4 billion in television-derived revenue.  On March 31, the players in the 1992 case asked U.S.
District Judge David Doty for an order barring owner access
to what they called “lockout provision funds” and
enforcing a court-appointed special master’s $6.9 million
award.  The players also asked Doty for an order that an
undisclosed amount of money due from  DirecTV (DTV) , the
satellite-television provider that offers a subscription
package for every NFL game, be placed in escrow until the
lockout ends.  The 1992 case is White v. NFL, 4:92-cv-00906, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis). The
latest case is Brady v. National Football League, 0:11-
00639, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St.
Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  