-- 
Nippon Life Insurance Plans to Invest $12 Billion, Mainly in Japan Bonds

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-22T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/nippon-life-insurance-plans-to-invest-12-billion-mainly-in-japan-bonds.html
Nippon Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s
biggest life insurer, plans to invest about 1 trillion yen ($12
billion) this financial year, with as much as 80 percent of the
money to buy yen-denominated bonds for stable returns.  Nippon Life, with 47 trillion yen in assets, will focus on
Japanese  government bonds  with longer maturities and corporate
debt in the year ending March 31, said Yosuke Matsunaga, general
manager of the finance and investment planning department.  Nippon Life joins rivals Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co., Meiji
Yasuda Life Insurance Co. and Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. in
betting on the relative safety of fixed-income investments as
Japan struggles with the aftermath of a record earthquake.
Nippon Life’s unrealized gains on investments last fiscal year
slid to 1.91 trillion yen from 2.4 trillion yen in the previous
12 months amid falling stocks and a stronger yen, Matsunaga said.  “The bulk of our planned new investments this financial
year will continue to be in fixed-income securities, mostly in
yen-denominated bonds that provide stable income,” Matsunaga
said at a press briefing in  Tokyo  yesterday. “We will actively
adjust our portfolio by looking at the relative attractiveness
among the yen-denominated bonds.”  Prime Minister Naoto Kan today proposed a 4 trillion yen
extra budget that is likely to be the first of several packages
to rebuild areas devastated by the March 11 quake and tsunami.
The government plans to fund the budget without increasing the
44.3 trillion yen in new bond issuances set for the year ending
March, according to a statement. Japan’s public debt is about
twice the size of the economy.  Increase Loans  Nippon Life may increase loans to companies by several tens
of billions of yen to about 50 billion yen this fiscal year,
while overseas bonds with currency hedges will probably be
unchanged or decrease, Matsunaga said.  Domestic stock holdings will probably be unchanged, while
Nippon Life may increase investments in foreign equities with a
focus on emerging markets that have higher growth prospects,
Matsunaga said. The insurer also plans to increase holdings of
overseas bonds without currency hedges when the yen strengthens,
reducing the cost, he said. Real estate investments may rise
slightly.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 12 percent in the
year ended March 31. In contrast, holders of Japan’s bonds
earned 1.9 percent on their investments, as measured by indexes
compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  In the fiscal year ended March 31, Nippon Life boosted
investments in Japanese bonds by 1.16 trillion yen and overseas
bonds with currency hedges by 900 billion yen, Matsunaga said.
It also increased loans by 30 billion yen, he said.  Foreign bonds without currency hedges increased 390 billion
yen last fiscal year, domestic equities rose 10 billion yen and
real estate investments climbed 40 billion yen, he said.
Holdings of overseas equities declined 10 billion yen.  Following are Nippon Life’s market forecasts for the current
fiscal year through March 2012. The ranges refer to where the
insurer expects securities to trade during the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 