-- 
Nippon Steel, Wuhan Iron to Establish Joint Venture in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-22T09:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/nippon-steel-wuhan-iron-to-establish-joint-venture-in-china-1-.html
Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ,  Japan ’s largest
steelmaker, and Wuhan Iron & Steel Group will invest 24 billion
yen ($293 million) to set up a tinplate venture in the Chinese
city of Wuhan, as demand for beverage and food cans rises.  The 50:50 venture will commence operations in the summer of
2013, Nippon Steel said today in a  statement . The plant, using
 Wuhan Steel ’s semi-processed steel, will have an annual capacity
of 200,000 metric tons a year of tin plates.  This will be Nippon Steel’s second tin-plate venture in a
Chinese market currently dominated by Baosteel Group Corp. where
a growing population and wealth are stoking demand for beverages
and canned food. Tinplate demand may rise to as much as 3.7
million tons in 2015 from 2.32 million tons in 2009, according
to Nippon Steel estimates.  “Chinese demand for tinplates has been rising at annual
rates of 7-8 percent in line with the nation’s economic growth
and is forecast to expand at a similar pace,” Takeshi Itagaki,
general manager at Nippon Steel’s overseas business department
division, told reporters at a briefing today.  The new venture will target  China ’s mid-western area,
Nippon Steel said in the statement.  Shanghai-based Baosteel, China’s second-biggest steelmaker,
is the biggest producer of tinplates in the country with annual
production of about 1 million tons, according to Nippon Steel.
Wuhan Steel, based in the central province of Hubei, is the
nation’s fourth-biggest mill.  Bai Fang, a spokesman of Wuhan Steel, said he had no
information about the project. The planned venture has obtained
approval from Chinese authorities, Nippon Steel said.  Nippon Steel fell 0.4 percent to 252 yen today in  Tokyo .
Wuhan Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of Wuhan Iron & Steel
Group, China’s fourth-biggest mill, fell 1.4 percent to close at
4.90 yuan in  Shanghai  trading.  Nippon Steel has a 25 percent stake in another tinplate
venture, established in 1994, in China’s southern city of
 Guangzhou , the statement said, without giving more details. It
also has an automotive sheet venture in Shanghai with
ArcelorMittal and Baoshan Iron & steel Co., the listed unit of
Baosteel.  --Masumi Suga, Helen Yuan. Editor: Alan Soughley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net 
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 