-- 
Morocco King’s Investment Fund to Give Up Major Company Stakes

-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 
2011-04-22T15:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/morocco-king-s-investment-fund-to-give-up-major-company-stakes.html
Societe Nationale d’Investissement,
a Moroccan investment fund with assets valued at least $2
billion controlled by King Mohammed VI, said it plans to become
a minority investor in a number of companies to reduce its
influence over the economy.  SNI will cut its investment in companies including
 Morocco ’s biggest publicly traded bank, its biggest maker of
cooking oil and its largest sugar refiner, Karim Chbani, an
investment manager at the fund, said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “SNI will disengage from subsidiaries in
which it holds majority stakes by tendering their control to the
market as announced last year in March,” Chbani said.  SNI was listed on the Casablanca stock exchange until
August 2010, when it merged with subsidiary  Omnium Nord Africain 
and bought back its outstanding shares in a $3.9 billion
transaction. In 2009, its last full year as a quoted company,
SNI reported revenue of 3.4 billion Moroccan dirhams ($436
million) and stock-market holdings valued at 17.4 billion
dirhams. ONA and SNI accounted for 11.7 percent of  Bourse de
Casablanca ’s 509 billion-dirham market capitalization as of end-
2009, according to figures in the exchange’s annual report.  “ONA held a majority stake in its subsidiaries and assumed
operational management,” said Chbani. “The new merged SNI-ONA
will now serve as an investment fund that will hold a portfolio
of minority interests and will give up operational management.”  Attijariwafa Bank  According to the bourse’s website, SNI owns 48.3 percent of
Attijariwafa Bank, the country’s No. 1 publicly traded lender;
79 percent of Wafa Assurance, the biggest insurer; 63.4 percent
of Centrale Laitiere, its largest dairy; 75.8 percent of Lesieur
Cristal, the main maker of cooking oils; and 63.5 percent of
Cosumar, the largest sugar refiner. The fund will decrease its
participation in Lesieur, Cosumar, Centrale Laitière,
Attijariwafa Bank, as well as Bimo and Sotherma, Chbani said.  SNI tripled its profit in 2010. Net income increased to 8.2
billion dirhams from 2.3 billion in 2009, according to financial
statements published in the daily newspaper Le Matin on April
10. Revenue increased to 14 billion dirhams from 3.4 billion
dirhams, according to the report.  SNI said in an April 14 emailed statement that net profit
included 6.4 billion dirhams generated by adopting International
Financial Reporting Standards in the accounting process of the
ONA-SNI merger.  “It should be noted that SNI posts a sharp drop of 40
percent in its statutory net profit at 648 million dirhams in
2010 against 1.1 billion dirhams in 2009,” SNI said.  Tens of thousands of Moroccans took to the streets
nationwide on March 20 to protest against the influence of the
king’s investment fund as well as to demand freer elections,
greater civil liberties and less corruption.  SNI has for decades contributed to the economic and social
development of Morocco, Chbani said in response to the recent
criticism.  “We have always ensured transparency and civic
responsibility,” Chbani said. “Most of our holdings are
listed, our accounts and those of our holdings are audited and
certified by international firms and we were the first to
introduce IFRS accounting in Morocco.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aida Alami in Cairo at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  