-- 
Total to Boost Russia Output 30-Fold by 2020 as Arctic Opens

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-04-22T18:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/total-aims-to-boost-russia-output-to-400-000-barrels-day-by-2020.html
Total SA (FP)  is seeking to boost output
in  Russia  more than 30-fold within a decade, as the French
producer develops Arctic projects.  Total plans to produce between 300,000 to 400,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day by 2020, Pierre Nerguararian, head of
Total E&P Russie, said in a presentation in Moscow today. In
June, the producer marks its 20th anniversary in Russia.  Europe ’s third-biggest oil producer is working on five
exploration and production projects with Russian partners and
holds about 12 percent in OAO Novatek, as international energy
companies look to Russia to boost reserves. Total agreed to buy
the stake for about $4 billion at a ceremony last month attended
by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  The French company’s output in Russia, the world’s biggest
energy producer, is now limited to its 40 percent share of the
Kharyaga project which is being developed under a production
sharing agreement. The field, located in harsh conditions above
the Arctic Circle, produces about 30,000 barrels a day of crude
with a high paraffin and sulfur content.  Total and its Kharyaga partners,  Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
Russia’s OAO Zarubezhneft and the local Nenets Oil Co., plan to
keep output at that plateau level “for as long as possible,”
Nerguararian said.  Yamal LNG  The Russian government approved a budget of $591 million
for Kharyaga this year, up from $416 million in 2010, according
to Total’s presentation. The state has received over $1 billion
in revenue from the project, he said. Production will be at
about the same level this year as in 2010, he said.  Total also aims to produce natural gas at the OAO Gazprom-
led Shtokman project in the  Barents Sea  and at Novatek’s Yamal
LNG project, both in the Arctic, the executive said. The French
company holds 25 percent of the Shtokman operating company, and
agreed last month to buy a 20 percent stake of Yamal LNG.  Shtokman remains a priority for Total, Nerguararian said.
Yamal LNG may start producing liquefied natural gas in 2016, a
year earlier than Shtokman, according to the Russian government.
The partners moved an  investment decision  on pipeline gas from
March until December, when they will also decide on an LNG
facility. The next Shtokman board meeting is scheduled for June,
according to Total’s presentations.  Novatek and Total are also working together at the
Termokarstovoye field, which may hold more than 47 billion cubic
meters of gas and 10 million metric tons of condensate. An
appraisal well drilled at the field last year confirmed the
reserves, Nerguararian said. The partners aim to make a final
investment decision at the end of the year, he said.  Total is also a partner in the Khvalynskoye field, operated
by OAO Lukoil, on the Russia-Kazakh border in the  Caspian Sea .
The project, which the partners aim to develop under a
production sharing agreement, may progress by the end of the
year, Nerguararian said.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in September ordered
Natural Resources Minister Yuri Trutnev to speed up work on a
production sharing agreement for the Khvalynskoye field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  