-- 
Lotus Evora, Goldman’s Steven Cho, SAC’s Chris LaSusa: Car Gala

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-22T15:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/lotus-evora-goldman-s-steven-cho-sac-s-chris-lasusa-scene-last-night.html
At around 9 p.m. yesterday, race-
car driver E.J. Viso popped into a midnight-blue 2011 Lotus
Evora IPS, revved up the engine, and steered the car past
several hundred guests seated for dinner.  The slow ride made for an exciting moment at the New York
International Auto Show gala preview, a fundraiser for  East Side
House Settlement .  Viso parked near gala co-chairman Christopher LaSusa,
portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors LLC, and the podium.  Soon after, Christie’s International auctioneer Lydia Fenet
auctioned the car, for $80,000, to Jamie Brown, president of
investment bank Canaccord Genuity Inc.  “I bought it for the charity, and I’m looking forward to
driving it,” Brown said in an interview after, standing with
co-workers next to his firm’s two tables. “This is a terrific
event.”  More money was raised when Steven Cho, a partner at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and chairman of the East Side House Settlement
scholarship committee, talked about the  income gap  between those
with college educations and those without. His words spurred
more than 30 guests to make $1,000 donations, for which they
received Lotus baseball caps.  The East Side House Settlement gala preview is an annual
event that gives guests the chance to roam the show early,
cocktail in hand. Dinner tickets for this year’s event were
$1,000 and cocktail tickets were $200.  British Sponsor  Lotus signed on as a sponsor of the gala as part of its
effort to break into the American market. The European carmaker
produces 2,500 cars annually.  “We have an ambition to actually deliver to American
customers something like 500 units,” said Lotus’s director of
sales, Guillaume Chabin.  The Evora model retails for $64,000 to $75,000.  “A Lotus is all about driving, handling, cornering, having
this direct relationship between the road and yourself,” Chabin
said. “It’s the closest you can get to a racing experience
with a standard road car.”  The  New York International Auto Show  opens to the public
today and runs through Sunday, May 1.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 