-- 
Toyota Says Global Output Will Return to Normal by November or December

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-04-22T09:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/toyota-says-output-will-recover-from-quake-tsunami-disruption-by-yearend.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  expects
production to return to normal by December at the latest, as the
world’s biggest carmaker struggles with supply-chain disruptions
caused by  Japan ’s record earthquake and tsunami.  The automaker will begin raising production to regular
levels from July in Japan and from August at overseas plants,
the company said in a statement today. Output for all models
will be normal by November or December, it said.  Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are working to
restore full plant operations in Japan and at factories abroad
that are running short of parts. Renesas Electronics Corp., a
chipmaker that has 30 percent of the world market for
microcontrollers used in cars, said today it will restart a
damaged factory ahead of schedule, helping Toyota to form its
production plan.  “Renesas has a big impact on the car industry,” said
Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consultant Carnorama. “The
announcement must have led Toyota to decide it can normalize by
the end of the year.”  Toyota may lose production of 300,000 vehicles in Japan and
100,000 units of overseas auto production through the end of
April due to quake-related shutdowns, Executive Vice President
Atsushi Niimi told reporters today in Tokyo. The company is
unlikely to meet its full-year global production target of 7.7
million units, he said.  Akio Toyoda   Toyota President Akio Toyoda said today that about 150
parts are still in critically short supply, mostly of materials
including rubber and plastics.  “Unlike previous natural disasters, this one has affected
a very large region, affecting the entire Japanese economy
across industries,” Toyoda said.  Toyota gained 3.1 percent to 3,295 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo. The shares have fallen 9.7 percent since
March 10, the day before the earthquake.  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker resumed output at
all Japan plants on April 18 at half-capacity.  The company’s North American unit said earlier this week
that plants in the region will continue to be closed on Mondays
and Fridays and run at 50 percent on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Thursdays through June 3. Toyota will also shut U.S. plants for
one week starting May 30 and in  Canada  from May 23.  China  Production  In China, the utilization rate at factories will generally
be 50 percent of normal levels and may fall to as low as 30
percent from April 21 through June 3, the company has said.  While Toyota has moved toward increasing local procurement
rates for overseas production, investigations since the temblor
have shown that many second- and third-tier components still
come from Japan, Executive Vice President Shinichi Sasaki said
today. Toyota may ask tier-one suppliers to raise their own
local procurement rates, he said.  Toyota will also aim to standardize component design across
different suppliers so they can be easily replaced in case of
future disruptions, Sasaki said.  Japan faces possible blackouts after the natural disasters
reduced the nation’s power-generating capacity by 8 percent.
Automakers are considering electricity-saving options such as
shutting plants and offices for two days a week and shifting
work to weekends to conserve power, Niimi said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  