-- 
PG&E Names Cox Interim CEO as Darbee to Depart After San Bruno

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/pg-e-names-cox-interim-ceo-as-darbee-to-depart-after-san-bruno.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of California’s
largest utility, named a board member, Lee Cox, interim chairman
and chief executive officer to replace Peter A. Darbee, who is
stepping down after the fatal San Bruno pipeline blast last year
and criticism of initiatives such as advanced metering.  Darbee, 58, also serves as president and will retire
effective April 30, San Francisco-based PG&E said yesterday in a
statement. Cox has been a member of the company’s board since
1996 and is a former vice chairman of AirTouch Communications
Inc. and a former CEO of AirTouch Cellular.  Eight people died and more than 30 homes were destroyed
after a pipeline owned by PG&E exploded in San Bruno,
 California , on Sept. 9. PG&E, which is facing scrutiny from
state regulators, has said it strengthened its natural-gas
operations and revised instructions for responding to
emergencies after the explosion.  “Peter concluded that a change in leadership would create
the best opportunity for PG&E to move ahead after a challenging
year,” Cox said in yesterday’s statement. “The board supported
his decision.”  Cox, 70, said the search for Darbee’s successor is under
way, with an announcement expected soon. Darbee joined PG&E in
1999 as chief financial officer and became CEO in 2005. He took
on the role of chairman in 2006.  PG&E earlier this year increased to as much as $763 million
its estimated costs for the San Bruno explosion, including $400
million in liability claims, PG&E Chief Financial Officer Kent Harvey said on Feb. 17 during an investor conference call.  Smart-Meter Problem  Darbee also oversaw a rollout of a smart-meter program
aimed at tracking electricity use. Some customers and consumer
groups complained the devices weren’t measuring power use
reliably, and raised concerns about health effects. PG&E was
ordered by the  California Public Utilities Commission  to allow
customers to opt out of the program.  The  Utility Reform Network , a San Francisco-based consumer
advocacy group, had called for Darbee’s resignation after the
pipeline blast, complaints about smart meters and a failed
ballot initiative that would make it harder for local
governments to enter the power business, Mindy Spatt, a
spokeswoman for the group, said in a telephone interview.  “PG&E has a long way to go to restore public trust,” Mark
Toney, executive director of the group, which is known as TURN,
said yesterday in a statement. “A change not only in leadership
but also in direction is long overdue.”  Darbee Decided  Brian Hertzog, a company spokesman, said “Darbee made this
decision himself because he believed it was the right thing for
the company.” PG&E said in a regulatory filing that Darbee
won’t be entitled to any severance payment. He will be able to
receive retirement and pension benefits, the company said.  Michael Peevey, president of the state’s utilities
commission, said in a statement yesterday that PG&E should
“return to its roots by hiring the most technically competent
person” and someone who has a long history in the energy
business.  “While obviously the company under his leadership has been
responsible for several poor and consequential decisions, Mr.
Darbee’s commitment to PG&E and its constituents is
unquestioned,” Peevey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  