-- 
Posco Profit Drops on Costs; Aims Higher Earnings on Prices

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-04-22T09:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/posco-posts-33-drop-in-first-quarter-profit-on-higher-raw-material-costs.html
Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest
steelmaker by output, reported a 33 percent drop in first-
quarter profit as raw material costs increased and forecast
higher earnings this year after boosting steel prices.  Net income fell to 927 billion won ($858 million) in the
three months ended March 31 from a revised 1.37 trillion won a
year earlier, the Pohang, South Korea-based company said today
in a regulatory filing.  Posco underperformed the local benchmark stock index in the
past year on concern that rising prices of iron ore and coal,
the main steel-making materials, may narrow margins. Earnings
will likely improve in coming quarters as Posco raises prices to
offset cost gains and demand may increase on rebuilding work in
Japan after last month’s earthquake, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. and DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte.  “Demand would be good as the economy recovers,” said Han
Sang Soo, a  fund manager  at Samsung Asset Management Co. in
Seoul, which oversees about $29 billion in assets. Still, “it
is unlikely that profitability will improve much because it
would be hard to fully pass on cost gains to customers amid
rising raw material prices.”  Shares in Posco,  Asia ’s top steelmaker by market value,
lost 1.2 percent this year, compared with a 7.2 percent gain in
the local benchmark  Kospi index. (KOSPI)  “The stock is cheap, but could
hardly outperform the benchmark,” Han said.  Rival Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,  China ’s biggest publicly
traded steelmaker, jumped 15 percent so far this year, while
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest, dropped 7.3 percent. Posco
gained 0.5 percent to close at 481,000 won in  Seoul  trading
before the results were announced today.  Operating Profit  Operating profit decreased 36 percent to 921 billion won in
the January-March quarter, while sales rose 31 percent to 9.11
trillion won, Posco said. The year-ago figures released today
were revised, following its adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards from this year.  The company was forecast to post 895.8 billion won net
income, according to the average of 11 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The business environment is tough because of rising raw
material prices,” President Choi Jong Tae said in a briefing
today on the results. “We expect to post higher operating
profit this year than last year. We will be able to make it as
we increased prices.”  Posco today raised the prices of products including hot-
rolled coils and heavy plates by 160,000 won per metric ton. The
company has agreed second-quarter iron ore contracts with miners
at prices about 25 percent higher than in the first quarter,
while coking coal prices have been raised about 47 percent, the
company said in presentation materials accompanying the results
announcement.  Japan  Earthquake  The price hike and increasing orders from customers who
previously bought steel from Japanese producers will bolster
profit in the second quarter, Lee Eun Young, an analyst with DBS
Vickers, said in an April 20 report.  The March 11 earthquake in Japan should boost steel demand
by about 3 million tons and may lead to tighter supply of high-
end Japanese flat steel in Asia, Nomura analyst Cindy Park,
based in Seoul, wrote in a report dated April 1.  Posco forecast sales would climb to 40 trillion won this
year, up from its previous projection of 36 trillion won. It
also lifted its crude steel output forecast for this year to
37.1 million tons from an earlier prediction of 36 million tons.
Last year, it produced 33.7 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  