-- 
Potanin Says Trafigura, Norilsk May Cooperate Outside Russia

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-22T12:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/potanin-says-trafigura-norilsk-may-cooperate-outside-russia.html
Trafigura Beheer BV, the world’s
second-largest trader of industrial metals, may work with OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel on projects outside of  Russia , billionaire
Norilsk shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  said.  “Norilsk is a well-managed company in Russia, but
management of our foreign assets can be improved,” Potanin said
in an interview in Moscow yesterday. “Trafigura may help as it
has relevant experience,” said Potanin, who controls about 30
percent of Norilsk through his Interros holding company.  Trafigura has about $1.9 billion of industrial assets
around the world, according to the Amsterdam-based company’s
 website . That includes a 48.5 percent stake of Toronto-listed
precious-metals miner  Iberian Minerals Corp. (IZN) , 36 percent of
Anvil Mining Ltd. and Toronto-based exploration company Cadillac
Ventures Inc. Norilsk’s overseas assets include plants and mines
in Africa,  Australia  and northern  Europe .  “We are in talks about different options for cooperation
with Trafigura, but we have nothing to say right now”, Erzhena
Mintasova, a spokeswoman for Norilsk, said by phone today.
Nobody at Trafigura’s Amsterdam offices authorized to speak to
the media on the company’s global operations couldn’t be reached
immediately for comment today.  Trafigura in December said it planned to buy 8 percent of
Norilsk from the Russian company. The deal was opposed by United
Co. Rusal, which holds 25 percent of Norilsk and has been locked
in a dispute with Potanin over management of the company off and
on since 2008.  “We need to understand the nature of this deal first
before talking about the role of Trafigura in Norilsk’s
business,” Vera Kurochkina, a spokeswoman for Rusal, said by e-
mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 