-- 
Transneft Loses Disclosure Appeal as Shareholder Queries Payouts

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-22T15:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/transneft-loses-disclosure-appeal-as-shareholder-queries-payouts.html
OAO Transneft,  Russia ’s monopoly
pipeline operator, lost an appeal against a court ruling
ordering it to disclose board minutes to a minority shareholder
who questioned how the state-run company allocates profit.  Moscow’s Ninth Arbitration Appeal Court yesterday upheld
the Feb. 17 decision by a lower court that ordered Transneft to
provide minutes from board meetings in 2009 and 2010, the
tribunal’s press service said today.  “I am happy I went down this road,” said Alexey Navalny,
a lawyer who filed the suit to uncover details of the state-run
company’s charity donations. “Other investors now know what to
do to obtain this information.”  Transneft has 30 days to appeal once it receives the court
ruling and hasn’t decided what course of action to take, Igor
Dyomin, a spokesman, said by phone.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  is seeking to improve corporate
governance as he seeks to turn Moscow into a international
financial hub and sets up a $10 billion fund to co-finance
investments in the country.  Paying higher dividends would curtail aid to orphans and
other charity work, Transneft said in a document filed as part
of its appeal against Navalny’s lawsuit.  Transneft made 3.2 billion rubles ($114 million) of
charitable contributions in 2009, 7.8 times more than the
dividends it paid to private investors, according to the
company’s financial reports. That spurred preferred shareholders
such as Prosperity Capital Management Ltd. and East Capital to
demand more information as they seek a larger slice of profit.  Navalny owns shares in about 20 Russian companies to press
for improved corporate governance. He won a similar ruling
earlier this week against state-run oil producer OAO Rosneft
that requires disclosure of its board minutes in 2009, with the
exception of confidential information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  