-- 
Obama Condemns Syria for Violence; McCain Backs Rebels During Libya Visit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-04-23T07:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/rebels-need-more-help-mccain-says-in-libya-as-at-least-75-die-in-syria.html
President  Barack Obama  condemned
Syria for “outrageous use of violence” against anti-government
protesters as U.S. Senator John McCain visited Libya in a show
of support for insurgents trying to overthrow  Muammar Qaddafi .  Syrian security forces fired tear gas and live ammunition
to break up protests, killing at least 88 people yesterday, Al
Arabiya television reported, citing activists.  The government’s moves two days ago to lift the 48-year-old
state of emergency and allow peaceful demonstrations “were not
serious given the continued violent repression against
protesters,” Obama said in a statement yesterday. President
Bashar al-Assad must “change course now and heed the calls of
his own people.”  McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee and the
ranking member of the  Senate Armed Services Committee , yesterday
visited Benghazi,  Libya ’s second-largest city, and the center of
the uprising that began against Qaddafi in mid-February. McCain
called on the U.S. government to recognize the rebel
Transitional National Council as the country’s government and
provide financial assistance and more military aid to the
insurgents.  The violence in Syria was the deadliest since protests
against Assad’s government began March 15. Using force to quell
protests “must come to an end now,” Obama said in an e-mailed
statement from the White House.  Blaming Outsiders  “The United States has repeatedly encouraged President
Assad and the Syrian government to implement meaningful reforms,
but they refuse to respect the rights of the Syrian people or be
responsive to their aspirations,” Obama said. “President Assad
is blaming outsiders while seeking Iranian assistance in
repressing  Syria ’s citizens through the same brutal tactics that
have been used by his Iranian allies.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called for an
independent investigation into the killing of protesters.  The secretary-general “reminds the Syrian authorities of
their obligation to respect international human rights,
including the right of freedom of expression and peaceful
assembly,” the  UN  said in a statement yesterday.  Al Arabiya and Al Jazeera broadcast amateur videos of
thousands of protesters across the country and people fleeing
gunfire in several cities. Two boys aged seven and 10 and a 70-
year-old man were among those killed in the southern town of
Izzra, according to Amnesty International.  “The Syrian authorities have again responded to peaceful
calls for change with bullets and batons,”  Amnesty
International ’s Malcolm Smart said on the group’s  website .  Death Toll  Syrian human rights activists have reported at least 200
people killed by government forces since major demonstrations
began March 16, according to  Human Rights Watch , a New York-
based group that tracks violations of human rights.  Libyan fighters seeking to oust Qaddafi are “patriots who
want to liberate their nation,” McCain said during his visit.
“They are not al-Qaeda.”  “Maybe we should be doing everything we can to help these
people,” McCain, 74, of  Arizona , said on Al Jazeera following a
visit to a hospital. “And maybe we’re not, and they’re dying.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  responded to McCain’s call
to recognize the Transitional Council by saying the Obama
administration has determined that “it’s for the people of
Libya to decide who the head of their country is, not for the
 United States  to do that.”  Carney told reporters yesterday that that the
administration knew about McCain’s trip and that the senator
wasn’t carrying any messages from the administration.  Predator Drones  The U.S. has authorized Predator drones, made by closely
held General Atomics of San Diego, to support the insurgents.
 France ,  Italy  and the U.K. have sent military advisers. The U.S.
has said it would provide $25 million in non-lethal aid, such as
radios and body armor, to Libya’s rebels.  The U.S. rules out for now supplying arms to the rebels,
ambassador to the UN Susan Rice said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capitol with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “With the weapons that they have, the rebels are holding
on,” Rice said, referring to firefights in the besieged city of
Misrata. “It is natural and to be expected that it is going to
take some time for them to be constituted into an effective
fighting force.”  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  is leading a UN-
 sanctioned  mission to police a no-fly zone, protect civilians
and enforce an arms embargo against Qaddafi’s government.  Oil Exports  Fighting has halted most oil exports from Libya, home to
 Africa ’s biggest oil reserves.  Oil prices  are up more than 30
percent from a year ago. Crude oil for June delivery rose 84
cents to settle at $112.29 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Markets were closed for the Good Friday holiday.  Obama said April 21 that his  Justice Department  would
investigate whether “traders and speculators” in oil markets
deserve any blame for the high prices.  Anti-government protests in Sana’a, Yemen’s capital, drew
almost 1 million people following Friday prayers, according to
an unidentified organizer. Demonstrators are demanding the end
of President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s 30-year rule.  The president, who has rejected calls to step down, spoke
to his own supporters yesterday, a day after he met with
officials of the Gulf Cooperation Council in an attempt to
resolve the crisis.  A total of 109 protesters have been killed in Yemen since
Feb. 11, according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the
Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 