-- 
Rice Exports From Thailand May Increase More Than Expected, Official Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-04-22T08:37:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/rice-exports-from-thailand-may-increase-more-than-expected-official-says.html
Rice exports from  Thailand , the
world’s largest shipper of the grain, may gain more than
expected this year, boosted by strong demand from the Middle
East and  Asia , according to the Ministry of Commerce.  “Shipments will probably exceed 9.5 million metric tons
this year if we continue selling 1 million tons a month,”
Permanent Secretary for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach, said at a
conference in the outskirts of Bangkok today. That figure,
forecasted by the government in January, compared with 9 million
tons last year.  Rice, the staple food for half the world, gained to the
highest level in more than two years in February when global
food costs rose to a record, the United Nations data showed.
Thailand, which represents one-third of global shipments of 30
million tons, exported 3 million tons in the first quarter of
the year, Yanyong said. That was a 40 percent increase from 2.14
million tons last year, according to the Ministry of Commerce.  “Rice trade this year will be outstanding both in terms of
quantity and prices,” Yanyong said without providing a price
forecast. “Prices are unlikely to fall despite new crops coming
onto the market because overseas demand is strong,” Yanyong
said.  The July-delivery contract on the Chicago Board of Trade
gained as much as 1.1 percent to $14.380 per 100 pounds and
settled at $14.31 yesterday. Futures reached a record $25.07 in
April 2008.  Strong overseas demand is expected from  Africa ,  Bangladesh 
and the Middle East, said Yanyong. About 4 million tons of rough
rice is expected to be harvested in May and another 1.4 million
tons will be harvested in June, he said.  Exports Jump  Thailand reached deals to supply a total of 250,000 tons of
rice to Bangladesh and  Iraq  under government-to-government
contracts for a delivery by May, said Pranee Siriphand, deputy
director general at the Department of  Foreign Trade .  “Normally exports are quite slow during the beginning of
the year. If we can sell this much in the first three months,
we’ll definitely ship 10 million tons this year,” said Sermsak
Kuonsongtum, vice president of Thai Rice Exporters Association.  “The Price should peak at $550 a ton this year in the
third quarter when supplies subside,” said Sermsak said.  Thai 100 percent grade-B white rice has fallen 8.8 percent
so far this year and was last at $506 a ton on April 20.  Thai rice output from the country’s main harvest in the
crop year starting October may rise 4.6 percent to 23.2 million
tons, the Office of Agricultural Economics said. The main
harvest represents 70 percent of the country’s total output.  Indonesia , the world’s second-largest buyer after  Nigeria ,
is estimated to import 1.75 million tons of rice,  the U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said in a monthly report on April 11.
Malaysia may increase imports to 1.04 million tons, making it
the second-largest Southeast Asian buyer, it said.  The  Philippines ’s rice import plan this year will stay at
860,000 tons, Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said April
19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  