-- 
Rubber Futures in Tokyo Advance as China, India Demand May Exceed Supplies

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-04-22T08:47:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/rubber-futures-in-tokyo-advance-as-china-india-demand-may-exceed-supplies.html
Rubber climbed on concerns that
demand from  China  and India may outpace supply during the low-
production season in  Southeast Asia .  The September-delivery contract advanced as much as 3.1
percent to 425 yen per kilogram ($5,185 a metric ton) and
settled at 419 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. Futures
declined 3.7 percent this week, the second straight fall.  “Rubber demand from China and India is still high, while
supply remains low in the short term,” said Masahiro Tamagawa,
senior manager at H.S. Futures Co. Prices are in so-called
backwardation, when nearby contracts are more expensive than
long-term ones, he said.  Consumption in China, the largest buyer, is expected to
grow by 6 percent this year to 3.5 million tons, the Kuala
Lumpur-based Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries
said in a March report.  India ’s demand may rise 5 percent to
991,000 tons, it said.  Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tire maker,
said first-quarter revenue rose 28 percent 5.05 billion euros
($7.36 billion), led by surging demand for speciality tires to
equip construction equipment and agricultural vehicles.  Thai output may decline from last year if rains that caused
floods persist, according to the Thai Rubber Association.
Production may be 3.2 million tons this year, Luckchai Kittipol,
president of the group, said April 21. That compares with last
year’s 3.25 million tons and an earlier 2011 target of 3.49
million tons.  Thai Output  “Inventories in China remain low and Chinese buyers may
soon step in to buy the commodity,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an
analyst at Agrow Enterprise Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.
“Some investors took this as a cue to buy.”  Unseasonal rains from the start of this year in  Thailand 
caused floods in 10 southern provinces in March that may have
damaged about 50,000 rai (19,641 acres) of rubber plantations,
according to the Department of Disaster Prevention & Mitigation.
Water levels have since receded, it said.  Farmers in Thailand,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia  reduce tapping
during so-called wintering, from February to May, when trees
shed leaves and latex production drops, according to the
Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  The physical price of Thai rubber was unchanged at 177.05
baht ($5.90) per kilogram today, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand.  Rubber for September delivery in  Shanghai  advanced as much
as 2 percent to 35,195 yuan ($5,408) a ton before closing at
34,780 yuan.  Bridgestone Corp. plans to suspend some production lines
and limit operating hours at factories serviced by Tokyo
Electric Power Co. to save power during  Japan ’s summer.  The tire maker will shift some production to other regions
to cut power use by 25 percent between July and September,
according to a statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  