-- 
Russia to Oust State Officials From 1,000 Company Boards on Medvedev Push

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-22T14:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/russia-to-oust-state-officials-at-1-000-companies-shuvalov-says.html
Russia  will remove government
officials from the boards of more than 1,000 companies,
advancing President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s drive to separate
corporate governance from state administration.  Of the companies involved, 950 are on the state’s asset-
sale program, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov told
reporters outside Moscow today. State companies should consider
members of a presidential "talent pool" as replacements,
Medvedev told a government meeting.  The government plans to raise 1 trillion rubles ($36
billion) from the sale of state assets in the next three years
to reduce its role in the economy and help cover budget
deficits. Medvedev last month issued 10 orders to improve the
investment climate, including a schedule for the asset sales and
the call to remove officials from state companies.  "Medvedev’s mantra is the modernization of Russia,"  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Verno Investment Management
Ltd., said today by e-mail. "The professionalism of state
business is a great place to start."  By July 1, government officials must leave the boards of  17
companies , including VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank,
OAO Rosneft, its largest oil producer, and OAO Aeroflot, its
biggest airline.  ‘Cadre of Technocrats’  Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who has worked with
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  for two decades, stepped down as
Rosneft’s chairman this month. Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin
will leave the boards of VTB and OAO Alrosa, Russia’s diamond
monopoly, the  Finance Ministry  said this week.  Medvedev selected 100 officials, executives and academics
as promising managers. The federal list has since been expanded
to include more than 1,000 people.  "Bringing in some of his cadre of technocrats helps to both
professionalize management and improve his power base ahead of
elections," Nash said.  Putin and Medvedev, his handpicked successor, have both
said they may run for the presidency in 2012. The country’s two
top officials, whose approval ratings have fallen near historic
lows, have said they will decide together which of them should
run.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 