-- 
Samsung Sues Apple on Patent-Infringement Claims as Legal Dispute Deepens

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-04-22T04:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/samsung-sues-apple-on-patent-infringement-claims-as-legal-dispute-deepens.html
Samsung Electronics Co. said it
sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  claiming patent infringement, a week after the
iPhone maker filed a complaint in  U.S. federal court  alleging
the South Korean company copied its products.  Samsung submitted complaints to courts in Seoul,  Tokyo  and
Mannheim,  Germany , alleging Apple infringed patents related to
mobile-communications technologies, Suwon-based Samsung said in
an e-mailed statement today. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for
Apple, declined to comment and referred back to the company’s
complaint filed last week.  The move deepens a legal dispute that’s pitting the maker
of the iPhone and iPad against the producer of the Galaxy mobile
devices amid surging demand for smartphones and tablet
computers. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who relies on
Samsung to supply chips for Apple products, said last month the
company was among the tablet makers angling to make 2011 the
“Year of Copycats”  “Apple is trying to annoy Samsung - they’re throwing a
ball at Samsung to keep them in check,” said Chang Sea Jin, a
business professor at  National University  of  Singapore . “This
is strictly business. The typical way to deal with cases like
this is to counter sue. It’s not between the management of
Samsung and Apple, their lawyers will work it out."  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of memory chips that
store data, fell 2.7 percent to 903,000 won as of 11:35 a.m. in
Seoul trading, while the benchmark Kospi index lost 0.1 percent.
Samsung counts Apple as its second-largest customer.  Patent Infringement  "Apple may try to diversify their suppliers and reduce
their reliance on Samsung," said Chang. "But no other company
has as low costs as Samsung, so Apple won’t likely drop Samsung
altogether."  The lawsuit filed in the  Seoul  Central District Court cites
five patent infringements, the complaint in Tokyo cites two and
the German one cites three alleged violations, Samsung said.
Apple infringed Samsung patents related to communication
standards and a technology that connects mobile phones to
personal computers for wireless data transfers,  James Chung , a
Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said by telephone.  ‘‘Samsung is responding actively to the legal action taken
against us in order to protect our intellectual property and to
ensure our continued innovation and growth in the mobile
communications business,” Samsung said in the statement.  Pinching, Zooming  Samsung is infringing seven patents related to the way the
Galaxy devices understand user gestures, including selecting,
scrolling, pinching and zooming, Apple said in its April 15
complaint. Samsung is also infringing three patents on the
design, including the flat black face of the iPhone and iPad,
according to Apple’s complaint. The Galaxy phones and tablet,
which use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, were specifically
designed to copy Apple products, Apple said.  Apple is seeking a court order to block further use of its
patents and trademarks, along with cash compensation and
“reasonable funds for future corrective advertising.”  Samsung’s mobile-phone business “crossed the line,” Tim Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer, said this week after the
company reported profit that almost doubled from a year ago.  Apple and Google are competing for supremacy in the growing
market for smartphones and tablets. Google’s Android software --
used by Samsung, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and other
companies -- will account for 39.5 percent of global smartphone
shipments this year, compared with 15.7 percent for Apple,
according to market research firm IDC.  The iPad dominates the tablet market, accounting for about
two-thirds of sales this year, according to Gartner Inc.  Apple is involved in a patent fight with Motorola Mobility
Holdings, as is Microsoft Corp. Apple lawyers are also arguing
before a federal trade panel in  Washington  that another Android
user,  HTC Corp. (2498) , is infringing other patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  