-- 
Softbank Said to Invest in Gilt to Help Luxury Retailer Expand in Asia

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e ,   A r i   L e v y   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-04-22T01:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/softbank-said-close-to-investing-in-gilt-to-help-retailer-expand-in-asia.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  is close to an
investment in Gilt Groupe Inc. that would value the members-only
online retailer at about $1 billion and help it create a joint
venture in Asia, two people familiar with the matter said.  Softbank, Japan’s third-largest wireless carrier, would
provide about $15 million and is one of several investors in a
funding round of more than $100 million, said two people who
requested anonymity because the deal hasn’t been completed.  Gilt is among a growing number of e-commerce companies
offering daily deals and limited-time sales. Daily-deal sites
Groupon Inc. and LivingSocial together have been valued at as
much as $8 billion, and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  bought flash-sale site
 HauteLook Inc . last month for $180 million. The alliance with
Tokyo-based Softbank gives it a toehold in  Japan , the world’s
second largest market for  luxury goods , according to Bain & Co.  Gilt’s  main business  offers deals on luxury brands for as
much as 70 percent off and gives members three days to decide
whether to make a purchase. It specializes in apparel, home
entertainment and luxury travel, offering brands such as  Dolce &
Gabbana  and  Giorgio Armani .  Jennifer Miller, a spokeswoman for Gilt, didn’t immediately
respond to calls for comment. Takeaki Nukii, a Softbank
spokesman in Tokyo, declined to comment.  Venture investing in U.S. Internet startups rose 28 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, to $1.19 billion, the
most invested in the first three months of the year since 2008.  Gilt Financing  Gilt raised about $15 million in debt financing from
TriplePoint Capital in October, people familiar with the matter
said at the time. The company previously raised at least $83
million from venture firms including General Atlantic LLC and
Matrix Partners.  Softbank is an investor in some of Asia’s biggest Internet
companies including  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , operator of the nation’s
most-visited Web portal, and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s
biggest e-commerce company. Softbank is also the biggest
shareholder in Renren Inc., the Chinese social-networking
service that filed to go public last week.  Business Insider reported on its website in February that
Gilt was raising as much as $100 million at a valuation of about
$1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 