-- 
Somalia’s al-Shabaab Threatens Attacks in Kenya Over Easter, Police Say

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-04-22T08:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/somalia-s-al-shabaab-threatens-attacks-in-kenya-over-easter-police-say.html
Somalia ’s al-Shabaab militia
threatened to carry out attacks on Kenyan government buildings,
bus terminals and places of worship over the Easter weekend,
Kenyan police spokesman Eric Kiraithe said.  “We have intelligence reports that they have threatened to
strike in  Kenya ,” Kiraithe said today in a phone interview from
Nairobi, the capital. “We have put in adequate measures to
forestall an attack.”  The U.S. accuses al-Shabaab, which has been battling
Somalia’s Western-backed government since 2007, of having links
to al-Qaeda, which claimed responsibility for at least two
attacks in Kenya in the past 13 years. In August 1998, at least
213 people died in an attack on the U.S. Embassy in downtown
Nairobi. In November 2002, 13 people were killed on an assault
on a hotel in the port city of  Mombasa .  Two months ago, al-Shabaab said it planned to carry out
attacks in Kenya in retaliation for training Somali government
soldiers and allowing Ethiopian forces to use its territory to
stage assaults on the rebel militia.  Police Training  Kenya’s government began training police officers three
years ago as part of an agreement with the six-nation
 Intergovernmental Authority on Development , though it hasn’t
instructed any Somali government soldiers, Kenyan government
spokesman  Alfred Mutua  said in February. Ethiopians haven’t
attacked Somalia from Kenya because “we cannot allow any
country to launch attacks from our country,” he said.  In July, al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for twin bomb
attacks in  Uganda  that killed 76 people watching the soccer
 World Cup  final at two separate venues. The group said it
targeted Uganda because the country has troops serving in an
 African Union peacekeeping force .  Kenyan police have stepped up surveillance at potential
target sites and will use security guards hired by those
establishments to supplement the increased security, he said.  “A lot of Kenyans flock to the various churches this
weekend,” Kiraithe said. “We want them to be aware that it is
in the interests of their safety and security that we are doing
all of this.”  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Most of southern and
central Somalia has been seized by al-Shabaab, while
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s government controls only
parts of Mogadishu, the capital, backed by AU peacekeepers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 