-- 
South Korean Won Completes Weekly Gain on Earnings, Export Growth Outlook

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-04-22T06:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/south-korean-won-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-earnings-export-growth-outlook.html
South Korea ’s won posted a weekly
gain after rising earnings at companies including Apple Inc.
boosted confidence in the global economic recovery and the
nation’s export growth.  The won slipped today on speculation the central bank will
intervene to curb appreciation in the currency. Gains halted at
1,078 per dollar yesterday, matching the highest on Sept. 8,
2008 and Aug. 28, 2008, creating resistance for the local
currency, or a level at which selling orders are clustered.  “The won benefitted this week mainly as improved earnings
and the global economic outlook boosted investment into higher-
risk assets,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori
Futures Co. in Seoul. “Concerns that authorities may step in to
curb the won’s appreciation are limiting further gains.”  The currency was down 0.1 percent to 1,080.80 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , paring this week’s gain to 0.8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said the government will
step up its monitoring of financial markets as global capital
flows into South Korea may see more volatility with U.S.
quantitative easing nearing an end. Yoon also said an increase
in short-term external debt at some financial companies led to a
probe into foreign-exchange derivatives trading.  The financial regulator and central bank said yesterday the
audit will be carried out from April 26 till May 6. The
government may decide whether to strengthen the rules over
foreign-exchange derivatives contracts after conducting the
planned audit on banks, Yoon told reporters today.  Apple, the maker of the iPhone, said this week that second-
quarter profit almost doubled. Of the 76 companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that posted earnings since April 11,
75 percent have beaten analyst estimates for per-share profit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on South Korea’s 3 percent bond due December 2013
increased seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.8
percent this week, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
The rate added two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  