-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Higher Earnings After Two Weeks of Declines

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-23T10:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/u-s-stocks-rise-on-higher-earnings-after-two-weeks-of-declines.html
U.S. stocks climbed, halting a two-
week drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as companies from
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  to Johnson & Johnson posted earnings that exceeded
estimates and housing starts increased.  Intel, Johnson & Johnson and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  added at
least 5.8 percent after their quarterly adjusted earnings beat
analysts’ projections by at least 7.3 percent this past week.
D.R. Horton Inc. advanced 4 percent for the week as housing
starts exceeded estimates.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  rallied 7.8 percent
after Moody’s Investors Services said the company is less likely
to face fines from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.3 percent to 1,337.38 in the week.
The index is up 0.9 percent in April. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rose 164.16 points, or 1.3 percent, to 12,505.99 in the
week after it slipped 0.3 percent the previous week. The gain
sent the Dow to the highest level since June 5, 2008 on April
21. U.S. markets were closed April 22 for the Good Friday
holiday.  “It’s going to be another strong quarter of earnings,”
said Jeffrey Lindsey, a portfolio manager at BlackRock Inc.,
which oversees $3.65 trillion as the world’s largest asset
manager. The market is cheap, he said. “It could be that people
are surprised with the strength of the stock market, despite
clearly important macro concerns just because the starting point
is still inexpensive.”  The  S&P 500  has risen 6.3 percent in 2011, and is up 6.4
percent since reaching 1,256.88, the low for the year, on March
16. Corporate earnings are exceeding projections by 9.8 percent
so far this season, while economic reports from housing to
manufacturing are boosting investor confidence this month. The
index is trading at 13.7 times the estimated operating earnings
of its companies, compared with an average of 18.1 times
reported profit over the last decade.  Technology Leads  Technology shares added 3 percent over the past four
sessions as Intel, the biggest chipmaker,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  all posted results that
exceeded estimates. S&P 500 financial companies are posting the
best results so far in the first-quarter reporting season,
exceeding estimates by 14 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  SLM Corp. (SLM)  had the third-biggest increase in the S&P 500
this past week, adding 10 percent to $16.31. The student lender
known as  Sallie Mae  declared its first dividend since 2007 and
reported first-quarter earnings that exceeded analyst estimates.  Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chipmaker, helped lead
technology stocks higher after forecasting second-quarter sales
that may top analysts estimates, evidence of booming demand for
machines that deliver computing over the Internet. First-quarter
earnings and sales both surpassed estimates and the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company rose 8.7 percent in the week, the
biggest weekly advance since July 2009.  Apple, Yahoo  Apple Inc. climbed 7.1 percent in the week, while Yahoo!
Inc. advanced 1.4 percent, after they reported better-than-
forecast results.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s second-biggest seller of
health products, increased its annual earnings forecast after
quarterly profit beat estimates on drug sales and a weak dollar.
The shares rose the most since 2008 the day they reported and
advanced 5.8 percent for the week.  Wynn Resorts rallied 6.7 percent and Wynn Macau Ltd., a
unit of the casino operator founded by billionaire Steven Wynn,
rose 2.9 percent in the week.  “We are seeing excellent results thus far,” said  David Kostin , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief U.S. equity strategist.
“You have an expanding economy, strong earnings growth and you
have positive flows” of money into the market.  Housing Starts, AAA Rating  Commerce Department figures showed this past week that work
began on 549,000 houses at an annual pace, up 7.2 percent from
the prior month and exceeding the 520,000 median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Starts fell 19 percent in
February to the lowest level in almost two years.  Stocks fell one day this past week -- on April 18, when the
S&P 500 lost 1.1 percent, the biggest daily slide since March
16. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service put a “negative” outlook
on the nation’s AAA credit rating, assigning a one-in-three
chance of a ratings cut in the next two years, because of rising
budget deficits and debt.  Under President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal year 2012 budget,
released in February, the total amount subject to the debt
ceiling would be $20.8 trillion in 2016. The plan  House
Republicans  approved April 15, written by Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , would need a debt ceiling of at
least $19.5 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government.  ‘Material Risk’  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-and
long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,” New York-based S&P
said in its report. “If an agreement is not reached and
meaningful implementation does not begin by then, this would in
our view render the U.S. fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than
that of peer ‘AAA’ sovereigns.”  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s largest maker of multiple
sclerosis medicines, surged the most in the S&P 500 this past
week, advancing 20 percent to $99.70. Data from the third and
final stage of studies showed the company’s multiple sclerosis
pill reduced the proportion of patients whose disease flared up
by 49 percent over two years compared with a placebo.  Halliburton and  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided
cement work and equipment involved in last year’s Gulf of Mexico
oil spill, are less likely to face fines than other companies,
Moody’s Investors Service said. Halliburton rose 7.8 percent to
$50.48 in the week, while Cameron International advanced 2.2
percent to $54.53.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  