-- 
U.S. Yet to Decide on Whether to Arm Libya Rebels, Ambassador Rice Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/u-s-ambassador-to-un-still-rules-out-weapons-for-libya-rebels.html
The U.S. is weighing “very
carefully and deliberately” whether to provide weapons to
rebels in Libya who have been fighting forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  since February,  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
United Nations, said.  Rice, in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” said the Obama administration for now is
pursuing other measures to remove the Libyan leader from power,
including further enforcing an arms embargo on the Qaddafi
regime and giving the rebels political and economic support.  “With the weapons that they have, the rebels are holding
on,” Rice said yesterday, referring to firefights in the
besieged city of Misrata. “It is natural and to be expected
that it is going to take some time for them to be constituted
into an effective fighting force.”  Rice’s interview, airing this weekend, came as Arizona
Senator  John McCain , a Republican, said in the rebel-held city
of Benghazi that the U.S. and its allies must act to give the
rebels greater financial and military support, including
training and weapons.  The Obama administration may reconsider the issue of
whether to expand military support, Rice said.  Qaddafi’s Opponents  “We are also taking that decision very carefully and
deliberately, and we haven’t ruled it in or out,” Rice said of
arming the opposition. “We are still in the early stages of our
relationship with the opposition, getting to know them,
understanding their motives and objectives, understanding their
needs and requirements.”  Fighting has halted most oil exports from Libya, home to
Africa’s biggest oil reserves.  Oil prices  are up more than 30
percent from a year ago. Crude oil for June delivery rose 84
cents to settle at $112.29 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Markets were closed for the Good Friday holiday.  Turning to another part of the region, Rice said the U.S.
wouldn’t be able to prevent a UN vote on recognizing the
Palestinian territories as a state. She added that such a move
would be worth little in the absence of negotiations with  Israel .  If such a vote goes forward and Palestinians get the
recognition they seek, “we’re simply passing a piece of paper
that doesn’t change anything on the ground,” Rice said.  Rice spoke as news agencies reported explosions in the
Libyan capital, Tripoli, Qaddafi’s base of power.  Predator Drones  President  Barack Obama  has deployed armed Predator drones
on missions to  Libya , Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  announced
April 21. The unmanned aircraft previously have been used for
reconnaissance and provide better visibility of targets, an
important factor when Qaddafi’s forces are fighting in and
around cities, according to Marine General James Cartwright,
vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  The remotely piloted aircraft were unable to complete
missions on their first outing April 21 because of bad weather,
Cartwright said. The Predator is made by closely held General
Atomics Aeronautical Systems of  San Diego .  France ,  Italy  and the U.K. are sending military advisers to
help rebels with communications and training, and Obama
authorized drones armed with air-to-ground Hellfire missiles,
made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , in a bid to break the stalemated
fighting on the ground and to help protect civilians. Rice said
the U.S. supported European efforts even as it chose a different
approach.  No Regime Change  “We’re not trying to topple Qaddafi by military means,”
she insisted. “If we were going to do that, as has been said,
and use military force, then we would be doing more than simply
protecting civilians. And as the president said when he ruled
out ground troops, we are not engaged in regime change by
military means.”  Asked about the implications if Qaddafi remains in power in
a protracted civil war, Rice insisted that the NATO mission was
to protect civilians such as those in Benghazi threatened by
Qaddafi’s forces. “That has been accomplished,” she said.  “The president has been very clear that we are not doing
regime change by military means,” she added. “We are
protecting civilians. That’s what NATO’s doing.”  She denied that there is an inconsistency in U.S. policy
toward Middle Eastern leaders facing unrest.  Egypt , Tunisia,
Yemen, Jordan and Libya are among countries in the region facing
protests and demonstrations.  Democratic Aspirations  “The U.S. supports the democratic aspirations of people in
all those countries, but has not specifically called for regime
change,” Rice said. “We’ve been very consistent that the
 United States  stands behind the universal rights of individuals
to express themselves, to protest, to organize, to chart their
own futures.  “And we have condemned from Bahrain to Syria to Egypt to
Tunisia any use of violence against peaceful protesters,” Rice
said.  Obama has said repeatedly that Qaddafi must go and earlier
this year said he had told Egypt’s former President  Hosni Mubarak  “that an orderly transition must be meaningful and it
must begin now.”  In January, amid violent protests against the rule of
Tunisian President Ben Ali,  Michael Hammer , a spokesman for
Obama’s National Security Council, said the administration has
determined that “the Tunisian people have the right to choose
their leaders.”  Independent Palestine  Rice stressed U.S. support for an “independent, viable
Palestine living next to a secure state of Israel, but that can
only be accomplished through direct negotiations.”  The U.S. can’t stop the Palestinian move to seek
recognition of their territories as a state at the UN in
September, Rice said. “There is not a step that we could take
to prevent such a vote,” she said, noting that “the
Palestinians have always had a great deal of support at the
 United Nations .”  She said such a move would do nothing to address unresolved
issues including where borders will fall, the fate of
Palestinian refugees and Jerusalem, Rice said.  “The Palestinians have said -- and it’s certainly our view
-- that their preference is to resolve this directly through
negotiations,” Rice said. “That is what has to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  