-- 
Libya Rebels Need More Help, McCain Says in Benghazi as Drones Take Flight

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y ,   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-22T17:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/u-s-deploys-predator-drones-for-ground-attacks-against-qaddafi-s-forces.html
The U.S. and its allies should
provide more air support and financial aid to Libyan rebels,
Senator  John McCain  said in Benghazi after President Barack
Obama sent armed Predator on missions to the nation.  Those seeking to oust Muammar Qaddafi’s regime are
“patriots who want to liberate their nation, they are not al-
Qaeda,” McCain told a press conference today in the rebel
capital city.  The Arizona Republican said North Atlantic Treaty
Organization states need to “urgently” increase close air
support for rebel ground operations. He also said the rebels’
Transitional National Council should receive some of Qaddafi’s
frozen assets to fund its operations and that the Council should
be recognized as Libya’s government.  McCain made his comments after  France ,  Italy  and the U.K.
sent military advisers to help rebels with communications and
training and the U.S. authorized drones armed with Hellfire
missiles in a bid to break the stalemated campaign against
Qaddafi’s 42-year rule without sending troops into combat.  “I fear a stalemate could give rise to radical Islamic
forces,” McCain told the press conference.  “We need to step up the pressure on every front” short of
sending ground troops, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
yesterday on BBC Scotland radio. Troops are prohibited under the
United Nations Security Council resolution authorizing the no-
fly zone.  Drones, Advisers  The drones, unmanned aircraft, previously have been used
for reconnaissance. They provide better visibility of targets.
That’s important when Qaddafi’s forces are fighting in and
around cities, said Marine General James Cartwright, vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  The remotely piloted aircraft were unable to complete
missions on their first outing yesterday due to bad weather,
Cartwright said yesterday. The Predator is made by closely held
General Atomics Aeronautical Systems of San Diego.  The European military advisers, who will total fewer than
50, will be the first official Western military forces in  Libya 
since the Western intervention began a month ago. The NATO-led,
 UN-sanctioned  mission is to police a no-fly zone, protect
civilians and enforce an arms embargo on the Qaddafi regime.  The uprising, which began in mid-February, has ground to a
military stalemate near the central oil-port city of Brega.  Oil Exports  Fighting has halted most oil exports from Libya, which has
Africa’s biggest oil reserves, as regional turmoil has sent  oil
prices  up more than 30 percent from a year ago. Crude oil for
June delivery rose 84 cents to settle at $112.29 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Markets were closed for the Good
Friday holiday today.  Residents of the rebel-held western city of Misrata,
besieged for more than six weeks, suffer daily shelling by
Qaddafi’s forces.  Pilots in  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  warplanes have
had difficulty identifying Qaddafi’s forces once they move into
cities and have had to exercise extra caution to avoid civilian
casualties. The Predator gives NATO the ability to get closer to
possible targets, review the scene and strike with precision.  Earlier this week, the U.S. said it would provide $25
million in non-lethal aid, such as radios and body armor, to
Libya’s rebels.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday called
for “some degree of patience” about the outcome of the
conflict. She referred to the fact that the U.S. and its NATO
allies bombed  Serbia  for 78 days in 1999, during the presidency
of her husband,  Bill Clinton , to stop its attacks on Kosovo. The
air campaign over Libya began just over a month ago.  “It is always a temptation in any conflict to expect there
to be a resolution quickly,” she told reporters after meeting
with Dutch Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 