-- 
Waltz’s Circus Owner Tortures Elephant; Twisted Family: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-22T02:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/waltz-s-circus-owner-tortures-elephant-twisted-family-movies.html
Christoph Waltz completes a
trifecta of classic movie villains in “ Water for Elephants ,”
an adaptation of the best-selling novel about a Depression-era
veterinary student who runs away and joins the circus.  After playing a ruthless, cultured Nazi in “Inglourious
Basterds” and an insecure mob boss in “The Green Hornet,” the
Austrian actor delivers another memorable performance as August,
the volatile owner of the second-rate Benzini Bros. Circus.  August, a composite of two characters in the book, is a
sadist who can torture an elephant, abuse his beautiful wife and
throw carny workers off a train to save money. As Waltz portrays
him, however, he’s also a man riddled with guilt and capable of
kindness.  He’s the highlight of Francis Lawrence’s handsome,
lethargic tearjerker, which moves as slowly as Rosie, the
circus’s star elephant who performs amazing tricks when
instructed in Polish.  The movie effectively evokes gritty 1931 circus life, where
roustabouts, animal trainers, acrobats and clowns travel from
town to town on an overcrowded train and work for peanuts (not
the kind that elephants eat.)  The weakness is the central love story: Runaway student
Jacob ( Robert Pattinson ) falls for August’s wife and star
attraction Marlena (Reese Witherspoon, sparkling in sequined
costumes). It falters mostly because Pattinson is a charisma-
challenged actor who’s having a hard time escaping from his
“Twilight” vampire persona.  Train Hopping  Richard LaGravanese’s script constructs the tale as a
flashback, told to a young circus worker by an elderly Jacob
(Hal Holbrook).  When his parents are killed in a car accident, a distraught
Jacob leaves  Cornell University  just before graduation and hops
a train that turns out to be the home of the Benzini circus. He
starts out shoveling manure, but is quickly promoted to circus
vet when August learns about his academic training.  Jacob is repelled by August’s cruel treatment of Rosie --
relax, animal lovers, it’s all done with special effects -- and
tensions escalate when the owner learns about the young man’s
infatuation with his wife. This leads to a violent showdown in
which Rosie uses her giant trunk to teach August that elephants
have long memories.  “Water for Elephants” is a three-ring circus with two
marquee acts: a 9,000-pound elephant who understands Polish and
a skinny Austrian who knows how to terrify us.  “Water for Elephants,” from 20th Century Fox, opens today
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Incendies’  When Canadian twins Jeanne and Simon meet with a notary for
a reading of their mother’s will, they’re shocked to receive a
pair of envelopes: One is for their father, who they thought was
dead, and the other is for a brother they never knew about.  The siblings travel to the Middle East to explore their
mom’s mysterious past. What they discover is a twisted tale of
unwanted pregnancy, religious warfare, prisoner torture and an
unspeakable revelation about their family tree.  Based on a play by Wajdi Mouawad, “ Incendies ” is a
gripping drama about one woman’s struggle to survive against
impossible odds. Writer/director Denis Villeneuve switches
between past and present to slowly reveal what happened to her
and why, one day, she ends up sitting in a catatonic state by a
swimming pool.  Lubna Azabal (“Paradise Now”) holds the film together
with her poetic performance as a mother whose determination to
explain herself extends beyond the grave.  “Incendies,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens today in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 