-- 
Yemenis Throng Through Capital in Bid to End to Saleh’s 30-Year Presidency

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-04-22T16:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-22/yemenis-throng-through-capital-in-bid-to-end-to-saleh-s-30-year-presidency.html
Almost a million people surged
through the Yemeni capital today in what they called “last
chance Friday,” a bid to cap three months of protests with the
ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, a march organizer said.  The demonstrators shouted for the end of Saleh’s 30-year
rule as they entered Sixty Meter Street, the first time protests
after Friday prayers moved out of the main al-Tagheer square
into the longest thoroughfare in Sana’a, a city of 2 million.
Saleh yesterday met with Gulf Cooperation Council officials for
the third time this week to try to resolve the crisis.  Saleh, speaking to a crowd of his supporters, said he
welcomed the GCC mediation. The group proposed April 10 that he
hand power over to Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi. A week
earlier, the group called for Saleh’s departure and the
formation of a national unity government.  “We do not accept any mediation plan unless it includes
the immediate departure of the regime of Saleh,” protest
organizer Walid al-Amari said.  Tensions in the Arabian Peninsula country escalated last
month when police and snipers killed 46 demonstrators in Sana’a,
prompting several military and government officials to resign.
The protests began on Jan. 27, at the same time demonstrations
in  Egypt  were gathering momentum that would eventually lead to
the resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak .  “We stick to constitutional legitimacy and we will face
the challenge with challenge,” Saleh said today. “It is easy
to trigger a fire and a war, but we will not resort to a fight.
We are keen not to spill a single drop of blood. We will face
them without the use of the gun.”  A total of 109 protesters have been killed since Feb. 11,
according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic Sisters
Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a. Unicef, the  United Nations ’
Children’s Fund, said at least 26 children have been killed
since early February, according to a statement released on April
20.  Saleh has said he won’t step down under pressure from
street demonstrations. Any change in Yemen’s leadership, he
said, “should be made via ballot boxes and based on
constitutional legitimacy,” the state-run Saba news agency
reported yesterday.  There were also clashes in the central province of Mereb,
an eyewitness, Abdulwahab Namran, said by telephone. The
fighting occurred when troops moved from the city of Mareb to
attack tribesman of Jidaan, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 