-- Abbott Pledges Stronger Australian Economy in Rudd Showdown
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-12T00:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/abbott-pledges-stronger-australian-economy-in-showdown-with-rudd.html
Tony Abbott, whose Liberal-National
coalition is ahead in polls before  Australia ’s Sept. 7 election,
pledged to build a stronger economy as he faced Prime Minister
Kevin Rudd in the first leaders’ debate of the campaign.  Eradicating the levy on mining profits and reducing the
company tax rate, at a time when government revenues are
declining, wouldn’t lead to major cuts in services, Abbott, 55,
said late yesterday in Canberra. Rudd, 55, said a coalition-led
government faced a A$70 billion ($64 billion) funding black hole
that would lead to job losses.  “This idea that the coalition is ready with a great big
scalpel to slash health, to slash education, to slash jobs is
simply wrong,” Abbott said in the live televised debate. “Yes,
revenues are under pressure. What we need to do is grow a
stronger economy. That’s why it’s so important to reduce
unnecessary taxes.”  Both leaders have put management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of their campaigns amid slowing
growth as a China-led mining-investment boom wanes. While Rudd
has narrowed the margin in opinion polls since defeating Julia Gillard in a June 26 Labor party ballot, Abbott remains on track
to win government.  “There are real warning signs out there for Labor,” said
Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at  Melbourne ’s Monash
University. “Rudd’s return to the leadership has brought the
party’s core back into the fold but it looks like it will be
hard for him to win over the swinging voters who are deterred by
the government’s record.”  Second Week  As the election campaign enters its second week, the
ability of Abbott and Rudd to lure votes with spending promises
is hampered by dwindling revenues. The Treasury said Aug. 2 that
revenue collected over the next four years will be about A$33.3
billion less than it had previously forecast in May.  Abbott narrowed the gap with Rudd on the question of
preferred prime minister, according to a Newspoll published in
The Australian newspaper today. In the survey conducted Aug.
9-11, Abbott rose four percentage points to 37 percent, while
Rudd dropped 1 point to 46 percent.  Coalition Lead  The coalition maintained its 52 percent to 48 percent lead
over Labor in the two-party preferred measure, the poll showed.
Labor’s primary vote fell two points from the previous poll a
week earlier to 35 percent, the coalition rose two points to 46
percent, and the Greens also gained two points to 11 percent.  The survey of 1,134 voters has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points. Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News
Corp. Australia and 50 percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research company.  A  Galaxy Research poll  published by Sydney’s Sunday
Telegraph newspaper yesterday showed Labor trailing the
opposition with 49 percent in the two-party preferred measure,
down from a 50-50 tie in the last such study conducted July
23-25. A Nielsen poll in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  newspapers at the
weekend showed the opposition leading with 52 percent of the
vote after tying in the previous survey a month earlier. Fifty-six percent of respondents said the opposition would manage the
economy better, to 36 percent for Labor.  The two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge which
party is more likely to form a government under Australia’s
preferential voting system.  ‘Being Evasive’  “The Australian people, if they were voting yesterday,
according to opinion polls, would have elected Mr. Abbott as
prime minister,” Rudd said in the debate. “Surely four weeks
before an election he can stop being evasive about where the
A$70 billion of cuts to jobs, to health and education will
fall.”  Australia’s government is raising taxes on tobacco,
charging banks a fee for deposit insurance, and tightening tax
breaks for business car use as the country’s budget deficit is
forecast to blow out to A$30.1 billion this fiscal year, about
1.9 percent of gross domestic product.  Abbott needs to spell out where he will raise taxes and cut
spending to meet commitments to improve the country’s debt
position relative to the government’s forecasts, Rudd said. The
opposition last week promised to implement a 1.5 percentage
point cut to the company tax rate.  In its quarterly monetary policy statement released in
Sydney Aug. 9, the central bank said gross domestic product will
rise 2.25 percent in the year to December, down from a forecast
of 2.5 percent growth three months earlier. Governor Glenn Stevens and his board reduced Australia’s key interest rate to a
record-low 2.5 percent last week amid benign inflation and a
slowing in mining investment.  Away from economic issues, Rudd promised that should he be
re-elected he would introduce a bill to legalize same-sex
marriage this year and allow his lawmakers a conscience vote on
the issue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  