-- Abu Dhabi Bank Sees Retail Demand After Revolts: Islamic Finance
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-12T13:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/abu-dhabi-bank-sees-retail-demand-after-revolts-islamic-finance.html
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB)  plans to
expand in North Africa as the lender controlled by the emirate’s
ruling family seeks to access more-populous markets.  The bank applied for licenses in  Algeria  and  Libya  and is
considering Tunisia and Morocco, Chief Executive Officer Tirad Mahmoud, said in an Aug. 4 interview. Interest in Shariah-compliant banking has increased since 2011, when revolts in
North Africa catapulted Islamists to power.  We are seeking to expand in nations with “a critical mass
in terms of population and economic activity,” Mahmoud said.
The bank wants to be better placed to serve companies, such as
Dubai-based mall operator Majid Al Futtaim, which operate across
the  Middle East  and North Africa and rely on global lenders such
as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Citigroup Inc., he said.  Peers including Doha-based Masraf Al Rayan said in February
it plans to buy into a Libyan lender and convert it into an
Islamic business. Abu Dhabi sukuk are in demand, with the yield
on the lender’s November 2016 securities falling 54 basis points
in the past year to 2.22 percent at 5:18 p.m. in Dubai, compared
with an increase in Gulf Cooperation Council financial services
yields tracked by HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indexes.  Regional Mandates  Lenders are pursuing new markets as populations of about
8.3 million in the  United Arab Emirates  and 1.9 million in Qatar
limit domestic growth opportunities. Since 2008, Abu Dhabi
Islamic has moved into countries including  Saudi Arabia , home to
about 28 million people,  Egypt , whose population exceeds 80
million, and  Sudan , Mahmoud said.  “Regional companies, when they choose their banks, choose
those that are present in all their key markets and they give
them regional mandates in working capital management, trade, and
foreign-exchange flows,” he said.  Banking services that comply with Islam’s ban on interest
came into focus after autocratic rulers who long oppressed
Islamists were toppled in countries including Tunisia and Libya.
Islamic financial assets could double to as much as $3 trillion
by 2015,  Standard & Poor’s  forecast last year.  Deep Pockets  Libya, where almost all of the 6.6 million people are
Muslim, has no stand-alone Islamic lenders, while  Tunisia  passed
a law in July to allow sukuk sales to boost Shariah-compliant
banking. Morocco and Algeria plan to expand their Islamic
banking businesses and are drawing up plans to sell sukuk.  “The population in these countries want Islamic banking
and the Arab Spring has increased its acceptance,” Geert
Bossuyt, chief executive officer of Dubai-based consulting
company Khalij Islamic, said Aug. 6. “I’m not surprised either
that the GCC banks are taking the lead in entering these
countries because you need to have banks with experience and
deep pockets.”  Immediate growth prospects for banks in North Africa may be
subdued by social unrest in Egypt and Tunisia, as well as lower
exports, tourism and remittances in  Morocco  and Tunisia stemming
from the euro-zone crisis, according to Melina Skouridou, an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Slow’ Payout  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank, bought BNP
Paribas SA’s Egyptian unit in December, the same month Qatar
National Bank SAQ agreed to buy Societe Generale SA’s Cairo-based subsidiary. Abu Dhabi Islamic-Egypt is the country’s
fifth-biggest publicly traded bank.  Egypt’s military forced Islamist President Mohamed Mursi
out of office last month, a year after he became the country’s
first democratically elected president. Political instability in
the most-populous Arab country has hindered the nation’s ability
to recover from the worst economic slump in two decades.  “International expansion usually coincides with lower
profitability because you are entering markets you don’t know,”
 Jaap Meijer , director of equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam
Capital Ltd., said by phone Aug. 6. “We are not always thrilled
by banks expanding beyond their own borders, particularly if
it’s a greenfield expansion, because the payout is quite slow.”  Longer term, economic growth in North Africa will benefit
banks, especially in resource-rich countries such as Libya and
Algeria, Skouridou said. Domestic business is picking up as the
U.A.E. recovers from a property-market crash. Bank lending in
the second-largest Arab economy expanded 5.2 percent year on
year in May, double the growth rate at the end of 2012,
according to central bank data. ADIB’s second-quarter profit
increased 15 percent, the fastest in more than a year.  Mahmoud said MENA expansion is essential to capture market
share from foreign lenders. “The trend now is for GCC banks to
increasingly focus on playing a regional role,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  