-- Lagos Demolishes Homes as 9,000 Forcibly Evicted: Amnesty
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-08-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/lagos-demolishes-homes-as-9-000-forcibly-evicted-amnesty.html
Nigeria ’s government forcibly
evicted about 9,000 people in a slum area in the commercial
capital of Lagos in February, demolishing their homes without
prior notice or providing alternative accommodation,  Amnesty
International  said.  Satellite images of Badia East show that concrete houses
and other structures were destroyed in the Feb. 23 demolitions,
the London-based human rights group said in an e-mailed report
today, citing witnesses. Senior officials in the Lagos state
government said the slum was a rubbish dump, it said.  Lagos, with  21 million  people, is the most densely-populated of the 36 states in Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous
nation. About 70 percent of the inhabitants of Lagos live in
slums, according to Amnesty. The West African nation is Africa’s
largest oil producer.  The report, compiled by Amnesty and Lagos-based  Social and
Economic Rights Action Centre , cites former residents from Badia
East as saying armed police officers threatened to shoot them if
they didn’t move.  Phone calls made to the office of Hakeem Bello, the special
adviser on media for the Lagos state government, didn’t connect,
while two e-mailed inquiries sent to the state government
weren’t answered. Ngozi Braide, a spokeswoman for Lagos police,
was unavailable when contacted for comment.  Infrastructure Program  The evictions are part of a pattern of forced removals of
residents in informal settlements since the 1990s across Lagos,
including in Badia, Makoko and Ilaje Otumara, according to the
report.  “The Lagos state government has failed to consult people
to explore alternatives to the eviction, provide adequate
notice, legal remedies, compensation and adequate alternative
housing,” it said.  Lagos state Governor Babatunde Fashola is pushing to build
infrastructure, including an urban rail system and bridges, to
lure investors and cater for an expanding population. On Aug. 1,
he told slum residents in Badia he was building 1,008 apartments
to rehouse them.  “The state government will empower and give all residents
of blighted areas a chance to live a prosperous life,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  