-- Mali Counts Ballots With Keita Poised to Win Presidency
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-08-12T19:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/malians-vote-as-keita-poised-to-win-presidency-in-second-round.html
Former Malian Prime Minister Ibrahim Boubacar Keita was seen winning a presidential run-off as he
pledged to restore state authority after an army coup and French
intervention to quash a rebellion in the north.  Keita, 68, took almost 40 percent of the vote in the July
28 first-round ballot and faced former Finance Minister Soumaila Cisse, 63, who got about 20 percent. Keita won the endorsement
of at least 22 of the 25 candidates knocked out of the race. His
supporters include Dramane Dembele, who came third with 9.6
percent of the vote and broke ranks with his Adema party, which
backs Cisse.  About 6.9 million eligible voters in  Mali ,  Africa ’s third-largest gold producer, cast ballots yesterday, more than a year
after the army staged a coup over a lack of government support
in a battle against ethnic-Touareg rebels in the north. When the
Touaregs linked up with Islamist militants in an offensive that
almost split the nation, former colonial ruler  France  sent
troops to expel them from the main northern cities.  Voting closed at 6 p.m. Final results are expected five
days after the vote, according to the Ministry of Territorial
Administration.  ‘Positive Spirit’  “I think these elections in general have been conducted in
a very positive spirit,” Bert Koenders, the Mali representative
of the United Nations secretary general, said in an interview
today in Bamako, the capital. It’s up to the new president now
to discuss with the Malian people a new social contract.’’  Louis Michel, head of the European Union observer mission
rejected claims of a lack of transparency by Cisse’s Union for
Republic and Democracy party. “Everywhere I have been today,
and it has been confirmed by the other observers of the European
Union and the other observation mission, there is absolutely
nothing to suspect or to doubt about this poll,” he said.  While Cisse focused on economic recovery, Keita campaigned
under the slogan, “For the Honor of Mali,” and concentrated on
security, territorial integrity and state authority.  He’s also presented “himself as a break from the political
class largely responsible for the crisis into which the country
has been plunged,”  Gilles Yabi , West Africa director of the
Brussels-based International Crisis Group, said by phone from
Dakar,  Senegal .  Experience vs Establishment  Keita, who’s also served as foreign minister and president
of the National Assembly, is seen as a “man of experience
capable of authority” at the time when Malians seek a revival
of a state weakened in the past 10 years, Yabi said.  Cisse, chairman of the Dakar-based West African Monetary
and Economic Union from 2004 to 2011, is seen more as “a
candidate of the political establishment,” who’s been outside
the country for almost a decade, Bruce Whitehouse, a Mali expert
and assistant professor of anthropology at Lehigh University in
Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview.  International donors insisted that the election, the first
since 2007, be held last month before they could start providing
as much as $4 billion in aid pledged in May.  Mali’s new president also must tackle corruption in the
government and “get the Malian economy going again after being
almost frozen in the past 18 months,” Whitehouse said. Mali’s
$10.6 billion economy contracted 1.2 percent in 2012, according
to the International Monetary Fund.  Gold mining, which hasn’t been affected by the fighting,
may help the economy expand 4.8 percent this year, according to
the fund.  “I came to vote because I know it’s important for us to
decide our future, to decide who will lead us in the right
way,” said Bamako-resident Boubacar Diallo after casting his
vote in Sabalibougou yesterday. “Even if there was a storm over
our heads I would have come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois Rihouay in Bamako at 
 frihouay@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  