-- Manchester Utd. Wins Community Shield, First Trophy for Moyes
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/manchester-utd-wins-community-shield-first-trophy-for-moyes.html
Robin  van Persie  scored twice as
Manchester United beat Wigan Athletic 2-0 in soccer’s Community
Shield to give manager David Moyes his first trophy at the club.  Van Persie struck a goal in each half at Wembley Stadium in
London yesterday. It’s the fifth time in seven seasons that
United won the curtain-raiser to England’s Premier League season.  Moyes succeeded the retired  Alex Ferguson  as United manager
at the end of last season. The start of his reign has been
marked with two pre-season wins, a lack of major signings and a
question mark over  Wayne Rooney , who’s been linked with a move
to Chelsea. The striker missed yesterday’s game with a shoulder
injury although he’s been named in the  England  squad to face
 Scotland  in an exhibition match in two days.  Moyes complained to reporters after yesterday’s game about
their coverage of Rooney, saying there was no rift with the
player.  “Wayne has trained, and some of you might not like hearing
this, but I didn’t fall out with Wayne,” he said at a news
conference, adding that Rooney hadn’t been told to train with
the reserves as a punishment.  “Some of you wrote untruths,” Moyes said after the first
managerial trophy of his top-level career. “Wayne trained with
the reserves because it was his asking. He couldn’t have contact,
he had a shoulder injury. We used him as a floating player,
which means he doesn’t play for either team, he plays between
either team.”  Not for Sale  He reiterated that Rooney isn’t for sale, after reports
that he wants to join new Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho .  “Why are you asking me again? He’s not for sale. There’s
no more answer to your question,” Moyes said.  Van Persie gave United a sixth-minute lead, heading across
goal and just inside a post from Patrice Evra’s left-wing cross.  United dominated the first half, with new signing Wilfried
Zaha looking dangerous at times, but created few scoring
opportunities.  Wigan began to get back in the game, with new signing James
McClean and Emmerson Boyce threatening without hitting the
target. That momentum shifted when Van Persie, who got 30 goals
for United last season, scored the second goal.  After he cut in from the right, his 59th-minute left-foot
shot was deflected off Wigan’s James Perch and past goalkeeper
Scott Carson. United rarely looked in danger again.  “We’re disappointed to lose the game, but in spells we
showed we could play,” said  Owen Coyle , who took over as Wigan
manager in the offseason from  Roberto Martinez , who moved to
Moyes’s former club Everton. “There’s one or two things we can
learn from and move forward.”  The Community Shield, contested by the winners of the
previous season’s Premier League and F.A. Cup, raises money for
charities and community groups. United claimed a 20th league
title in 2012-13, while Wigan became the first club to win the
Cup and be relegated from the top flight in the same season.  Yesterday was the 20th time United has won the trophy
previously known as the Charity Shield.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  