-- Manchester Utd. Beats Wigan 2-0 to Win Community Shield
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-11T15:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/manchester-utd-beats-wigan-2-0-to-win-soccer-s-community-shield.html
Robin  van Persie  scored twice as
Manchester United beat Wigan Athletic 2-0 to win soccer’s
Community Shield today and give new manager David Moyes his
first trophy at the club.  Van Persie struck a goal in each half at Wembley Stadium in
 London . It’s the fifth time in seven seasons that United has won
the traditional curtain-raiser to England’s Premier League
campaign.  “It’s always nice to score, especially at Wembley,” Van
Persie told ITV. “It’s a great day for all of us, for the fans
and the manager as well. I believe in this team. We are the
champions and I believe we will compete until the end.”  Moyes succeeded the retired  Alex Ferguson  at United and
Wigan also has a new manager.  Owen Coyle  took over from  Roberto Martinez , who moved to Moyes’s former club Everton.  United’s  Wayne Rooney , linked with a move to Premier League
rival Chelsea, missed today’s game because of a shoulder injury.  Van Persie gave United a sixth-minute lead, heading across
goal and just inside a post from Patrice Evra’s left-wing cross.  United went on to dominate the first half, with new signing
Wilfried Zaha looking dangerous at times, but created few
scoring opportunities.  Van Persie, who got 30 goals for United last season,
doubled the lead in the 59th-minute when his left-foot shot was
deflected off Wigan’s James Perch past goalkeeper Scott Carson.
United rarely looked in danger and went on to clinch a
comfortable win.  The Community Shield, contested by the winners of the
previous season’s Premier League and F.A. Cup, raises money for
charities and community groups. United claimed a 20th league
title in 2012-13, while Wigan became the first club to win the
Cup and be relegated from the top flight in the same season.  Today was the 20th time United has won the trophy
previously known as the Charity Shield.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  