-- Mantra to Expand in Indonesia Amid Tourism Boom: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-12T03:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/mantra-to-expand-in-indonesia-amid-tourism-boom-southeast-asia.html
Mantra Group, the Australian hotel
operator controlled by CVC Asia Pacific Ltd., plans to open 20
hotels in  Indonesia  in the next three years and manage about the
same number of properties in Thailand in six years.  The closely-held company, which opened its first resort
under its four-star  Mantra  brand in March in Bali, is in talks
to add six more hotels in the resort province, Chief Executive
Officer Bob East said in an interview in Sydney. The Gold Coast,
Queensland-based company, which is also in initial talks to run
a hotel in Jakarta, will either sign management agreements or
take minority stakes in properties in the country, he said.  “Indonesia’s got about 15 times more hotels being built
than  Australia ,” East said on Aug. 7. “It’s got an emerging
consumer class and a good growth story domestically and we have
enough scope to grow.”  Overseas tourist arrivals  in Indonesia jumped 14 percent to
789,594 in June from a year earlier, according to data from the
government’s statistics bureau. As the nation’s economy expands,
with gross domestic product increasing 5.81 percent in the three
months ended June 30, the number of people entering the middle
and affluent classes is expected to double by 2020, according to
a March  report  by Boston Consulting Group Inc.  Following the opening of the Mantra resort in Nusa Dua in
southeastern Bali, the company plans to introduce more hotels
under the same brand, as well as its luxury  Peppers  and the
three-star  BreakFree  brands, East said.  More Australians  Mantra is adding more properties as a higher number of
Australians travel to Indonesia as concerns following the 2002
Bali bombings ease. The attacks killed 202 people, 88 of them
Australians.  The number of Australians visiting Indonesia surged
threefold to 933,376 in 2011 from 287,103 in 2007, according to
the latest available  data  from the Southeast Asian country’s
Ministry of Tourism and Creative Economy. They make up the
biggest group after arrivals from Indonesia’s neighbors
Singapore and  Malaysia .  The growth in tourists comes even as the Australian
government  warns  its citizens to “exercise a high degree of
caution in Indonesia, including Bali, at this time due to the
high threat of terrorist attack.”  Indonesia’s second-quarter economic expansion fell short of
economists’ expectations, after higher fuel costs spurred the
fastest inflation in more than four years. Finance Minister
Chatib Basri said this month that it would be difficult to meet
a 2013 growth target of 6.3 percent, and the government needs to
speed up spending to keep expansion above 6 percent.  Higher Rates  Mantra is counting on rising room rates in Indonesia, which
in May jumped 14 percent in Jakarta to $168 from a year earlier.
Revenue per available room, an industry benchmark, surged 17
percent, according to research by broker Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc.’s hotels unit.  The number of visitors to Bali climbed 7.8 percent in the
first three months of 2013, and supply in the Bali hotel market
is expected to increase “significantly” in the next five
years, according to research by Jones Lang LaSalle and hotel
data provider STR Global.  Indonesia had “extraordinary  economic growth  over the past
four to five years, and the hotel industry has predominantly
been driven by the local market, except for Bali,” said Scott
Hetherington, chief executive officer for Jones Lang LaSalle’s
Asia  Hotels and Hospitality Group . “Bali has seen very strong
domestic and international demand, and there’s been significant
development in the three- to five- star sector.”  Thai Expansion  To complement the expansion in Indonesia, Mantra has also
set up a company in  Thailand  to prepare for its next new market,
East said, where it expects to add more properties as early as
next year.  The number of overseas visitors to Bangkok jumped 25
percent in the first five months of 2013 from a year earlier,
dominated by Chinese, Japanese and Indian tourists, according to
data from Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels. The city is expected to be
the top destination for international tourists in 2013,
according to the  MasterCard Global Destination Cities Index .  Mantra posted A$63 million ($57 million) in  earnings  before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the year ended
June 30, from  A$60.6 million  12 months earlier, the company said
last week in an e-mailed statement. Annual earnings have grown
by over A$16 million in the past four years following
acquisitions of properties, it said.  CVC acquired a 65 percent stake in Stella Group, which
included Mantra Group, in February 2008 for A$409 million ($370
million) from property group MFS Ltd. MFS borrowed more than
twice the value of its assets in 2006 and 2007, and sold Stella
for about half its previously estimated value to remove about
A$905 million of debt from its balance sheet, the property
company said at the time.  CVC, which unsuccessfully sought to sell Mantra last year,
is now committed to the hotel operator’s growth plans, East
said. The Hong Kong-based private equity firm will still seek to
exit “at some stage,” possibly through a listing, which he
said is an unlikely option now.  To expand, Mantra has about A$20 million to buy equity
stakes in Bali and Jakarta, East said. The company expects to
extend its reach into other major cities in Indonesia after
establishing its brands in Bali and Jakarta, East said.  “There are about 20 cities with over 2 million people,”
East said. “In time, we’d expect that would be a fertile area
to expand into.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  