-- Dollar Gains Before Retail Data; Gold Rises, Stocks Fall
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   L u   W a n g   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-12T20:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/aussie-pares-gain-as-u-s-futures-drop-silver-gold-jump.html
The dollar gained versus most major
peers before data forecast to show U.S. retail sales rose for a
fourth month, while the yen slid after  Japan ’s economy expanded
less than estimated. Gold and silver rallied while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index retreated and European shares fluctuated.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , a gauge of the currency against
10 peers, climbed 0.4 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York  for its
first advance in seven days. The yen declined 0.6 percent to
96.81 per dollar. Gold climbed 1.7 percent and silver jumped
almost 5 percent. The S&P 500 lost 0.1 percent while the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index ended little changed, with trading volumes at
least 29 percent less than the 100-day average for each. Ten-year Treasury yields rose four basis points to 2.61 percent.  U.S. retail sales probably rose 0.3 percent in July from
the prior month, according to a survey of economists before a
Commerce Department report tomorrow, as investors scrutinize
American economic data for hints to the  Federal Reserve ’s plans
for stimulus. Gross domestic product in Japan grew at an
annualized 2.6 percent last quarter, a government report showed,
less than the 3.6 percent median projection in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  “Forward expectations are certainly helping the dollar to
push sharp gains,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview. “Market
participants are hyper-sensitive to data right now, so you’d
expect a strong dollar reaction if there’s a deviation from what
investors have predicted. There’s also been a bit of profit-taking.”  Stronger Dollar  The U.S. currency strengthened against all 16 major peers,
gaining at least 0.6 percent versus the yen, Australian dollar
and Brazilian real. The yen declined against 15 of its 16 major
counterparts, with the currencies of the U.S.,  Taiwan  and  South
Korea  appreciating the most.  “There is some disappointment that the Japanese growth
rate was below expectations,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London .
‘There’s a chance the BOJ could move to more aggressive easing
in the first half of next year.’’  The S&P 500 posted its biggest weekly decline since June
last week, dropping 1.1 percent amid concern the Fed will reduce
the pace of its its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases as the
economy improves.  U.S. Movers  Tesla Motors Inc. fell 3.7 percent after Lazard downgraded
the carmaker’s shares. Hecla Mining Co. gained 5.8 percent,
helping lead precious-metal producers higher as gold and silver
increased for a fourth day. BlackBerry Ltd. rallied 11 percent
in Toronto after the smartphone maker’s board said it is
exploring alternatives, including a possible sale.  Last week’s drop in U.S. stocks came after the  S&P 500 ’s
valuations jumped to their highest levels in more than three
years. The benchmark index has rallied 18 percent this year and
trades at 15.3 projected earnings, up from a multiple of 13.1 at
the beginning of this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings grew 3.6 percent for the 450 companies in the S&P
500 that posted results so far in the reporting season,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speculation that the Fed will taper its bond purchases in
September as the economy strengthens has whipsawed the market.
The S&P 500 sank as much as 5.8 percent over the five weeks
ended June 24, before recovering all the losses to reach an all-time high on Aug. 2.  ‘Multiple Expansion’  “We’ve seen a rally with a multiple expansion and not
necessarily earnings growth,” Jeff Schwarte, a  money manager 
who helps oversee about $290 billion in Des Moines, Iowa, at
Principal Global Investors, said by phone. “We need to see
earnings, we need to see some resolution on tapering. People are
a little nervous about tapering, but if the economy is self
sustaining, it’s totally the right decision to taper. Everybody
is trying to balance what tapering means for financial
markets.”  U.S. 30-year bond yields were up three basis points at 3.67
percent and two-year note rates were little changed at 0.30
percent. The Fed is scheduled to buy as much as $20.5 billion of
Treasuries through Aug. 23, while the U.S. won’t sell any notes
until the auction of five-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities on Aug. 22.  Fund Flows  Indirect investors, which include foreign central banks,
won a larger-than-average amount of U.S. bonds at three auctions
last week totaling $72 billion. Ten-year notes traded in a range
of about nine basis points last week, the narrowest since the
five days ended April 26.  Investment-grade corporate bonds are showing signs of life
following the biggest losses since 2008 as concern wanes that a
Fed pullback from record stimulus will cause a surge in  interest
rates .  Mutual and  exchange-traded funds  that focus on dollar-denominated, high-grade notes reported $639 million of deposits
in the week ended Aug. 7, the most in more than two months,
according to Bank of America Corp. Relative yields on the debt
have retraced more than half of an increase that pushed them to
a nine-month high in June after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
laid out a timeline for the Fed to begin slowing bond purchases
that have bolstered credit markets.  Bonds sold by  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are leading gains of 1.7 percent since the peak in yield
spreads as Fed policy makers stemmed a jump in long-term
interest rates by stressing they will remain accommodative even
if they start scaling back stimulus. With relative yields still
more than historical averages, bond buyers have a cushion from
climbing rates, according to Wells Fargo Advisors LLC analysts.  Bilfinger Forecast  About six shares declined for every five that advanced in
the Stoxx 600.  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  fell 2.6 percent as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. downgraded its recommendation on the U.K. gambling
company. Bilfinger SE rose 3.1 percent after Germany’s second-biggest builder predicted a “significantly” stronger second
half.  “Japan has delivered some conflicting data recently,”
said Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million as head of
equity and fixed income at LLB Asset Management AG in Vaduz,
Liechtenstein. “With such low volumes, it doesn’t take much to
pull the market lower, even though general investor sentiment is
still positive.”  Europe Valuations  European stocks have risen half as much as global
benchmarks this year, leaving them cheaper than equities in the
U.S. and  Asia  as the region’s economy starts to recover from the
longest recession on record.  After a 7.2 percent gain in 2013, the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E) 
trades at 12.5 times projected earnings, 6.7 percent less than
in 2009, the last time the euro area was in the final quarter of
a contraction, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the U.S.,
where the economy is in its 10th straight quarter of growth, the
S&P 500 is valued at 15.3 times estimated profit and Japan’s
Topix trades at 14.2 times income after Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe vowed to end two decades of deflation.  Investors from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Barclays Plc say
European stocks are cheap as the first expansion for  euro-area
manufacturing  in two years helps drive forecasts for profit
growth of more than 10 percent in 2013 and 2014. Bears point to
concern that next month’s German election may lead to a push for
tougher austerity measures in Europe’s weakest economies.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose for a third day,
adding 0.5 percent, with Brazil’s Ibovespa index climbing 0.9
percent to extend a three-day rally to 6.1 percent, its biggest
in almost a year.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced 3.4 percent
to a two-month high, and the Shanghai Composite Index added 2.4
percent. China’s securities regulator said it will make
decisions on financing for real estate projects based on the
examination of companies and land ministry assessments, fueling
speculation that developers will gain access to equity funding.  Gold futures for December delivery climbed 1.7 percent to
$1,334.20 an ounce and silver increased 4.6 percent to $21.339
an ounce. U.S. natural gas jumped 2.5 percent on forecasts for
hotter-than-normal weather that would spur demand from  power
plants . Crude oil increased 14 cents to $106.11 a barrel in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  