-- Australia Government Drops Two Candidates as It Trails in Polls
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-11T05:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/australia-government-drops-two-candidates-as-it-trails-in-polls.html
Australia ’s governing  Labor party 
lost two of its 150 candidates for a Sept. 7 election as an
opinion poll showed the opposition Liberal-National coalition
nudging ahead among voters.  Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  asked his party to remove Geoff
Lake as candidate for Hotham, a Labor-held seat in  Melbourne ,
according to an e-mailed statement from the premier’s office. It
followed a  report yesterday  in the city’s Herald Sun newspaper
that he’d sworn at a fellow councilor in 2002. Ken Robertson,
standing for a seat in Queensland state, also resigned from the
race.  A  Galaxy Research poll  carried in Sydney’s Sunday Telegraph
newspaper today showed Labor trailing the opposition with 49
percent among 1,002 voters surveyed August 7-9, down from a
50-50 tie in the last such study conducted July 23-25. No margin
of error was quoted. That echoes the result of a Nielsen poll in
 Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  newspapers yesterday showing the opposition
leading with 52 percent of the vote after tying in the previous
Nielsen poll a month earlier.  “Rudd and his colleagues know that they’re losing this,
and they might lose it quite substantially,”  Nick Economou , a
lecturer in politics at  Monash University , said by phone from
Melbourne.  The removal of Lake was a panic move by Rudd over “silly,
petty local government stuff blown out of proportion by the
Herald Sun,” he said.  Rudd Preferred  Rudd retained his lead as preferred prime minister in the
latest Galaxy poll, with the margin narrowing to 47 percent over
34 percent for Abbott, from a 51-34 advantage in the July
survey.  Having led Australia as it escaped recession after the 2008
financial crisis, Rudd said since returning to the leadership in
June that the nation faces challenges as  China’s economy  slows
and the  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowers its growth outlook. In
yesterday’s Nielsen poll, the opposition was preferred for its
ability to steer the economy by 56 percent, to 36 percent for
the government.  Australia’s government is raising taxes on tobacco,
charging banks a fee for  deposit insurance , and tightening tax
breaks for business car use as the country’s budget deficit is
forecast to blow out to A$30.1 ($27.7 billion) this fiscal year,
about 1.9 percent of gross domestic product.  The Treasury said Aug. 2 that revenue collected over the
next four years will be about A$33.3 billion less than it had
previously forecast in May. That was three days before the five-week election campaign was called.  Televised Debate  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , who will join Rudd in a
televised election debate tonight, needs to spell out where he
will raise taxes and cut spending to meet commitments to improve
the country’s debt position relative to the government’s
forecasts, the prime minister said today.  “Based on today’s polls if there was an election yesterday
Mr. Abbott would be prime minister today,” Rudd told a media
event in Queanbeyan outside Canberra. “Therefore he can’t be
evasive about where his A$70 billion in cuts would fall.”  The coalition will lay out the rest of its budget policies
in time for the Sept. 7 poll, shadow financial services minister
Mathias Cormann said on Sky News television today.  “We’ve already announced about A$17 billion of savings and
between now and the election there will be more to come,” he
said. “We will be releasing all the detail and people will have
ample time to form their judgments.”  Lower Forecast  In its quarterly monetary policy statement released in
Sydney Aug. 9, the central bank said gross domestic product will
rise 2.25 percent in the year to December, down from a forecast
of 2.5 percent growth three months earlier. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced Australia’s key interest rate to a
record-low 2.5 percent this week amid benign inflation and a
slowing in mining investment.  The margins in the Galaxy and Nielsen polls reflect the
most recent Newspoll conducted for the Australian newspaper,
which showed the coalition with a  52-48 lead  among 1,141 voters
July 19-21. Rudd led Abbott as preferred prime minister in that
survey by a 50-34 margin.  Ken Robertson, who had been selected to run against
independent MP  Bob Katter  in the northern Queensland state seat
of Kennedy, also resigned yesterday, a Labor campaign
spokeswoman said today, asking that her name not be published
because she was discussing internal party matters.  Robertson was quoted in an  interview with Brisbane’s
Courier-Mail  newspaper yesterday calling Abbott a bigot. Labor
won just  38 percent  of the two-party vote in the 2010 election
in Kennedy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  