-- Australia’s One Nation Candidate Quits Poll Over Islam Comments
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-11T05:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/australia-s-one-nation-candidate-quits-poll-over-islam-comments.html
A candidate for the anti-immigration
One Nation party in  Australia ’s Sept. 7 general election
resigned from the campaign after her comments criticizing Islam
in a television interview attracted ridicule.  Stephanie Banister, who was running in the Brisbane seat of
Rankin for the party founded in 1997 by Pauline Hanson, had
withdrawn her candidacy after receiving threats, One Nation
spokesman Rod Evans said by phone today. Banister “could be
 Australia’s answer to Sarah Palin ”, the Boston-based news
website Global Post wrote in an Aug. 8 article describing the
interview as “cringe-worthy”.  “I don’t oppose Islam, as a country, but I do feel that
their laws should not be welcome here in Australia,” Banister
said in an interview with Channel 7 broadcast Aug. 7. “Less
than 2 percent of Australians follow haram,” she told the
broadcaster owned by  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM)   “Haram” describes something that is sinful or prohibited
in Islam. About 2.2 percent of Australia’s population said they
were Muslims in the country’s 2010  census .  She objects to Muslim halal food and didn’t have a problem
with Jewish kosher products, Banister said in the interview,
because “Jews aren’t under haram, they have their own religion
which follows Jesus Christ.”  The One Nation party opposes  all net immigration  and wants
to abolish Australia’s 1975 law  banning racial discrimination .
It’s fielding 10 Senate candidates and at least nine members in
the governing House of Representatives in the poll, according to
the  party’s website .  The party won a seat in Australia’s 76-person Senate in the
country’s 1998 federal election and has since seen its primary
vote share drop to about  0.5 percent in the Senate  and  0.2
percent in the House  in the most recent 2010 ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  