-- Dollar Snaps Six-Day Slump Before Retail-Sales Report
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-12T21:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/mb-open.html
The dollar gained versus the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers before U.S. data forecast
to show tomorrow that retail sales rose for a fourth month,
backing the case for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce stimulus.  The yen fell the most in a week against the dollar after a
report showed  Japan ’s economy slowed more than analysts
forecast, fueling speculation the central bank will need to
boost measures to spur growth. The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index 
rose for the first time in seven days as two regional Fed
economists said the effect of stimulus efforts has been more
limited than estimated.  South Africa ’s rand fell as  stocks 
dropped, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  “Forward expectations are certainly helping the dollar to
push sharp gains,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview. “Market
participants are hyper-sensitive to data right now, so you’d
expect a strong dollar reaction if there’s a deviation from what
investors have predicted. There’s also been a bit of profit-taking.”  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index  added  0.4 percent to
1,020.54 at 5 p.m. New York time, the biggest intraday gain
since Aug. 1.  The greenback increased 0.3 percent to $1.33 per euro. The
dollar climbed 0.7 percent to 96.90 yen after gaining 0.8
percent, also the most since Aug. 1. Japan’s currency dropped
0.4 percent to 128.87 per euro.  Franc, Real  Switzerland ’s franc declined versus the greenback as Swiss
National Bank Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said the bank
will abolish its ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro once it starts
raising interest rates. The franc fell 0.4 percent to 92.58
centimes per dollar after declining the most since Aug. 1. The
currency was at 1.2312 per euro.  The Brazilian real fell versus most major counterparts as
swap rates rose for the first time in four sessions on
speculation that faster inflation will prompt the country’s
central bank to quicken the pace of borrowing cost increases.
The currency dropped 0.7 percent to 2.2828 per dollar after
touching 2.2620, the strongest since July 29.  The rand declined for the first time in three days before
the release of retail-sales data on Aug. 14 that economists said
will add to evidence of a slowdown in  Africa ’s biggest economy.
The currency fell 0.7 percent to 9.8884 per dollar after
strengthening to 9.6994 on Aug. 9, the most since July 26.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index  touched 9.04
percent, the lowest intraday level since May 9.  Retail Sales  The Fed’s unprecedented expansion of its  balance sheet  to a
record $3.6 trillion from $900 billion in August 2008 has
probably given a more limited boost to the  U.S. economy  than
previously estimated, two regional Fed economists said.  Asset-purchase  programs  “appear to have, at best, moderate
effects on economic growth and inflation,” Vasco Curdia, an
economist at the San Francisco Fed, and Andrea Ferrero, an
economist at the New York Fed, said in a research note released
today. “Communication about the beginning of federal funds rate
increases will have stronger effects than guidance about the end
of asset purchases.”  U.S.  retail sales  climbed 0.3 percent in July after rising
0.4 percent in June, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s Commerce Department report. The Fed is buying $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month to put
downward pressure on  interest rates .  Tapering Expectations  “A better-than-expected retail-sales number would suggest
that the U.S. economy is healthy, and could reignite
expectations of tapering happening in September,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “We had a fairly weak
U.S. dollar over the past week, so some of the strength could
just be repositioning and profit-taking.”  Japan’s gross domestic product expanded 2.6 percent from a
year earlier, compared with a revised 3.8 percent increase in
the previous three months, the Cabinet Office said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast growth of 3.6 percent.
Industrial production fell 3.1 percent in June from the previous
month, the Trade Ministry said.  Net Shorts  Traders have reduced bets the yen will weaken, according to
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the currency compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 80,213 on Aug. 6,
compared with 82,135 a week earlier.  The yen has slumped 20 percent in the past 12 months, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro strengthened 10
percent and the dollar appreciated 1.2 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $17 billion, compared with $14 billion on Aug. 9,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the Australian dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rate amounted to $2.9
billion, the largest share of trades at 17 percent. Options on
the U.S. dollar-yen rate totaled $2.4 billion, or 15 percent.  Aussie-greenback options trading was 37 percent more than
the average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the
day. Dollar-yen options trading was 60 percent less than
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  