-- Beijing Plates Harder to Win Than Roulette Spur Loopholes: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-11T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/beijing-plates-harder-to-win-than-roulette-spur-loopholes-cars.html
Raising the money was once the big
obstacle to auto ownership in  China . Now it’s getting the right
license plates.  To ease congestion in the biggest cities, officials are
trying to cap the number of vehicles. In Beijing, residents have
a better chance of winning at roulette than in the capital’s
monthly lottery for new auto licenses. In  Shanghai , buying a set
of plates in the city’s auction system can mean spending more
than on the car itself.  Small wonder then that resourceful motorists are finding
ways around the rules. An entire industry has sprung up to help
them, from services that register cars in other towns, to
brokers of surplus licenses to thieves and counterfeiters of
plates.  “We can’t do business without a car in such a huge city,”
Beijing-based fruit importer Jason Chi said, explaining that
after two years of failing at the lottery he registered his
Buick Excelle for 100 yuan ($16) about an hour’s drive away in
Langfang,  Hebei province . Applying twice a year for permission -
- with restrictions -- to drive in Beijing is a worthwhile
hassle, he said. “What other choice do I have?”  China’s regional patchwork of vehicle registration rules
mean loopholes big enough to drive 1.5 million cars through.
That’s the estimated number of autos in Beijing, Shanghai and
Guangzhou that are registered elsewhere, according to JSC
Automotive Consulting. The problem will only grow as more cities
plan quotas in a country where car  ownership  is only about
1/14th of U.S. levels.  “Policy makers know they cannot kill the demand for
cars,” said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based analyst at auto
researcher IHS Automotive. “If people really want to buy a
vehicle, these policies won’t stand in their way.”  Quotas Coming  Annual  sales  in the world’s biggest auto market may reach
30 million by the end of the decade, from about 20 million this
year, China Association of Automobile Manufacturers says.
Shenzhen, Chengdu and Chongqing are among eight cities
considering quotas to tackle congestion, the group says. As well
as Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, Guiyang, capital of Guizhou
province, already has the curbs.  Beijing in 2010 announced a cap of 240,000 new vehicles a
year, parceled out in monthly lotteries, after the city was
voted as having the world’s most painful commute in a global
poll by International Business Machines Corp. Fewer than one in
80 applicants were successful in the July draw, compared with
the 37-to-1 odds they’d get on a single-number payout playing
roulette in  Las Vegas .  Even taking into account multiple family members taking
part to stack the odds in a wannabe driver’s favor, the demand
shows how for many Chinese urbanites the prospect of sitting out
a tailback inside their own air-conditioned bubble is preferable
to crammed and inadequate public transport.  Shanghai Auction  In Shanghai, which has been auctioning license plates since
1986, winning bids hit a record 90,000 yuan this year, enough to
buy a new Volkswagen Santana sedan, according to car-pricing
website Autohome.com.cn.  Jiang Ruming said he plans to drive about 900 kilometers
(560 miles) to register his Volkswagen Touran in Yichun, Jiangxi
province, where his parents own property.  “It’s not just about the money,” said Jiang, 35. “The
auction system isn’t right as it’s the government restricting my
own property.”  For 3,800  yuan , Smart Car Service in Shanghai will arrange
an appointment and prepare documents for owners to register
about 1,000 kilometers away in Hubei province. For 6,000 yuan,
the agency will handle the entire process in nearby Anhui
province, according to its website. Just hand over the keys.  Restricted Driving  There are drawbacks to out-of-town plates. Non-Shanghai
registered cars are barred from rush-hour freeways. In Beijing,
drivers must get temporary permits for either seven days or six
months, and then can’t use inner city roads during peak hours.  Car owners are also in a race to outmaneuver regulators.  The southern city of Foshan asks for proof of residence to
register there after neighboring Guangzhou last June said it
would half the number of new licenses this year. Buyers flocked
to Foshan, with as much as 50 percent of sales coming from
Guangzhou residents, Liang Xianxing, a manager at a Shanghai
Volkswagen Automotive Co. dealership, said in an interview in
Foshan. Business returned to normal after the new rule, he said.  Beijing residents will soon no longer be allowed the six-month pass for out-of-town cars, according to the city’s traffic
management bureau. That may tempt more drivers into illegal or
gray areas.  Exit Strategy  A Land Rover owner was jailed for 15 days and fined in July
2011 for using forged Beijing plates, according to the traffic
bureau’s  website . Some dealerships rent out unneeded plates
belonging to other individuals or companies, which technically
are non-transferable.  Laura Zhang, a 28-year-old interior designer, found her own
way to escape the hassle of car owning in Shanghai: move. She
had to take a day off work last year to make the six-hour round
trip to register her auto in neighboring Zhejiang province. Now
she rides  Hong Kong ’s subway to work each day.  “Public transportation here is good,” said Zhang, who
sold her  Ford Focus  in June. “You don’t really need a car.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  