-- China Poised to Gain Control as Shipyard Shakeout Looms
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-08-12T11:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/china-poised-to-gain-control-as-shipyard-shakeout-looms-freight.html
China  grew into the world’s leading
shipbuilder over the last decade as hundreds of private yards
opened to compete with state-run companies. Now, the government
is poised to regain control as the industry heads for
consolidation.  The number of shipyards in China has swollen to 1,647,
contributing to a global capacity glut. To stabilize the
industry, one third to a half of the yards will probably have to
disappear through acquisitions and closings, according to
executives and analysts.  State-run companies are at an advantage because they have
easier access to credit to pay workers, buy raw materials and
provide financing for clients. China State Shipbuilding Corp.,
China Shipbuilding Industry Corp. and other government-backed
companies won three-quarters of all orders in the first half of
this year. Though state companies may buy some private yards,
many will likely have to close since their capacity isn’t needed.  “It’s a lost cause for most of the private shipyards,”
said Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Korea in
 Seoul . “The government and even the banks seem to have given up
on trying to save some of the troubled private shipyards. What
innovations can they come up with when they can’t pay to keep
their workers?”  Three-Year Plan  China’s State Council announced Aug. 4 a three-year plan
for the industry that included control of capacity. Ship owners
ordering China-made vessels, engines and some main parts should
get better access to funds from financial institutions and some
key companies will be allowed to issue corporate bonds,
according to the State Council statement.  Last month,  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings
Ltd. (1101) , the country’s biggest private shipyard, sought financial
assistance after failing to win a single vessel order this year.  “China has realized it’s better to have a few big yards
under its control and help them become more competitive than
have too many,” said Park at E*Trade Securities. “The
government is looking for quality now, not quantity.”  China Rongsheng shares fell 1 percent to HK$1.04 in Hong
Kong trading today while the city’s benchmark index rose 2.1
percent.  More than half of China’s yards will have to be wound down
to cut capacity, according to Ren Yuanlin, chairman of
 Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJSGD) , the country’s second-largest private vessel maker. Of the remainder, only 20 percent
will be profitable, he said. China Association of the National
Shipbuilding Industry said last month a third of the nation’s
yards face the danger of closure in about five years after
failing to win orders.  Idled Workers  “It’s very difficult to conduct mergers and acquisitions
in the shipbuilding industry in the current market,” said Sarah Wang, an analyst at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  in  Shanghai .
“Big companies can’t win new orders. How would they be willing
to do acquisitions?”  The State Council stepped in with its plan a month after
Rongsheng said it had a first-half loss and sought government
support. Some idled contract workers surrounded the entrance of
its main factory in Jiangsu province, the company said July 3.  The yield on a Rongsheng unit’s 2015 onshore bonds rose to
6.9 percent on Aug. 9 even after the State Council’s pledge.
Rongsheng on July 31 sold three-year offshore convertible notes
at 7 percent to help repay borrowings. By comparison, bonds due
2015 for South Korea’s  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) , the world’s
largest builder of vessels, yielded at 2.91 percent.  “Compared with shutting down of companies, mergers and
acquisitions will less likely cause social unrest,” said Xu Minle, an analyst at Bank of China International Ltd.  “Less Hope”  Consolidation may help the government achieve a target that
the nation’s top-ten yards should account for 70 percent of the
total output by 2015. China also aims to have more than 50
brands of different types of ships in that period, according to
a five-year plan released last year.  In comparison to that goal, the nation’s top-ten builders
accounted for 48 percent of the total output in 2011, according
to the latest available data from the industry group. Chinese
yards had an order book of 218 million deadweight tons in 2008,
overtaking South Korea as the world’s largest shipbuilding
nation, according to  Clarkson Plc. (CKN)   “The Chinese government wants to support its big state-owned shipyards because they are strategically important,” said
Kim Hong Gyun, an analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. in Seoul.
“That means less hope for private yards.”  Global ship orders reached a peak in 2007, helped by
China’s demand for raw materials. To support the yards, the
government also provided low-cost financing for new vessels.  China Vs South Korea  Yards in China won orders to make vessels with a capacity
to carry 27.8 million deadweight tons, or 47 percent of global
contracts, in the seven months through July, according to
Clarkson, the world’s largest shipbroker. State-backed builders
won almost three-quarters of those deals, helping the nation
gain a 7.8 million-ton lead over South Korea.  Chinese shipyards and related companies employed about
671,564 people in the country in 2012, down from 681,339 in the
previous year, according to data provider Beijing Compass-info
Consulting Co. Most of the builders are based in Yangtze River
Delta, Pearl River Delta and northeastern China. South Korea has
138,248 people working at 65 shipyards, according to its
Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy.  China’s government hasn’t had much success in its efforts
to encourage mergers and acquisitions in the steel industry,
Wang at Masterlink said. Benxi Iron & Steel Group, owned by a
provincial government, and Anshan Iron & Steel Group, controlled
by the central government, failed in their bid to merge in 2010,
at least five years after authorities initiated the process.  Shipbuilders should be confident as “the potential in the
domestic market remains relatively large,” the State Council
said. The government also pledged to study securitization of
shipbuilders’ loans and authorities will encourage development
of offshore engineering equipment such as drilling platforms and
large LNG ships.  “Shutting down yards is a hard landing, while mergers and
acquisitions is a soft landing,” said Li Yanqing, president of
Shipbuilding Information Center of China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  