-- Czech Cabinet Crash Habit Leaves Yields Steady: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/czech-cabinet-crash-habit-leaves-yields-steady-chart-of-the-day.html
 The Czech Republic’s economic
strength is outweighing political turmoil as an eighth prime
minister in a decade is set to inherit financing costs that are
among the lowest in the European Union’s east.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that while the Czech Republic
has had seven premiers since 2003, yields on euro-denominated
debt are approaching better-rated countries such as the
Netherlands or  Austria , where leadership turnover is rarer.
Slovenia’s five prime ministers in the past 10 years have failed
to address economic weaknesses, pushing borrowing costs close to
7 percent, compared with 2.24 percent on Czech debt.  “There are countries where political turbulence is viewed
negatively by investors, but the Czech advantage is its solid
fundamentals, whether it’s the current-account balance, external
debt or foreign currency reserves,” said Helena Horska, the
chief economist at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague.  Caretaker Czech Premier Jiri Rusnok will formally resign
tomorrow after failing to secure parliamentary approval, while
lawmakers plan to vote this month on dissolving the assembly
after proponents of early elections secured support among
political parties. Investors, meanwhile, are focusing more on
economic growth prospects, whatever political ideology emerges
victorious, Horska said.  Czech government debt was at 46 percent of economic output
last year, about half of the EU average, according to European
Commission data.  Poland , the largest post-communist member of
the bloc, had debt at 56 percent of gross domestic product,
while  Italy ’s was at 127 percent and  France ’s 90 percent.  Since 2003, the Czech Republic attracted foreign direct
investment of about $65 billion, helping double the size of the
economy to $196 billion. The koruna has gained about than 20
percent against the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Brussels at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  