-- Daimler Smart Plans More Models, Outlets to Spur China Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-12T04:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/daimler-smart-plans-more-models-outlets-in-china-to-spur-sales.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Smart brand plans to
introduce more models and expand its sales network in China as
the producer of two-seater compact city cars seeks more orders
in a market dominated by SUVs and minivans.  The maker of Mercedes-Benz cars plans to bring to China an
electric version of its two-seater Smart Fortwo and a new four-seater being developed with  Renault SA (RNO) , head of Smart Brand
Annette Winkler said in an interview. Smart expects to boost
annual sales in the nation by 15 percent annually, on average,
in the next few years by tapping demand in cities with a
population of more than one million, she said Aug. 10.  “There are 160 cities with more than one million people,
and many of them lack parking space, have high density and are
culturally very open,” she said in Nanjing in eastern  China .
“All this fits together.”  Daimler is betting enough demand exists in the world’s
largest auto market to boost sales for the 1-liter Smart Fortwo,
even as its starting price of 115,000  yuan  ($19,000) can buy
three locally produced Chery QQ cars equipped with same-sized
engines. Growth in demand for  sport utility vehicles  and
minivans have outpaced the overall industry as Chinese buyers
sought more space and associated size with safety.  “The market environment is difficult for small cars,”
said  John Zeng , Shanghai-based managing director of researcher
LMC Automotive. “In China, big trucks drive aggressively.
Parents are worried about their kids driving a very small car on
the road.”  China Sales  Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche , who has
vowed to retake the top premium automaker position by 2020, said
the company has to turn around its struggling Chinese operations
to catch up with Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi. Bankhaus Metzler estimates the Smart brand accumulated
more than 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) in losses since its
introduction in 1998.  Smart plans to have 100 sales outlets in about 75 Chinese
cities by the end of this year, compared with 88 showrooms in 68
cities now, Winkler said.  Sales in China last year surged 45 percent compared with
the 6 percent worldwide. Winkler declined to say when the new
models, including an electric scooter, will be introduced in the
country.  China, already the brand’s third-largest market, is set to
become its biggest, Winkler said, without specifying when. She
declined to describe the typical Smart buyer in China beyond
saying he or she is “young at heart,” or which demographic
groups that the automaker will target.  Younger Buyers  Smart has sold more than 40,000 cars in China since
introducing the vehicles there in April 2009, the company said.
The nation accounted for 15,680 units, or 15 percent of the
brand’s global sales of 105,700 vehicles last year.  For Daimler, which doesn’t break out Smart’s earnings, the
small vehicle brand has given the company access to younger
buyers and allowed the carmaker to meet carbon-dioxide emission
restrictions. Smart started as a joint venture with Swatch Group
AG, which sold its holding shortly after the brand was
introduced.  Long Yi, a 24-year-old private equity firm employee, who
bought her Kobe Bryant special-edition Smart in 2010, said she
was attracted by the car’s diminutive size.  “For a girl like me, it’s more convenient,” said Long,
who had driven almost 500 kilometers (300 miles) from her
hometown to see Bryant at the Smart event in Nanjing. “It is
easy to maneuver and consumes little fuel.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  