-- Mechel Soars as China Trumps GDP Ghost: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-11T20:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/mechel-soars-as-china-trumps-gdp-ghost-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest
producer of coal for steelmakers, surged the most in a month in
New York as better-than-estimated Chinese industrial output
outweighed slower growth in the world’s largest energy exporter.  American depositary receipts of  Mechel (MTLR)  rallied 8.8 percent
on Aug. 9, extending the biggest weekly gain since January, to
close at a 6.1 percent premium versus the Moscow shares. The
Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
companies in New York rose 0.1 percent for the week.  CTC Media
Inc. (CTCM) , Russia’s only publicly-traded television company, capped
the longest weekly slide this year. RTS  stock-index futures 
added less than 0.1 percent to 132,220 in U.S hours Aug. 9.  Mechel, the worst performer among Russian companies in New
York this year, joined a rally in commodities amid speculation
 China ’s demand for raw materials will rise on stronger output
data. The advance outweighed the announcement last week that
Russia’s gross domestic product unexpectedly slowed in the
second quarter. The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at 5.2 times
estimated earnings, the lowest valuation among 21  emerging
markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  “Russian stocks are extremely cheap and it’s a good time
to buy exporters because of the obvious signs of rebound in the
global economy,” Ilya Kravets, the director of investment
research at Daniloff Capital LLC, said by phone from New York on
Aug. 9. “Everyone understands demand for metals and commodities
overall is picking up.”  China Sales  Sales of Mechel’s  mining  subsidiaries to China accounted
for 30 percent of revenue in 2012, up from 19 percent in the
previous year, the company said in an April 15 presentation.  Mechel also gained last week as Morgan Stanley said the
company will benefit from mounting demand as Russian policy
makers begin cutting interest rates to stimulate the economy.
 Russia ’s central bank, which left its main rates unchanged for
an 11th month on Aug. 9, will probably face another bout of
pressure to ease policy after gross domestic product expanded at
almost half the pace predicted by economists.  The stock may be “attractive to investors with some risk
appetite,” as coking coal prices rise, according to an Aug. 7
note by BCS Financial Group. Metallurgical coal prices may
rebound amid supply cuts, Bloomberg Industries’ analysts Kenneth Hoffman and Andrew Cosgrove wrote last week.  Mechel gained 8.5 percent for the week to $3.20 to trade at
the widest premium in five months over its Moscow shares. The
rally trimmed this year’s decline of the ADRs to 54 percent,
compared with an 8.5 percent slump of the measure of the most-traded Russian stocks in New York.  Russian ETF  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge rose to 90.91 last week. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated Russian
exchange-traded fund, slid 0.6 percent to $26.15. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the stock
futures, increased 1.1 percent to 21.23 points on Aug. 9.  CTC Media sank 5.5 percent to $10.93 for the week. The
company, which makes most of its revenue from selling television
advertising, sank to a five-month low Aug. 8 as TNS Global
reported audience for its main station shrank.  Analysts’ buy recommendations for CTC plunged to the lowest
level since July 2012 this month after it unexpectedly replaced
its Chief Executive Officer July 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  