-- Hedge Funds Trim Gold Bets on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-08-12T19:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/hedge-funds-trim-gold-bets-on-stimulus-speculation-commodities.html
Hedge funds cut bullish gold bets by
the most since June amid speculation about whether the Federal
Reserve will begin trimming its monthly bond purchases.  Money managers cut their net-long position by 27 percent to
48,103  futures and options  by Aug. 6, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Holdings of short contracts rose
26 percent. Net-bullish  bets  across 18 U.S.-traded raw materials
dropped 19 percent to the lowest since March and a measure of
wagers across agricultural commodities turned negative for the
first time on record.  Gold fell into a bear market in April as some investors
lost faith in the metal as a store of value and inflation failed
to accelerate amid unprecedented money printing by central
banks. Charles Evans, Sandra Pianalto and Richard Fisher,
regional Fed presidents in Chicago,  Cleveland  and  Dallas , said
last week that policy makers may be closer to tapering debt
buying as the labor market recovers. U.S. jobless claims fell in
the four weeks ended Aug. 3 to the lowest since November 2007.  “We expect the global inflationary environment to remain
subdued, so we would not rush into buying gold,” said Jim Russell, a Cincinnati-based senior equity strategist who helps
oversee about $110 billion of assets at U.S. Bank’s wealth
management group. “Inflation has not played out as anticipated,
and we don’t think it’s going to.”  Bullion Slumps  Gold futures have tumbled 20 percent since the start of
January, heading for the first annual loss in 13 years. Fourteen
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to fall this
week, with a further nine bullish and seven neutral. That’s the
largest proportion of bears since June 21.  Futures for December delivery gained 1.7 percent to settle
at $1,334.20 an ounce at 1:30 p.m. on the Comex in New York, the
fourth straight increase.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (BUSY)  of 24 commodities
through Aug. 9 lost 1.9 percent this year. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities rose 11 percent. The Bloomberg Dollar
Index, a gauge against 10 major trading partners, gained 3.4
percent and the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index dropped 2.5
percent.  The Fed’s Evans, among the most vocal proponents of record
monetary stimulus, said Aug. 6 that the labor market showed
“good improvement,” and he indicated a cut in debt purchases
may begin in September. Holdings in global exchange-traded
products backed by gold dropped 26 percent this year to the
lowest since May 2010, erasing $57.8 billion of value.  Largest Stake  Gold probably won’t see any “lasting gains” until
investors stop selling ETP holdings,  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said Aug. 8. Holdings
fell by 8.5 metric tons on Aug. 7, the most in a month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. A ton is valued at $43.1 million.  Slumping prices hurt  producers  including Melbourne-based
 Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s largest bullion miner, which
said Aug. 8 that it will write down the value of its assets by
about A$6.2 billion ($5.7 billion). Billionaire John Paulson
owns the largest stake in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest ETP.
His PFR Gold Fund tumbled 23 percent in June, extending this
year’s loss to 65 percent.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index fell for six straight sessions
through Aug. 9, the longest slump since April 2011. Physical
demand is rebounding after gold fell below $1,300, Standard Bank
Group said in a report Aug. 7. Bullion on the Shanghai Gold
Exchange was about $26 more expensive than in  London  on Aug. 6,
compared with a premium of less than $15 the previous week, the
bank said.  Central Banks  Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s board said last
week it will stick with an April pledge to expand the monetary
base by 60 trillion yen ($622 billion) to 70 trillion yen per
year. Bullion rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as
the Fed bought more than $2 trillion of  debt .  “There’s a case to be made for gold, but it’s a volatile
asset class,” said Bernie Williams, a San Antonio-based money
manager at USAA Investments, which oversees over $54 billion.
“Gold tends to hold up over time, it has a place in a portfolio
for preservation of capital and to offset currency debasement.”  Money managers withdrew $922 million from precious-metal
funds in the week ended Aug. 7, according to Adam Longenecker,
the director of quantitative research for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.
Commodity funds had outflows of $924 million, he said.  Net-long positions in crude oil dropped 2.5 percent to
310,827 contracts, a second straight decline, the CFTC data
show. The International Energy Agency trimmed its 2014 global
oil demand-growth estimate by 100,000 barrels from last month
amid slowing expansion in  China .  Copper Wagers  Investors trimmed their short holding in  copper  to 14,660
contracts, from 26,924, the CFTC said. Prices jumped 4.2 percent
last week. The increase is an “opportunity to short sell,”
Barclays Plc said in an Aug. 9 report.  Funds are holding a net-short bet of 9,713  contracts  across
11 agricultural products, compared with a net-long holding of
57,552 a week earlier, the CFTC figures show. That’s the first
bearish outlook since the data begins in 2006. The S&P GSCI
Agriculture Index of eight commodities dropped 19 percent since
the start of January.  Investors are holding a record net-short position in corn
of 113,072 contracts. Prices in  Chicago  dropped 2.3 percent last
week, reaching a 35-month low on Aug. 9. Increased seeding and
improved soil moisture may boost production in the U.S., the
world’s biggest grower and exporter, to a record in the year
that starts Sept. 1, according to the Department of Agriculture.  Food Declines  Bullish soybean holdings are at the lowest since February
2012, and investors are betting on declines for wheat, coffee,
sugar and soybean oil. Global food costs have dropped 13 percent
since reaching a record in February 2011, according to  data  from
the United Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome .  “When it comes to the food commodities, there’s been a
drastic increase in supply, especially for corn,” said Jeff Sica, who helps oversee more than $1 billion of assets as the
president of Sica Wealth Management in Morristown, New Jersey.
“The only way we’re going to see an increase in commodities is
if we see an increase in quantitative easing. Unless that
happens, commodities are going to have a hard time improving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  