-- Merkel Returns From Vacation to Defend Her Lead Ahead of Vote
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/merkel-returns-from-vacation-to-defend-her-lead-ahead-of-vote.html
Germany ’s election campaign ramps up
this week as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  defends her lead in the
polls against sharpened political attacks from opposition Social
Democratic candidate  Peer Steinbrueck .  Merkel will return from vacation to deliver the first of 56
scheduled campaign speeches across Germany in the Hessian city
of Seligenstadt on Aug. 14. For six weeks until election day on
Sept. 22, the candidates will criss-cross the country as
Steinbrueck launches broadsides at the popular leader’s economic
policies.  “With its delaying tactics, this government has become the
favored child of the banks and has prevented them from being
brought to account for their lapses,” Steinbrueck wrote in an
op-ed for the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  newspaper Aug. 10, accusing
Merkel of holding back a financial-transaction tax.  The vote to determine whether Merkel wins a third term has
ground action on the  European debt crisis  to a halt as the SPD
strives to unseat her. Steinbrueck moved to exploit her absence
this month by mobilizing a get-out-the-vote effort to win back
undecided or one-time SPD voters.  While  polls  last week suggested the SPD candidate may be
narrowing the gap, an Emnid survey published in  Bild am Sonntag 
yesterday showed the chancellor’s Christian Democratic-led block
with a 16-point lead.  Merkel’s bloc gained a percentage point to 41 percent,
while the SPD held steady with 25 percent support, the poll
showed. Still, with the chancellor’s pro-business Free
Democratic allies polling at 5 percent -- the threshold to enter
parliament -- such a result may not be enough to reprise her
current coalition and continue her policies.  Grand Coalition  The SPD-allied Green Party remained at 13 percent, Emnid
showed, raising the prospect of a grand coalition between the
two main parties and a shift in the government’s emphasis from
austerity to growth.  Merkel has seven scheduled campaign rallies this week,
extending from the industrial Rhine Valley city of Ludwigshafen
to the Baltic Sea port of Luebeck. Steinbrueck plans at least 13
appearances across six states, including two with former Social
Democratic Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder .  The SPD candidate has embarked on an “ Open-Air Straight-Talking ” campaign, which features the candidate in a town-hall-style  format . At such an event on Aug. 8 in Hamburg, which drew
3,000 people, Steinbrueck accused Merkel of “lulling” voters
on policy and misleading them over the cost of the crisis. He
said that he’d be more direct.  ‘Perception Disorder’  Merkel’s party allies have stepped forward to defend the
chancellor. Michael Meister, deputy chairman of Merkel’s
parliamentary caucus, struck back at Steinbrueck’s claims on the
financial-transaction tax, saying Merkel’s government rallied 11
European governments to support the measure.  Steinbrueck “apparently suffers from campaign-induced
perception disorder,” Meister said in a statement yesterday.  Merkel’s government joined  France  and nine other nations
this year in proposing a levy on transactions that could begin
collecting revenue as early as next year.  The opposition has said it will rely on a strategy to win
back millions of former SPD voters in the final weeks of the
election by pushing initiatives such as a nationwide  minimum
wage , more bank regulation, guaranteed equal pay for women and a
crackdown on  tax evasion .  GDP Growth  Merkel’s popularity has rested on her record of overseeing
a steady labor market and steering Germany through the debt
crisis as it closes in on its fourth year. Gross domestic
product probably rose about 0.75 percent in the second quarter,
more than the market consensus, according to a person familiar
with a government estimate, who asked not to be identified.  The Euro crisis looms over the campaign, as governments in
 Italy ,  Spain  and Portugal face turmoil and concerns re-emerge
about the stability of financing for  Greece , the country where
it all began in October 2009.  Europe  and international creditors have to come up with a
new rescue package for Greece by the beginning of 2014 at the
latest,  Der Spiegel  reported yesterday, citing documents from
Germany’s central bank, the Bundesbank.  Risks tied to the current Greek program remain
“extraordinarily high” and the government’s progress on reform
is “hardly satisfactory,” the magazine cited the Bundesbank
documents as saying. A Bundesbank spokeswoman declined to
comment on the report.  A shift on Greek aid may prove difficult if the next
government is led by Merkel, who has ruled out a writedown of
publicly held Greek debt.  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary
leader of Merkel’s party, ruled out such a step.  “I wouldn’t consider it at all,” Kauder told Bild
newspaper when asked about a so-called haircut after the vote.
“A government led by the CDU will say no to that in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in London at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  