-- Fed Muffling Taper Talk Spurs High-Grade Revival: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-12T15:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/fed-muffling-taper-talk-spurs-high-grade-revival-credit-markets.html
Investment-grade corporate bonds are
showing signs of life following the biggest losses since 2008 as
concern wanes that a Federal Reserve pullback from record
stimulus will cause a surge in  interest rates .  Mutual and  exchange-traded funds  that focus on dollar-denominated, high-grade notes reported $639 million of deposits
in the week ended Aug. 7, the most in more than two months,
according to Bank of America Corp. Relative yields on the debt
have retraced more than half of an increase that pushed them to
a nine-month high in June after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
laid out a timeline for the Fed to begin slowing bond purchases
that have bolstered credit markets.  Bonds sold by  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are leading gains of 1.7 percent since the peak in yield
spreads as Fed policy makers stemmed a jump in long-term
interest rates by stressing they will remain accommodative even
if they start scaling back stimulus. With relative yields still
more than historical averages, bond buyers have a cushion from
climbing rates, according to Wells Fargo Advisors LLC analysts.  “The Fed did a good job in convincing the market that
tapering isn’t necessarily tightening,”  Ashish Shah , the head
of global credit at AllianceBernstein Holding LP, which manages
$435 billion in assets, said in a telephone interview. “The
stability we’re seeing in Treasuries is helping people come back
into the market to find pretty attractive yields.”  Bond Withdrawal  Investors are adding to bond funds after pulling a net $8.3
billion over the past 10 weeks, the biggest withdrawal from the
asset class over a comparable period since 2009, according to
Bank of America strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen. High-yield
funds attracted $566 million of cash in the period ended Aug. 7
after an outflow of $582 million the previous week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold U.S. company bonds
rather  government securities  has contracted 19 basis points
since reaching a nine-month high of 172 on June 24, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index.  “There are signs of life,” Scott Colyer, chief executive
officer of Monument, Colorado-based Advisors Asset Management,
which oversees about $11.6 billion in assets, said in a
telephone interview. “People are expecting tapering and are
getting out of Treasuries” and into higher-yielding assets.  Credit Benchmarks  Elsewhere in credit markets, Dole Food Co., the fresh fruit
and vegetable producer, obtained a $1.15 billion financing
commitment to support the company’s buyout by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer David H. Murdock.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the owner of
the Paramount film studios and cable networks Comedy Central and
BET, is planning to sell benchmark debt in three parts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.2
basis point to 75.6 basis points as of 11:19 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of credit-default
swaps tied to the debt of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings fell 0.2 to 95.8.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Dole Financing  Bonds of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 3.5 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America, and Bank of  Nova Scotia 
are arranging the debt for Dole, the  Westlake Village ,
California-based company said in a regulatory filing today.  Murdock is acquiring all outstanding shares of Dole for
$13.50 in cash per share in a transaction valued at $1.6
billion, the company said today in a statement distributed by
 Business Wire . The deal, which is expected to close during the
fourth quarter, will also be financed with equity contributed by
Murdock.  Viacom Offering  Viacom may issue five, 10- and 30-year debt as soon as
today, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.
The bonds may be rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Bank of America, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the offering for
the New York-based company, the person said. Proceeds will be
used for general corporate purposes. Benchmark sales are
typically at least $500 million.  Bernanke sent Treasury yields to the highest level in
almost two years after outlining a plan June 19 in which the Fed
could start curtailing the current pace in $85 billion of bond
purchases later this year and end them around mid-2014 if growth
is in line with the central bank’s estimates. He helped calm
bond buyers July 17 when he told the House Financial Services
Committee that the asset purchases “are by no means on a preset
course.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which ended last week at 2.58
percent,  climbed  111 basis points to 2.74 percent from May 1 to
on July 5. The jump increased a measure of price swings to
117.9, the highest level since December 2010, according to the
Merrill Lynch Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index, The index,
which has averaged 67.4 this year, ended last week at 75.4.  Earnings Surprises  “When volatility in Treasuries increases as we’ve seen in
the last few months, people tend to flee fixed income,” Greg Tornga, who manages $7.5 billion as head of fixed income at Edge
Asset Management in  Seattle , said in a telephone interview.
“When volatility is low, they get more comfortable and come
back.”  Bond-buyer confidence is being bolstered by better-than-estimated corporate profits. Companies in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) 
reported second-quarter earnings that on average were 2.8
percent higher than analyst estimates, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg from the 449 firms that have reported
earnings.  Moody’s on Aug. 9 lowered its projection for the global
default rate among speculative-grade companies by year-end to 3
percent from a 3.2 percent estimate last month, according to a
report from the New York-based credit grader.  AIG Dividend  AIG, the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout last year,
declared its first dividend since the rescue after saying Aug. 1
that profit jumped 17 percent in the second quarter. Net income
rose to $2.73 billion from $2.33 billion a year earlier, the New
York-based firm said in a statement.  AIG’s $23.5 billion of bonds included in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index have returned 3
percent since June 24.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
reported second-quarter earnings that beat estimates and said it
will buy back $500 million in shares.  The bank’s $57.2 billion of bonds in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index have gained 3.4 percent since June 24.  “Financials have more room to run in terms of
tightening,” said Bradley Rogoff, head of global credit
strategy at Barclays Plc in New York. “Absolute yield levels
are starting to look more attractive compared to where they were
earlier in the year.”  Keeping Short  Yields on dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds fell to
a record low of 2.65 percent on May 2, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. They have since risen to 3.32 percent.  While relative yields on the notes have contracted 4.51
percentage points since the end of 2008, they are still 32 basis
points higher than the average during the decade ended Dec. 31,
2006, according to the data.  “In the current environment, our only overweight
recommendation in taxable fixed-income is for investment-grade
rated corporate bonds,” Pat McCluskey, a senior fixed-income
strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, wrote in an Aug. 6 report.  He said investors should focus on shorter-maturity bonds
from the most-creditworthy borrowers as these notes are less
sensitive to both rising interest rates and higher default
rates.  “This is not the type of environment in fixed income where
you want to hit a home run,” McCluskey said in a telephone
interview. “You want to protect your portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  