-- Jason Dufner Holds Two-Shot PGA Championship Lead Over Furyk
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-11T22:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/furyk-carries-one-shot-lead-into-pga-championship-last-round-2-.html
Jason Dufner has a two-stroke lead
over Jim Furyk with four holes to play at golf’s PGA
Championship, the last major tournament of the season.  Dufner, who lost to Keegan Bradley in a playoff at the 2011
PGA Championship, is 3-under par through 14 holes today and is
11 under overall. He had birdie putts of less than two feet on
the fifth and eighth holes.  Furyk, the 2003 U.S. Open winner, is even par through 14
holes today and the 54-hole leader remains 9 under at Oak Hill
Country Club outside Rochester, New York.  Henrik Stenson of  Sweden  is 8 under, one stroke ahead of
countryman Jonas Blixt. Masters Tournament champion Adam Scott
of  Australia  is 6 under.  Scott Piercy finished at 5-under par, while David Toms is 4
under, one better than Zach Johnson, Jason Day, Roberto Castro,
Dustin Johnson and defending PGA champion Rory McIlroy.  British Open champion Phil Mickelson finished 12-over par
for the tournament after a final-round 2-over-par 72, his fourth
straight round over par.  Four-time PGA champion Tiger Woods remains winless in his
past 18 major tournaments after finishing 4 over. He shot a
final-round 70, the eighth straight round at par or worse in two
PGA Championship appearances at Oak Hill.  “It’s always frustrating going out there and I’m grinding
my tail off coming in just to shoot even par for the day,”
Woods said. “And I’m nowhere in it. That’s tough.”  Tim Clark recorded the first hole-in-one of the tournament
today, using a hybrid to ace the 220-yard, par-3 11th hole.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Rochester, New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Rochester, New York at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  