-- German Utilities Hammered in Market Favoring Renewables
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-08-12T16:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/german-utilities-hammered-in-market-favoring-renewables.html
Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest
electricity market, is beating up its traditional utilities.  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON SE are getting hurt by falling power prices
and a shrinking market share this year. They’re set to report
second-quarter earnings this week just as  RBC Capital Markets 
said both may need to raise capital.  “Lower earnings for RWE and EON have knock-on implications
for the balance sheet of both companies,” John Musk, an analyst
at RBC Capital in  London , said last week. “The market has yet
to factor in the longer-term earnings impact of German power
prices,” which have dropped about 27 percent in a year.  Across Europe and some of the U.S., utilities that a decade
ago dominated markets now struggle to cope with lower prices
exacerbated by subsidized renewables that don’t pay fuel costs.
The pain is most acute in Germany, which led the world
installing solar farms and has the largest offshore wind plans.
Clean energy also has preference over fossil fuels in European
wholesale markets, a job killer at traditional utilities.  EON of Dusseldorf and Essen-based RWE are considering
halting coal and gas plants with capacity exceeding 20,000
megawatts and can supply 21 cities the size of Cologne, risking
some of the combined workforce of more than 10,000.  “A significant part of our business model is now facing
new challenges,” RWE Chief Financial Officer Bernhard Guenther
said in an interview, without being specific about halts or
jobs. “Whatever we do in terms of cost and capex-cutting won’t
fully compensate the profit loss we see in conventional power
generation.” A RWE spokeswoman said there was nothing to add.  Merkel Response  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government has said it wants to
reform the country’s clean-energy subsidy law after the Sept. 22
elections and also rework the design of the country’s power
market. The German renewable boom has caused “huge problems for
the system,” Merkel said June 12 in Berlin.  RWE shares slumped to a decade-low last week and EON did
likewise last month, as analysts reduced earnings forecasts.  “We have never seen mothballing to this extent,” Susanne
Nies, head of  energy policy  and generation at the Eurelectric
AISBL lobby group, said by phone from Brussels. Europe’s power
demand will be lower in 2020 than in 2010, and utilities have
“massively overestimated demand for gas-fired power.”  Musk said the two may have to tap investors for cash in the
next few years, estimating that RWE may have a capital need of
about 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion), and EON may require 4
billion euros to maintain its rating, in a note to investors.  EON Reporting  EON tomorrow is expected to report first-half adjusted
earnings almost halved from a year earlier, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, while RWE will report on the
following day.  EON today declined 0.2 percent to close at 12.23 euros,
while RWE increased 0.4 percent to 21.395 euros in  Frankfurt 
trading at the close.  The retrenchment is mirrored in the U.S., where burgeoning
rooftop solar panels eat into the market share of utilities from
 New York  to  Hawaii . In  Japan , the government is opening the
market, giving traditional suppliers such as  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501)  pressure from new rivals.  Germany’s four largest power producers had only invested
enough in clean energy to control 4.9 percent of renewable
capacity by 2012, according to Bremen-based Trendresearch GmbH,
and the country will increasingly rely on wind and solar to fill
the gap left by the nuclear phaseout. The share of renewables in
generation more than tripled to 22 percent in 2012 from 2000.  Shares Slump  “The adaptation of the conventional power-plant fleet is
indispensable because renewables get preference on the grid,”
said Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at Union Investment GmbH,
which holds EON and RWE.  EON and RWE’s cost-cutting strategies haven’t stopped stock
slides. Together have lost about 76 percent of the $200 billion
combined market value they had in early 2008.  RWE has slumped 32 percent this year in German trading, the
most among companies on Europe’s STOXX 600 Utilities index. EON
has lost 13 percent. Both are unlikely to recover any time soon,
according to Commerzbank AG.  “We have intact, long-term downsize trends at EON and
RWE,” Petra Kerssenbrock, a technical analyst at Commerzbank,
said by phone from Frankfurt.  Profit Forecast  At EON,  adjusted profit  may drop 40 percent this year,
according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. “For newer  power plants  there is always a latent
risk for writedowns,” Chief Financial Officer Marcus Schenck
said in an interview in May. EON kept its unprofitable Irsching
4 and 5 gas-fired generators in Bavaria running only after a
compensation deal with regulator Bundesnetzagentur and grid
operator TenneT TSO GmbH signed in April.  RWE’s income has declined for the past three years and is
forecast to fall again next year.  “It’s all about shutting power plants with a negative  cash
flow ,” Patrick Hummel, an analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , said by phone from
Zurich. Unlike a decade ago when utilities reduced capacity to
push up electricity on the market, the current halts “won’t
work to drive the power price,” he said.  Independent Producers  Independent power producers such as Wpd AG, Juwi AG and
S.A.G. Solarstrom AG invested earlier and more heavily in wind
and solar power, cutting into the share supplied by RWE and EON.  German year-ahead power price dropped 27 percent over the
past 12 months, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contract, a European benchmark, traded at 36.35 euros a
megawatt-hour late today.  While utilities across Europe have seen demand dwindle,
those in Germany are also contending with a phase-out of nuclear
energy. RWE and EON acknowledge the decision to close all
reactors by 2022 forces them to abandon plants they had counted
on to produce income for years.  Smaller competitor  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  said
last month it will shut four plants in Marbach and Walheim
following “a drastic fall in revenue.” The utility expects
earnings from generation and trading to plunge as much 40
percent this year.  The shift from fossil fuels has also hurt other operators
in the country. Vattenfall AB, a Swedish utility with coal and
nuclear plants in Germany, announced plans July 23 to split off
non-Nordic units after writing down $4.6 billion. It will have
to cut investments and push through deeper cost cuts, it said,
partly blaming the failure of nations to align policies.  “The idea of an integrated European energy market is in
shambles,” Chairman Lars G. Nordstroem said last month.
“Energy politics is becoming increasingly national. Everyone
looks at their natural assets and their policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  