-- Greece Needs a 21st Century Marshall Plan
-- B y   D i m i t r i   B .   P a p a d i m i t r i o u
-- 2013-08-11T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/greece-needs-a-21st-century-marshall-plan.html
At their White House meeting last
week, U.S. President  Barack Obama  assured Greek Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras of his support as Greece prepares for talks with
creditors on additional debt relief amid record-high
unemployment.  The U.S. should also endorse a new blueprint for recovery
based on one of the most successful economic assistance programs
of the modern era: the Marshall Plan.  It is clear by now that the European Union’s policies in
Greece have failed. Projections that government spending
cutbacks would stop the economy’s free-fall proved to be wildly
optimistic. The 240 billion euro ($319 billion) bailout from the
euro area and International Monetary Fund has shown little sign
of success, and Greece is experiencing its sixth year of
recession.  The spending cuts and tax increases, along with the
dismissal of huge numbers of public-sector employees, demanded
as a condition of the loans and assistance have only deepened
the economic pain.  Instead of changing course, however, euro-area economists
have responded to bad news by revising their forecasts to
reflect lower expectations. Those numbers document a staggering
record of mistaken assumptions that has led to today’s failure.  Shifting Forecasts  In December 2010, the so-called troika of lenders -- the
European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund -- predicted that their measures
would move Greece’s  unemployment rate  to just under 15 percent
by 2014. A year later, it changed the forecast to almost 20
percent.  This month, the Hellenic Statistical Authority reported
that unemployment rose to a record in May, with a seasonally
adjusted jobless rate of 27.6 percent. The rate was 64.9 percent
for people 15 to 24.  Bold declarations that belt-tightening would produce growth
have been pared back, too. Since 2010, the troika has gradually
dropped its forecast for 2014 gross domestic product (in money
terms) by almost 40 percent. IMF staff reported last week that
GDP contracted 6.4 percent in 2012 and will drop 4.2 percent
this year before expanding only a little in 2014.  Yet, despite admissions that mistakes were certainly made,
no consideration is being given to ending austerity measures.
Nor has there been effort to devise a renewal agenda for  Greece .
The Marshall Plan offers a spectacularly successful model that
could easily be adapted.  Greece last faced economic ruin immediately after World War
II. By 1949, the country was bankrupt, with virtually no
industry; transportation networks, farmland and villages had
been devastated, and about a quarter of the population was
homeless.  Marshall Plan funds allowed Greece to rebuild, start power
utilities, finance businesses and aid the poor. And, because
social chaos had created an opening for communist and extremist
parties, the U.S. hoped the stimulus would stabilize democracy,
even as it created wealth.  Like other Marshall Plan nations, Greece experienced growth
on a scale it had never known. The astonishing transformation
was widely hailed as an “economic miracle,” and the nation
continued to surge more than 20 years after the assistance
ended.  With that enormous achievement in mind, the Levy Economics
Institute has constructed a  macroeconomic model  of what a
Marshall-type recovery plan could do for the Greek economy
today. We assumed a modest stimulus from EU institutions of 30
billion euros between 2013 and 2016 that would be directed at
public consumption and investment, and particularly jobs.  Debt Forgiveness  Here is how an EU-funded plan for recovery could succeed.
Although past bailout funds benefited banks and financial
institutions, with a large portion devoted to interest payments
for creditors, the new program would focus on debt forgiveness,
and then turn to reconstruction projects to rebuild national
infrastructure and create public projects at the local level.  A rebuilding plan could address Greece’s tremendous need to
renovate schools, hospitals, libraries, parks, roads and
bridges. Forests need to be replenished: Catastrophic fires have
led to deforestation. Tourism once accounted for more than 25
percent of the economy; now, extraordinary beach cleanups are
badly needed to attract visitors.  University graduates, after having been trained at public
expense, are now forced to seek opportunity outside Greece. They
could make valuable contributions, introducing information
technology and other know-how to the government, health and
education sectors.  These efforts could draw an idled, but ready and trained
labor force, to construction, education, social service and
technology. More employment would increase aggregate demand,
which is now severely depressed. In turn, the multiplier effect
of these expenditures would increase GDP substantially.  Instead, Greece is applying “expansive austerity.” The
idea is based on a contested theory, and the real-world results
have been a humanitarian disaster. These policies are lowering
demand by reducing incomes, which cuts into tax revenue. The
inevitable result is higher deficits and  debt-to-GDP  ratios.  For comparison, we modeled what we expect to happen in the
coming years if Greece stays on its scheduled fiscal diet. The
government has consistently been unable to meet troika-mandated
 deficit -reduction targets, and the lenders have consistently
required further cutbacks.  The results of our modeling exercise were clear: Under
today’s policies, unemployment would continue to increase,
reaching almost 34 percent by the end of 2016. Under a Marshall
Plan scenario, the rate would fall to about 20 percent.  Shrinking GDP  Similarly, if Greece institutes the currently planned
austerity measures, we calculate that its gross domestic product
would reach about 158 billion euros by the end of 2016, compared
with 162 billion euros projected for 2013. That would be more
than 15 billion euros short of the troika-mandated target.  If, alternatively, government squeezes harder to meet the
required  deficit-to-GDP  ratio goals, the endgame will be even
worse: A poor and increasingly out of work population, among
other factors, will push GDP to about 148 billion euros, more
than 30 percent below its 2008 peak. A Marshall Plan scenario
would put GDP a little above the troika’s target.  The first Marshall Plan wasn’t an act of charity or a
bailout: It was an effective investment strategy to create a
vibrant European economic market and prevent political
disintegration. To institute a modern version, we need to revise
discredited austerity theories -- or the euro-area institutions
that promote them.  (Dimitri B. Papadimitriou is president of the Levy
Economics Institute of Bard College.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dimitri B. Papadimitriou at  zklapper@Bard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 