-- Incheon Named Preferred Bidder on Myanmar’s New Global Air Hub
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-08-11T06:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/incheon-named-preferred-bidder-on-myanmar-s-new-global-air-hub.html
Incheon International Airport Corp.
leads a group picked as the preferred bidder on Myanmar’s new
$1.1 billion air hub, the latest in a series of global deals as
the Southeast Asian nation opens itself after decades of
isolation.  Incheon is in talks with Myanmar’s Department of Civil
Aviation on details, aiming to sign a contract this year, open
the facility in 2018 and operate it for 50 years,  South Korea ’s
Transport Ministry said today in a statement. Hanthawaddy
International Airport will be capable of handling about 12
million passengers per year, the ministry said.  Myanmar President Thein Sein has expanded political freedom
and loosened economic controls since coming to power two years
ago, prompting nations including the U.S. to ease sanctions.
That’s opened the door to a flood of foreign investment as
companies worldwide seek to profit from Myanmar’s resources and
cheap labor.  With both tourists and business travelers flocking to
Yangon, the country’s commercial capital, hotels are close to
full occupancy, compared with an estimated 30 percent two years
ago, according to Scipio Services Co., a real estate advisory
company in the city. Rents in Yangon’s office buildings now
surpass $100 a square foot, higher than the $75 average for
downtown  Manhattan , according to broker CBRE Group.  The contract for Hanthawaddy international Airport has been
awarded to a group of Korean companies, Ye Htut, a spokesman for
Thein Sein, said today in Myanmar. Concerned ministries will
provide detailed announcements, he said.  Global Competition  Incheon Airport’s consortium, which includes South Korean
industrial powers  Halla Engineering & Construction Corp. (014790) ,  Kumho
Industrial Co. (002990) , Lotte Engineering & Construction Co. and  POSCO
ICT Co. (022100) , competed for the airport deal against three rival
groups led by Singapore’s Yongnam Holdings Ltd., Japan’s  Taisei
Corp. (1801)  and France’s Vinci SA, according to the South Korean
ministry.  South Korea plans to set up an industrial complex in
Myanmar to help companies enter the market, and will provide
support for building schools and agricultural goods
processing factories, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement June 19.  Separately, a group including  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Japan
Airlines Co. won priority negotiation rights to manage the
international airport in the city of Mandalay, Kyodo news
reported yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter.  The Nikkei newspaper reported last week that Japan’s Oji
Holdings Corp. plans to build a cardboard plant in Myanmar next
year, while steelmaker JFE Holdings Inc. will set up a venture
with the nation’s government to build bridges and other
infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  