-- Indian Banks to Drop on Record Yield Inversion: Chart of the Day
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/indian-banks-to-drop-on-record-yield-inversion-chart-of-the-day.html
India ’s banking stocks may extend
their 26 percent plunge since mid-May as short-term bond yields
exceed long-term rates for the longest period since 2008.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the CNX Bank Index and India’s
yield curve. The inversion of the bond gauge since May 22, when
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled the U.S. may
pare stimulus this year, is also the steepest since 2001, when
Bloomberg began compiling the data. If the pattern from five
years ago repeats, the share index will extend its retreat from
the 2013 peak even after the yield curve’s inversion ends.  “There’s stress on balance sheets of banks with more
corporate debt restructuring and interest defaults happening,”
Mehraboon Jamshed Irani, head of private client group at Nirmal
Bang Securities Ltd., told Bloomberg TV India. “We’re in a
crisis. Whatever authorities would want us to believe, the fact
is that sentiment is possibly worse than in 2008.”  Two-year sovereign bond yields in 2013 have  risen  101 basis
points, or 1.01 percentage points, compared with the nine basis
point  increase  in the 10-year note. The Reserve Bank of India in
the past month raised two interest rates, restricted lenders’
access to cash and announced plans for new bill sales to stem
the rupee’s slide to a record low by tightening the supply of
the currency.  Fitch Ratings predicts profitability at Indian banks will
worsen from a five-year low as the current cash crunch forces
lenders to pay more to attract deposits. Banks will not be able
to pass on higher costs as loans grow at the slowest pace since
2009, narrowing margins. Bad loans in the banking system may
reach 3.8 percent by September, up from 3.4 percent in March and
surpassing a five-year high of 3.7 percent set in 2012, the RBI
said last month.  “Deteriorating asset quality and earnings will constrain
banks’ credit profile,” Geeta Chugh, director of financial
institutions ratings for emerging Asia at Standard & Poor’s,
told Bloomberg TV India last week. “State-owned banks are under
higher pressure as they have relatively higher exposure to
corporates and have weaker risk management practices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  