-- Israel Advances Construction in West Bank, Prisoner Release
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-08-12T20:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/israel-solicits-construction-bids-in-west-bank-east-jerusalem.html
Israel said it would build almost
1,200 homes in Jewish settlements, complicating U.S.-led peace
talks even as it agreed to release longtime Palestinian
prisoners under the deal that enabled the discussions to resume.  Israeli and Palestinian negotiators are to meet in
 Jerusalem  this week to continue talks that U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  helped to renew in  Washington  last month
following months of shuttle diplomacy. Palestinians say Israeli
construction in the battle-won West Bank and east Jerusalem is a
war crime that violates the Fourth Geneva Convention, and
Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid attacked the plans to build
there as “unhelpful” to peace efforts.  The Israeli action on settlements comes “at a particularly
sensitive time, with the negotiations continuing in the
region,” Marie Harf, a U.S. State Department spokeswoman, told
reporters today in Washington. “We continue to engage with the
Israeli government to make our serious concerns known.”  Housing Minister Uri Ariel announced yesterday that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” he said.  Prisoner Release  Hours later, a special ministerial committee agreed to free
26 Palestinian prisoners involved in attacks on Israelis. The
prisoners will be released to the  West Bank  and  Gaza Strip  at
least 48 hours after their names were posted shortly before
midnight on the Israel Prisons Service website, the government
said in a text message. They are among 104 to be freed over
several months as part of the agreement to renew peace
negotiations after a three-year breakdown.  The official Palestinian  news agency  Wafa cited a
Palestinian cabinet minister as saying the release would take
place late tomorrow night.  In addition to the plans announced by Ariel, the government
has authorized building 900 housing units in an east Jerusalem
area close to the West Bank town of Beit Jala, Israel’s Channel
10 television news reported late today. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office issued a statement in response, saying the
apartments were still in the planning stage and previous Israeli
administrations have built housing in the same area.  “It’s understood that in any future arrangement, this area
is going to remain part of Israel,” according to the statement,
which cited the prisoner release as proof of the government’s
“serious intentions” and commitment to the peace process.  Releases Protested  The plans to free Palestinian prisoners ignited a second
day of protests, with relatives of victims demonstrating outside
the  Defense Ministry  in  Tel Aviv  demanding the inmates be kept
behind bars. Of the 26 to be freed, 21 were convicted of
homicide, with the rest imprisoned on charges of attempted
murder or kidnapping, according to the list. Most have been
incarcerated for at least 20 years.  Representatives of the victims’ families asked today to
meet with members of the ministerial panel that agreed to the
release in a bid to stop it,  Israel  Radio reported.  Israel holds thousands of Palestinian prisoners. Because
most Palestinian families have had a relative in an Israeli
prison at some time, the release of inmates is a top priority
for the Palestinian leaders, and Israel’s promise to free more
than 100 created the type of goodwill needed to get negotiations
moving again.  Plans Denounced  Its announcement of new settlement construction, by
contrast, was perceived by the Palestinians as a sign of bad
faith. Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat accused Israel
of sabotaging peace talks just as they are just getting started.  “The Israeli government must choose between negotiations
and dictates,” Erekat said in a telephone interview. “By
announcing new bids every day and every week, Israel is out to
destroy the negotiations before they start and destroy the
principle of the two-state solution.”  Israel captured east Jerusalem and the West Bank from
Jordan in the 1967  Middle East  war, then annexed east Jerusalem
in a move that is not internationally recognized. The U.S.,
 United Nations  and European Union consider settlement
construction an obstacle to peacemaking.  Special Envoy  The special U.S. envoy to the Middle East,  Martin Indyk ,
met with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in the
West Bank city of  Ramallah  yesterday and emphasized the U.S.
commitment to support the negotiations, according to the
official Palestinian news agency, Wafa. He also met with Israeli
President  Shimon Peres .  The U.S. hasn’t changed its position that “we do not
accept the legitimacy of continued settlement activity,” Harf,
the State Department spokeswoman, said today. “Our focus has
been getting both parties to the table, which they are now, to
talk about the whole range of issues.”  The construction announcement laid bare deep divisions in
Netanyahu’s coalition and even within his own Likud party that
encumber his declared commitment to negotiating an end to the
conflict with the Palestinians.  Ariel belongs to the Jewish Home party that opposes the
establishment of a Palestinian state and wants to annex the West
Bank areas where the new settlement homes are to be built.
Others in Netanyahu’s coalition, such as Lapid of the Yesh Atid
party, back a two-state solution, albeit on less territory than
the Palestinians claim.  Undermining Talks  Lapid accused the government of undermining the peace talks
by announcing the new settlement construction plans.  “This use of resources for middle-class housing to
unnecessarily defy the U.S. and poke sticks in the wheels of the
peace talks is not right and is unhelpful to the  peace
process ,” Lapid said in an e-mailed statement.  Unlike in its earlier peace efforts, the Obama
administration hasn’t pressed Israel to halt all settlement
construction. A State Department official, who asked not to be
identified discussing the diplomatic effort, said Kerry decided
not to push the issue, which scuttled talks in 2010 when
Netanyahu refused to extend a freeze and Abbas walked away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  