-- Japan Inc. Profit Doubles to Add Support to Economic Rebound
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-08-12T08:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/japan-inc-earnings-double-to-give-momentum-to-economic-recovery.html
Japan’s top listed companies doubled
earnings last quarter from a year earlier, exceeding already
high forecasts and generating support for the economic recovery
effort of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  With almost all of the Nikkei 225 Stock Average companies
reporting, profit surged 103 percent and beat analyst estimates
by 16 percent, the most in two years, according to  data compiled 
by Bloomberg. Companies topping estimates range from  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  to  Shiseido Co. (4911)  and  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406)   The magnitude and breadth of the profit surge means Japan’s
leading companies have the money to help stoke the economy --
through investment, dividends and higher wages -- which would
aid Abe’s effort to break two decades of stagnation. Slumping
corporate investment has hindered the recovery, with  gross
domestic product  figures released today showing companies cut
spending for a sixth straight quarter.  “The first quarter got the fiscal year off to a great
start,” said Takashi Aoki, a  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co, which oversees about $33 billion. “There will
definitely be more capital spending, and increased spending will
definitely stimulate the economy further.”  Capital investment  by enterprises fell at a 0.4 percent
annual pace last quarter, according to today’s GDP report by the
Cabinet Office.  Companies Benefiting  Japanese companies are benefiting from Abe’s economic
policies, including the weakening of the country’s currency. The
yen’s 19 percent drop from the same quarter a year earlier made
Japanese cars, auto parts, machinery, electronic components and
home appliances more competitive abroad.  The earnings recovery shows Japan’s big companies are ahead
of the broader economy.  Gross domestic product  rose an
annualized 2.6 percent, after gaining 3.8 percent the previous
quarter. The median estimate of 32 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a 3.6 percent increase.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  companies have the most cash per share in
more than a decade, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Cash rose 19 percent last quarter for the 219 companies that
have reported, the steepest jump in at least nine years, the
data show. The companies had an average of 3,250 yen ($34) of
cash and equivalents per share, the most since at least 2000.  Toyota’s Spending  Toyota’s cash and marketable securities rose 11 percent to
$37 billion as of the end of June, the most among listed non-financial companies in Japan, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The automaker is bucking the broader trend with  capital
spending  and research expenditures set to jump 10 percent this
fiscal year. Toyota, whose  earnings  were boosted by the weaker
yen, is also paying workers the highest bonuses since 2008 while
planning higher  dividends .  Japan’s six biggest carmakers reported total net income of
about 848 billion yen for the quarter ended June, beating
analyst estimates 14 percent.  Toyota raised its forecast for annual  profit  to 1.48
trillion yen on Aug. 2 from a May forecast of 1.37 trillion yen,
citing better than expected margins.  “It’s unusual for a company to be raising their forecasts
this early on,” said  Nicholas Smith , a Tokyo-based strategist
at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. “Things are finally coming
together for them.”  Sony Forecast  Sony, Japan’s largest consumer electronics exporter, raised
its annual sales  forecast  5 percent, citing the weaker-than-expected currency, after reporting first-quarter profit of 3.48
billion yen, beating analysts’ estimates.  The Nikkei companies’ surpassing of analyst estimates by 16
percent compares with 2.8 percent for the 449 companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  that have reported so far, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. index’s members had an
aggregate 3.6 percent earnings-per-share growth, the data show.  Japan’s broader  Topix (TPX)  index, which includes more than 1,600
companies, showed total earnings per share reported last quarter
beat analysts estimates by 14 percent, while profit jumped 93
percent.  ‘Wealth Effect’  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and  Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , the country’s three biggest commercial
fleets, returned to profit in the first quarter as a weaker yen
boosted repatriated earnings.  A shift from overseas growth to investing in Japan, where
decades of stagnant growth and an aging population have
discouraged expansion, has become a measure of success for Abe’s
efforts to revive growth.  Since Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  won power in December,
the prime minister has shot two arrows aimed at ending 15 years
of  deflation  and reviving growth. The first was a monetary
policy that doubled purchases of bonds to pump cash into the
economy. The second was a fiscal stimulus plan that boosted
 government spending .  Gains at exporters have sparked the country’s biggest  stock
rally  since 2005, prompting consumers to spend more, said
 Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in  Tokyo .  “Retailer profits are gaining as higher share prices
provide a wealth effect to consumers,” said Nagahama.  Consumers Upgrade  Japan’s consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in four
years in June as stimulus by Abe and the  Bank of Japan  prompted
a slide in the yen that boosted import costs.  Citigroup’s Inflation Surprise Index for Japan rose to a
level unseen since June 2012 and the highest among the G-10
economies. Consumer prices are likely to increase gradually, the
BOJ said Aug. 8.  “More people are buying themselves things that are a
little bit better than what they usually buy,” said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research at JI Asia in Tokyo. “While
people’s salaries are not increasing, bonuses are rising and I
think they will spend a lot in the December holiday season.”  A separate gauge of corporate goods prices released by the
BOJ today showed an increase of 2.2 percent, the biggest since
August 2011.  Economic growth last quarter was driven by private
consumption, public investment, and net exports, according to
the Cabinet Office’s report.  Consumer spending , which accounts
for about 60 percent of the economy, rose 0.8 percent from the
previous quarter.  Some Disappointed  Some investors were disappointed with fiscal first-quarter
earnings that rose less than they had expected. The broader
Topix index has dropped 5 percent in the past month, trimming
 this year’s gain  to 33 percent.  “People in the market had already expected the weak yen
will boost profit,” said Yoshihiro Ito, chief strategist at
Okasan Online Securities in Tokyo. “Companies still need to
increase  capital spending  before consumer spending will be
invigorated.”  The Nikkei 225 fell 0.7 percent as of the close in Tokyo,
and has lost 1.2 percent since the end of June.  Still, the benchmark has  climbed  30 percent this year,
headed for the biggest  annual  gain since 2005, and the best
performance among the 18 biggest equity indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  “It will take three quarters to a full year to see the
volume effect on exports from a weaker yen,” said Nagahama of
Dai-Ichi Life. “This may also mean we can have hope for
positive surprises in the current quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  