-- Fonterra Scare Affected All New Zealand’s Exports, Key Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-11T23:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/new-zealand-ministers-to-visit-china-over-fonterra-contamination.html
New Zealand’s entire export industry
has suffered from the contamination scare that prompted  China  to
halt imports of milk powder made by Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd., Prime Minister John Key said.  Damage from the incident would be hard to quantify as it
affected all of New Zealand’s exports around the world, rather
than just dairy sales to China, Key said in an interview with
Television New Zealand yesterday. In a separate interview,
Fonterra Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings put the cost at
“tens of millions” of New Zealand dollars.  “Fonterra is the poster child for New Zealand’s exporting,
whether we like that or not,” Key said, according to a
transcript of the interview. “It’s really about what is the
damage to New Zealand’s reputation, both for Fonterra and for
dairy products, but also for the wider products we sell into the
Chinese market and other markets overseas.”  New Zealand’s currency fell to a one-month low after
Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter and the country’s
biggest company, said Aug. 3 that a dirty pipe at a processing
plant may have tainted whey protein used in milk powder with
botulism-causing bacteria. China halted imports of some Fonterra
products and the official news agency Xinhua said  buyers were
losing faith in New Zealand’s clean image.  Inquiry Committee  The company today named a seven-person committee to oversee
an independent review of circumstances that led to the
contamination and subsequent events, it said in an e-mailed
statement. Five of the committee, including the chairman Ralph
Norris, are independent or farmer-elected Fonterra directors and
there will be two external members, including a yet-to-be named
scientist.  The committee has appointed solicitor Jack Hodder as lead
investigator and will seek another expert in manufacturing and
food safety to work alongside him, Fonterra said. The board
wants the inquiry completed within six weeks, it said  Foreign Minister Murray McCully will visit China in about a
week and trade minister Tim Groser will follow him in a “few
weeks or months,” Kelly Boxall, Key’s spokeswoman, said by
phone yesterday. Key will wait to visit Beijing until an inquiry
into the incident is completed because “he wants to be able to
look them in the eye and give them answers,” she said.  ‘Connecting Dots’  Fonterra also recalled about 40 metric tonnes of milk
powder delivered to Sri Lanka, Spierings said in the interview
on Television New Zealand. The company was disputing the recall,
a separate advertising ban and the Sri Lankan government’s claim
that the powder contained dicyandiamide, or DCD, an agricultural
chemical, he said.  “With all the noise of this last week, people are
connecting the dots, and that’s why this is happening,”
Spierings said, according to an interview transcript.  A report by Sri Lanka’s Industrial Technology Institute
said two batches of milk powder contained DCD, and the country’s
ministry of health had told Fonterra’s Sri Lanka division in a
letter of its ban on local adverts, Sanath Mahawithanage,
associate director of regulatory affairs at the company’s unit,
said by phone yesterday.  Dairy products are New Zealand’s biggest foreign-exchange
earner, accounting for 28 percent of overseas sales in an
economy where exports make up about a third of output. Fonterra
accounts for about a third of the world’s trade in dairy
products and posted revenue of NZ$19.8 billion ($15.9 billion)
in the year through July 2012.  Currency, Stock  The country’s dollar dipped to 76.93 U.S. cents Aug. 5, its
lowest level since July 8, after Fonterra announced the Chinese
import ban. Fonterra Shareholders Fund, the listed entity
affiliated with the farmer-owned cooperative, fell the most on
record to NZ$6.86 the same day.  The shares have since recovered 4.4 percent to NZ$7.19 as
at 10:45 a.m. in Wellington, while the currency rose 2.7 percent
to 80.32 U.S. cents.  In 2008, Fonterra’s Chinese partner Sanlu Group collapsed
after locally made melamine-contaminated milk powder killed and
hospitalized babies, causing an industrywide scandal. In January
this year, Fonterra had to assure China that traces of DCD found
in some milk posed no health risks.  Fonterra has “got a lot of soul-searching to get through”
after the incident, Key said, adding that “for the most part
they’re a great company.”  Criticism of the country’s “ 100% Pure New Zealand ” image
in the wake of the incident was being driven by “opponents”
who “want to create mischief,” he said, singling out the Daily
Mail, a British newspaper, which criticized the country’s
environmental record in an  report  last week.  “We shouldn’t be so precious about it that we get so
worried because the Daily Mail writes something,” Key said.
“The British tabloids hate the All Blacks doing the haka,” he
said, referring to a Maori dance performed by the country’s
national rugby union team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  