-- Newcrest May Extend Cost Cuts After $5.7 Billion Full-Year Loss
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-12T06:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/newcrest-has-5-7-billion-full-year-loss-after-record-writedown.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s
largest gold producer, will make additional cost cuts should
prices decline further after booking a record full-year loss on
a A$6.2 billion ($5.7 billion) writedown.  The net loss was A$5.78 billion in the 12 months ended June
30, from net income of A$1.18 billion a year earlier, the
Melbourne-based company said today in a statement. The result
missed the A$4.87 billion loss average of 7 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If the gold price was to fall dramatically, we would
continue to cut costs, continue to cut capital expenditure and
there are other levers we can pull,” Chief Financial Officer
Gerard Bond told reporters today on a conference call.  Gold producers have announced at least $26 billion of
writedowns in the past two months after the metal’s steepest
quarterly drop in  London  in more than nine decades. Newcrest,
which will trim spending on capital projects in fiscal 2014 by
almost half to A$1 billion, first flagged the writedown in June
and confirmed the numbers last week.  “They have got everything on the table now,” analyst
Vince Pisani at Shaw Stockbroking Ltd. said by phone. “The
writedowns were made pretty clear last week.”  Newcrest, the  worst performer  this year among Australia’s
50 biggest publicly traded companies, rose 7.9 percent to
A$12.39 in Sydney trading, the most since July 12. It has
declined 44 percent this year. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
rose 1.1 percent.  Cut Costs  The producer said reducing costs will be a priority over
the next 12 months, particularly at its Hidden Valley mine in
Papua New Guinea, where high costs and lower production were
“unacceptable,” according to Newcrest.  “The medium term outlook for the company’s production and
costs really depends, as we’ve stated, on market conditions,
which at the present time remain volatile,” Chief Executive
Officer Greg Robinson said today on a separate conference call
with analysts.  Moody’s Investors Service last month cut its rating of
Newcrest to Baa3, the lowest investment grade rating, from Baa2
and said the company could face a further downgrade if it fails
to reduce costs.  Newcrest’s operations are projected to be free cash flow
neutral or positive this fiscal year at a gold price of A$1,450,
or $1,335, Robinson said. Gold prices may trade at $1,358 an
ounce in 2014, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Spot gold traded at $1,329.83 at 16:05 in
Sydney.  ‘Tough Times’  “If we see tapering come to fruition, that will probably
lift the U.S. dollar and weigh on gold further,” said Stan
Shamu, a Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets Ltd.,
referring to speculation that the Federal Reserve will scale
back U.S. bond purchases. “It might be tough times for
Newcrest.”  Newcrest must deliver on its forecast of full-year gold
output of 2 million ounces to 2.3 million ounces in the 12
months to June 30 to help restore the company’s reputation,
Robinson said. “People feel that we haven’t delivered against
those objectives,” Robinson told reporters.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission is
examining a drop in Newcrest’s share price ahead of its June 7
announcement on the writedown. Credit Suisse Group AG, Citigroup
Inc. and UBS AG were among banks that cut their ratings on
Newcrest in the three days before its statement.  Newcrest has said it didn’t selectively brief analysts
ahead of the announcement and has appointed Maurice Newman, a
former ASIC chairman, to conduct its own internal review.  “It’s fair to say we are a little more circumspect about
how we engage,” Bond told reporters on the call.  Newcrest plans to remove its secondary listing on the
Toronto Stock Exchange this quarter, the company said in its
statement. “The anticipated benefits have not been realized,”
Newcrest said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  