-- Obama Begins Vacation Golfing With Wall Street Supporter Wolf
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-08-11T18:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/obama-begins-vacation-golfing-with-wall-street-supporter-wolf.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  began
his first full day of a vacation on Martha’s Vineyard in
 Massachusetts  with a round of golf with  Robert Wolf , a friend
and top Wall Street backer of his 2012 re-election campaign.  Obama is playing a midday round at Farm Neck Golf Club in
Oak Bluffs with Wolf and presidential aide Marvin Nicholson and
White House chef Sam Kass.  Wolf, 51, the chief executive officer of 32 Advisors LLC
and former UBS Americas chairman who served on the president’s
jobs council, has been one of Obama’s chief Wall Street allies.
Obama in June appointed Wolf to his Export Council.  “I am very close with the president and I believe in the
direction he’s going with education, with health care, certainly
on some of his policies on infrastructure,” Wolf said on
Bloomberg Television in February.  Obama and the business community will have a “much deeper
alignment on some of his policies, especially immigration and
tax reform,” Wolf said.  Wolf collected more than $500,000 in bundled donations for
Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based group that tracks
campaign donations.  Reporters and photographers traveling with the president
for his nine-day vacation were permitted to watch the foursome,
from a distance, at the first hole. Obama and his wife Michelle
arrived at  Martha’s Vineyard  yesterday, where they were to join
their daughters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  