-- Most Read on Bloomberg: RBS Error, NYC Apartments, $46 Trillion
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-08-11T06:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/most-read-on-bloomberg-rbs-error-nyc-apartments-46-trillion.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Bond Salesman Who Wasn’t Reveals RBS Human Error at Many
Levels  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- KK Ho appeared out of nowhere last
year on the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s London trading
floor.  2.  Manhattan  Apartments $3 Million or Less Hard to Get:
Mortgages  Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- With $1 million to spend and no need
for a mortgage, Laiyan Wong expected to be able to easily buy a
two-bedroom apartment on Manhattan’s Upper West Side. What she
didn’t anticipate was how much competition she’d have.  3. Family Offices Chasing 12 Million Rich on $46 Trillion of
Asset  Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Karen McNeill, Ph.D., used to teach
history at the University of California, Berkeley. In June, she
took a job as head of family history with Ascent Private Capital
Management, a new unit of U.S. Bancorp that manages the affairs
of ultra-wealthy families.  4. New England Billionaire Hauls Fortune in Unidentified Trucks  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- There’s a reason why Richard B. Cohen
escapes attention.  5. BofA Put Toxic Debt Into Bond as Traders Shunned ‘Fat Kid’  Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of America Corp.’s traders
fought off efforts by the firm in 2007 to include risky Alt-A
mortgages in a securitization. That wasn’t enough to spare
investors from being cheated, according to the U.S.  6. U.S. Stocks Retreat With Treasuries, Gold; Euro Gains  Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks fell for a second day as
retailers posted results that disappointed investors while trade
data fueled concern the Federal Reserve may begin to reduce its
bond purchases this year. Treasuries slid, while the euro gained
as reports signaled European economies are recovering.  7. Stocks Retreat With Oil on Fed Concern as Yen, Pound
Strengthen  Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks declined amid corporate
earnings that disappointed investors and growing concern the
Federal Reserve may reduce its bond purchases, while oil capped
the biggest four-day slide in nine months. The pound gained
after the Bank of England raised its growth forecast.  8. Alex Rodriguez Appeals Suspension by MLB Through 2014 Season  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Alex Rodriguez of the  New York 
Yankees was banned from baseball without pay through the 2014
season, the longest doping suspension ever imposed by the sport.  9. Carney’s BOE Steer Struggles to Stem Rate-Increase Bets:
Economy  Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of England Governor Mark Carney
linked the monetary policy outlook to unemployment for the first
time as he tried to quell investor bets on higher interest
rates.  10. Pimco, Bank of New York Seek to Block Richmond Mortgage Plan  Aug. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Pacific Investment Management Co.,
BlackRock Inc. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are seeking a
court order blocking Richmond, California, and Mortgage
Resolution Partners LLC from seizing mortgages through eminent
domain, saying the initiative would hurt savers and retirees.  COLUMNS  1. Warning to Americans: Be Afraid, Very Afraid:  Jeffrey
Goldberg   Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- It seems as if al-Qaeda, or its
Arabian Peninsula branch, has succeeded in terrorizing the
United States of America again, but this time without – as of
this writing – detonating an ounce of C4.  2. If You Think Europe Is Fine, Take a Look at  Italy : Simon
Johnson  Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- It has become fashionable not to
worry about Europe and the euro area. This complacency has a
serious flaw: Italy.  3. Why Homo Economicus Might Actually Be an Idiot: Mark Buchanan  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Imagine yourself betting on the term
survival of two types of people. One is the classic egoist,
focused and ruthless. The other is more selfless, willing to
help fellow humans without any evident gain. Who will be more
successful?  4. The Worst Nightmare for China Is Turning Japanese: William
Pesek  Aug. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Few words strike greater fear in the
hearts of economists and politicians than “Japanization.” That
specter of chronic malaise, deflation and bad debt has driven
central bankers from Ben S. Bernanke in the U.S. to Mario Draghi
in Europe to flood markets with liquidity in an effort to avert
their own lost decades.  5. Google’s Moto X Phone Hugs Middle of the Road:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Aug. 8 (Bloomberg) -- The screen on Motorola’s new Moto X
smartphone doesn’t have the highest resolution. Storage capacity
is limited and the processor isn’t the most potent. It doesn’t
even run the latest version of the Android operating system.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Carney Pledges Loose Policy While Jobless Rate Above 7%   Aug. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of England Governor Mark Carney
talks about the U.K. economy, inflation and the bank’s pledge to
maintain loose monetary policy while the unemployment rate
remains above 7 percent.  2. Grocery Billionaire Hauls Fortune in Unmarked Trucks  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s Matthew G. Miller
discusses the wealth of C&S Wholesale Grocers Inc. Chairman
Richard B. Cohen.  3. Jaguar’s F-Type Is Automaker’s Hottest Car in 50 Years  Aug. 8 (Bloomberg) -- The Jaguar F-Type roadster is seen in
a promotional video from Jaguar Land Rover Ltd.  4. New Hampshire Billionaire Works in Nondescript Office  Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- A nondescript office park in Keene,
New Hampshire, 90 miles northwest of  Boston , houses the offices
of the world’s largest grocery wholesaler, C&S Wholesale Grocers
Inc., run by Chairman Richard B. Cohen.  5. Cole Determined to Make Ascent Attractive to New Rich  Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Ascent Private Capital Management, a
new unit of U.S. Bancorp, was the second fastest-growing money
manager in the world catering to wealthy families in 2012,
according to Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of family
offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  