-- How the Great Depression Spawned Literary Masterworks
-- B y   A d a m   K i r s c h
-- 2013-08-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/how-the-great-depression-spawned-literary-masterworks.html
The Great Depression was one of the
most desperate periods in U.S. history, and one of the most
important in American literature.  When the stock market crashed in October 1929 and the
hectic prosperity of the 1920s gave way to mass unemployment,
the crisis energized American writers. After a decade in which
the literary experiments of the Modernists --  Ernest Hemingway ,
 F. Scott Fitzgerald , T.S. Eliot -- dominated the scene, a new
wave of writers began to look to politics and economics for
inspiration.  At a time when the Communist Party was presenting itself as
the strongest force for progress, these writers saw capitalist
America as a dying society in need of revolutionary changes.
Never before or since have so many of America’s best writers
focused on the lives of the poor and the working class or
written with such a furious sense of political engagement.  In 2008, the U.S. suffered the most severe  economic crisis 
since 1929. This was followed by a deep recession characterized
by high  unemployment , financial instability and government
deadlock -- an echo of the problems that plagued the country
during the Depression, though in much less virulent form.  Story-Telling Techniques  Yet as journalist George Packer noted in an essay for The
 New Yorker , the most recent bad times haven’t provoked the same
kind of literary response. Packer’s own book “ The Unwinding ,”
which borrows techniques from 1930s literature to tell the story
of our times, is the closest we’ve come to the Depression-era
masterworks.  What did the storytellers of the Depression know that our
own writers don’t? And what can we learn from the writers of the
1930s about poverty and politics, literature and society? In
this series, I will look at four Depression classics -- John Dos
Passos’s “The Big Money,” Edmund Wilson’s “The American
Jitters,” James Agee’s “Let Us Now Praise Famous Men” and
John Steinbeck’s “The Grapes of Wrath” -- reading them to see
whether and how these books still speak to us today.  It is always easier to spot a financial bubble after it
bursts than while it is inflating. Once the mortgage crisis hit
in 2008, it became common for experts to point out all the
warning signs that had proliferated over the previous decade:
The  house prices  that rose and rose, the reckless mortgages, the
“flipping” of properties for a quick profit -- all of these
become easy targets for a post-crash moralist.  So, too, with the  Wall Street  crash of 1929. It was no
secret during the 1920s that the stock market had assumed an
unprecedented importance and reach in American life. The rising
tide of prosperity turned millions of Americans into investors
and helped the ’20s to become Roaring. The glittering parties
thrown by Jay Gatsby in Fitzgerald’s 1925 masterpiece were
funded by the easy money that seemed to be everywhere for the
taking. But once the Depression hit, the 1920s began to seem
less like an era of prosperity and more like a long, drunken
spree that was bound to produce a bad hangover. And no novel
does more to crystallize that dark view of pre-crash America
than  John Dos Passos ’s “The Big Money,” published in 1936, the
seventh year of the Depression.  “The Big Money” was the last installment in Dos Passos’s
formally innovative “ U.S.A. trilogy ,” which attempted nothing
less than a complete portrait of U.S. society in the early 20th
century. But while it includes characters from earlier volumes,
“The Big Money” reads very well on its own. The title conveys
the book’s ice-cold irony. The big money is what everyone in the
1920s was looking for and many seemed to find, yet it appears in
this novel as a golden calf to which everything decent in
American society was sacrificed.  Blunt Juxtapositions  Dos Passos makes clear that he wants to be read as more
than just a storyteller. “The Big Money” alternates between
straight fictional narrative and several kinds of documentary
prose, with techniques borrowed from the then-new medium of
film. The sections titled “Newsreel” are collages of newspaper
headlines, popular song lyrics, and “found” prose such as
press releases. Through blunt juxtapositions, Dos Passos uses
the newsreels to create a sense of a world spinning out of
control: Murder and gossip, labor unrest and want ads come at
the reader in a rushing stream.  In other recurring sections titled “The Camera Eye,” Dos
Passos uses a kind of unpunctuated prose poetry to evoke
representative scenes from the period. The most famous of these
is devoted to the trial of the anarchists  Sacco and Vanzetti ,
whose politically motivated execution in 1927 was a cause
celebre: “They have built the electricchair and hired the
executioner to throw the switch all right we are two nations
America our nation has been beaten by strangers who have bought
the laws...”  Perhaps the most telling of Dos Passos’s vignettes,
however, are those that give potted biographies of celebrities.
These fall into two pointedly contrasting categories. Artists
and intellectuals, such as the dancer Isadora Duncan and the
sociologist  Thorstein Veblen , are portrayed as exiles in
America, unappreciated by their countrymen, contending with
poverty and isolation.  Then there are the tycoons, especially  Henry Ford  and
William Randolph Hearst. While Dos Passos admires their energy
and achievements, he also portrays them as deeply imperfect men,
whose personal fears and neuroses exert a baleful influence on
society. Ford, as described in “The Big Money,” is almost a
tragic figure. He starts out as an inventor and tinkerer in the
good, old-fashioned American tradition; he ends up as a paranoid
billionaire, surrounded by guards and private detectives who
defend him against the hatred of his own workers.  Through these examples, Dos Passos plants the suggestion
that the big money is, in fact, a curse: No one who gets it can
enjoy it.  American Addiction  That is certainly true of the three fictional characters
whose stories make up the bulk of “The Big Money.” The first
is  Charley Anderson , a World War I flying ace, who we first see
on a ship coming home from  France . Charley, too, is an inventor;
he has an idea for an improved airplane-engine starter. To
exploit it, he forms a company with some friends, and after a
period of initial poverty, he is transformed overnight into a
rich man. This, it seems, is just how capitalism is supposed to
function.  But a good idea and hard work, Dos Passos shows, aren’t
enough to succeed in modern America. You need capital, which
means you need Wall Street; that is the beginning of Charley’s
downfall. Through a series of machinations he barely
understands, he ends up selling out his partners, merging with a
bigger company, then getting pushed out of the board of
directors. As he leaves behind the manual work that is his real
passion, his inner life is revealed as a vacuum that can only be
filled with sex and Prohibition booze.  Stock trading , too, becomes an addiction -- not just for
Charley, Dos Passos implies, but for the whole country, glued to
the tickers that can now be found in hotel lobbies.  One of the many women who cross paths with Charley is Margo
Dowling, a beautiful young actress who specializes in attaching
herself to rich men. If Charley’s story reveals the grip of
money on the imagination of 1920s America, Margo’s demonstrates
the other great modern idol: celebrity. Starting out in
exceptionally sordid circumstances -- her father is a drunk; her
stepfather tries to rape her -- she finishes the book as a
Hollywood star. But inside, she remains as mercenary and
soulless as ever. Not only is she not a good person, she isn’t
even a particularly good actress. Celebrity, Dos Passos makes
clear, is entirely divorced from merit and achievement. It is a
lottery in which the winners are no better than the losers, and
are usually worse.  The only character in “The Big Money” who keeps the
reader’s respect, from beginning to end, is Mary French. The
daughter of a Colorado doctor who specialized in caring for the
poor, Mary quits Vassar to become a social worker, then evolves
into a professional organizer and radical. Her own life, Dos
Passos shows, is full of unhappiness: She falls in love with and
loses a series of men, works too hard and drinks too much. But
because she is a firm believer in the class struggle, her life
has a meaning that every other character’s lacks. Her suffering,
unlike Charley’s and Margo’s, is the result not of selfishness,
but of ascetic self-sacrifice.  Dos Passos reads the experience of the 1930s back into the
history of the 1920s. Even during those giddy years, he reminds
us, savage labor struggles were being waged, and Sacco and
Vanzetti were being martyred. The whole system of American
capitalism and government seems in “The Big Money” to rest on
a shaky foundation of greed, speculation, celebrity worship and
political oppression. And that is when the system appears to be
working well. Once the crash comes, the writers of the Great
Depression would emerge to guide readers through the wreckage --
and to demand a radical change.  (Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at the New Republic and a
columnist for Tablet magazine. He is the author of “Why
Trilling Matters.” This is the first in a four-part series. Read
 Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Kirsch at  adam.kirsch@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  