-- Ramsay Plans Two London Restaurants as Influence Spreads
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-08-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/ramsay-plans-two-london-restaurants-as-influence-spreads.html
Gordon Ramsay  plans to open two more
restaurants in  London  this year, one of them with the sportsman
 David Beckham . This is a good time to consider his impact on
gastronomy rather than his pantomime role as an angry TV chef.  In the late 1990s, Ramsay’s Aubergine was one of the city’s
most exciting establishments. He surrounded himself with a team
of loyal young people who are now making their own mark.  “Gordon trained some of the best British chefs,” said
Jason Atherton, who created Maze for Ramsay, now 46, in May
2005. “Some people don’t want to hear that, but it’s true. They
are amazing chefs with incredible skills. These were the skills
we were taught to be normal. You had to have them to survive.”  Atherton, 41, split from Ramsay in 2010 and then opened
Pollen Street Social, which has won multiple awards and a
Michelin star. He has gone on to open restaurants in  Hong Kong ,
 Singapore  and  Shanghai  and has added two more in London.  Little Social is a French-style bistro using seasonal
British ingredients. It’s classic, with great food. Atherton
adopted a different style at Social Eating House, where the
cooking is more ambitious and the vibe is  New York . (This is the
restaurant of Paul Hood, one of Jason’s own proteges.)  Atherton intends to open Berners Tavern at Ian Schrager’s
new  London Edition  hotel on Sept. 12. It will be an all-day
venue with a bar, designed by  Yabu Pushelberg .  Sage’s Design  In May, he plans to open City Social on the site of the old
Gary Rhodes restaurant in  Tower 42 , in the City financial
district. It will be a power-dining spot like Scott’s in London
or the Monkey Bar in New York, with designs by Ramsay favorite
 Russell Sage . Atherton is clearing out offices and private
dining rooms to create a huge bar with panoramic views.  In Hong Kong, Atherton is preparing to add Jamon Bar,
opposite his 22 Ships, in October. That will be followed in
February by PMQ, in the old Police Married Quarters on Hollywood
Road. That restaurant will be based around a market concept, so
you can also buy ingredients to take home.  Next year, he intends to open a restaurant in the  United
Arab Emirates  with the working name of  Dubai Marina  Social and
Social Room. There will be a huge bar, with a DJ at night. At
the end of the year, he plans a tapas-style restaurant on the
Broadway, in Sydney. Possible names are 22 Ships or 23 Ships.  All this follows Commune Social and Table No. 1 in
Shanghai; and Pollen, Snacks, the Library Bar and Esquina in
Singapore.  Ramsay’s Stars  “When you spend 10 years working alongside someone as
dynamic as Gordon, you’d have to be stupid not to benefit,”
Atherton said in an interview. “It was awe-inspiring to watch
someone work so hard to win three Michelin stars.  “I’ll always remember Gordon said to me, ‘If your kitchen
doesn’t run as well without you as with you, you’re not the man
for the job.’ Look at Royal Hospital Road. That’s held three
stars for years and Gordon doesn’t need to be in the kitchen.”  The kitchen at Royal Hospital Road, Ramsay’s flagship, is
headed by another protegee, Clare Smyth, who this year was named
chef patron. I’ve eaten there twice in the past few months and
the food is better than ever. Smyth has added her own dishes.
They are fresher and lighter and more colorful than some of the
Ramsay classics.  Hartnett’s Murano  The best-known Ramsay protegee may be  Angela Hartnett , who
is just so likeable and unaffected, she’s turning into a
national treasure. Hartnett bought Murano from Gordon Ramsay
Holdings, amicably splitting from Ramsay after 15 years.  That was about the time that Ramsay ousted his father-in-law, Chris Hutcheson, as chief executive of Gordon Ramsay
Holdings. Stuart Gillies, another Ramsay protege, was
subsequently named managing director.  Ramsay’s parent company for the U.K. and overseas is
Kavalake Ltd. It posted net income of 1.43 million pounds for
the year ended Aug. 31, 2012, from a loss of 4.17 million pounds
a year earlier. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization rose to 4.89 million pounds from 2.51 million
pounds.  Gordon Ramsay Holdings is being investigated by U.K. tax
authorities on suspicion that a former employee misled officials
in 2007, the  Mail on Sunday  reported, citing “sources connected
with the business.” Ramsay denied wrongdoing and had personally
approached officials when an internal memo came to light, his
spokeswoman said.  In addition to Murano, Hartnett has created Hartnett Holder
& Co., a restaurant at  Lime Wood , and a hotel in New Forest,
outside London. She is also executive chef at the Whitechapel
Gallery Dining Room and plans to add two restaurants in the
capital.  Merchant’s Tavern on the site of the old Cantaloupe, in
Shoreditch, east London, is a partnership with the founders of
Canteen, Dominic Lake and Patrick Clayton-Malone, and Chef Neil
Borthwick. The 130-seat venue, opening in September, will be a
casual establishment serving unfussy modern European food.  Wareing’s Home  In St. James’s Street, Hartnett will open an inexpensive
Italian restaurant on the site that was the home of Ramsay’s
Petrus, where she worked with  Marcus Wareing . This concept might
be rolled out. There’s no name for the place yet, but Hartnett
 obtained the trademark  for “Angela Hartnett” on July 7, 2011.  “I had a great time with Gordon and learned so much,”
Hartnett said in an interview. “The reason I’m able to do what
I’m doing now is because he showed the way, allowing the next
generation to branch out and having faith in them.  “Look at what Jason is doing: I get exhausted just
thinking about it. The thing I learned from Gordon is making
sure you have a great team around you, so you are able to do
what you want to do and you allow them to grow as people.”  Wareing holds two Michelin stars at Marcus Wareing at the
Berkeley. He also owns the  Gilbert Scott . In Birmingham, Aalto
at  Hotel La Tour , where he is a consultant, bills itself as
 “inspired” by Wareing . He split from Ramsay in August 2008.  Sargeant’s Station  Other proteges include Mark Sargeant, who was Ramsay’s
friend and right-hand man before quitting in 2009 after 13
years. Among other duties, he was executive chef at Gordon
Ramsay at Claridge’s. He later opened Rocksalt, in Folkestone.  Last month, he took over the food and beverage operations
at the  Great Northern Hotel , King’s Cross. That’s the next train
station along from  St. Pancras , home to Wareing’s Gilbert Scott.
Sargeant is also planning a restaurant in Singapore, Oxwell &
Co., a British public house, scheduled for Singapore.  “I was with the guy for 13 years and those were some of
the best in my life,” Sargeant said in an interview. “He had
the ability to bring things out of you that other people might
not have. You have to have talent -- no one can put that into
you -- but I’ve seen lots of chefs who could have been good and
didn’t make it.”  What of the man himself? With successful U.S. TV shows such
as “Hell’s Kitchen,” “MasterChef” and “Kitchen
Nightmares,” you might think he has little time for
restaurants. Not so.  Beckham’s Borough  Leaving aside the establishments that have opened in  Las
Vegas  and other cities under his name, he plans to open two more
restaurants this year in London, where he already owns Bread
Street Kitchen, Foxtrot Oscar, Gordon Ramsay, Maze, Maze Grill,
the Narrow, Petrus, Plane Food, Savoy Grill and York &  Albany .  Beckham is his business partner at Union Street Cafe, near
Borough Market, south of the Thames river.  It’s scheduled to open in September, with the focus on
seasonal ingredients sourced from the Mediterranean, with an
emphasis on Italian artisan producers. Dishes will include veal
carpaccio with lemon, anchovy, olive and celery; and baked spiny
lobster with chilli and marjoram. The designer? Russell Sage.  In west London, London House is scheduled to open before
the end of the year in Battersea Square, on the site of the old
Bennett Brasserie and Oyster Bar.  These days, it’s easy for people to think of Ramsay as a
shouty TV chef, which he certainly is. But there’s much more to
him than that.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 