-- Republicans May Impose Debate Boycott on CNN, NBC: Priebus
-- B y   D a v i d   E l l i s   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-11T17:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/republicans-may-impose-debate-boycott-on-cnn-nbc-priebus-says.html
Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus said that his party will refuse to allow
networks that air documentaries on  Hillary Clinton  to host any
candidate debates in the 2016 election cycle.  Priebus, on CNN’s “ State of the Union ,” said his party
“will boycott the company that puts the miniseries on the air”
because the broadcasts are designed “to promote Hillary
Clinton.”  The effort to rein Clinton’s national exposure comes as the
 Republican Party  is trying to regroup after losing the last two
presidential elections. Party members are gathering in Boston
this week for their annual three-day summer meeting.  CNN Films is planning a feature-length documentary about
Clinton and NBC Entertainment has a mini-series in the works
ahead of a potential 2016 White House Democratic primary bid by
the former U.S. secretary of state and first lady, who
unsuccessfully sought the Democratic presidential nomination in
2008. Both networks hosted Republican debates in the last
election campaign.  The RNC sent letters on Aug. 5 to  Robert Greenblatt ,
 chairman of NBC Entertainment , and  Jeff Zucker , p resident of CNN
Worldwide  saying the programs were a “thinly-veiled attempt at
putting a thumb on the scales of the 2016 presidential
election.”  Fundraising Strategy  The move is “a great fundraising strategy from the RNC,”
Joe Trippi, a Democratic political strategist, said on “Fox
News Sunday” today.  Clinton, 65, has said she has no plans for a second
presidential run, though she hasn’t ruled out herself out
completely for 2016.  “If Hillary gets into the race, there will be a coronation
of her because there are so many Democrats who last time
supported her who I think are anxious to see her back out there
again,” Donna Brazile, a political consultant and commentator
who was Democrat  Al Gore ’s campaign manager in the 2000
presidential race, said today on ABC’s “This Week.”  Potential Republican presidential rivals include New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Senator
 Ted Cruz  of Texas and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.  “There’s a lot of competition out there,” Louie Gohmert,
a Republican congressman from Texas, said on ABC.  ‘Hot Hand’  Christie is the “hot hand” right now at the national
level, Chip Saltsman, a Republican political strategist, said on
Fox today.  “But if you take it down to the microcosm of the primary
states -- not so much,” Saltsman said. “So, he’s doing really
well with the independents and kind of regular Republicans out
there. But with the right wing of the party, he’s not quite as
popular.”  Saltsman said Rubio was hurt with Republican voters over
his support for an overhaul of immigration law.  “You go up there and you try to be a deal maker, trying to
make it hurts you in the national polls pretty quickly,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Ellis  in Washington at 
 Dellis5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  