-- Retail Sales Probably Climbed in July: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-11T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/retail-sales-probably-climbed-in-july-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales probably rose for a
fourth consecutive month in July, showing the U.S. economy is
breaking free of the effects of higher taxes and budget cuts,
economists said before reports this week.  Purchases (RSTAMOM)  climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.4 percent advance
in June, according to the median forecast of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Commerce Department figures on Aug.
13. Other data may show gains in manufacturing,  residential
construction  and consumer prices last month.  Employment gains and increased household wealth tied to
higher home and stock prices are giving Americans the confidence
to spend, brightening the economic outlook. Low borrowing costs
are spurring vehicle sales at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , helping bolster industrial production at the same time
builders start work on more homes.  “Growth will accelerate in the second half of the year,”
said Brian Jones, a senior U.S. economist at Societe Generale in
New York. “The labor market continues to improve. Now that
we’re working again, let’s go shopping.”  Payrolls have increased an average 192,000 a month this
year through July compared with 182,750 in 2012, according to
the Labor Department. The  jobless rate  in July fell to 7.4
percent, the lowest since December 2008 and down from 7.8
percent at the end of last year.  Automakers are enjoying their best year since 2007, with
U.S. sales on track to reach 15.8 million, according to Autodata
Corp. Last week, GM, Ford, Chrysler Group LLC, and Honda Motor
Co. said they are working to boost capacity. Chrysler is adding
almost 300 jobs at a Michigan engine plant and Honda will invest
$215 million at facilities in  Ohio .  Industrial Production  A report from the Federal Reserve on Aug. 15 is projected
to show production at the nation’s factories, mines and
utilities climbed 0.3 percent in July for a second month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  A pair of regional reports this week from the Fed may show
manufacturing kept expanding in August.  Cars and trucks  sold  at a 15.7 million annualized rate last
month after a 15.8 million pace in June, the strongest back-to-back readings since the end of 2007, according to figures from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  “We’re at the beginning of a broad-based recovery for the
economy in auto retail,” said Michael Jackson, chairman and
chief executive officer of AutoNation Inc., in Fort Lauderdale,
 Florida . The largest U.S. auto-dealership group last month
reported record earnings per share in the second quarter. “As
we look at the rest of 2013, we believe that the improvement in
new vehicle sales will continue,” Jackson said on a July 18
earnings call.  Spending Gains  The gains in consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, are extending to restaurants including
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and shopping mall developers such as  Rouse
Properties Inc. (RSE)  in New York. Luxury goods makers also are
rebounding, with LVMH Moet Hennessy, Louis Vuitton SA and Gucci-owner Kering SA last month reporting accelerating sales.  Investors have taken note of the improving outlook. The
Standard & Poor’s GICS Consumer Discretionary Sector Index,
which encompasses companies that tend to be the most sensitive
to swings in the economy including AutoNation, climbed 5.9
percent in the two months through Aug. 9. The S&P 500 Index was
up 2.9 percent over the same period.  Americans’ confidence is improving, a report on Aug. 16 is
forecast to show. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary August consumer sentiment index may climb to a six-year high of 85.3 from a final July reading of 85.1.  Housing Rebound  While auto dealers and their customers are benefiting from
the Fed’s efforts to hold down borrowing costs to spur the
expansion, homebuilders are also enjoying historically low
rates.  A report from the Commerce Department on Aug. 16 is
forecast to show housing  starts  climbed in July to a 905,000
annualized rate from an 836,000 pace in June, which was the
slowest in almost a year. In a sign construction will keep
advancing, building permits are projected to increase to a
948,000 rate from 918,000 the prior month.  The average rate on 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.4 percent
in the week ended Aug. 8, according to figures from Freddie Mac.
They’re about a percentage point higher than the all-time low
reached in November.  Finally, a Labor Department report on Aug. 15 is forecast
to show consumer prices climbed 0.2 percent in July after a 0.5
percent gain a month earlier. The core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.2 percent for a
third month, the Bloomberg survey showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  