-- Rinehart Record Debt Lures Even as China Slows: Australia Credit
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-08-12T02:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/rinehart-record-debt-lures-even-as-china-slows-australia-credit.html
Global lenders are competing to
offer a record debt deal for an Australian mining project to
 Gina Rinehart , Asia’s richest woman, betting her iron-ore
deposits are rich enough to prosper even as China slows.  Rinehart’s Roy Hill Holdings Pty expects to complete
financing talks this year an about A$7 billion ($6.4 billion) to
help fund its mine, rail and port project. National  Australia 
Bank Ltd. and BNP Paribas SA are helping arrange some A$3
billion of debt to back the development in the remote north of
Western Australia state, said a person familiar with the matter.  Banks are betting the economics behind Rinehart’s 21-year-long ambition outweigh concern that $250 billion of planned
mines will create a glut as slowing growth in China saps demand
in the biggest buyer of the raw material.  Bonds (FMG)  issued by Perth-based Fortescue Metals Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest iron-ore
producer, gained in July by the most this year as the nation’s
junk miners outperformed Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
High Yield Metals & Mining Index.  “It’s a particularly good project, the last of the best
ones probably,” said Tim Gerrard, a Sydney-based analyst at
Investec Bank Australia Ltd. “We think that it’s likely to be
economic, even if it does cost A$10 billion, and as iron ore
prices are expected to fall from unsustainable levels and
China’s economy slows somewhat.”  Commodity Weakness  Iron ore prices  are expected to fall for at least the next
three years, according to Bloomberg-compiled data, and may fall
even further.  Prospects for weaker demand from  China , Australia’s biggest
trading partner, spurred concern the South Pacific nation will
struggle to cope as a record mining boom winds down. The Aussie
dollar slid 8.2 percent over the past three months to 92.05 U.S.
cents as of 12 p.m. in Sydney, the steepest drop among 10 major
developed-market currencies.  The benchmark 10-year government bond yield was at 3.68
percent, or 111 basis points more than for similar-dated
Treasuries. That premium has shrunk 41 basis points since Dec.
31 and touched a six-year low of 96 this month.  Japan, Korea  Rinehart is seeking about A$4 billion from export credit
agencies, according to the person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  Roy Hill has been talking with Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, Export-Import Bank of  Korea , Nippon Export and
Investment Insurance, Export-Import Bank of United States and
the Korea Trade Insurance Corp. since December. It hired
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. to arrange the debt last year,
said separate people familiar with the matter.  Rinehart, who also owns stakes in iron ore mines operated
by  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , in the first quarter of last year sold 30
percent of Roy Hill for A$3.2 billion to a group including South
Korea’s Posco, Japan’s Marubeni Corp. and Taiwan’s China Steel
Corp.  “Australia is Asia’s nearest significant source of iron
ore,” Belinda Fan, a Melbourne-based partner with law firm
 Herbert Smith Freehills LLP , who advised the buyers on their
equity investment, said by phone. “The Chinese, Japanese and
Koreans are well aware of this, so they are seeking to have an
ownership role in specific Australian projects to gain a degree
of supply certainty for the medium term.”  Roy Hill in March awarded a A$5.9 billion contract to
Samsung C&T Corp. to build an iron ore processing plant, railway
line and port facilities. Qantas Airways Ltd. last month signed
a three-year agreement to provide charter services, flying to
Roy Hill from Perth three times a week from Aug. 13 to transport
workers to the operation that is set to start production in 2015
with a capacity of 55 million tons annually.  Courtroom Battle  Commodity price gains over the past decade boosted
Rinehart’s wealth to $18 billion, making her the world’s 38th
richest person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
It’s a fortune built on vast iron ore and coal deposits, most of
which were discovered from the 1950s to 1970s by her late
father, Lang Hancock. While Roy Hill’s debt talks progress,
Rinehart, 59, is also locked in a courtroom battle with two of
her four children over control of a A$4 billion family trust.  Rinehart’s closest rival, Fortescue, in 2006 benefited from
growing Chinese demand by spending about A$3.6 billion on a
mine, port and rail operation in the Pilbara region, where Roy
Hill is also located. After struggling to fund the project from
local banks, it raised $2.05 billion from U.S. high-yield bond
investors, the largest raising in that market at the time,
according to the company’s website.  Fortescue Debt  Fortescue notes generated returns of 2.7 percent last
month, Bank of America data show. Australian debt in the U.S.
High Yield Metals & Mining gauge advanced 2.09 percent, compared
with 2.07 percent for the index as a whole.  Fortescue’s initial operations spanned similar dimensions
to the planned A$10 billion Roy Hill project, which will have
344 kilometers (214 miles) of rail road and links to Port
Hedland, the world’s biggest bulk export terminal. While
Fortescue’s mines started up in mid-2006 when China’s gross
domestic product was powering along at an 11.5 percent annual
pace, Rinehart is seeking funds after growth in the world’s
second-largest economy slipped to 7.5 percent.  Price Swings  Iron ore set a three-year low of $86.70 a ton in September,
with a weaker Chinese economy prompting prices to swing between
gains and losses over the past year. It recovered to $133.1 as
of Aug. 7. The world’s second-biggest economy used 646 million
tons of steel in 2012, more than twice the rest of the Asia
region combined.  “Some of the concerns the financiers would have had, which
were principally with the development cost as well as perhaps
the longer-term outlook for the market, they’re probably
starting to tail off,” Michael Bush, head of credit research at
National Australia Bank Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne .
“People can understand and appreciate it’s a good quality
resource in terms of the iron ore, that gives it a premium
status, which gives people more confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  