-- Rockwell Collins to Buy Carlyle’s Arinc for $1.39 Billion
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-12T01:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/rockwell-collins-to-buy-carlyle-owned-arinc-for-1-39-billion.html
Rockwell Collins  Inc. agreed to
acquire  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s Arinc Inc., an aviation-information
management company, for $1.39 billion to help expand the
aerospace-equipment maker’s business outside the cockpit.  The transaction announced today will end six years of Arinc
ownership by Carlyle, which bought the company from carriers
including  American Airlines  in 2007. The purchase will combine
Arinc’s networks with Rockwell Collins’s avionics and cabin
technologies, according to a statement.  “Rockwell Collins is in the front of the plane with
avionics,” said  Michael Derchin , a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC whose rating of fairly valued
on the stock is the equivalent of hold. “Arinc is an extension
into that part of the navigational-system world.”  The acquisition is  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based Rockwell
Collins’s first under Chief Executive Officer Kelly Ortberg, 53,
who took the post Aug. 1 as Clay Jones retired. When completed,
the deal will shift the company’s business mix to 54 percent
commercial and 46 percent government, Rockwell Collins said.  Rockwell Collins’s current sales breakdown is 52 percent
from government and 48 percent commercial, Cindy Dietz, a
company spokeswoman, said by e-mail. Arinc will have about $600
million in revenue this year, according to Rockwell Collins,
which said last month that sales in its current fiscal year
would be about $4.65 billion.  2013 Transactions  The deal is the largest in aerospace and defense announced
this year in North America, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The previous largest transaction was  Precision
Castparts Corp. (PCP) ’s $600 million purchase of Permaswage SAS from
Bridgepoint Advisers Ltd., the data show.  Ortberg is trying to expand Rockwell Collins’s reach beyond
aircraft by acquiring Arinc’s computer networks, which help
handle data for pilots, passengers, regulators and airports.
Arinc also provides communication and information-technology
services to industries outside aviation, including railroads.  Until the sale to Carlyle, for which terms weren’t
disclosed, Arinc had been owned by airlines since its founding
in 1929 to handle air-to-ground communications. The Annapolis,
Maryland-based company now helps more than 14,000 commercial
aircraft make more than 100,000 takeoffs and landings daily,
according to its website.  Stock Performance  While Rockwell Collins’s 28 percent stock-price surge this
year through Aug. 9 beat the 19 percent advance for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, that jump only left it in the middle of the
pack compared with peers. The S&P Supercomposite Aerospace &
Defense Index of 28 companies rose 31 percent in 2013.  Rockwell Collins closed at $74.42 on Aug. 9. Carlyle closed
that day at $27.05, leaving its  2013 gain  at 3.9 percent.  Ortberg joined Rockwell Collins in 1987 and has been
president since September. He had previously led the Government
Systems unit and helped oversee development of equipment for the
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 while running the Commercial Systems division.
Jones remains with the company as non-executive chairman.  In a June 19 interview at the  Paris Air Show , Ortberg said
the company would seek to win work on cockpit avionics as Boeing
upgrades the 777, the planemaker’s biggest twin-engine model.
Rockwell Collins displaced  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  last
year as Boeing’s supplier for cockpit displays on the 737 jet.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  acted as Rockwell Collins’s financial
adviser for the Arinc transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  