-- San Francisco Transit Workers Strike Blocked by Judge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-08-12T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/san-francisco-judge-says-he-ll-bar-mass-transit-strike.html
A state court judge in  San Francisco 
approved a request by California Governor  Jerry Brown  to
prohibit Bay Area Rapid Transit District workers from striking
for 60 days.  Superior Court Judge Curtis Karnow said at a court hearing
yesterday that he saw “no procedural problems or impediments”
to Brown’s request. He said he was required by law to issue an
injunction if a walkout could endanger the public’s “health,
safety or welfare.”  Karnow issued a written order after the hearing requiring
the cooling-off period to last through Oct. 10. The order is a
final injunction that doesn’t require another hearing, and not a
temporary restraining order as originally sought by Brown.  The district, known as BART, and its unions have been
unable to resolve their contract dispute. A strike of the
400,000-rider-a-day system would cost the region $73 million
daily and would endanger public health, safety and welfare,
attorneys for the governor said in a court filing.  BART spokesman Rick Rice said in an e-mailed statement that
while the transit district is glad there will be no labor-related service disruptions, it regrets that an agreement has
not been reached.  BART presented a new offer on Aug. 10 in an effort to reach
an agreement before last night, he said.  “It’s a fair offer that shows movement by BART,” Rice
said. “We hope it leads to a tentative agreement but if our
unions continue to demand unreasonable wage increases, this
court ordered injunction means the  Bay Area  will not be impacted
by our unions’ response.”  Jonathan Siegel, a lawyer representing the American
Federation of State County and Municipal Employees, declined to
comment after yesterday’s hearing.  California Deputy Attorney General Tamar Pachter also
declined to comment after the court proceeding.  The case is People Ex Rel. Edmund G. Brown v. Amalgamated
Transit Union, Local 1555, San Francisco Superior Court (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  