-- Sony’s ‘Elysium’ Tops Cinemas With $29.8 Million Debut
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-08-12T22:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/sony-s-elysium-opens-shy-of-forecasts-in-weekend-cinema-debut.html
“Elysium,” the  Sony Corp. (6758)  science-fiction film featuring  Matt Damon , fell short of a weekend
forecast in theaters, tallying sales that may heighten scrutiny
of the company’s entertainment unit.  “Elysium” collected $29.8 million to lead sales at U.S.
and Canadian theaters, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
today in a statement. Boxoffice.com, another researcher, had
projected $34.5 million. “We’re the Millers,” a comedy from
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s film division, was second with $26.4 million.  The entertainment unit of Tokyo-based Sony has come under
criticism from billionaire hedge fund manager  Daniel Loeb 
following disappointing box-office sales this year for “After
Earth,” another sci-fi picture, and the action-thriller “White
House Down.” He has pushed, unsuccessfully so far, for a
partial sale of the division as a way to boost its performance
and increase accountability.  Rory Bruer, Sony’s president of worldwide distribution,
predicted “a long shelf life” for the film when taking into
account good word of mouth and sales outside the U.S.  “Elysium” had sales of $10.9 million in 17 overseas
markets, with it scheduled to open in 18 more next weekend,
including Australia, Germany and  France .  Haves, Have-Nots  The futuristic picture focuses on a world of haves and
have-nots, where those with means live in gated communities on a
 space station  named “Elysium” and can have ailments cured in
an instant. The rest live on a decrepit, polluted Earth. Damon
plays Max, an ex-con factory worker suffering from lethal
 radiation exposure . He reluctantly agrees to a dangerous mission
that could bring equality to the world and cure him.  “The movie aims to fill a space left by the Occupy
movement, but, like its underfunded freedom fighters, it relies
on crude weapons,” wrote Bloomberg News critic  Craig Seligman .
“To the film’s credit, the writer-director, Neill Blomkamp,
keeps the action coherent and fills the plot with clever twists
that make up for some of the insulting obviousness of the
political allegory.”  He gave the film three stars out of a possible five.  The film was made for about $115 million, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo.  Loeb Proposal  This year’s film slate from Hollywood has seen some
science-fiction movies click with fans. “Star Trek Into
Darkness,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures , garnered
$70.2 million in its opening weekend in May, and “World War
Z,” the Paramount picture featuring  Brad Pitt , topped forecasts
with $66.4 million in June.  Sony shares fell almost 10 percent over three days through
Aug. 8 in  Tokyo  after directors turned down a proposal by Loeb’s
Third Point LLC hedge fund to sell as much as 20 percent of the
company’s movie and music assets in an initial public offering.
Full ownership of the movie, TV production and music units is
integral to Sony’s strategy for revival, the board said in a
letter to the billionaire.  Loeb, whose New York-based Third Point has built a 6.9
percent stake in Sony, is still pressing the company to set
targets for improving the entertainment business.  Shares of Sony slipped 0.6 percent to 1,932 yen at the
close in Tokyo today. The stock has more than doubled this year.  Disney’s ‘Planes’  Second place’s “We’re the Millers” stars  Jason Sudeikis 
and  Jennifer Aniston . The movie, about a small-time pot dealer
who becomes a big-time drug smuggler after being mugged and left
in debt to his supplier, was forecast to take in $21.5 million.  “Planes,” an animated feature from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
opened with $22.2 million to place third.  A low-cost feature, “Planes” began life as a direct-to-DVD project. Inspired by the Pixar hit franchise “Cars,” the
movie, made for about $50 million, was forecast to collect $21
million.  “Planes” is about a cropdusting aircraft named Dusty with
a fear of heights and dreams of racing. It has a similar look
and feel as the two “Cars” movies, from Disney’s Pixar, which
have collected a combined $1 billion worldwide in ticket sales,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Comedian Dane Cook supplies the voice for Dusty.  Also opening in wide release was “Percy Jackson: Sea of
Monsters,” from 21st Century Fox Inc. The second film based on
a series of young-adult novels took in $14.4 million in fourth
place, against a projection by Boxoffice.com of $19.5 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 7 percent to
$142.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year to date is down 2.9 percent, while revenue is up
less than 1 percent.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales for Aug. 9 to Aug. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  