-- U.S. Said to Plan Charges Against Ex-JPMorgan Employees
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-08-12T13:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/u-s-said-to-plan-charges-against-ex-jpmorgan-traders.html
The U.S. may announce charges as
early as this week against former London-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  employees related to allegations they tried to conceal
losses last year, a person familiar with the matter said.  The situation remains fluid and it isn’t clear who may be
charged, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
information wasn’t public. Those facing U.S. charges include
Javier Martin-Artajo, a former executive who oversaw the trading
strategy, and Julien Grout, a trader who worked for him, the  New
York Times (NYT)  reported Aug. 9. Prosecutors also are weighing
penalties for the bank, including a fine and a reprimand, the
newspaper said in a subsequent report.  The investigation has centered on whether employees at
JPMorgan’s chief investment office attempted to inflate the
value of trades on the bank’s books by mismarking them, a person
with knowledge of the matter said previously. Federal officials
are considering charges related to mismarking books and
falsifying documents, the person said.  Police showed up at Grout’s home in  London  last week and
his landlord gave them his forwarding address in the south of
 France , according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. A spokesman for London’s Metropolitan Police declined to
comment. A French citizen, Grout may be difficult to arrest if
he’s charged because France has tougher extradition laws than
the U.K., the person said.  Visited U.S.  “He is not a fugitive,” said  Edward Little , a partner at
Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in  New York  who is representing Grout.
“He visited the U.S. last month with confidence he was not
being indicted and moved to France to save money and look for a
job. We did not expect a decision on the investigation one way
or another until the fall.”  Martin-Artajo, a Spaniard, is away with his family,
according to his next-door neighbor in Chipping Norton,  England ,
who declined to give his name. Attorneys for Martin-Artajo
didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  JPMorgan slipped 72 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $53.80 at
9:40 a.m. in New York today, down from its $54.52 close in New
York on Aug. 9.  The bank first disclosed losses at its London office in May
2012 after what Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called
“egregious mistakes” in managing credit-derivative positions.
The trades by Bruno Iksil, nicknamed the London Whale because of
the size of his holdings, eventually caused more than $6.2
billion of losses for the company.  Iksil’s Supervisor  Martin-Artajo was Iksil’s supervisor and Grout assisted in
valuing his trading book. JPMorgan ousted all three last year
and sought to recoup some of their pay. The largest trading
blunder for the New York-based bank led to the departure and
reassignment of several senior executives and a 50 percent
reduction in Dimon’s pay.  JPMorgan sued Martin-Artajo in a London court in October,
without detailing its complaint in filings, following his
departure from the bank. That lawsuit has been settled, a person
with direct knowledge of the case said in January.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York have been probing the trading loss
since May 2012. Prosecutors have secured the cooperation of
Iksil, a person familiar with the matter said. Reuters  reported 
Aug. 8 that Iksil won’t face charges.  An attorney for Iksil declined to comment on the probe to
 Bloomberg News , as did a spokesman for JPMorgan in New York.  SEC Negotiations  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan , and  Peter Donald  at the FBI’s New York
office also declined to comment on the probe. Richardson didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail late yesterday on possible
action against the bank.  JPMorgan is negotiating the final terms of a deal with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to end its yearlong
probe of the trading loss, two people briefed on the talks said
last week. While the SEC may target some people involved in the
trades, top executives probably won’t face claims that they lied
to or misled the public, the people said. An SEC spokesman
declined to comment on the matter.  The SEC may accuse the firm of failing to enact proper
controls, supervise workers, escalate concerns and share
information internally, one person said. In addition to a fine
and reprimand, federal prosecutors could force the bank to
bolster internal controls, the New York Times reported.  U.K. Probe  The U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority is continuing its
own investigation into whether JPMorgan provided the regulator
with enough information about the risk the bank was taking, a
person briefed on the matter said last week. A decision probably
won’t come until the end of the year, the person said.  JPMorgan released its own internal report on the trading
loss in January, which found an “error prone” risk-management
system, traders overwhelmed by the complexity of their bets, and
managers including Dimon who weren’t aggressive enough in
halting the losses. The bank still made a  record $21.3 billion 
in profit last year.  In March, a Senate subcommittee accused JPMorgan in a 301-page  report  and at a hearing of hiding losses, deceiving
regulators and misinforming investors. Ina Drew, who ran the
CIO, and her head of international CIO, Achilles Macris, among
other top executives, left the company and the bank clawed back
more than $100 million in pay from Drew and other managers.  ‘Reasonable Cause’  The subcommittee, led by Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin ,
referred its findings to the SEC and Justice Department in
April.  “There is reasonable cause to believe a violation of the
law may have occurred,” Levin said at the time.  The FBI and the SEC have been scrutinizing public
statements, calls with investors and an April 2012 earnings
presentation by Dimon and then-Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein, Bloomberg News reported in June, citing five people
with knowledge of the probes.  The criminal investigation has looked at, among other
issues, whether London traders painted the tape, a form of
market manipulation that allows them to inflate the value of
their positions, three of the people said at the time.  Prosecutors in Bharara’s office filed charges involving
bank books and records last year against Kareem Serageldin, a
former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  investment banker.  In April, Serageldin, the ex-global head of Credit Suisse’s
structured credit trading business, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy, admitting to a scheme to falsify the bank’s books
and records concerning the value of mortgage-backed bonds in
late 2007. Serageldin, first charged in February 2012, faces as
long as five years in prison. His sentencing date hasn’t been
set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  