-- Usain Bolt Wins 100 Meters at World Athletics Championships
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-11T20:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/usain-bolt-wins-100-meters-at-world-athletics-championships.html
Usain Bolt of  Jamaica  regained his
world 100-meter title last night, winning the final in 9.77
seconds at the World Athletics Championships.  Six-time Olympic gold medalist Bolt finished ahead of
Justin Gatlin of the U.S. (9.85) and Jamaican Nesta Carter (9.95)
in Moscow. Gatlin led from the start before Bolt charged through
to win on a track drenched by a storm.  “I am happy but I wanted to do better,” Bolt told
reporters. “My legs were sore after the semifinals, I don’t
know why, but the world record wasn’t on so I came out just to
win. Back in Jamaica, they do not expect less than that from me.
They always expect me to dominate.”  Bolt won the event at the world championships in Berlin in
2009, when he set the current world record of 9.58 seconds. He
was disqualified for a false start at the last edition in South
Korea two years ago.  This year’s championships are taking place under the shadow
of doping controversies. Last month U.S. sprinter Tyson Gay and
Jamaica’s Asafa Powell withdrew from the world championships
after testing positive for banned substances.  In June, Jamaica’s Veronica Campbell-Brown, a two-time
Olympic 200-meter champion, accepted a provisional suspension
from competition following a positive test for a banned diuretic.
Jamaican sprinter Sherone Simpson said in July that she tested
positive for a banned stimulant.  Eaton Victory  Also yesterday, Olympic champion Ashton Eaton of the U.S.
won gold in the decathlon. He finished on 8,809 points, ahead of
 Germany ’s Michael Schrader (8,670) and  Canada ’s Damian Warner
(8,512).  Brittney Reese of the U.S., the Olympic champion, won the
women’s long jump for the third consecutive time with a leap of
7.01 meters, followed by Blessing Okagbare of Nigeria (6.99m)
and Serbia’s Ivana Spanovic (6.82m).  Tirunesh Dibaba of  Ethiopia  won the women’s 10,000-meter
title for the third time and Sandra Perkovic of  Croatia  won the
women’s discus. Aleksandr Ivanov of  Russia  won the men’s 20-kilometer walk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  