-- Alex Rodriguez Hits Home Run as Yankees Rally to Win Over Tigers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/yankees-rodriguez-hits-first-major-league-home-run-in-11-months.html
The  New York Yankees  pulled out a 5-4 win over Detroit after  Mariano Rivera  blew a third straight
save chance for the first time in his career and  Alex Rodriguez 
hit his first Major League Baseball home run in 11 months.  Brett Gardner ’s a game-ending solo home run with two outs
in the bottom of the ninth inning gave the Yankees the victory
yesterday in the finale of a three-game series in  New York .
Rivera allowed a pair of solo homers to the Tigers in the top of
the ninth inning to blow a 4-2 lead.  “I think Mo has bailed us out quite a few times,” Gardner
told reporters. “Things like that happen. That’s the first time
I’ve ever hit a walk-off homer. It might be the last. It didn’t
matter if it was me or someone else, we just needed to get a
win.”  With the victory, the Yankees improved to 59-57 and avoided
falling to .500 on the season. The American League Central
Division-leading Tigers (69-47) lost for just the second time in
15 games.  Rodriguez, who is playing while appealing a 211-game drug
suspension, hit his first major-league home run since Sept. 14.  Rodriguez returned to the Yankees’ lineup on Aug. 5 after
missing 110 games while recovering from offseason hip surgery
and then a mild quadriceps strain. He was 3-for-15 this season -
- with no hits off right-handed pitchers -- before sending a
fastball from  Justin Verlander , a right-hander and the 2011
American League Cy Young Award winner, into the left-field seats
in the second inning.  “You want to turn boos into cheers, you want to go out and
make them proud,” Rodriguez said of the ovation he received.
“All you want is really an opportunity and a chance. I think
New York always gives you that. I certainly feel that way
walking around the city. The support has never been stronger in
my 10 years. I’m very thankful.”  It was the 648th career homer for Rodriguez, pulling him
within 12 of  Willie Mays  for the fourth-most all-time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  