-- Yes Bank Loses Almost Half Its Market Value on India Crunch
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-12T05:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/yes-bank-loses-almost-half-its-market-value-on-india-rate-surge.html
Yes Bank Ltd. (YES) , the best-performing
Indian bank stock last year, has lost almost half its market
value in less than a month on investors’ concern that a record
surge in  interest rates  will erode profits and boost defaults.  The stock has tumbled 43 percent, the most in the S&P BSE
Bankex Index, since the  Reserve Bank  of  India  on July 15 began
taking emergency steps to tighten liquidity and bolster the
rupee. Mumbai-based Yes Bank, which gets 69 percent of its
funding from bulk deposits and debt, is among lenders that are
most vulnerable if rates remain high, according to Espirito
Santo Securities India Pvt.  Chief Executive Officer Rana Kapoor responded to the
unexpected cash crunch by increasing what Yes Bank pays for
cheaper term deposits, putting pressure on profits. The Bankex
index has also dropped 17 percent as the surge in funding costs
triggered speculation that defaults may be exacerbated in an
 economy  that expanded last year at the weakest pace in 10 years.  “The sudden reversal in the interest rate scenario caught
everybody offguard,” Jisha Nair, a Mumbai-based analyst at BoB
Capital Markets Ltd. who recommends clients buy Yes Bank shares,
said by telephone. “Margin pressures, slowing loan growth and
losses on their investment books will remove the cushion lenders
have to offset rising bad loans.”  The Bankex, which had slumped 6 percent this year through
July 15, has since had a steeper plunge as all its 13 stocks
declined in Mumbai trading. State-run banks including  Union Bank
of India (UNBK)  and  Canara Bank (CBK) , which were dropping on concern that
defaults were climbing, plummeted more than 30 percent as
analysts including BoB Capital’s Nair predicted that government
bond holdings would also lose value.  Worst Slump  Yes Bank posted the worst slump, declining 43 percent since
July 15. The stock rose 1.4 percent to 287 rupees at 10:50 a.m
in Mumbai trading. It had surged 95 percent last year, the most
in the Bankex index.  The bank has been targeted by short sellers and  hedge funds 
that are selling out, Jaideep Iyer, group president for
financial management, said in an interview in Mumbai on Aug. 6.
The lender, founded in 2004, has survived previous crises such
as the global credit crunch of 2008-09, he said.  “The operating environment hasn’t changed so
dramatically” for Yes Bank, Iyer said. Most of its loans are on
a floating-rate basis, giving the bank flexibility to maintain
loan margins by raising borrowing costs, while the bank’s asset
quality is also better than that of the broader financial
system, he said.  Slower Expansion  Still, Yes Bank may slow its expansion plans and reduce the
number of branches it will open by March 2015 to 750 from an
earlier target of 900, Iyer said. The lender has 475 branches
nationwide, compared with 3,350 branches at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the
nation’s largest private-sector lender.  India’s credit crunch was precipitated by the rupee’s
plunge to 61.2125 per dollar -- then a record -- on July 8.  That prompted the RBI on July 15 to unexpectedly raise two
interest rates by 200 basis points to 10.25 percent, cap cash
injections into the banking system and sell $2 billion of
 government bonds  to drain funds from the economy. A week later,
the central bank further limited banks’ borrowing and raised the
daily balance requirement for the  cash reserve ratio .  “There is no question that the banking industry has
headwinds,” billionaire  Uday Kotak , who controls Mumbai-based
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg TV
on Aug. 8. “I would be very surprised if the short term
interest rates drop from here at least for a while.”  Reduced Forecast  The RBI’s tightening measures come even as it predicts
economic growth will be slower than earlier forecast. The
authority on July 30 cut its estimate to 5.5 percent from 5.7
percent for the year through March 2014. The central bank also
surprised markets that day by indicating the liquidity measures
would be rolled back as the currency stabilizes.  On Aug. 6, the rupee fell to a record of 61.805 per dollar.  India’s central bank responded two days later by announcing
that it would drain $3.63 billion of cash from the economy each
week to stem volatility in the  exchange rate . The currency has
declined 11 percent this year.  “If there are more measures by the central bank to tighten
liquidity to defend the rupee, the banks could see a crisis,”
Vishal Narnolia, Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC Global
Securities Ltd., said by telephone. Yes Bank’s “dependence on
short-term rates is high.”  Bulk Deposits  That’s because Yes Bank gets about 40 percent of its
funding from bulk deposits, Santosh Singh and Saikiran Pulavarthi, analysts at Espirito Santo in Mumbai, wrote in a
note to clients on July 29. Singh covers non-bank financing
companies while Pulavarthi covers banks.  The rate on short-term wholesale deposits may have climbed
by more than 100 basis points to as much as 12.5 percent
following the RBI’s measures last month, he estimated. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The lender also gets 20 percent of its funds from short-term debt and 9 percent from certificates of deposit, Singh
estimated. The  cost  on three-month borrowings may have climbed
by as much as 250 basis points to 10.9 percent following the
first two rounds of tightening, while three-month CD rates may
have climbed as much as 350 basis points to 10.8 percent, he
estimated.  Yes Bank has taken steps to reduce its dependence on bulk
deposits and short-term debt, Iyer said. Savings accounts now
generate about 10 percent of its total funds, up from 2 percent
two years ago, after the lender raised what it pays for those
deposits to 7 percent, the highest in the nation, Iyer said.
That compares with the 4 percent paid by ICICI.  Higher Yields  Still, investors are demanding a higher premium to hold Yes
Bank’s debt, sending yields on the company’s 10-year bonds to
the highest levels since issuance. The rate on its 10.05 percent
rupee-denominated bonds maturing December 2027 rose 31 basis
points to 10.06 percent on Aug. 2 from a month earlier,
according to the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
Association of India. The bonds haven’t traded since then.  At rival  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB) , the best-performing Indian
banking stock in the past 12 months, wholesale deposits and
borrowing accounted for 56 percent of funds, according to
Espirito’s Singh. That was the highest after Yes Bank among the
16 lenders tracked by the analyst. Those banks together averaged
31 percent. IndusInd’s stock has fallen 28 percent since July
15.  The central bank is unlikely to reverse its measures “in a
hurry,” and may keep them in place for longer than one quarter,
IndusInd CEO Romesh Sobti said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Aug. 7.  ‘Demonstrated Resilience’  His  bank  “has demonstrated resilience in its balance sheet
in both rising and falling interest rate scenarios,” Sobti
wrote. “We do not expect this liquidity cycle to be any
different from the previous ones in terms of impact on our
margins.”  Lenders including Yes Bank moved quickly to reduce their
dependence on bulk deposits and short-term borrowings following
the first two rounds of liquidity-tightening measures by the
RBI. The bank boosted what it will pay for one-year retail term
deposits by 25 basis points to 9 percent, starting Aug. 1.  Banks also began passing on the higher cost of funding to
borrowers to curb erosion of their net interest margins. Yes
Bank raised the base lending  rate  for the first time in almost
two years, increasing it by 25 basis points to 10.75 percent,
according to a July 31 statement.  The higher borrowing costs “will lead to them losing
competitiveness in the loan market,” SMC’s Narnolia said.  Credit Slowdown  The impact may be particularly punitive because loan growth
has already weakened in India. Loans at Indian lenders grew by
14.2 percent in twelve months to July 12 after dropping in June
to the slowest pace since December 2009, according to RBI data,
which is distributed with a one-month lag.  Costlier credit could hamper a government push to
revitalize investment and revive growth that had weakened last
year to 5 percent, the least since 2003.  Other lenders that are vulnerable to the higher rates
include the state-run  Oriental Bank of Commerce , Espirito’s
Singh estimated.  Current and savings accounts, or CASA, which offer the
cheapest form of funding for banks, accounted for just 23
percent of New Delhi-based Oriental Bank’s financing, Singh
estimated. The lender has slid 32 percent since July 15. S. L. Bansal, chairman and managing director of Oriental Bank, didn’t
reply to an e-mail or a call to his office.  Bond Losses  Falling bond prices may also hurt the value of Yes Bank’s
corporate debt holdings, Anish Tawakley, an analyst at Barclays
Plc, wrote in a note to clients that same day.  The central bank’s steps to shore up the rupee drove yields
on five-year  corporate bonds  up by 131 basis points in July to
10 percent, the highest level since December 2008, before easing
down to 9.72 percent on Aug. 7, according to an index compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We were deeply in the money on our corporate bond
investments until July 15,” Yes Bank’s Iyer said in the
interview. “Even now, there are no losses. If rates go up
further, there will be losses on the book.”  The convergence of stress points led Morgan Stanley to
 downgrade  Yes Bank to neutral in a July 25 report. The rising
rates have “increased challenges” at the lender, according to
Sumeet Kariwala, a Mumbai-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, who
cited its higher reliance on wholesale deposits, its large bond
investments and a lower Tier 1 capital ratio than rivals.  Risk Buffers  SMC’s Narnolia agrees that the  company ’s capital adequacy
ratio, which is among the lowest for the six biggest private-sector banks by assets, is a worry.  Yes Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, which tracks the core
capital a lender holds in reserve as a percentage of assets, was
9.5 percent as of June 30, exchange filings show. While that
surpasses the 6 percent minimum regulatory requirement under the
so-called Basel III rules, it’s below the 12.4 percent average
ratio for the top five Indian banks by market value.  The lender, which has regulatory approval to  raise  as much
as $500 million through overseas share sales or private
placements, will wait for its stock to recover before going
ahead with the offering, Iyer said.  Uncertainty about  interest rates  and economic growth
prospects will probably to be an overhang on banks stocks, said
BoB Capital’s Nair. Higher rates will mean that lenders
including Yes Bank will “suffer more,” she said.  “There is no short-term measure to cut dependence on
wholesale funding,” Nair said. “Margins will come under
pressure for banks as cost of funds rise in an environment where
the ability to pass it on to borrowers are limited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  