-- Zimbabwe Succession Rivals Square Off After Mugabe Win
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-08-12T14:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-11/zimbabwe-succession-rivals-square-off-after-mugabe-win.html
As President  Robert Mugabe  starts a
new five-year term to rule Zimbabwe until he’s 94, his party
faces a succession battle between his vice president, whose nom
de guerre was “Comrade Spill Blood,” and a former spy
chief known as “The Crocodile.”  The contest pits Vice President Joice Mujuru, who took the
name of Teurai Ropa, or “Spill Blood” in the Shona language,
when as a teenager she joined the fight for independence,
against Defense Minister Emmerson Mnangagwa, who at age 19 led a
sabotage unit known as the “Crocodile Gang.”  “The succession issue remains a challenge to the party,”
Patrick Chinamasa, a politburo member of Mugabe’s Zimbabwe
African National-Patriotic Front and the justice minister, said
in Aug. 7 interview in Harare, the capital. “We are fully
cognizant of the divisive nature of the succession issue. We
need to deal with it without losing cohesion.”  With the backing of many in the armed forces, intelligence
and police chiefs, Mnangagwa would probably focus on keeping
military leaders in control of diamond fields and some of the
country’s best farmland, according to analysts including Mark Rosenberg of Eurasia Group and Gilbert Khadiagala of  South
Africa ’s University of the Witwatersrand. Mujuru may seek to
repair relations with the international community to boost her
faction’s investments in banking and retail, Rosenberg said.  “Mujuru and her allies are vested in industries like
finance, retail and hospitality that demand more rational
policies to grow,” Rosenberg said.  Economic Crisis  In 2000 Mugabe started a program of seizing white-owned
commercial farms that led to a decade-long crisis in which the
economy slumped 39 percent and inflation soared to an estimated
500 billion percent, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Mugabe won the July 31 president race with 61 percent of
the vote, which his opponent,  Morgan Tsvangirai , described as a
“farce” because of alleged rigging.  The MDC on Aug. 9 submitted a court challenge in Harare
against the results, saying 870,000 names were duplicated on the
voters’ roll. It called for a fresh election within 60 days. In
a speech in Harare today Mugabe said critics of the election win
can “go hang.”  Mujuru would probably dilute Mugabe’s program known as
indigenization that seeks to force foreign-owned companies such
as  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS)  and banks including the local unit of Barclays Plc to cede
51 of the shares in their local operations to blacks or the
government, Rosenberg said.  Party Divisions  During his 33 years in power, Mugabe has controlled the
internal struggles in his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party over ethnic rivalry and patronage. Mugabe,
who has denied reports that he’s received treatment for prostate
cancer, has had medical check-ups in  Singapore  several times.  After casting his vote in the election, Mugabe said he
would serve out his term.  There are “too many tensions and divisions for Mugabe to
step down,”  International Crisis Group  researcher Trevor
Maisiri said in an Aug. 5 interview in Harare. “The succession
battle is going to be more intense than it was before.”  Both Mujuru and Mnangagwa have been in Mugabe’s cabinet
since independence in 1980.  Mnangagwa has served as head of the ministries of security,
justice and rural housing and as the speaker of Parliament. He
was the chief of intelligence when Mugabe ordered the North
Korean-trained Fifth Brigade to crack down on rebels in the
southwestern region of Matebeleland in the 1980s, resulting in
the death of as many as 20,000 civilians from the Ndebele ethnic
minority. The operation was known as Gukurahundi, or the early
rain that washes away the chaff in Shona.  Unifying Candidate  At 25, Mujuru became  Zimbabwe ’s youngest minister working
her way up to vice-president in 2004. Her husband, Solomon Mujuru, led the main guerrilla army during the independence war
and was the nation’s first army chief. He died in 2011 in a fire
at his home.  Legally Mujuru, 58, is first in line to succeed Mugabe.  “She represents the gentler mode of contemporary politics
-- unifying, motherly, compassionate and national,” Ibbo
Mandaza, a former Mujuru adviser who’s the director of the  Sapes
Trust , a Harare-based political analysis group, said in an
interview. “She’s the kind of person who would require and rely
on a good team of advisers. She’s pragmatic, she listens.”  Military Support  Mnangagwa, 66, is the chief of the joint operations
command. He can draw on the support of powerful figures
including Zimbabwe Defence Forces commander Constantine Chiwenga, Augustine Chihuri, the head of police, and Happyton
Bonyongwe, who runs the Central Intelligence Organisation,
Rosenberg said.  The military controls parts of the eastern Marange diamond
field, according to non-profit groups such as New York-based
Human Rights Watch and Partnership Africa  Canada . A Zimbabwean
parliamentary committee said in June tens of millions of
dollars in diamond revenue hasn’t been paid to the Treasury.  Mnangagwa is “the typical strongman and therefore likely
to be very ruthless. He’s not given to entertaining debate,”
Mandaza said. On the economy, he’s “pragmatic,” he said.
“He’s never been part of the indigenization campaign.”  Mugabe’s choice of who sits in his new cabinet in the
coming days should indicate which faction has the upper hand.  “We are waiting to see how the securocrats, who are
responsible for the election outcome, will show their hand
now,” Mandaza said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Harare at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  