-- 1972 Olympic Ruling Signaled End of Cold War Collegians
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/1972-olympic-ruling-signaled-end-of-cold-war-collegians.html
To  Marvin Barnes , an African-
American college basketball standout whose run-ins with the law
earned him the nickname “Bad News,” Tom McMillen was the great
white hype.  Widely considered the country’s top player coming out of
high school, the University of Maryland’s McMillen was also
renowned for academic exploits; he would go on to become a
Rhodes scholar and congressman. Providence College’s Barnes
averaged almost 16 rebounds per game in 1971-1972, six more than
fellow sophomore McMillen.  In June 1972, just four years after two African-American
athletes were expelled from the Olympics for giving the “Black
Power” salute at a medals ceremony, Barnes and McMillen were
competing to represent the U.S. at the  Munich Games . Both
forwards were among 59 hopefuls vying for 12 spots on the squad
expected to bring back the eighth straight U.S. gold medal in
basketball.  As they squared off for a jump ball during a scrimmage,
Barnes sought to intimidate McMillen. “I smacked him,” Barnes
says. “I was a vicious, mean, hard player.”  It was only a “minor scuffle,” McMillen says. “We always
had a little history.”  Barnes was assessed a  technical foul  and reprimanded. The
incident reinforced his image as a black militant, he says. Even
as he led the tryouts in rebounding, he didn’t make the Olympic
team.  ‘Physical Player’  “I was very surprised,” Barnes says. “I had a feeling
right then” that the U.S. would lose. “You’re going to play
the Soviets, one of the most physical teams in the world, you
want to take your most physical player.”  His premonition proved correct. After a questionable ruling
put more time on the clock and gave the Soviets two extra
chances, a mistake by McMillen contributed to the decisive
basket. In the most disputed finish in international basketball
history, the Soviet Union stopped the U.S. streak of 63 straight
wins and earned bragging rights in the athletic Cold War with a
51-50 victory.  Afterward, the U.S. players spurned their  silver medals .
Four decades later, on the eve of the  London Games , they are
still seeking gold, citing the mishandling of the last three
seconds. Their complaints overlook that they were out-coached
and out-played for most of the game. As Barnes’s Olympic
omission suggests, the U.S. jeopardized its chances for gold
long before those final seconds, and even before the team
arrived in Munich.  Cultural Tensions  Wider cultural tensions -- racial unrest, the Vietnam War,
the generation gap and changing social mores -- filtered through
the Olympic prism, undercutting the U.S.’s prospects.  College player of the year and Vietnam War protester Bill Walton sat out the Olympics after his demands for special
treatment were rebuffed. The team’s only 7-footer, Tommy
Burleson, who might have prevented the winning basket, was
benched for the championship game for bringing his fiancée to
his dormitory room, he says. Team captain Kenny Davis says
coaches tried to make him quit because he wasn’t a college
player.  Riven by internal feuding, the Olympic selection committee
couldn’t agree on a coach. It bypassed  John Wooden , the most
successful college coach in history, for Henry P. Iba, an old-
school disciplinarian with an outdated playbook, who was almost
half a century older than his team of baby boomers.  Top 12?  The country’s undefeated record in Olympic basketball bred
complacency. Selectors “didn’t choose the best 12 players,”
such as Barnes, says Swen Nater, a center from the  University of
California  at  Los Angeles . Nater made the team and then left
during training camp, to be replaced by McMillen. “They thought
they were going to win anyway, no matter who they picked.”  The Munich debacle shattered American smugness and stirred
frustration over sending amateurs to battle what was in all but
name a professional Soviet squad.  After a second straight Olympic loss to the USSR in 1988,
the U.S. dropped collegians in favor of  National Basketball
Association  all-stars starting in 1992. Seventeen of the 18
finalists for the 2012 U.S. Olympic men’s basketball team were
NBA stars, including LeBron James and  Kevin Durant .  The London Games may be the last time that so many NBA
superstars represent the U.S. in the Olympics. To protect
franchise players from injury, Commissioner  David Stern  is
proposing an Olympic age limit of 23 -- the same age as the
oldest member of the 1972 U.S. team.  Basketball Turmoil  The aftershocks of the tumultuous 1960’s reverberated as
the U.S. prepared for the Munich Games. President  Richard Nixon ’s decision in May 1972, to mine North Vietnamese ports
prompted nationwide protests. The same month, an assassination
attempt paralyzed presidential candidate George Wallace, the
standard-bearer for racial segregation. In June, five men hired
by Nixon’s re-election campaign broke into Democratic National
Committee headquarters in the Watergate complex in Washington.  U.S. Olympic basketball was in turmoil, hampered by power
struggles at both the professional and amateur levels. The
fledgling American Basketball Association was seeking to upstage
the established NBA by signing college underclassmen, which
reduced the pool of available amateurs.  Following his junior year at the University of
Massachusetts, future Hall of Famer Julius Erving turned pro
with the ABA’s Virginia Squires in 1971, forfeiting his Olympic
eligibility.  Two organizations were battling for the biggest plum in
amateur basketball -- the right to choose the Olympic players
and coach.  AAU Challenged  The  Amateur Athletic Union , which ran industrial leagues
where corporations sponsored teams and employed players, had
long handled the task. As those leagues waned, most top amateurs
played for college teams, and the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  was challenging the AAU’s authority. The AAU still
controlled most of the 49 seats on the selection committee.  Their conflict interfered with picking a head coach. NCAA
representatives proposed the obvious choice, John Wooden. His
UCLA teams had won eight of the previous nine national
championships, and would capture two of the next three.  Wooden and the selection committee had long been at odds.
Few stars from his national championship teams had played in
prior Olympics. The committee had overlooked some, while others
declined to participate. Most notably, Lew Alcindor, who as
 Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  would become the NBA’s all-time leading
scorer, stayed home in 1968 to protest discrimination against
African-Americans.  Wooden Rejected  Wooden also felt slighted when the selection committee for
an earlier  Olympic Games  invited him to be an assistant coach,
says former UCLA center Nater. In 1972, Wooden, then 61 years
old, expected to be courted for the head job. His attitude
alienated AAU representatives on the committee, which rejected
him 38-11, says Donald “Taps” Gallagher, co-author with Mike
Brewster of “ Stolen Glory ,” a book published this month about
the final game in Munich.  The AAU also vetoed the NCAA’s other candidate, University
of North Carolina coach Dean Smith, whom it considered too young
at 41. Meanwhile, its own choice, legendary University of
Kentucky coach Adolph Rupp, was ailing.  The committee compromised on an old standby. Retired
Oklahoma State University coach  Henry P. Iba , who had guided the
U.S. to gold medals in 1964 and 1968, reluctantly took the job.  “It was grossly unfair that he had to do it,” says John
Bach, 88, one of Iba’s two assistants. “I could imagine the
strain that was on him.”  ‘Mr. Iba’  Iba turned 68 a month before the Munich Games, and some
critics felt that the game had passed him by. A hardnosed
perfectionist who held practices on Thanksgiving and Christmas
and expected players to call him “Mr. Iba,” he won his second
and final NCAA championship in 1946. In his last five years at
Oklahoma State, his teams lost 80 of 127 games.  In contrast to Wooden’s fast-break attack, Iba favored a
regimented, ball-control offense. Any player who took a low-
percentage outside shot, even if it went in, “was certain to be
removed from the game and lectured on the bench,” according to
a 1980 biography of Iba by John Paul Bischoff.  Iba’s blueprint for victory depended on a tenacious man-to-
man defense and a center who could score, pass and block shots.
Unfortunately,  Bill Walton , who fit that description as well as
any collegian in history, would only have played in the Olympics
for one coach: the rejected Wooden.  The Sporting News college basketball player of the year in
all three of his varsity seasons, the red-headed 6-feet-11-inch
UCLA center revered his coach. Otherwise, the vegetarian
Grateful Dead devotee from the San Diego suburbs had little use
for authority.  Unhappy Memories  As a teenager, “I thought everything adults told me was a
mistake,” Walton wrote in his  1994 autobiography , “Nothing But
Net,” to which Wooden contributed the foreword. He was arrested
for disturbing the peace in one antiwar protest in 1972 and
helped barricade the UCLA administration building in another.  Walton also had unhappy memories of his only experience
playing for his country. At 17, he was the sole non-military
player chosen for an AAU armed forces team representing the U.S.
at the 1970 world championships in Yugoslavia. He was benched,
and the team finished fifth.  An encounter with Soviet players there deepened Walton’s
misery.  “We used to have some drinks with the Americans,” says
 Alzhan Zharmukhamedov , a center on the Soviet national team. “I
remember 1970, when we made Bill Walton drunk. He drank too much
vodka. I found him vomiting in the toilet and took him to his
room.”  ‘The Suits’  When “The Suits,” as Walton called the Olympic selection
committee, approached him, he sought “upgraded accommodations”
and other privileges. He would skip tryouts, training camp and
exhibition games and join the team two weeks before the Olympic
tournament. They said no, leaving the U.S. with “twelve
overmatched” players and “one taskmaster head coach,” he
wrote. Walton didn’t respond to e-mail and voicemail requests
for an interview.  Walton’s absence gave the Soviets a chance.  “With Walton, we would have walked home with the gold,”
Bach says. “If Walton had played, there would be no problem for
the American team,” says Soviet guard Ivan Edeshko.  The best amateur center not named Walton was his UCLA back-
up, the 6-feet-11-inch Nater. Wooden arranged for him to be
invited to the tryouts and called him into his office.  “Coach warned me, ‘You’re going to go and try out,’”
Nater says. “‘But don’t be surprised if you get different
treatment there than everyone else. They don’t like us.’”  Top Collegian  Nater honed his jump shot and worked out in the Sierra
Nevada mountains to acclimate his body to the altitude of
Colorado Springs. There, Olympic candidates were assigned to
eight teams, which practiced in the morning and scrimmaged
against each other at night. Nater’s preparation paid off as he
led the trials in scoring. The committee ranked him as the top
collegian and chose him for the team.  The rest of the squad consisted largely of no-names eager
to build their reputations. Point guard  Tom Henderson , Iba’s
personal selection, came from a junior college. A skinny forward
from the Charlotte, North Carolina, suburbs,  Bobby Jones  had
started only two games for the University of North Carolina that
season and didn’t expect to be invited to the Olympic trials.  “I had no idea they had tryouts,” he says.  He enrolled in summer school, where he had a seizure. He
was recovering in the university hospital when Dean Smith
stopped by his bed.  Hawaii Training  The coach told him that some players, like UCLA’s Walton,
had decided not to try out for the Olympic team, so there was
room for him. Jones dropped out of summer school and attended
the tryouts. His defensive skills, jumping ability and unselfish
play impressed the coaches, and he ended up starting in Munich.  The team began training in July at a high-security
submarine base at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. The players couldn’t
leave the base.  “They put us in a condemned barracks,” Jones says.
“There were rats running around at night. You didn’t want to go
to the bathroom, you didn’t know what you would step on.”  Two to three times a day, two hours a session, they
practiced the deliberate offense and tight defense that Iba
believed would conquer the Soviets. Iba told his team, “I
guarantee you that the Russians aren’t going to score more than
50 points,” Bach says.  Sweatbox Conditions  Practices were held in a gym where victims of the Japanese
attack that drew the U.S. into World War II had once been laid.
Bach, a Navy veteran of the war, says it was a “hallowed
place” for him and Iba.  To the players, all born after the war, it was a sweatbox.
Nater became so dehydrated after practice that he couldn’t keep
food down, and the coaches refused to change mealtimes for him,
he says. “I lost 20 pounds in a week,” he says.  Iba’s system was also hard for Nater, a Wooden disciple, to
swallow. After a week in Hawaii, he quit. “That really hurt
us,”  Bobby Jones  says. “He would have been perfect for a
slowdown game.”  Nater wasn’t the only unhappy camper. Kenny Davis, who
played for Marathon Oil, says Olympic coaches picked on him
because he was the sole AAU representative on the team.  “I felt the coaches wouldn’t have felt bad if they could
run me off,” says Davis, who stayed put.  CIA Gym  The University of Maryland’s McMillen, who had tangled with
Marvin Barnes at the trials, replaced Nater. Jim Forbes from the
University of Texas at El Paso, who like McMillen would play a
key role in the final seconds at Munich, was the other late
addition, stepping in for a player sidelined by injury.  After meeting First Lady Pat Nixon at a White House
reception, the team flew to Munich, where it practiced at a CIA
gym 45 miles away instead of the Olympic arena, Bach says.  “Iba said, ‘We don’t want the Russians watching us,’”
Bach says.  Intended by the host nation as a tranquil, joyous
celebration to show how much Germany had changed since the
militaristic  Berlin Olympics  in 1936, the Munich Games had
unarmed guards and lax security. Before dawn on Sept. 5,
terrorists from a group called Black September infiltrated the
Olympic Village, murdered one Israeli athlete and one coach, and
took nine others hostage.  Last Contact  That morning, from across the courtyard, U.S. players
watched ski-masked terrorists with guns patrolling the balcony
of the Israeli dormitory. Hours later, returning to the  Olympic
Village  from dinner at a McDonald’s in Munich, U.S. backup
center Tommy Burleson took a detour to the team’s dormitory
through an underground parking garage -- only to run into German
soldiers leading out the terrorists and hostages. They were
being taken to an air base.  Facing the garage’s concrete wall, with a soldier’s gun in
his back, Burleson peeked at the terrorists and heard the
hostages crying as they stumbled past. Black September killed
all nine hostages during a rescue attempt at the airfield.  “I was the last human contact with those athletes before
they died,” Burleson says.  Most of the U.S. players, unlike the Soviets, attended a
memorial service for the slain Israelis. While the Soviet team
welcomed  International Olympic Committee  president Avery Brundage’s decree that the games would go on, the U.S. players
just wanted to go home.  “My assumption, along with a lot of the other guys, was of
course the Olympics will be canceled,” Bobby Jones says. “I
was amazed we kept playing. For me, it kind of matured me to
think more cynically that the Olympics is more about big
business than honoring humanity or coming together.”  Unimaginative Offense  The immediate business was beating the Soviets. To
accommodate American television, the gold-medal game began at
11:45 p.m. local time on Sept. 9. The U.S. game plan was to take
an early lead, because scouting reports indicated that the
Soviets didn’t play well from behind, says U.S. forward Jim Brewer.  Instead, the Soviets soon gained the advantage, silencing
the largely pro-American crowd in jam-packed Rudi-Sedlmayer-
Halle. Despite tenacious defense by Bobby Jones, who drew an
offensive foul by stepping in front of an opponent driving to
the basket, the U.S. couldn’t stop the accurate shooting of the
Soviets’ Sergei Belov.  “He was the first guard we encountered who was able to
score on our guards,” says U.S. forward Mike Bantom.  The Americans struggled to get open on offense, prompting
Hall of Fame center  Bill Russell , doing color commentary for
ABC-TV, to criticize Iba’s rigid system. The U.S. players
“don’t show enough imagination on offense, and they’re very
capable of that,” he said.  Double Ejection  The U.S. trailed 26-21 at halftime. Still lagging in the
second half, the team lost two key players. With about 12
minutes left, Dwight Jones, the team’s center and leading scorer
in the Olympics, tussled with Soviet forward Mikhail Korkiya;
both were ejected.  On the ensuing jump ball, Jones’s substitute, Brewer,
crashed to the floor and suffered a concussion. Amazingly, he
stayed in the game for seven minutes -- and even scored a basket
-- before being replaced.  Behind by eight points with five minutes left, the U.S.
players mutinied. Led by guards Henderson and Kevin Joyce, a
high-school star in Queens, New York, who played at the
University of South Carolina, they scrapped Iba’s system and
scrambled helter-skelter all over the court. They pressed on
defense and used their quickness to attack the basket on
offense. Joyce scored six points as the U.S. fans began
screaming and waving flags and the rattled Soviets committed one
turnover after another.  Ammonia Cure  “Kevin said, ‘This is it, let’s go get it, screw the
system,’” recalls Bantom, 60, the NBA’s senior vice president
of player development. “It demonstrated how I felt Americans
play basketball. We’ll keep coming after you until the horn
blows.”  The rally appeared to fall short until, with eight seconds
left and the U.S. behind by one point, U.S. guard  Doug Collins 
intercepted a Soviet pass and raced down court, pursued by
Soviet guard Zurab Sakandelidze. As Collins left his feet to
attempt a layup, Sakandelidze knocked him into a stanchion.  “I must have been unconscious for an instant,” Collins
said later. “I do remember somebody giving me ammonia.”  A trainer revived Collins. Sporting a shiner under his
right eye, Collins sank both shots, giving the U.S. a 50-49 lead
with three seconds left. Iba’s guarantee of victory if the U.S.
held the Soviets under 50 points now seemed prophetic.  Three Seconds  While Soviet coaches complained that they should have been
granted a timeout, Collins prevented Sergei Belov from advancing
the ball as the clock ticked down. One second separated the U.S.
from an eighth straight gold medal. Then R.  William Jones ,
secretary-general of the  International Federation of Amateur
Basketball , emerged from the crowd -- and, as the U.S. players
see it, deprived them of their rightful victory.  Jones, who had openly rooted for the Soviets against the
U.S. in the 1952 Olympics, ordered the clock turned back to
three seconds -- the time left when Collins made his shots.  When the game resumed, a Soviet pass deflected harmlessly
off the backboard. The crowd chanted “U-S-A” as the horn
sounded. U.S. players and ABC-TV announcer Frank Gifford assumed
that time had expired. McMillen jumped up and down and teammates
hugged as the spectators stormed the court.  The horn, though, actually signified that play had
recommenced before the clock was reset. The game wasn’t over.
Assistant U.S. coach Don Haskins urged Iba to defy Jones by
proclaiming victory and taking his team to the locker room.  Different Ending  Jones told Bach, the other U.S. assistant, that he would
strip the U.S. of the gold medal if it left the arena. Iba, his
team still leading by one point, wasn’t willing to risk a
forfeit.  Again, play restarted with three seconds left. This time,
the ending was different. McMillen covered Edeshko as the Soviet
guard took the ball out of bounds and launched a full-court pass
to Alexander Belov. Out-leaping Joyce and Forbes, Belov caught
the pass. Since Joyce sailed past Belov, and Forbes was knocked
to the floor, the Soviet player was uncontested as he laid the
ball into the basket for the gold.  James Bain , an American referee for the Munich Olympics,
was a spectator at the championship game, sitting with his wife
“right under the basket” where Belov scored the clincher.  “My wife and I were so totally enraged,” says Bain, 80.
“It seemed like a travesty of the rules at that time. Today, I
don’t have any change in opinion.”  Appeal Denied  Referee Renato Righetto authorized Iba to write “protest”
on the official score sheet.  “It was the first time in 50 years I’ve been in athletics
that they’ve played an overtime ballgame when the game wasn’t
tied,” Iba said later. Even though six of eight officials in
charge of the game attested that the last three seconds were
mishandled, a panel headed by Jones’s close friend denied the
U.S. appeal.  The players voted to refuse their silver medals and boycott
the awards ceremony.  “I played devil’s advocate a little bit” before making it
unanimous, recalls the 60-year-old McMillen, chief executive
officer of  Homeland Security Capital Corp. (HOMS) , in Arlington,
Virginia.  His college coach, Charles “Lefty” Driesell, who attended
the Munich game, scolded his star for rejecting the medal. “He
thought it was a bush thing,” McMillen says.  Pact Honored  At least one member of the team now has similar misgivings.
As a born-again Christian who believes in forgiveness, Burleson
says, it’s ironic to be “a part of the worst sportsmanship in
history.” Still, he will honor the pact, he says.  Often ignored in the furor over Jones’s intervention are
the U.S. mistakes on Alexander Belov’s winning basket. Over-
reacting to a referee’s warning not to reach over the end line,
McMillen backed away almost to the free throw line, allowing
Edeshko, the Soviet guard, to pass the ball unimpeded. McMillen
was afraid of being assessed a technical foul for interfering
with Edeshko, he says.  Iba didn’t insert two players who might have prevented the
final basket. Defensive specialist Bobby Jones, the team’s best
leaper, might have blanketed Belov.  “I did make the All-Defensive team 10 years in a row in
the pros,” says Jones, 60, who coaches at Carmel Christian
School in Matthews, North Carolina. “I might have made a
difference on that last play.”  Burleson Benched  It wouldn’t have been easy to throw or catch a pass over
the 7-feet-2-inch  Burleson . He didn’t play in the final game
after assistant coach Bach caught Burleson’s fiancée visiting
him one evening at 8 p.m. They were standing on his balcony,
looking at the view, Burleson says. Bach told Burleson that he
was violating a team rule against having a girl in his room at
night.  During the game’s final seconds, Burleson begged the
coaches to relent and put him in. Iba and Bach told him that
he’d been benched for his actions, he says.  “I know I would have at least slapped the pass down,”
says Burleson, 60, director of planning and inspections for
Avery County, North Carolina.  While “I don’t think anyone was happy” about the rule-
breaking, Bach says, it had nothing to do with why Burleson
never left the bench against the Soviets. Iba had more
confidence in McMillen, Bach says.  ‘Damn Ball’  The failure to deploy Burleson mystified Vladimir
Kondrashin, the Soviet Olympic coach. In a conversation at the
 World University Games  in 1973, Kondrashin asked him why he
hadn’t played in the last three seconds in Munich, Burleson
says. When Burleson explained he was suspended for breaking a
team rule, Kondrashin replied, “For them not to play you, that
was stupid. You can just run 100 wind sprints in practice.”  At those University Games, the U.S. gained a measure of
revenge for Munich. A strong squad that included Burleson,
Marvin Barnes, and future Hall of Famer David Thompson trounced
the host Soviets for the gold. Barnes led the team in rebounding
and was second to Thompson in scoring. Post-Munich, his volatile
personality no longer deterred U.S. basketball authorities.  “After that game they lost, they called me immediately and
said we want to go back there and get the gold medal,” says
Barnes, 59, who works with youth in Providence. “If I was down
there covering that guy, he would never have caught that damn
ball.”  Lessons Learned  The U.S. learned other lessons from the Munich debacle. It
curbed factionalism in 1974 by creating one organization, with
both AAU and  NCAA  representatives, to oversee teams for
international competitions.  Given more input into player selection than his predecessor
Iba, 1976 U.S. Olympic coach Dean Smith chose four members of
his own North Carolina squad, who had the advantage of being
familiar with his system. His team won the  gold medal  without
facing the Soviets, who lost to Yugoslavia in the semi-finals.  The U.S. and USSR wouldn’t meet again until a decisive
Soviet victory in 1988 prompted McMillen to circulate a
resolution in Congress to send professionals to the Olympics. In
1992, the U.S. “Dream Team” of NBA greats, including  Michael Jordan  and  Magic Johnson , coasted to the gold medal. It didn’t
have to play against either the USSR or Yugoslavia, since both
countries had dissolved.  While the NBA all-stars have rescued U.S. basketball
fortunes, the end of amateurism and of Cold War tensions
diminished the Olympic drama. No longer, as in the Munich and
“Miracle on Ice” clashes with the Soviets, does the U.S. send
untested collegians to battle its rivals for world domination,
with political prestige at stake.  August Reunion  Iba died at 88 in 1993, still “broken-hearted” about
Munich, Bach says. “The old man did not forget.”  Nor do the players. On their behalf, “Stolen Glory” co-
author Gallagher, an Illinois attorney, is pressing the
 International Olympic Committee  and the International Basketball
Federation for a re-hearing. The IOC and FIBA have refused to
reopen the matter.  The team will get together for its first reunion in August
at Georgetown College in Kentucky, captain Kenny Davis’s alma
mater. A 63-year-old Converse footwear account executive, the
slim, silver-haired Davis denounces the Munich outcome as an
injustice in motivational speeches to business audiences too
young to remember it.  Kevin Joyce, the feisty guard who led the comeback against
the Soviets, treasures his own makeshift Olympic medal. His late
mother Helen Joyce, a high school custodian who raised him by
herself after his father died, went to Munich for the game.  When they returned home, she bought a charm bracelet. She
had it made into a replica of a gold medal, and gave it to him
as a keepsake.  “I wear it constantly,” says Joyce, 61. “It doesn’t come
off. It means as much to me as any gold medal.”  (To read Part 1 in the series, click  here . To read Part 2,
click  here .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  