-- MTA Says Gaps to Widen Without Labor Savings, Higher Fares
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-25T19:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/mta-says-gaps-to-widen-without-labor-savings-higher-fares-1-.html
The New York Metropolitan
Transportation Authority projects deficits totaling $374 million
through 2016, a gap that may widen if the agency can’t contain
labor costs and force riders to pay more.  The MTA, operator of the biggest U.S. transit system,
forecasts shortfalls of $129 million in 2014, $14 million the
next year and $231 million in 2016, according to budget
documents released at the agency’s monthly meeting today in
 Manhattan .  The $13.1 billion budget for next year counts on
negotiating union contracts without increased costs and the
approval of a 7.5 percent fare and toll increase, Chairman
Joseph Lhota said. The extra charges would begin in March and
net $450 million annually. They follow last year’s increase; a
third is scheduled for 2015. Without those and other cost
savings, the deficits would widen to $2.7 billion by 2016, the
agency said.  Labor costs are “probably our No. 1 risk,” Lhota told
reporters today. “Our budget is fragile.”  The 2013 preliminary budget and four-year financial plan
that officials presented also include projected cash balances of
a combined $93 million this year and in 2013.  ‘Inching Forward’  MTA officials have been working to dig out of a fiscal hole
exacerbated by the 18-month recession, which triggered $93
million in service cuts two years ago and stoked anger among
riders and advocates. The budget restores about a third of those
reductions, a move that mass-transit groups and union members
hailed during the public-comment period at today’s meeting, even
as they lobbied for more.  Contract talks with Transport Workers Union Local 100, the
MTA’s largest bargaining unit, are “inching forward,” Lhota
said. “I’m optimistic we will get it done some time this
year.”  The budget is “a political document, not an economic
one,” John Samuelsen, the union’s president, said in a
telephone interview. “They’ve been known in the past to
frequently skew the numbers while in the midst of the contract
negotiations.”  The agency should renegotiate  interest rates  with banks to
achieve cost savings rather than make riders and workers
shoulder the burden, he said.  More Optimism  While saying he remained cautious, Lhota told reporters
he’s more optimistic about the agency’s finances than when he
took over as chairman about six months ago.  Lower property-tax revenue and higher-than-expected costs
on labor, post-retirement benefits and pension payments have
hurt the agency’s budget projections since the last update in
February, said Chief Financial Officer Robert Foran.  Working in the agency’s favor have been higher fare revenue
-- weekly subway trips reach their highest level in 45 years
last month -- lower energy prices, debt-service savings and a
better-than-projected surplus from last year, he said. The
service restorations to almost 40 rail, subway and bus lines
will also bring in additional revenue.  The MTA operates the  New York  City subway and bus system;
the Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road commuter lines; and
several intrastate bridges and tunnels. Board members will vote
on the final budget, including the toll and fare increases, in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  