-- Ace Rallies as CEO Evan Greenberg Touts Crop Insurance
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-07-25T20:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ace-rallies-as-ceo-evan-greenberg-touts-crop-insurance.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE) , the Swiss company with
operations in more than 50 nations, advanced the most since
November after touting long-term prospects of crop insurance
amid the worst U.S. Midwest drought in more than two decades.  Ace jumped 4.5 percent to $72.31 at 4:02 p.m. in New York.
The Zurich-based company, which also provides commercial
coverage, accident-and-health protection and reinsurance, gained
3.1 percent this year, compared with the 3.7 percent climb in
the 77-company  Bloomberg World Insurance Index. (BWINSU)   “Crop insurance is a great business over any period of
time,” Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg said on a
conference call today. “Right now, while earnings are under
more pressure, they’re still expected to be reasonable.”  Insurers that back U.S. farmers against production declines
could suffer their first underwriting loss since 2002 as dry
weather threatens harvests,  Iowa State University ’s Bruce Babcock said last week. Projected third-quarter crop losses
prompted the company to include a deduction of 19 cents a share
in its full-year earnings forecast.  Second-quarter operating income, which excludes some
investment results, climbed 10 percent to $743 million as
Greenberg raised prices for commercial coverage, Ace said late
yesterday. The company is benefiting from growth in  Latin
America  and  Asia , the CEO said.  Ace’s  forecast  for full-year operating earnings per share
was lifted by 17 cents to a range of $7.20 to $7.60 as benefits
tied to reserves and lower-than-expected first-half catastrophe
losses outweigh the expected crop damage. Gregory Locraft, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley, credited the insurer for prospering
amid the drought.  “We’re living through the worst crop loss probably in the
history of the industry,” Locraft said on the call. “These
results are amazing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 Snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  