-- Thai Exports Unexpectedly Fall on Weak Global Demand
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-07-26T06:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/thailand-s-june-exports-unexpectedly-fall-on-weak-global-demand.html
Thai exports unexpectedly fell in
June as weakening global demand offset easing supply constraints
after last year’s floods.  Overseas sales  slipped 4.2 percent from a year earlier to
$19.8 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said in Nonthaburi
province outside Bangkok today. That compares with a 7.68
percent rise reported for May, and the median forecast for a 4.5
percent increase in a Bloomberg News  survey  of nine economists.  Exports may continue to decline as a deepening European
sovereign-debt crisis crimps demand for the region’s goods. The
Thai central bank last month cut its export growth forecast to
about 8 percent from 9 percent, while the  Asian Development Bank 
last week reduced its predictions for the region’s expansion in
2012 and 2013 and said more easing of monetary and fiscal
policies may be needed.  “The outlook for Thai exports is not without risks,
especially as discretionary purchases and commodities feel the
heat from global growth slowdown fears and the European
crisis,” Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte. in
 Singapore , said before the release.  Imports rose 2.6 percent in June from a year earlier, for a
 trade deficit  of $546.3 million, compared with a shortfall of
$1.74 billion in May, when imports climbed 18.17 percent.  Thailand’s rice exports may fall 39 percent to 6.5 million
tons this year, the Thai Rice Exporters Association said in a
statement earlier today.  The Bank of  Thailand  will keep its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3 percent for a fourth straight meeting today,
according to all 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  