-- Thailand Signals Room to Ease as Growth Forecast Cut
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-07-26T06:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/thailand-holds-interest-rate-as-economic-recovery-stays-easing.html
Thailand ’s central bank signaled it
has room to cut  interest rates  to protect the economy from a
global slowdown as it lowered the country’s growth and inflation
forecasts after keeping borrowing costs unchanged.  The Bank of Thailand is ready to do more to support growth
if risks escalate, Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan
said today, after the monetary authority held its benchmark  one-
day bond repurchase rate  at 3 percent as predicted by all 14
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . It cut its growth
forecast for the year to 5.7 percent from 6 percent.  The Southeast Asian country has refrained from joining
nations from  Brazil  to  China  in easing monetary policy as the
economy recovers from floods last year that disrupted the supply
chains of companies including Toyota Motor Corp.  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis has hurt demand for exports from Thailand,
which this month marks 15 years since its baht devaluation
sparked the Asian financial crisis.  “If Europe’s situation worsens further, it’s possible
Thailand will cut interest rates,” said Satoshi Ushijima, the
Bangkok-based vice president of the treasury division at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. “If the BOT moves before the end of this
year, rather than holding rates, it will be a cut, as they
lowered the growth forecast.”  The  Thai baht  rose 0.2 percent to 31.72 per dollar as of
3:29 p.m. in Bangkok. The  benchmark SET index  was little changed,
having gained about 15 percent this year. The currency has
declined 0.6 percent.  Inflation Revised  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has raised minimum
wages and will spend as much as 2 trillion baht ($63 billion)
over seven years on infrastructure projects to boost growth
after last year’s floods. The $346 billion economy unexpectedly
expanded 0.3 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter,
after contracting 8.9 percent in the previous three months.  The Bank of Thailand today cut its growth forecast for 2013
to 5 percent from 5.4 percent. Inflation this year will be 2.9
percent from an earlier estimate of 3.3 percent, it said, while
keeping the  core inflation  forecast at 2.2 percent.  Consumer prices  climbed 2.56 percent from a year earlier in
June, after rising 2.53 percent in May.  The central bank also cut its export growth forecast for
the year to 7 percent from 8.3 percent. Overseas sales in June
fell 4.2 percent from a year earlier, a report today showed.  Risks Ahead  Two members of the seven-member monetary policy committee
voted today for a 25 basis-point cut in borrowing costs, the
Bank of Thailand said, adding that its current rate is
accommodative. The central bank cut the benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point each in November and January.  “We have room to adjust monetary policy to support
economic growth if needed,” Paiboon said in Bangkok today. “We
think the global economic problems will prolong and there are
more risks ahead. So we should save our bullets to use when it’s
necessary. If the situation becomes worse, we are ready to do
more.”  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its global
growth forecast for next year to 3.9 percent, and the  Asian
Development Bank  said the region’s economies may need to ease
monetary and fiscal policies further, after reducing its
predictions for expansion for 2012 and 2013.  Europe was plunged into fresh turmoil this week as the
first call for bailout aid by a Spanish region sent borrowing
costs surging, while Moody’s Investors Service lowered  Germany ’s
rating outlook to negative. The IMF today said China’s slowing
economy faces significant downside risks, while  Singapore ’s
central bank said growth may fall below 1 percent should the  U.S.
economy  worsen and if the euro-area crisis escalates.  While domestic demand growth has been maintained, the
worsening global outlook has hurt  exports , the central bank said
today, adding that it will closely monitor developments and
stand ready to take “appropriate action as warranted.”  “It’s definitely possible the BOT will cut rates depending
on external conditions,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at
Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “They cut the
growth forecast while inflation has been stable with no prospect
of a sharp rebound. So a rate cut will be one of the options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  