-- Taiwan’s Capital-Gains Tax on Trading May Raise $365.6 Million
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-07-26T02:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/taiwan-s-capital-gains-tax-on-trading-may-raise-365-6-million.html
A proposed capital-gains tax on
Taiwanese securities trading will probably raise as much as
NT$11 billion ($365.6 million) in  tax revenue , according to the
island’s Ministry of Finance.  Taiwan’s parliament approved a plan yesterday paving the
way for the introduction of the levy, capping almost four months
of government debate that helped drag the island’s stock market
lower. The plan will likely affect 10,000 investors, the  finance
ministry  said in a statement.  The  Taiex (TWSE)  Index, the benchmark stock gauge, has lost 13
percent since a government panel held its first tax discussion
on March 28. The government and legislators argued over as many
as 10 versions of the bill, prompting the resignation of
Christina Liu as finance minister on May 29. Lawmakers have been
at odds over the levy that is aimed at narrowing a wealth gap
among Taiwan’s population and bolstering government finances as
economic growth slows.  “This proposal has dragged on for so long and it’s finally
come to an end,” Bryan Chen, a  fund manager  at Taipei-based
Union Securities Investment Trust Co., said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Confidence will increase by a little.”  The two-stage tax proposal approved yesterday gives retail
investors the option from 2013 to 2014 to either pay a flat 15
percent tax on stock gains or pay a levy linked to the
performance of the  benchmark index . From 2015, the tax will only
apply to “active” investors, non-residents and shareholders of
unlisted companies, as well as those selling larger amount of
stocks in the island’s emerging board and shares in initial
public offerings. Domestic institutional investors will pay a 12
percent to 15 percent tax on gains.  Tax Evasion  Taiwan  has exempted securities transactions from capital-
gains taxes since Jan. 1, 1990, according to the stock
exchange’s  website , when the tax was set aside a year after its
introduction because of widespread evasion. Stocks fell for 19
consecutive days, tumbling 33 percent in a month, when the plan
for the tax was first discussed in 1988, Schive Chi, chairman of
Taiwan Stock Exchange Corp., said on April 3. The government has
contemplated reintroducing it since at least 1993.  The Taiex gained 0.3 percent to 6,997.82 as of 10:15 a.m.
local time, taking its decline this month to 4.1 percent. The
gauge trades for 14.9 times estimated profit, less than its
three-year average multiple of 15.5, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Bigger Overhang’  “While the passage of the capital gains tax will remove
one of the market overhangs, we believe the bigger overhang
actually has more to do with fundamentals,”  William Dong  and
Camellia Cheng, analysts at UBS AG, wrote in a report dated July
23. “The current difficult market environment is attributable
more to global macro uncertainty and the euro debt crisis.”  President Ma Ying-jeou is seeking to boost an economy that
grew 0.39 percent in the first quarter, the weakest pace since
2009. Ma has ordered the Cabinet to study possible fiscal
measures as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a growth slowdown
in  China  hurt Taiwanese exports.  Taiwan’s tax revenue accounted for 12.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, down from 13.6 percent in 2008,
according to data on the Ministry of Finance’s  website . The
island collected NT$1.7 trillion in tax last year, according to
the website.  Boosting Investments  Taiwan will shift its focus from checking inflation to
boosting investments and infrastructure construction to spur
economic growth, Kuan Chung-ming, minister without portfolio,
said in a briefing in Taipei yesterday.  The island’s statistics bureau cut its 2012 economic growth
forecast in May to 3.03 percent from an April estimate of 3.38
percent. The government may report on July 31 that gross
domestic product increased 0.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News economist  survey .  While the approval on the tax plan “has resolved the
uncertainty issue, the weak economy will continue to be a key
factor and hurt the stock market ultimately,” Union Securities
Investment’s Chen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  