-- Making the Rich Poorer Doesn’t Enrich the Middle Class
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-07-25T22:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/making-the-rich-poorer-doesn-t-enrich-the-middle-class.html
Here’s a question for you: Would you
rather have more money, or keep your current income and see the
rich become less wealthy?  It’s not a trick question. Any member of the middle class
would rather have more money.  Income inequality  may be a problem
for society at large, but it isn’t a concern for those
struggling to make ends meet. Give more to those with less, and
they will be better off. Making the rich poorer does nothing for
the middle class -- it may even hurt -- except assuage some
jealousy for the next guy’s material success.  Polling  by the Pew Research Center shows that people aren’t
interested in taking money from the wealthy. They just want a
chance to get rich themselves.  So why does President  Barack Obama  conflate his stated goal
of helping the middle class with the need to impose higher taxes
on the rich? Maybe he thinks he can “ spread the wealth
around ,” as he told Joe the Plumber during the 2008
presidential campaign?  Alas, a “middle-class welfare state can’t be supported
solely by taxes on the rich,” says Peter Sepp, executive vice
president at the National Taxpayers Union in  Washington .  The president’s  Buffett rule , which would impose a minimum
effective rate of 30 percent on those earning more than $1
million a year, would generate no more than $162 billion over 10
years, according to Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation.
That’s hardly enough to enrich the middle class, no less sustain
existing entitlement programs. Besides, the committee’s
estimates assume the rich blithely fork over the money rather
than engage in tax-avoidance strategies.  Unequal Burden  More importantly, Obama’s fairness argument doesn’t hold up
under scrutiny: The rich already pay the lion’s share of taxes
in the U.S. In 2009, the last year for which complete Internal
Revenue Service data are available, the top 20 percent of
earners received 50 percent of pretax income and paid almost 70
percent of federal taxes, according to a  study  by the
 Congressional Budget Office . (In the CBO study, federal taxes
include individual, corporate, payroll and excise taxes.) Income
may be skewed, but the tax burden is even more heavily weighted
toward the rich.  These  trends  have been in place for at least 30 years. In
1980, the top quintile paid 19 percent of the federal personal
income tax compared with 36.7 percent in 2009. At the same time,
the  tax burden  of the bottom 50 percent fell to 2.3 percent from
7 percent. And, thanks to an array of tax credits, the
percentage of  filers with no tax liability  has crept up during
the last two decades to 42 percent in 2009.  Yet the president rarely misses an opportunity to rally the
huddled masses with his fairness doctrine: “I want an America
where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share
and everyone plays by the same set of rules.”  The president would be better served if he focused on the
“rules” part. Tax experts have already  debunked the notion 
that millionaires pay a lower effective  tax rate  than their
secretaries. ( Warren Buffett  may, but it’s his  prerogative to
overpay  his taxes to help the Treasury reduce publicly held
debt.)  As for soaking the rich, no country does it with quite the
same aplomb as the U.S., according to Scott Hodge, president of
the  Tax Foundation  in Washington. Using data from a 2008 study
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
Hodge found that the U.S.  placed third  among the 24 developed
countries in  income inequality  and first when it came to the tax
burden borne by the rich. By Hodge’s calculation, the ratio of
the share of taxes paid by the top 10 percent to the share of
income earned was 1.35, the highest of the group.  The rich, it seems, pull their weight and pay more than
their fair share. If the middle class has a legitimate gripe, it
should be with the rules department.  Rich Rule  What rules do the rich manipulate that the middle class has
neither the time nor the resources to exploit? Why, the  U.S. tax
code . That would be a good place for the president to start if
he wants to ensure that everyone plays by the same rules.  “Many clever tax-reduction strategies are just not
available to middle-class families,” Sepp of the National
Taxpayers Union says.  The rich employ people to lobby Congress on behalf of their
particular business or industry. They make large campaign
contributions to committee chairmen, who might be persuaded to
craft a specific tax break or vote in a certain way on a piece
of legislation. And they hire tax consultants and lawyers to
walk them through the maze of loopholes, shelters and strategies
to shift income and reduce the estate-tax burden on their heirs.  Even then, some small and medium-sized businesses are
saying thanks, but no thanks, to many tax breaks as “too
cumbersome or too confusing” or more costly to obtain than the
benefit is worth, according to a  July 23 article  in the Wall
Street Journal.  Of course, the convoluted  tax code  has spawned “a cottage
industry of tax-credit consultants,” the article says.  Now there’s something Obama can point to the next time he
touts his job-creation record on the campaign trail.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Bernanke’s options  and on why
 politics should continue  past the water’s edge;  Edward Glaeser 
on how the U.S. can be  more like Sweden and less like Greece ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  positions that will prove embarrassing  in 20
years;  Ezra Klein  on no easy answers for  campaign finance ;
 Steven Greenhut  on  San Francisco ’s arrogant claim to  Yosemite’s
water .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  