-- Alex Rodriguez Fractures Hand as Mariners Defeat Yankees 4-2
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-25T06:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/alex-rodriguez-fractures-hand-as-mariners-defeat-yankees-4-2.html
Alex Rodriguez  broke a bone in his
left hand after being struck by a pitch as the New York Yankees
lost 4-2 to the Seattle Mariners.  Rodriguez was hit by a Felix Hernandez fastball in the top
of the eighth inning. The Yankees third baseman dropped to the
ground in pain clutching his hand before being escorted from
Safeco Field in Seattle last night by medical staff.  The 88 mph (142 kph) pitch caused a non-displaced fracture
of the fifth metacarpal, ruling Rodriguez out for as long as
eight weeks, MLB.com reported. The 36-year-old will see a team
doctor tomorrow, the New York Times said.  “He’s upset,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters.
“We’re not going to have him and we’re going to have to find a
way.”  Curtis Granderson  leads the Yankees with 27 home runs this
season, followed by  Robinson Cano  with 22,  Mark Teixeira  with 19
and Rodriguez, who has 15. Rodriguez ranks fifth all-time in
Major League Baseball with 644 home runs.  Hernandez hit three of the last five batters he faced last
night, including Ichiro Suzuki on the right foot in the seventh
inning and  Derek Jeter  on the left forearm in the eighth.  Home Runs  Granderson opened the scoring for the Yankees with a solo
home run before  Michael Saunders  responded with a homer to tie
it in the first inning.  Jesus Montero put Seattle ahead with a run-scoring single
in the third and Saunders scored on a sacrifice fly by John Jaso
to make it 3-1.  Jeter scored on a sacrifice fly by Teixeira in the eighth
before Dustin Ackley reached home on an infield single by Kyle
Seager to complete the scoring.  The Mariners improved to 43-56 while the Yankees are 58-39,
the best record in the major leagues. The  Washington Nationals 
beat the New York Mets 5-2 to improve to 57-39, tied for the
second-best record in the majors with the Texas Rangers, who
lost 2-1 to the Boston Red Sox (49-49).  The Yankees are 1-1 in their series with the Mariners,
which is scheduled to conclude tonight.  Ichiro went 1-for-3 in his second game for New York after
ending his 11 1/2-season stay with the Mariners two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  