-- Anadarko Calls Trade Most Since 2010 in Bet on 38% Gain
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-07-25T07:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/anadarko-calls-trade-most-since-2010-in-bet-on-38-gain-options.html
Bullish  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
options trading reached the highest level in almost  two years ,
reflecting speculation that a rally which lifted the stock 21
percent since June is only half over.  Call  volume  jumped to 90,140 on July 19, the highest level
since December 2010 and five times more than bearish contracts,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That day, an investor bought
about 29,000 January $80 calls while selling the same number of
January $95 calls in a bet the stock will rise above $80 and go
as high as $95, according to Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based
provider of options-market data.  Shares of The Woodlands, Texas-based company climbed to its
highest price in 2 1/2 months on July 18 after  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  started discussions over a bid for the producer’s gas assets
in  Mozambique . Anadarko may attract buyers, according to Raymond
James & Associates Inc.’s  Andrew Coleman . Settlement of a $25
billion environmental liability lawsuit brought against the
company by the U.S. and chemical producer Tronox Inc. could push
the stock higher, Geoff King of Van Eck Associates Corp. said.  “There’s overhang from the Tronox litigation and we would
argue that it’s being overly discounted into the current share
price,” King, who helps manage Anadarko shares in the $6
billion  Global Hard Assets Fund (GHAAX)  as a senior energy analyst at
New York-based Van Eck Associates Corp., said yesterday in a
phone interview. “The likelihood of an obscenely negative
outcome is unrealistic. There’s been takeover speculation for
some time given the discount.”  Environmental Claims  The  lawsuit  is over environmental claims and tort claims
related to Tronox’s 2005 spinoff from Kerr-McGee Corp., which
was later acquired by Anardako. Tronox filed for bankruptcy in
2009 and sued its former parent, saying it was overburdened with
billions of dollars in environmental debts. The U.S., Tronox’s
largest creditor on behalf of the Environmental Protection
Agency, intervened, creating the current lawsuit.  Anadarko has said it is open to resolving the lawsuit
through negotiations or other mechanisms, and a trial resumed
yesterday. Analysts have estimated several billion dollars for a
settlement are factored into the stock, meaning a resolution
probably would set the stage for a rally.  Shell,  Europe ’s biggest oil company, is interested in the
producer’s gas assets in Mozambique, where companies are looking
to tap the largest discoveries in a decade, people familiar with
the situation said last week. Anadarko may attract buyers
because of its exploration capabilities, according to Coleman,
an  analyst  at  Raymond James  in Houston.  ‘Great Portfolio’  “If you’re really good at finding oil and gas, then those
sorts of skills are liked by everybody,” Coleman said in a
phone interview yesterday. He has an $81 share-price forecast
and rates the stock outperform, meaning that he expects the
stock to rise more than its peers over the next 12 months.
Anadarko has “a great portfolio and at some point they’re going
to get credit for it or someone’s going to take them out,” he
said.  Anadarko is the second-largest U.S. oil and natural-gas
producer by market value among companies that don’t have
refineries or a chemical business.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest
U.S. independent oil and gas producer. Anadarko is known for its
oil and gas drilling programs in areas such as Ghana and
Mozambique off the coast of  Africa , in the  Gulf of Mexico  and in
U.S. onshore projects.  Anadarko Calls  The ratio of outstanding  calls  to buy Anadarko versus puts
to sell rose 25 percent from July 18 to 1.86-to-1 on July 20,
its highest level since June 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Ownership of calls jumped to 345,025 on July 19, its
highest level in almost two years.  Options traders have been pushing down the cost of bearish
contracts. Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in
Anadarko on July 20 cost  3.33 points  more than calls betting on
a 10 percent rally, data on three-month options compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the lowest level since May 2011.  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, declined to
comment on the options trading.  Exploration and production companies such as Anadarko may
fall if oil prices decline, according to  Scott Hanold , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis .  “Until you see some stability in both the oil price as
well as the economic outlook and concerns over Europe, I think
the stocks will be volatile,” Hanold said in a telephone
interview yesterday. He has an outperform rating on Anadarko and
a 12-month price estimate of $99 a share.  Tronox Settlement  Anadarko shares may drop if the Tronox case goes against
the company for much more than expected, Hanold said. A
settlement in the range of $2 billion is possible, while
investors are pricing in about $4 billion of Tronox costs, he
said.  The oil and gas producer has  fallen  5.1 percent since July
19, when a lawyer for the U.S. and Tronox said no settlement
agreement was reached. Anadarko lost 5.7 percent on June 21, the
biggest drop since November. Brent slipped to its lowest level
since December 2010 that day.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , rose 9.9 percent to 20.47 yesterday. Its European
counterpart, the VStoxx Index, which tracks Euro Stoxx 50 Index
option prices, fell 1.5 percent to 28.02 at 9:42 a.m. in
 Frankfurt  today.  Among the five  most-owned  Anadarko contracts, four were
bullish. January $95 calls and January $80 calls, with an
exercise price 38 percent and 16 percent respectively above
yesterday’s close, had the largest open interest, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The July 19 call spread, which was made using
those two contracts, is a bet the stock will rise above $80 and
as high as $95 as it cuts the cost of the trade while capping
potential profit.  “The demand for  call options  is up as investors position
for the potential resolution of the litigation case,” Terry Wilson, an equity derivatives strategist at Credit Suisse Group
AG in  New York , said in an e-mail yesterday. “As a result, skew
has flattened to a recent low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  