-- Ancestry.com Jumps as Much as 20% on Buyout-Talks Report
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-07-25T22:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ancestry-com-jumps-as-much-as-20-on-buyout-talks-report.html
Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the family-
history research website in talks to sell itself, reported
second-quarter sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates,
citing user gains and demand for new products.  Revenue rose 18 percent to $119.1 million, topping $117.4
million, the average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Per-share profit also rose to 44 cents, topping the
41 cents projected by analysts. The company also raised its
sales forecast for 2012 to $473 million to $480 million.  Provo, Utah-based Ancestry.com passed the 2 million-user
milestone and boosted sales by giving access to more
information, including on DNA and U.S. census figures. The
company is discussing a possible buyout with private-equity firm
Providence Equity Partners Inc., according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  With stable revenue and relatively lower valuation,
Ancestry.com was “attractively priced,” Bank of America Corp.
analysts said last month in a research report. The  New York 
Times reported yesterday that the company is in talks with
Providence and other companies to be taken private. It could be
valued at more than $1.5 billion, the newspaper reported.  Ancestry.com rose to as high as $32.80 in late trading
after the results were released. It had surged 15 percent to
$31.42 at today’s close, the biggest increase since Jan. 5.  Besides Providence, Ancestry.com is in talks with TPG
Capital LP, and Permira, the Times said. Final bids are due
early next month, according to the report. Ancestry.com has been
working with  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners LLC to find
buyers, Bloomberg News reported last month.  2013 ‘Headwinds’  Ancestry.com Chief Executive Officer Tim Sullivan declined
to comment when asked on a conference call about the prospect of
a sale.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG, Nathaniel Garnick, a
spokesman for Permira, and Andrew Cole, a spokesman for
Providence, declined to comment.  The company lost almost a third of its market value earlier
this year amid concern that the cancellation of a  television
show  featuring its genealogy research would crimp subscriber
growth. “Who Do You Think You Are?” showed celebrities such as
 Martin Sheen  and  Marisa Tomei  exploring their roots with the
help of Ancestry.com research and gave the service more
exposure. The final episode aired on May 18 on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC network.  The final season of the NBC show accounted for 5 percent to
7 percent of Ancestry.com’s global marketing budget, Chief
Financial Officer Howard Hochhauser said on the call. While
Ancestry.com is looking to do similar TV deals, not having the
show to attract subscribers “will certainly be a headwind in
2013,” Hochhauser said.  “Our long-term would be to continue to invest in
television programs that celebrate family history,” Sullivan
said. “None of it is must-have marketing. I think we would just
be very careful, we would just be very disciplined in evaluating
possible opportunities.”  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  