-- Apple Mountain Lion Lashes Mac to IPad: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-07-25T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/apple-mountain-lion-lashes-mac-to-ipad-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Mountain Lion, the latest Mac
operating system, introduces more than 200 new features but
seems to have only one overarching goal: binding your computer
ever more firmly to your iPhone and iPad, while binding you ever
more firmly to  Apple. (AAPL)   Compared to the previous version of Apple’s OS X software,
Lion -- which overhauled everything from how programs are
launched to how you scroll through a web page -- Mountain Lion
is an incremental improvement, bringing to the Mac several
functions already familiar to users of the company’s mobile
devices.  I’ve been running the new software for a week, both on a
laptop borrowed from the company and on an iMac desktop where I
installed it myself. The upgrade, which is available only as a
download from the Mac App Store, costs $20 and allows you to
install it on all your personally owned Macs.  Mountain Lion works on most models released since 2007,
though it requires that you already have either Lion or its
predecessor, Snow Leopard.  The upgrade process took about an hour and a quarter using
a cable modem. It required little input from me and was
aggravation-free. The biggest issue I confronted was the
temporary disappearance of an icon for  Google (GOOG) ’s Chrome browser,
easily fixed.  ICloud Integration  The most significant change in Mountain Lion is its
integration with iCloud, the free Apple service that
automatically stores your data online and lets you easily access
it from any Apple device.  For instance, using the Documents in the Cloud feature, I
created a file on the Mac using Apple’s Pages word-processing
application, pulled it down on an iPad to make a few tweaks,
then saw them reflected the next time I came back to the Mac.  At the outset, Documents in the Cloud is limited to Apple
applications such as Pages and the other components in the
company’s iWorks productivity suite. It will be up to third-
party developers, such as  Microsoft (MSFT) , whether they want to adopt
it for their products too.  Mountain Lion also brings the Messages app, already used on
the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, to the Mac. Messages, which
replaces the previous iChat program, allows you to send free,
unlimited texts to fellow Apple users.  Even better, your conversations are duplicated and kept up
to date on all your Apple devices, so that, in my case, I was
able to start a conversation with an iPhone-wielding offspring
using the Mac, then seamlessly continue it on an iPad.  Mac Migration  Messages is just one of the applications hatched on the
iPad-iPhone operating system, called iOS, that have now migrated
to the Mac. Others making the trek include the Game Center hub
and social network, a new centralized Notification Center that
slides in and out with a finger swipe, and new apps for notes
and reminders -- all of them tied together so anything done on
one Apple device is reflected on all Apple devices.  For all the convenience, Apple’s relentless drive to put
itself at the center of your entire online experience can
sometimes feel a little overweening.  A good example is the new Gatekeeper feature, designed to
enhance security by throwing up obstacles to keep you from
unknowingly installing malicious software.  Programs from the Mac  App Store  or from developers
certified by Apple glide through, but for anything else, you
have to manually override Gatekeeper and convince Mountain Lion
you really, really want to install that software.  Apple’s Approval  Eventually, perhaps, every Mac program will have some sort
of Apple stamp of approval. After all, the only official source
for iPad and iPhone apps is the company’s carefully controlled
App Store.  Personal computers, though, have a long tradition of user
choice in software. And Gatekeeper’s harping seemed a bit much
to go through when all I wanted was to install software from
 Verizon (VZ)  to let me use my wireless modem. Even adding an “Install
anyway” button to the warning window would have reduced my
annoyance.  Lest you start to feel completely imprisoned by the Apple-
centric ecosystem, though, Mountain Lion includes a few new nods
in the direction of connecting with the wider world.  Twitter, for example, is now deeply integrated throughout
the operating system. Once you log in to your account through
the System Preferences setting, you can easily tweet through the
Notifications Center, as well as a Share button built into many
applications.  A similar tie with  Facebook (FB)  will be rolled out in an
update, though I was able to check out a pre-release version.
You’ll also be able to bring your Facebook friends into your
Contacts address book, and receive activity alerts through the
Notification Center.  Then there’s AirPlay Mirroring, which allows you to
wirelessly toss anything from your Mac’s screen onto a high-
definition television equipped with the compact $99 Apple TV
set-top box.  It sure beats fumbling with a projector and cables if
you’re doing, say, a PowerPoint or Keynote presentation. But it
makes you dependent on yet another piece of Apple technology.  Which, of course, is precisely the idea.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  book  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 