-- Apple Jury to Learn of Samsung Document Destruction
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-26T08:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/apple-jury-to-learn-of-samsung-document-destruction.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won court permission to
tell a jury that  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  destroyed e-mail that
the iPhone maker wanted to use as evidence in a patent trial set
to begin July 30.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in  San Jose ,  California ,
yesterday agreed with Apple that jurors should be told that they
can draw an “adverse inference” from Samsung’s failure to
avoid auto-deleting e-mail Apple later sought as evidence. The
jury instruction is a “modest” method of correcting for any
harm suffered by Apple and deterring Samsung’s practices in the
future, Grewal wrote  “In effect, Samsung kept the shredder on long after it
should have known about this litigation,” Grewal wrote. The
judge said the “rolling basis” Samsung used for deletions
resulted in a similar ruling against the company in case filed
in 2004.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, and Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung, the world’s two biggest makers of high-end
mobile phones, accuse each other of copying designs and
technology for mobile devices. The companies are fighting patent
battles on four continents to retain their dominance in the $219
billion global smartphone market.  Possible witnesses at the trial include Apple senior
executives  Scott Forstall  and  Phil Schiller , according to a
witness list provided by Apple. Forstall is the senior vice
president in charge of the software that runs on Apple’s iPhone
and iPad. Schiller is the senior executive in charge of
marketing.  Samsung Appealing  Samsung will appeal the ruling to U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who is overseeing the trial, and if necessary, to a federal
appeals court, said Adam Yates, a spokesman for the company, in
an e-mailed statement.  Apple’s document destruction claims were rejected in May by
International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender, Yates said
in his e-mail. Pender ruled Samsung took “reasonable and
appropriate steps to preserve evidence” and that Samsung’s
document retention policy complied with federal law, Yates said.  Apple seeks damages totaling $2.53 billion in the case,
according to a court filing yesterday. Apple “conservatively
estimates” Samsung’s infringement has cost the company $500
million in lost profit and more than $25 million in royalty
damages, according to a court filing.  Unjust Enrichment  The remainder of the total comprises Apple’s unjust
enrichment claims, a figure that’s blocked out in the court
filing. Apple said that after trial it will seek a permanent ban
on sales of Samsung products found by the jury to infringe its
inventions.  Grewal concluded in yesterday’s order that “Samsung has
failed to prevent the destruction of relevant evidence for
Apple’s use in this litigation” and that Apple proved “the
lost evidence was favorable to Apple.”  He proposed that jurors be told they must determine for
themselves whether to make the evidence destruction a factor in
their verdict.  “You may choose to find it determinative, somewhat
determinative, or not at all determinative in reaching your
verdict,” according to the instructions for the jury.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.  Separately, in a filing today, Samsung sought a court order
prohibiting Apple from telling jurors that it improperly avoided
paying U.S. taxes.  ‘Highly Prejudicial’  The suggestion is “not only highly prejudicial and
inflammatory, but dead wrong,” Samsung said in the filing.  Samsung also sought an order prohibiting Apple from
presenting evidence of Samsung’s total revenue, profits and
wealth, saying such evidence would only be used to show the
South Korean company can afford to pay “a very large damage
award.”  Apple claimed in another filing yesterday before Grewal
issued his order, that Samsung is demanding an “unfair,
unreasonable, and discriminatory” 2.4 percent royalty on the
sales price of Apple products that Samsung claims use its
technology.  Samsung “has never sought or received” the 2.4 percent
royalty “from any licensee, and indeed cannot even explain
where that number came from,” Apple argues in the filing.
“Samsung’s royalty demands are multiple times more than Apple
has paid any other patentees for licenses to their declared-
essential patent portfolios.”  Samsung’s Technology  Samsung countered in its own filing that long before Apple
announced the release of any of its products using Samsung’s
technology, Samsung offered a “fair and reasonable” royalty
rate on its patents to “virtually every major player in the
mobile phone industry,” including Apple.  Samsung’s offer is “consistent with the royalty rates
other companies charge for use of their standards-essential
patents,” Samsung said in its filing. Apple “simply rejected
Samsung’s opening offer, refused to negotiate further and to
this day has not paid Samsung a dime for Apple’s use of
Samsung‘s standards-essential technology.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  