-- Apple, FMC, Google, Oscar, DriveCam: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/apple-fmc-google-oscar-drivecam-intellectual-property-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) 
clashed in federal bankruptcy court over the ownership of
patents Kodak is planning to sell as part of its restructuring.  Kodak said Apple wants to disrupt the planned auction by
claiming ownership of 10 patents and asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  to reject the personal computer
maker’s claims.  Gropper didn’t immediately rule on the issue at a hearing
yesterday, saying he would issue a decision “as quickly as I
can.”  A ruling for Kodak would bolster the Rochester, New York-
based company as it seeks to reinvent itself and raise money
after filing for bankruptcy earlier this year. Kodak is planning
an auction next month for about 1,100 patents.  Apple waited too long to assert ownership claims, which
arise out of joint work by the companies in the 1990s, according
to Kodak, which cited the statute of limitations.  Kodak obtained the patents and enforced them through
licensing deals “in a very public way” while Apple and
Flashpoint Technology Inc., which is also part of the dispute,
did nothing to challenge Kodak, Steven Holley, a Kodak attorney,
told Gropper.  “Apple and Flashpoint cannot claim that this issue was
only recently brought to their attention,” he said.  Kodak sued Apple in U.S.  bankruptcy court  in June over the
patents. The company was asking Gropper for a pre-trial ruling
in its favor, known as summary judgment. Apple has filed
counterclaims against Kodak, saying the bankrupt company is
claiming Apple’s technology as its own.  Apple is claiming ownership as part of an effort to prevent
Kodak from getting a fair price for the assets, or Apple wants
to buy the patents cheaply and extinguish its “very
substantial” risk of patent infringement claims, Kodak said.  Cupertino, California-based Apple contends it wasn’t
required to monitor patents Kodak obtained over time, looking
for potential claims, nor would that have been practical.  “Kodak’s decision to file patent applications based on
technology disclosed by Apple would have required extensive
efforts and difficulty in monitoring and analyzing many
thousands of Kodak patents,” Apple said in court papers.  The hearing in bankruptcy court comes after Kodak lost a
patent case against Apple and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  The U.S.
International Trade Commission on July 20 upheld a judge’s
findings that neither Apple nor RIM violated Kodak’s rights in
the patent. Kodak said it would appeal.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New York (Manhattan).
The Apple lawsuit is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-01720,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ecolab Sues FMC for Infringing Animal Carcass Treatment Patent  Ecolab USA, a  Minnesota  company that makes cleaning and
sanitizing products, sued  FMC Corp. (FMC)  for patent infringement.  The suit, filed July 20 in federal court in Minnesota,
accused Philadelphia-based FMC of infringing patent 8,030,351,
which covers a technology for the treatment of animal carcasses.
The patent was issued in October 2011.  According to court papers, FMC’s  Blitz  and  Spectrum 
antimicrobial compositions for use on animal carcasses infringe
the patent. Ecolab claims the infringement is deliberate, and
says it received “substantial damage” as a result of FMC’s
actions.  St. Paul , Minnesota-based Ecolab asked the court to bar
further infringement of its patent and for awards of money
damages “in no event less than a reasonable royalty” and
requested they be tripled to punish FMC for its actions.
Additionally, Ecolab seeks awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  FMC didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is  Ecolab USA (ECL)  Inc. v. FMC Corp., 0:12-cv-01767-
MJD-JGG, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Moves Toward Possible Antitrust-Case Settlement, EU Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has reached a “good” understanding with
European Union regulators working toward a possible settlement
of an antitrust probe, an EU spokesman said.  “The commission considers Google’s proposals as a good
basis for further talks and has reached a good level of
understanding with Google,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for
the European Commission, said in an e-mail from Brussels
yesterday. “There will soon be discussions at technical level.
We hope this process will lead to remedies addressing our
concerns.”  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  asked Google in
May to make an offer to settle concerns that it promotes its own
specialist search services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and that its agreements with websites and software
developers stifle competition in the advertising industry.  Almunia told MLex in an interview yesterday that regulators
have been “exchanging views” during recent weeks of talks on a
possible settlement of the EU’s investigation into allegations
that the world’s largest search engine discriminates against
rivals in search results.  “So far, so good,” Almunia said in the interview.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
 Argentina  and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continued to cooperate with regulators.  Regulators asked Google to extend an initial offer to
modify its search engine to cover mobile applications for
smartphones and tablet computers, two people familiar with the
negotiations said last week.  Oscar Statuette Trademark Partly Voided by German Court  The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences partly lost
a German trademark suit over the use of the Oscar statuette, the
iconic symbol of its annual awards ceremony.  While upholding the picture mark for film industry
services, the Berlin Regional Court ruled the mark no longer
protects motion pictures, a product for which it was originally
also registered, the court said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The case is LG Berlin: 16 O 512/11.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Malibu Media Is ‘Copyright Troll,’ Downloading Defendant Says  A Colorado resident who was targeted in a copyright
infringement suit brought by a maker of adult films has filed a
countersuit accusing the filmmaker of defamation and seeks $1
million in damages.  Malibu Media LLC sued Jeff Fantalis and two others in
federal court in Denver in April, claiming they had used
BitTorrent file-sharing protocol to download and share some of
California-based Malibu Media’s adult films.  Fantalis responded on July 16, filing court papers saying
he is a 46-year-old married man with two children who has never
downloaded a pornographic film “or any other type of film”
using BitTorrent. He said the only films he’s ever downloaded
are from Netflix Inc., and that he pays a monthly fee to do so.  Fantalis said he’s never authorized anyone else to use his
computer or router. He accused Malibu Media of being a
“copyright troll” that collects Internet protocol addresses
and then sends a letter demanding payment for alleged copyright
infringement.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  DriveCam, SmartDrive Settle Trade Secret, Patent Disputes  DriveCam Inc. and SmartDrive Systems Inc., two competing
fleet management companies, have agreed to settle their trade
secret and patent litigation, the two San Diego-based companies
said in a  statement  yesterday.  The companies have agreed to cross-license patents. No
other details of the settlement were disclosed.  DriveCam filed the initial suit in May 2011, alleging
SmartDrive was infringing patents 6,389,340, 7,804,426, and
7,659,827.  In March 2012 SmartDrive filed its suit, accusing DriveCam
of infringing patent 8,139,820. The company has also claimed
DriveCam had misappropriated SmartDrive trade secrets. Both
suits were filed in federal court in  San Diego .  In a separate July 24 statement, DriveCam said it intends
to double the size of its patent portfolio, and that it will
“continue to assert its  patent rights , protecting our customers
and shareholders from unlawful use of our hard-won  intellectual
property .”  The case against SmartDrive is DrivecCam Inc. v. Smartdrive
Systems Inc., 3:11-cv-00997-H-RBB, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of California (San Diego). The case against DriveCam is
SmartDrive Systems Inc. v. DriveCam Inc., 3:12-cv-00683-H-RBB,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of California (San
Diego).  Azerbaijan President Approves Proposed Trade Secret Law Change  Ilham Aliyev , the president of Azerbaijan, has endorsed
changes to that country’s law on commercial secrets, the
Azerbaijan Business Center  reported .  Under the amended legislation, people will have the right
to receive information about a company’s founders and their
share in its authorized capital, if certain conditions are met,
according to the Azerbaijan Business Center.  Access to this information is permitted if it doesn’t
contradict the country’s national interests in political,
economic and military areas or the protection of interests in
financial and monetary policy, Azerbaijan Business Center
reported.  Disclosure is also barred if release of the information
would affect the maintenance of public order, health and dignity
of other people, the protection of commercial and economic
interests or the provision of the objectivity and credibility of
the country’s courts, according to Azerbaijan Business Center.  IP Moves  Cooley Open Santa Monica Office, Hires David Hernand as Head  Cooley LLP hired David Hernand as part of a team to open an
office in Santa Monica, California, the San Francisco-based firm
said in a  statement .  Hernand , who was previously co-chairman of the Media,
Entertainment and Technology Group at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP
of  Los Angeles , will be the partner in charge of the firm’s new
office. He has also previously practiced at Los Angeles-based
Latham & Watkins LLP.  He is a transactional lawyer who has represented a wide
range of clients including retail chains, financial services
companies, makers of online games, investment banks, and
Internet companies.  Hernand has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
California  at Los Angeles and a law degree from  Georgetown
University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 