-- Apple Stock Drops on Missed Estimates After IPhone Lull
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-25T20:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/apple-declines-after-results-miss-estimates-on-iphone-sales-lull.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares fell 4.3 percent
after quarterly iPhone sales missed analysts’ projections,
underscoring the computer maker’s reliance on the smartphone.  The company sold 26 million iPhones in the fiscal third
quarter, shy of the 28.4 million predicted by analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. That caused Apple to miss analysts’ quarterly
sales and profit estimates for the second time since 2003.  Customers delayed purchases of existing iPhone versions
while awaiting the next model. Samsung Electronics Co. releases
several designs a year to defend its lead in the $219.1 billion
smartphone market. That raises the stakes for Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook , who relies on a once-a-year upgrade
of the device that makes up half of the company’s sales.  “Pressure is mounting,” said  Michael Obuchowski , a
portfolio manager at North Shore Asset Management LLC, an owner
of Apple shares. “Because everybody else has a much faster
design cycle, Apple has to come up with a new phone that’s
competitive not just when it comes out, but will stay
competitive for a long period of time. That’s going to be
increasingly difficult.”  Net income  climbed 21 percent to $8.82 billion, or $9.32 a
share, in the June period, Cupertino, California-based Apple
said yesterday. Sales rose 23 percent to $35 billion. Analysts
had predicted profit of $10.37 a share on revenue of $37.2
billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, fell to
$574.97 at the close in  New York . The  shares  have gained 42
percent this year.  Slowing Growth  While Apple is outgrowing its closest technology-industry
peers, the company’s sales climbed at the slowest pace since
mid-2009. Apple said the results will be worse during the
quarter now under way, as Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said speculation about a new device “has caused
some pause” in sales. Analysts are predicting a new iPhone will
be released by October.  The company said sales in the quarter ending in September
would fall to about $34 billion, and that profit would fall to
$7.65 a share. That compares with  predictions  by analysts for
sales of $38 billion and profit of $10.27 a share. Gross
margins, the percentage of sales remaining after deducting the
costs of production, will fall to 38.5 percent, from 42.8
percent in the third quarter, Apple said.  “We have become spoiled by Apple and what they have done
in the past,” said Daniel Morgan, senior portfolio manager at
Synovus Trust Co. “It’s just inevitable that you’re going to
have some numbers that disappoint people.”  Record Introduction?  The results demonstrate customer anticipation for the next
iPhone that will make its debut one of the biggest consumer-
electronics introductions ever, according to  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at ISI Group. He predicts that Apple will sell 50
million iPhones in the quarter ending in December.  “We’re gonna get the big lift in the December quarter when
the iPhone 5 does come out,”  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis , said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg -- The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “This is
clearly the largest product cycle in the history of mankind
coming here and you’ve got to own it ahead of that. You’ve got
to buy it on the bad news and today is a big opportunity.”  “We try very hard to keep our product road map secret,”
Cook said on yesterday’s call. “That, however, doesn’t stop
people from speculating or wondering.”  Shares of Asian suppliers of Apple, including  Samsung (005930)  and
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , fell after the results announcement.  Broader Decline  Toshiba, the world’s largest flash memory maker after
Samsung,  slumped  7.3 percent. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
the assembler of iPhones and iPads,  declined  4.3 percent.  Apple sold a record 17 million iPads in the first full
quarter since the device was released in March, exceeding the
15.4 million projected by analysts. Oppenheimer said sales were
particularly strong in education, with one school district in
 Texas  alone buying 11,000 iPads for students and teachers.  Cook also said the company last quarter sold 1.3 million
units of Apple TV, a set-top box that lets users play Internet
video on a TV set. That was almost triple the number from a year
earlier. The company continues to explore how it can do more in
the television market, he said.  “It’s still at a level that we would call it a hobby, but
we continue to pull strings to see where it takes us,” Cook
said.  Apple sold 4 million Mac computers and 6.8 million iPods,
compared with 4.3 million Macs and 6.6 million iPods projected
by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Mountain Lion, the newest operating system for the Mac, is
now on sale, Apple said yesterday.  Tablet Rivalry  The company hasn’t been immune to the weak global economy.
Cook said sales were especially weak in  Europe , where countries
are grappling with high unemployment and a debt crisis. Sales in
the  Asia-Pacific region , which includes  China , slipped 22
percent from the previous quarter to $7.89 billion.  Cook is following through on a pledge to return to
investors some of the company’s growing hoard of cash and
investments, which rose to $117.2 billion at the end of the
quarter. The company will pay a dividend of $2.65 a share to
holders of record on Aug. 13.  No Jumping  Even as it missed Wall Street expectations, Apple’s growth
still contrasts with that of other hardware makers, such as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which are being hurt as customers opt for
smartphones and tablets instead of new laptops. Apple’s net
income compares with $2.83 billion reported by  Intel Corp . last
week and $1.92 billion Hewlett-Packard is predicted by analysts
to report next month. Hewlett-Packard’s net income projection
excludes one-time expenses.  With tablet sales predicted by research firm  Yankee Group 
to overtake those of personal computers by 2015, Apple is
preparing for challengers for its iPad. Microsoft later this
year will begin selling its Surface tablet, while Google last
month introduced its Nexus 7.  Apple’s iPad will account for 62.5 percent of tablet sales
this year, according to IDC. The company also is preparing to
introduce a model with a smaller screen, people familiar with
the plans said earlier this month.  Apple also is battling Samsung for leadership in the global
smartphone market. While Apple has debuted one new model iPhone
every year, Samsung has released a variety of handsets,
including the Galaxy S III released in May.  Apple’s next iPhone will have an overhauled look and
include a larger screen, people familiar with the plans said in
May. The device also is predicted by analysts to have a stronger
processor and work with faster long-term evolution wireless
networks.  Some investors are awaiting the release before issuing a
verdict on Apple’s long-term health.  Said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer of Harris Private
Bank in  Chicago : “We’re not ready to jump out the window.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  