-- ArcelorMittal S.Africa Sees Third-Quarter Loss on Price Drop
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-07-25T15:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/arcelormittal-s-africa-sees-third-quarter-loss-on-price-drop-1-.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the
continent’s largest steelmaker, expects a third-quarter loss on
lower prices and a decline in domestic demand.  That may be partly offset by improved sales of commercial
coke, used in steelmaking, and a potential insurance payout, the
Vanderbijlpark-based company said in a statement today.  Concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb demand for
goods including cars and household appliances made from steel
have weighed on prices. Global  benchmark prices  for hot-rolled
coil fell 19 percent in the last 12 months, according to a price
tracker compiled by London-based market researcher Steel
Business Business Briefing.  The company, controlled by ArcelorMittal, had a loss
excluding one-time items of 177 million rand ($21 million), or
44 cents a share, in the second quarter, compared with profit of
473 million rand, or 1.18 rand a share, a year earlier as costs
rose.  ArcelorMittal (MT)   South Africa  didn’t declare a dividend for
the first half.  Its shares dropped 2.6 percent to 45.60 rand by the close
in Johannesburg, the weakest level since Aug. 11, 2004.  The South African steelmaker raised prices of its products
an average 13 percent in the first half of the year. Its cost to
produce hot-rolled coil rose 11 percent as the price it pays for
iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient, climbed 20 percent.  ArcelorMittal South Africa has received 734 million rand in
insurance payouts to date following the failure of a dust-
catcher at its Newcastle plant.  The company is in a dispute with  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Kumba
 Iron Ore  Ltd. over the price of supplies. Talks to extend or
review an interim agreement expiring July 31 are under way, the
steelmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke (nee Lourens) in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  