-- ArcelorMittal Rises as Profit Withstands Crisis: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-07-25T15:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/arcelormittal-profit-slumps-28-as-steel-demand-prices-decrease.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, rose in Amsterdam trading after indicating its full-
year earnings would meet analyst expectations even as the
European crisis saps demand.  ArcelorMittal advanced as much as 3.6 percent before
closing 0.9 percent higher at 11.84 euros. Second-half earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization per ton of
steel would be similar to the first, the Luxembourg-based
company said today. It reported Ebitda of $4.4 billion in the
six months ended June, higher than the $4.2 billion median
estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is relief that a disaster has been averted,” said
 Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. in Dublin.
“But before people get too excited we need to get some
visibility on steel prices. The tone is a little more positive
then we might have thought.”  Steelmakers are posting lower earnings as the European
economic crisis erodes demand for steel and commodity prices
weaken as Chinese growth slows.  Posco (005490) ,  Asia ’s third-biggest
steelmaker, yesterday reported a 44 percent decline in profit
and cut its sales targets for the second time as demand fell.  ArcelorMittal’s comments on the outlook for the rest of the
year suggest second-half Ebitda of $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion,
according to a range of estimates from Nomura Holdings Inc. and
J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. The median analyst estimate is for full-
year Ebitda of $8.2 billion.  ‘Very Challenging’  The steelmaker today reported a 28 percent slump in second-
quarter profit. Ebitda of $2.4 billion included $300 million
from disposals and compared with $3.4 billion a year earlier.
The median analyst estimate was $2.1 billion.  “Market conditions in the first half have been very
challenging, indeed more challenging than we had expected,”
said  Lakshmi Mittal , chief executive officer of the Luxembourg-
based company. “Although the global economy remains fragile, we
expect operating conditions to remain broadly similar in the
second half.”  “With sentiment on the sector at lows we think an in-line
set of numbers should be taken positively,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said.  Second-half Ebitda per metric ton will be similar to the
first half, said ArcelorMittal, which reported a figure of $101
a ton for the six months ended June.  Seasonal Pattern  “However, shipments will clearly be lower as the second
half is impacted by the seasonal demand pattern,” Chief
Financial Officer  Aditya Mittal  told reporters today. “All
indicators” suggested that the decline in second-half shipments
will be similar to the historical rate of 5 percent to 6
percent, he said.  Second-quarter steel shipments slipped 2.5 percent to 21.7
million tons from the previous three months. First-half volumes
reached 43.9 million tons.  Net debt declined $1.6 billion to $22 billion in the
quarter, surpassing the steelmaker’s target of a lowering to
$22.5 billion. The company said that a further reduction in the
second half is dependent on additional divestments.  The steel producer said it expected to complete further
disposals in the coming quarters as it seeks to cut debt.
ArcelorMittal today announced the sale of it 48 percent stake in
Paul Wurth Group to SMS GmbH for 300 million euros ($362
million.)  Prices for hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used
in vehicles and buildings, averaged about $690 a ton in the
second quarter, down from $809 a ton a year earlier, according
to Steel Business Briefing’s global price index. Prices for  iron
ore , used to make the metal, slid 21 percent in a year.  Global Outlook  Global steel demand growth is forecast to slow to 3.6
percent this year from 5.6 percent in 2011, while in  Europe 
there may be a 1.2 percent contraction, according to the World
Steel Association.  “Europe remains our biggest concern and the severity of
the situation is reflected in the performance of our European
operations,” Mittal said in the statement. “Our focus
throughout the remainder of the year remains on further
improving competitiveness and reducing debt.”  The  Bloomberg Europe 500 Steel Index (BESTEEL)  fell 48 percent in the
past year, the second-worst performance of 37 industry groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  