-- Arizona Doctors Seek to Block Law Banning Some Abortions
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n
-- 2012-07-25T20:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/arizona-doctors-seek-to-block-law-banning-some-abortions.html
The Center for Reproductive Rights
urged a judge to block an  Arizona  law, set to take effect
Aug. 2, that makes it a crime for physicians to perform
abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy.  U.S. District Judge James Teilborg in Phoenix heard
arguments today on a request by three doctors for an order
preventing that part of the statute from being enforced while
they seek a ruling that it’s preempted by the U.S.  Supreme
Court ’s 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. The doctors are backed by
lawyers at the reproductive rights group and the  American Civil
Liberties Union .  “We are not here to finally resolve the case but to
preserve the status quo while the case is being considered,”
Janet Crepps, senior council for the New York-based reproductive
rights group, said today. “This law bans abortion prior to
viability, and the Supreme Court has said that states cannot ban
abortions prior to viability.”  No fetus is viable in just 20 weeks and, under the Supreme
Court’s ruling in Roe v. Wade and subsequent cases, it is a
woman’s right to terminate her pregnancy before viability,
according to the doctors’ request for a preliminary injunction.  “It is beyond the power of the state of Arizona to ban
abortions prior to viability,” lawyers for the doctors said in
a July 12 filing.  Teilborg didn’t say when he would issue a ruling.  Extreme Ban  The statute is the most extreme abortion ban in the nation,
the ACLU said in a July 11 statement. It would force a physician
to wait until a woman’s high-risk pregnancy deteriorates so far
that her life is at risk or that she faces major medical damage,
according to the statement.  “Approximately 70 percent of my patients seeking abortions
at or after 20 weeks do so due to a serious or lethal fetal
abnormality,” Dr. Paul Isaacson, one of the three Arizona
obstetricians and gynecologists, said in the July 12 filing.
“Typically, these patients have reached the decision to
terminate the pregnancy after multiple consultations with
specialists and/or loved ones.”  The Arizona law makes it a misdemeanor, punishable by as
long as six months in prison, to perform an abortion after 20
weeks of pregnancy, calculated from the “first day of the last
menstrual period of the pregnant woman.”  Opposed to Delay  William Montgomery , the Maricopa County Attorney, said in
his opposition to a delay on enforcement of the law that the
state prohibition, with its exception for “peculiar medical
situations,” is permitted by Roe v. Wade.  “The U.S. is one of a handful of nations that does not
prohibit abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy,” Montgomery
said. “Live-birth abortions are the direct and persistent
result of this national policy.”  Maricopa is Arizona’s biggest county and includes Phoenix.
Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne and the Arizona Medical Board
in a July 19 court filing deferred to Montgomery’s position. The
state has a compelling interest in regulating abortion to
protect women’s health, Montgomery said in a court filing.  “Don’t you think that considering the state’s interest in
an unborn child,” such a law can be passed?, the judge, who was
nominated by former President  Bill Clinton , asked Crepps today.  “The Supreme Court has considered whether the state’s
interest can overcome a woman’s right to an abortion prior to
viability, and it has said these states’ interest cannot
override a woman’s right to an abortion prior to viability,”
Crepps responded.  New Restrictions  Other states have passed laws that put new restrictions on
abortion providers. In  Mississippi , as of July 1, all abortion-
clinic physicians must have admitting privileges at a local
hospital under a law passed by the Republican-led Legislature
and signed by Republican Governor Phil Bryant in April.  In  Texas , Planned Parenthood is fighting a regulation that
bars the state from contracting with entities affiliated with
abortion providers. The Obama administration cut off $30 million
in federal funds for the state women’s health program because of
the ban, saying Texas can’t block federally approved
organizations such as Planned Parenthood from participating in
programs underwritten by Medicaid.  On July 16 Planned Parenthood sued Arizona in federal court
to block implementation of a state measure signed into law in
May that bars Medicaid funds for medical providers that perform
abortions, according a court filing.  Single Voters  A survey released July 10 by  Quinnipiac University  showed
that unmarried women favor President  Barack Obama  over presumed
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  by a 2-1 ratio. Single voters are
more focused on issues such as reproductive rights, said  Peter
Brown , the assistant director of the university polling
institute.  Obama, a Democrat, is a longtime supporter of abortion
rights. Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , on July 10
reiterated his opposition to abortion during a campaign stop in
 Grand Junction ,  Colorado .  Yesterday, a  South Dakota  law requiring doctors to advise
prospective abortion patients that they will face an increased
risk of suicide and suicidal thoughts as a result of the
procedure was ruled lawful the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  St.
Louis . The court reversed a 2-1 panel decision from last year
in a case in which  Planned Parenthood  of  Minnesota ,  North
Dakota , South Dakota argued that the law burdens both abortion
rights and physicians’ free-speech rights.  Serious Condition  The vast majority of abortions take place in the first 12
weeks of pregnancy, and the majority of abortions performed
after 20 weeks are done because either the mother’s health is at
risk or because the fetus has been diagnosed with a serious or
lethal medical condition, according to the Arizona physicians.  These conditions are often only diagnosed after 18 weeks,
they said.  Barbara LaWall, the attorney for Pima County, Arizona,
which includes Tucson, filed a response supporting a delay in
enforcing the law that she said “is unquestionably a ban on
some pre-viability abortions.”  “There is considerable risk that enforcement of H.B. 2036
may not only result in the deprivation of a constitutional
right, for which there is no adequate remedy, but also cause the
criminal prosecution of individuals who assist another in the
exercise of that right,” she said.  The case is Isaacson v. Horne, 12-01501, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
William Hermann in Phoenix at  aphoto61@cox.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 