-- ARM Shrugs Off Slowdown as Second-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-25T07:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/arm-shrugs-off-slowdown-as-second-quarter-sales-beat-estimates.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs
power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, said second-quarter revenue climbed
15 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, even as some customers
delayed orders.  Sales climbed to 135.5 million pounds ($210.5 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from 117.8 million pounds a year
earlier, the Cambridge, England-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts predicted revenue of 129.7 million pounds,
the average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. ARM said it
may not see the traditional gain in revenue from royalties in
the fourth quarter as demand remains difficult to predict.  “When you’re planning forward, you’re likely to be a
bit more cautious,” Chief Financial Officer Tim Score
told reporters today. Smartphone sales will continue to
grow “albeit a little bit muted than where they’ve been
previously.”  ARM, which reports royalty sales a quarter in arrears, will
see a “small sequential increase” in the third quarter.
Customers including  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  this month forecast
revenue that missed some estimates as demand slowed.  The U.K. company’s  shares rose  as much as 5.1 percent, the
most in intraday trading in more than two months. ARM was up
4.8 percent at 508 pence at 8:42 a.m., paring the decline this
year to 14 percent.  ARM will get a boost from the release of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows 8 operating system, a version of which will run on ARM
technology. It will be the first time ARM processers use the
Windows system.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the largest phone
maker, will offer a tablet that features the software, people
familiar with the matter said this month. Apple’s iPad is based
on ARM technology, as are most tablets on sale today.  Apple shares declined yesterday and some suppliers fell in
U.S. and Asian trading after profit and sales at the world’s
most valuable company fell short of analysts’ projections for
the second time since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  