-- TARP Funds for Housing Relief 90 Percent Unspent, Auditor Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/tarp-funds-for-housing-relief-90-percent-unspent-auditor-says.html
Distressed homeowners have received
only 10 percent of nearly $46 billion in federal aid since the 
money was allocated in 2009 under the Troubled Asset Relief 
Program, a U.S. auditor’s report said today.  Spending on one of President Obama’s main efforts to avert
foreclosures, the Home Affordable Modification Program, totaled
$3 billion -- about 10 percent of the $22.7 billion originally
obligated at the end of June, the Special Inspector General for
the TARP program said in a quarterly report to Congress. HAMP
pays lenders to restructure loans so borrowers can afford them.  The report criticized the Treasury Department’s reaction to
an audit of a $7.6 billion aid program for families in states
with the largest home-price declines. Of that amount, only $351
million had been spent to assist 43,580 homeowners by the end of
June, the report said.  “Taxpayers that fund this program have an absolute right
to know what the government’s expectations and goals are for
using $7.6 billion in TARP funds,” the report said. “By
refusing to set any goals for the programs, Treasury is subject
to criticism that it is attempting to avoid accountability.”  One program, which allocates $2.7 billion in TARP funds to
encourage lenders to write down or eliminate second liens when
refinancing properties insured by the  Federal Housing
Administration , has not resulted in any removals of second
liens, the report said.  The Treasury Department has allocated $8.1 billion for a
program to allow borrowers who owe more than their homes are
worth to refinance into loans insured by the FHA. Of that, $6.6
million has gone for administrative expenses, and 1,437
borrowers have benefited, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  