-- Tarsus Pushes Exhibitions Abroad on Its Bearish View of Europe
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-07-25T13:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/tarsus-pushes-exhibitions-abroad-on-its-bearish-view-of-europe.html
Tarsus Group Plc (TRS) , the U.K. organizer
of the Dubai Airshow, intends to get 50 percent of its revenue
from emerging markets by 2013, shifting away from Europe to Asia
and Latin America.  “I’m very bearish on the U.K. and Europe, where the
exhibition industry is in decline,” Managing Director Douglas Emslie said today in a telephone interview. “Our priority is
Turkey and  China ; they’re growing faster and the mood is a lot
more positive.”  Tarsus collected 7.3 million pounds ($11.3 million), or
38 percent of its revenue, from  emerging markets  in the first
half, the company said today in a statement. That’s up from
5.7 million pounds, or 30 percent, a year earlier. European
sales slid 42 percent to 4.1 million pounds.  “First-half figures show good profit growth driven by
strong momentum in the U.S. and  emerging markets ,” Steve Liechti, an analyst at Investec Securities, said today in a note
to clients. He reiterated a buy recommendation and predicted the
stock will rise 6.6 percent within a year.  The Jersey-based company bought 70 percent of Lifemedia
Fuarcilik AS, a Turkish exhibition organizer, for 15 million
pounds ($23.2 million) in March 2012 and is seeking to complete
the acquisition of 50 percent of GZ Auto, a car show operator
based in  Guangzhou , China, later this year.  Aspirational Class  “Turkish and Chinese customers belong to a growing, more
international, aspirational middle class that wants to
differentiate itself based on what they buy,” Emslie said in
the interview. “This is a good opportunity for us.”  Like-for-like revenue in  Turkey  jumped 17 percent in the
first half, while sales in China soared 39 percent in the
period, Tarsus said today. Total revenue was unchanged at 19.2
million pounds.  Tarsus shares  advanced  0.2 percent to 169 pence as of
2:08 p.m. in London trading, extending their gain this year to
30 percent.  Last year, Tarsus organized the 12th Dubai Airshow, which
had a record turnout of more than 900 companies from 50
countries, according to the U.K. firm. It operates top regional
events for the labelling and package printing industries, and
runs programs for medical professionals who work on anti-aging
treatments.  Indonesia and Mexico  Tarsus is also looking for growth opportunities in Southeast
Asia, particularly  Indonesia , where Emslie said there is a
“massive domestic market” for its services. Operations in
 Latin America  are currently limited to  Brazil  and  Mexico , which
Tarsus considers a potential target nation for growth.  “I like Mexico better than Brazil,” he said. “More
business operations in Mexico could come in the next 18
months.”  The Mexican economy will probably grow 3.5 percent to
4.5 percent annually over the next decade, overtaking Brazil as
the largest economy in  South America , according to Nomura
research analysts.  “Mexico will become Latin America’s largest economy and
one of the emerging markets’ most dynamic,” Nomura said in a
note to clients on July 10. “Mexico is an increasingly
attractive choice for U.S.-destined, labor-intensive
manufacturers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  