-- Euro Falls While U.S. Stocks Erase Gains; Apple Tumbles
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-07-25T20:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/asian-stocks-decline-with-oil-as-yen-advances-on-europe-concern.html
The euro snapped a five-day drop
amid speculation that policy makers may expand  Europe ’s rescue
fund. U.S. stocks erased gains in the last hour of trading as
Apple Inc.’s results and an unexpected drop in new U.S. home
sales outweighed a rally in financial shares.  The euro added 0.8 percent to $1.2155 as of 4 p.m. in New
York. The S&P 500 was little changed at 1,337.91, reversing a
0.4 percent advance. Apple tumbled 4.3 percent after reporting
iPhone sales that missed projections. S&P’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities gained 0.6 percent. The pound weakened after the
U.K. economy shrank the most in three years. Yields on five-,
seven- and 30-year Treasuries touched all-time lows for a third
straight day.  Demand for new U.S. homes fell in June from a two-year
high, indicating the housing recovery will be uneven. There are
arguments in favor of granting a banking license to the
permanent bailout fund, said  Ewald Nowotny , a European Central
Bank council member who also heads  Austria ’s central bank.
Granting a banking license to the ESM would give it access to
ECB lending.  “We have a deepening recession in Europe, and a
deceleration in North America, and that is leading investors to
believe there’s going to be some sort of additional stimulus
applied by the central banks,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps
oversee $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati.  Pound Weakens  The pound slumped 0.8 percent to 78.42 pence per euro. The
U.K. economy shrank more than economists forecast in the second
quarter as record rainfall and an extra public holiday sent
output down the most in more than three years.  Treasuries fell, snapping a three-day advance, as
speculation that European policy makers will boost the firepower
of their bailout fund damped demand before the U.S. sold $35
billion in five-year notes. The securities drew an auction
record yield amid lower-than-average demand. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note rose one basis points to 1.40 percent.   Apple fell the most since October. The company sold 26
million iPhones in the fiscal third quarter, compared with the
28.4 million predicted by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
caused it to miss quarterly sales and profit estimates for the
second time since 2003.  “Apple is priced for perfection,” Mark Eibel, the
director of client-investment strategies in  North America  at
Russell Investments Ltd., told Bloomberg Television. “Other
companies may be able to have a quarter like this but when Apple
does it, it will move markets around the world. It’s certainly
not what this market is looking for.”  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes slid 3.2 percent.
Sales of new U.S. homes fell 8.4 percent to a 350,000 annual
rate, the weakest since January, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington .  Earnings Season  Boeing gained 2.8 percent. The company raised its forecast
for full-year profit to $4.40 to $4.60 a share from his April
prediction of $4.15 to $4.35 a share.  Caterpillar (CAT)  Inc. rallied
1.6 percent to $82.75. The largest maker of construction and
mining equipment raised its full-year earnings forecast as
increasing demand from North American builders and overseas
miners bucks an economic slowdown.  Earnings have exceeded analyst estimates at about 71
percent of the 196 companies in the  S&P 500  that reported so far
this quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose an average 3.3 percent and profits are down 0.5 percent.  Oil Stockpiles  Oil in New York gained 0.6 percent to $88.99 a barrel.
Crude dropped as much as 1.9 percent after an Energy Department
report showed U.S. stockpiles unexpectedly climbed as production
surged to the highest level in 13 years. Wheat jumped 2.8
percent after falling 3.7 percent yesterday, and corn climbed
1.3 percent, the first gain in three days.  The Stoxx 600 was little changed after a three-day, 4.3
percent decline. Lonza Group AG rallied 3.7 percent as the Swiss
drug-ingredient maker reported earnings that exceeded estimates.
BT Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company, sank
3.3 percent after first-quarter sales trailed behind analyst
projections.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.2 percent, its
fourth day of declines. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.5
percent to the lowest level since March 2009 as the
 International Monetary Fund  said the country’s economy faces
significant downside risks and investors speculated the
government won’t loosen property curbs.  South Korea ’s Kospi slid 1.4 percent, the most among
emerging-market gauges today, to the lowest level since Oct. 10.
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said the nation risks
failing to meet a growth estimate for 2012 that the central bank
already cut two weeks ago because of Europe’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  New York  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  