-- Australia’s Liberals Would Expand Far North Farms on Asia Demand
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-07-25T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/australia-s-liberals-would-expand-far-north-farms-on-asia-demand.html
Australia , the world’s second-
biggest wheat exporter, will seek to expand agricultural
production in the country’s far north to meet surging Asian
demand if the opposition coalition wins elections due next year,
according to Shadow Finance Minister Andrew Robb.  About 11 million hectares (27 million acres) of arable land
is available in northern Australia, Robb said in an interview in
 Melbourne  yesterday. Horticulture, sugar and rice may be
industries suited to the area, he said.  “It’s the century of  Asia ,” Robb said. “There’s so much
opportunity in the region and we need to position ourselves to
take advantage of that.”  The Liberal-National coalition is leading Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s government in opinion polls with elections due
by the end of 2013. World agricultural output needs to climb 60
percent over the next 40 years to meet growing demand for food
as the global population expands and diets change, according to
the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  A mix of funding, which may include domestic and foreign
investment and public-private partnerships, could be used to
develop agricultural projects in northern Australia, Robb said.
In northeastern Queensland state, some mining companies are
prepared to pay for water at a rate that would fully finance dam
construction, he said.  A coalition government would repeal Gillard’s carbon-
pricing legislation within a year of winning power, said Robb,
who is also chairman of the opposition’s policy development
committee. The nation on July 1 started charging about 300 of
its largest polluters a fixed rate of A$23 ($23.6) a metric ton
for greenhouse gas emissions. A market-based price is scheduled
to begin in 2015.  Carbon Referendum  If he comes to power, coalition leader  Tony Abbott  would
need the support of Parliament’s upper and lower houses to scrap
the carbon plan, which Treasury forecasts will reap A$24.7
billion in revenue within four years.  “If ever there’s a referendum on a policy, the next
election is a referendum on the carbon tax,” Robb said.  Support for Gillard’s Labor party slipped three percentage
points to 28 percent in a Newspoll survey published in the
Australian newspaper July 24, compared with 46 percent for
Abbott’s coalition. The poll of 1,158 people, conducted July
20-22, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  