-- Australia Core Prices Quickened Last Quarter, Near Estimates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-25T02:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/australia-core-prices-quickened-last-quarter-near-estimates-1-.html
Australian core consumer prices
accelerated last quarter close to the pace economists forecast,
giving the central bank scope to extend a pause in interest-rate
cuts next month.  The so-called trimmed mean gauge of core prices rose 0.5
percent from the previous quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today, compared with the median forecast of 21
economists for a 0.6 percent gain. The consumer price index
increased 0.5 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months, compared with a forecast 0.6 percent advance.  The local currency rose as investors pared bets  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower the 3.5
percent benchmark rate next month. The central bank reduced
borrowing costs in May and June as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatened global growth and  China’s economy  slowed. It kept
rates unchanged this month, citing stronger domestic growth
momentum.  “Today’s result isn’t low enough for the central bank to
get off the sidelines and cut rates again in August,” said
Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “The
central bank seems comfortable with the current policy
setting.”  Traders are pricing in a 56 percent chance the RBA will
reduce borrowing costs by a quarter point to 3.25 percent at the
next policy meeting on Aug. 7, down from 77 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg based on swaps trading showed.  Currency Rebounds  The nation’s currency, which touched an eight-month low of
95.82 U.S. cents on June 1, reversed losses after the data. The
so-called Aussie was at $1.0226 at 12:18 p.m. in Sydney compared
with $1.0190 immediately before the report and $1.0221 at
yesterday’s close in  New York .  Today’s report showed rents increased 1.1 percent last
quarter, vegetable prices advanced 5.2 percent and fruit gained
3.8 percent. Costs for domestic holiday travel and accommodation
fell 4 percent, and audio, visual and computing equipment
declined 3.8 percent, it showed.  Median rents for houses rose 0.7 percent and apartments
climbed 2.5 percent in three months ended June 30, according to
Sydney-based researcher Australian Property Monitors.  Cheaper fresh produce “was mainly due to cooler weather
conditions with rain and flooding affecting crops in the eastern
states,” today’s report showed. Fruit prices plunged in the
first quarter as supplies rebounded from an earlier deluge.  On an annual basis, the trimmed mean gauge advanced 2
percent, compared with economists’ forecasts for a 1.9 percent
increase, today’s report showed.  Weighted Median  The weighted-median gauge of inflation, another core
measure that excludes the largest price increases and declines,
advanced 0.7 percent in the second quarter, compared with
economists’ estimates for a 0.6 percent gain. That nudged the
annual rate to 1.9 percent, matching economists’ forecasts.  The central bank aims to keep inflation in a 2 percent to 3
percent range on average, and typically uses as its guide the
core measures -- those that exclude items with the biggest price
moves.  The CPI increased 1.2 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, compared with economists’ forecast a 1.3 percent
increase.  The statistics bureau released a seasonally adjusted
 consumer price index  that showed a 0.6 percent increase last
quarter, for an annual gain of 1.2 percent.  The RBA cut the cash rate four times since November -- by
25 basis points at successive meetings in November and December,
by 50 points on May 1 and by another 25 points last month.  ‘Bottom End’  “Whatever way you cut up today’s data the bottom line is
that underlying inflation at mid-year was traveling at around 2
percent per annum, the bottom end of the RBA’s target band,”
said Michael Blythe, chief economist in Sydney at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “Inflation, actual and prospective, at the
bottom end of the band clearly leaves scope for the RBA to cut
 interest rates  if necessary.”  Still, the theme of recent central bank commentary is that
“a lot of policy stimulus has been applied over the past six
months or so and now is the time to see what impact that
stimulus is having,” said Blythe, who put back his forecast for
the next rate cut to November from August.  Stevens said in response to questions after a speech on
Sydney yesterday that “we think the setting’s about right for
the circumstances we face.”  Even after the June rate cut, Australia has the highest
borrowing costs among major developed nations as Stevens seeks
to manage an economy powered by the biggest resource boom since
prospectors in New South  Wales  set off a gold rush in the 1850s.  Manufacturing, Tourism  That has spurred about a 45 percent appreciation in the
dollar since the start of 2009 that has hurt manufacturing and
tourism that are vulnerable to international competition.  Australian wholesale price inflation accelerated last
quarter for the first time in more than a year, driven by higher
import prices and agriculture and petroleum refining costs, a
government report showed this week.  Today’s inflation data report showed transport costs rose
0.9 percent in the three months through June 30. The average
monthly price of automotive fuel gained 2.5 percent in April
before falling 3.2 percent in May and 6.4 percent in June.  The price of crude oil plunged 18 percent in New York
futures trading in the second quarter, touching the lowest level
in about nine months in late-June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  