-- Lawmakers Push to Ease U.S. Troops’ Transition to Veterans
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-25T16:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/lawmakers-push-to-ease-u-s-troops-transition-to-veterans.html
Federal agencies need to do a better
job of meeting the needs of as many as 1 million troops who will
leave the military by 2017, U.S. lawmakers said today.  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  has struggled to ease a
backlog in disability claims and to create a system shifting
health records from the Pentagon, U.S. Representative Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican who is chairman of the House
Committee on Veterans Affairs, said at a hearing today.  Miller and Representative Buck McKeon, a California
Republican and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
said they are concerned about the effects of those shortcomings
as the Pentagon cuts the number of active-duty troops, creating
more than 100,000 new veterans each year.  “The transition that service members experience from
active service into civilian life must be improved,” McKeon
said at a joint hearing of the committees.  “Veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan know that the hardships
don’t end when they leave the war zone.” he said. “We in
Congress are painfully aware that at this very moment, 26,000
service members are in the midst of the disability evaluation
process and are forced to wait over 400 days on average before
they can return home to their communities.”  Post-Traumatic Stress  VA Secretary Eric Shinseki and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  both testified at today’s hearing.  “While there is no doubt that we are working together
better than ever before, it is clear there is much more to do,”
Panetta testified.  Panetta told lawmakers that more needed to be done to
reduce the number of military suicides and the stigma associated
with mental-health treatment. The Pentagon also needs
“increased leadership in the field” to spot potential
problems, he said.  One issue is that the military doesn’t have enough
caregivers to address the shortfalls in mental health care,
Panetta said.  Lawmakers also expressed concerns about reports from the
Senate Veterans Affairs Committee Lawmakers that a military
hospital altered mental health diagnoses to remove some findings
of post-traumatic stress.  The Pentagon is investigating how all military hospitals
are handling such cases, Panetta said. “It is important to
determine why someone would get this diagnosis and then it would
be downgraded,” he said.  Waning Wars  As troops withdrew from  Iraq , the number of disability
cases filed with the VA has jumped 48 percent during the past
four years to 1.3 million in 2011. The U.S. has also pulled
troops from Afghanistan, with plans to leave the country at the
end of 2014.  The veterans agency is still working to reduce the number
of pending disability claims, Shinseki said.  “It’s a big
number, nearly 900,000 by my count,” he told lawmakers.  Most of the claims have taken longer than the agency’s 125-
day target for processing, Allison Hickey, the VA’s
undersecretary for benefits, testified last week before a House
oversight subcommittee.  The delays can mean disabled veterans aren’t receiving
financial payments as well as some medical treatments, said
Ramsey Sulayman, the legislative associate for Iraq and
 Afghanistan  Veterans of America, a New York-based advocacy
group.  Health Records  “If people who have serious disabilities aren’t receiving
that even for a couple months it would be pretty significant,
and in some cases, it’s more than a year,” Sulayman said in a
phone interview. “It can lead to a lot of other things:
homelessness, mental health issues, chronic unemployment.”  The VA provides health care to about 6 million veterans,
and the Defense Department provides health care to more than 9.6
million  active-duty  service members, their families and
beneficiaries.  The agencies, which operate two of the largest health-care
systems in the country, have faced criticism for running
separate electronic health-records networks that serve an
overlapping population of U.S. military personnel and veterans.  The new system won’t be fully operational until 2017, eight
years after the Obama administration directed the agencies to
create the system.  “Why can we put a man on the moon in eight years, and yet
we’re not starting from  ground zero  on integrated health records
and we’re still not there?” Miller asked.  To contact the reporter on this story: Kathleen Miller in
Washington at   Kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  