-- Babson Capital to Boost Asia Lending as Europeans Retreat
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-07-25T05:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/babson-capital-to-boost-asia-pacific-loans-as-europeans-retreat.html
Babson Capital Management LLC said
it will increase lending in  Australia  and Asia, taking advantage
of borrowers offering higher margins as European banks retreat.  The asset manager plans to double or triple the funding it
provides in the Asia-Pacific region in coming years, Michael Hermsen, the head of Babson Capital’s global private finance
group, said today in a telephone interview from Springfield,
 Massachusetts . Babson Capital, which manages $149 billion
globally, has a portfolio of about $700 million in Asia and
Australia split between leveraged loans, subordinated debt and
private equity, Hermsen said.  Global banks scaled back cross-border lending to companies,
governments and each other at the fastest rate since 2008 in the
final quarter of last year, the  Bank for International
Settlements  said last month. European banks embroiled in their
region’s sovereign fiscal crisis have cut lending in Australia
to about a  quarter  of outstanding syndicated debt, from a market
share of more than 33 percent in 2008, according to the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia.  “Many banks are withdrawing from their Asian outposts,”
said Hermsen. “Spreads exceed the returns we can get for
comparable credits in other parts of the world.”  Higher Returns  Some Australian borrowers are offering lenders all-in
returns of more than 500 basis points, or 5 percentage points,
more than the benchmark bank bill swap rate, Hermsen said.
Babson Capital has participated in loans for  Spotless Group
Ltd. (SPT) , MYOB Ltd. and  Energy Developments Ltd. (ENE) , he said.  Syndicated loans in Australia dropped 37 percent to $31.9
billion this year compared with the same period of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Two of the top 10
arrangers were from outside of the Asia-Pacific region, compared
with five last year, the data show.  “The diminished credit supply as traditional lenders
recede and limited alternative sources of funds, such as high-
yield bonds, makes the Australian leveraged loan market
attractive for investors,” Shane Forster, Babson Capital’s co-
head of Asia-Pacific leveraged finance, said in a telephone
interview from Sydney today.  Junk Bonds  Junk bond sales in  Asia  outside of  Japan  denominated in
either dollars, euro or yen totaled $6.9 billion this year, down
from $11.7 billion in the same period of 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Investment-grade securities make up 98 percent
of outstanding bond lines in Australia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg tracking issues of at least A$100 million
($102 million).  High-yield bonds, also known as junk, are rated below BBB-
at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, and Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service.  Babson Capital favors lending to so-called defensive, non-
cyclical industries such as business services, health care and
consumer staples, Forster said.  The asset manager, which outside of the U.S. has offices in
London and Sydney, raises the money it lends from institutional
investors including pension funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  