-- Baht Falls on Concern Europe’s Crisis to Hurt Growth, Exports
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-25T01:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/baht-falls-on-concern-europe-s-crisis-to-hurt-growth-exports.html
Thailand ’s baht declined for a
fourth day and  government bonds  gained as concern grew that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and hurt the nation’s exports.  Overseas sales, which account for about two-thirds of
Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy, rose 4.5 percent in
June from a year earlier after a 7.7 percent increase the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before data due 11 a.m. local time. The
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of  shares  dropped before a German report
today that may show a gauge of business confidence slid to the
lowest level in more than two years, according to a separate
Bloomberg poll.  “Concern about Europe’s situation discourages investors to
take risks, dragging stocks and Asian currencies down,” said
 Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan Center for  Economic
Research  in  Tokyo . “Losses in the baht may be limited due to
month-end demand from exporters.”  The baht traded at 31.80 per dollar as of 8:32 a.m. in
Bangkok, compared with 31.79 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its one-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 5.02 percent.  Foreign funds sold $75 million more Thai equities than they
bought in the first two days of this week, exchange data show.  The Bank of Thailand will leave its  benchmark interest rate 
at 3 percent today, according to all of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The decision is due at 2:30 p.m. local time.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.12 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 