-- Bank-Rate Rigging Faces Tougher EU Rules, Antitrust Scrutiny
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-25T11:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/bank-rate-rigging-faces-tougher-eu-rules-antitrust-scrutiny-1-.html
The European Union pledged tougher
supervision of interbank lending rates and said it may expand
antitrust probes as part of a response to the global scandal
triggered by the manipulation of Libor.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
he’s aiming to present proposals by year end for overhauling
governance of Libor, Euribor and other market indices. EU
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia also said that he may
expand probes into bank-rate rigging.  “The international investigations under way into the
manipulation of Libor have revealed yet another example of
scandalous behavior by the banks,” Barnier told reporters in
Brussels. The commission is also examining whether interbank
lending rates should be set using real transaction data rather
than estimates, he said.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more
than $500 trillion of securities, has been shaken by  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond ,
who resigned as London-based Barclays’s chief executive officer
after the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($450 million), told
British lawmakers this month that other banks also lowballed
Libor submissions.  The Barclays fine has provoked renewed calls for tougher
oversight of the financial system and pushed regulatory probes
of interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  Daily Poll  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is determined by
a daily poll carried out on behalf of the British Bankers’
Association that asks banks to estimate how much it would cost
to borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. Similarly, Euribor, the euro equivalent, is overseen
by the European Banking Federation in Brussels.  The EU last year opened formal investigations into possible
rigging of these two rates and Tibor, their Tokyo equivalent.  These probes are continuing,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
antitrust chief, said in Brussels today.  “Maybe we will announce in the future some more activities
in this field,” Almunia said.  The commission today proposed a draft law that would make
rigging of market benchmarks punishable with jail terms and
other criminal sanctions. Any attempted manipulation could be
punished with fines and other administrative penalties.  These plans need approval by lawmakers in the European
Parliament and national governments before they can take effect.  “These texts are urgent and we want to get them through by
the end of the year,” Barnier said.  Bank of England  Viviane Reding , the EU’s justice policy commissioner, told
reporters at the same briefing that the Bank  England  had failed
to act on warnings that Libor may have been manipulated.  “I was personally not very much convinced by the action of
the  Bank of England ,” Reding said.  The case showed the need for centralized banking
supervision in the EU, she said.  A single supervisor would end the “cosy relationship that
exists today between some national supervisors and banks in
their home country,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 