-- Banks to Face Basel Capital Rules for Derivatives Trades
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-25T13:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/banks-to-face-basel-capital-rules-for-derivatives-trades-1-.html
Banks will be forced to put more
capital behind derivatives trades in a push by global regulators
to bolster market stability and reinforce clearinghouses.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said an amount
equal to 2 percent of a bank’s trades through clearinghouses
should be added to the risk-weighted assets used to determine
the lender’s total capital requirements.  The interim rules are “one of the final pieces” in
overhauling bank capital requirements in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis, the Basel group said in a statement on its
website  today . “Further work in this area is planned for
2013,” it said. The group also published provisional rules on
standing funds that are tapped when a bank can’t complete a
trade.  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for derivatives
since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of
the largest traders in credit-default swaps. The plans include
pushing more transactions through clearinghouses in a bid to cut
complexity and risk.  Regulators have in turn  called for  tougher safeguards for
these platforms because of the increased threat that their
collapse could damage the global financial system.  The 2 percent rule will apply to trades with clearinghouses
that meet international standards, the Basel group said.
Transactions that take place with less well regulated clearers
would face tougher rules, linked to the platform’s credit
rating. The measures will take effect in January 2013.  Threat Reduction  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  The Basel committee  last year  published capital rules for
trades that don’t pass through clearing platforms.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, has called for greater competition between clearinghouses
to counter the risk that trades are concentrated on a small
number of platforms, making them too-big-to-fail.  Legislators in the European Parliament are at loggerheads
over the plan, with some warning that fragmenting the market may
also harm stability.  Separately, Basel regulators today published rules to end
an accounting anomaly that may allow lenders to boost their
capital if the market value of their derivatives contracts
falls.  Any gains from this so-called debit-valuation adjustment
should “be fully derecognized from the calculation” of a
bank’s core reserves, the Basel group said. “Conservatism
should drive the policy framework in this area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 