-- Barclays’s Carnwath Resigns, Fourth to Quit Since Libor Fine
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-25T12:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/barclays-s-carnwath-resigns-fourth-to-quit-since-libor-fine-2-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  said Alison Carnwath,
head of the British bank’s remuneration committee, stepped down,
becoming the fourth senior figure to resign since regulators
fined the lender for rigging global  interest rates .  “I am no longer able to devote sufficient time to my role
as a director of Barclays,” Carnwath said in a statement today.
The 59-year-old, who joined Barclays’s board less than two years
ago, is also a director of  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund, and chairman of Land Securities
Group Plc, a British real estate developer.  She had been under growing pressure to leave Barclays after
approving former Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond ’s 12
million-pound ($19 million) compensation package, the highest of
any British bank CEO. About 21 percent of Barclays shareholders
opposed her re-election as a non-executive director in April
amid criticism from investors the lender was enriching employees
while failing to hit its own  profitability  targets.  Carnwath is the fourth to quit Barclays since regulators
fined the London-based bank a record 290 million pounds for
manipulating the benchmark  London  interbank offered rate.
Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier all stepped down following the fine and criticism
from the U.K. regulator.  “She’s been under pressure from the start because of her
role in the remuneration committee,” said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “There are a lot of people
trying to distance themselves to protect their careers.”  Internal Review  Carnwath didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment
through Land Securities and Evercore Partners, where she is a
senior adviser.  Barclays has opened an internal review into its business
practices. Anthony Salz, executive vice chairman at Rothschild,
will manage the inquiry, the lender said yesterday.  Salz, 62, had a 30-year career as a corporate lawyer at
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and was vice chairman of the
British Broadcasting Corp.’s governors. The inquiry will review
the bank’s past practices, publish a report to the public and
draw up a code of conduct for employees, Barclays said.  The stock rose 1.7 percent to 153.15 pence as of 1:34 p.m.
in London. The stock has fallen 13 percent this year, making it
the worst-performer in the six-member FTSE 350 Banks index.  Barclays is still searching for a replacement chairman and
CEO. Michael Rake, chairman of discount airline EasyJet Plc, on
July 23 ruled himself out as a candidate to replace Agius while
 Gus O’Donnell , former head of the U.K. civil service, told the
 BBC ’s Today’ program yesterday he hasn’t been approached by
Barclays or its recruiters about becoming chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  