-- Barrick Costs Rising as Gold’s Charge Stalls
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-07-25T20:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/barrick-costs-rising-as-gold-s-charge-stalls.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Sokalsky makes his public debut tomorrow as head
of the world’s biggest gold company battling rising costs, a
decline in profit and a sluggish price for the metal that can no
longer paper over the industry’s struggles.  Barrick, which promoted Sokalsky June 6 to replace Aaron
Regent after the board was “disappointed” with the Toronto-
based company’s share price, and its two largest competitors
report quarterly earnings this week marred once again by cost
inflation.  “We’ve seen  gold prices  flatline this quarter, so that
does kind of leave the emperor stripped bare in a sense that
they really have to deliver on cost control,” said  Jorge Beristain , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG.  Barrick will probably say the total cost to produce an
ounce of gold, excluding revenue from other metals, rose for the
fifth consecutive quarter. The average of five analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg is for $569 an ounce, 28 percent
higher than a year earlier, while the average gold price in the
quarter rose 7 percent versus a year ago.  The company is expected to report second-quarter profit
excluding one-time items fell 16 percent to 94 cents per share
from a year ago, according to the average of 20 estimates
 compiled  by Bloomberg.  “The days when gold equity investors, and management for
that matter, thought that everything would be taken care of by
the price of gold are over,” said Adrian Day, who manages about
$160 million of assets as president of Adrian Day Asset
Management in Annapolis,  Maryland .  Fuel Prices  Sokalsky, 55, who was chief financial officer at Barrick,
takes the helm at a time when gold industry costs are rising
because of wage inflation and lower-grade ores. Higher
operational costs probably more than offset lower fuel prices
and a strong  U.S. dollar  in the second quarter, RBC Capital
Markets analysts including Stephen Walker said in a July 16
note.  Miners, which have enjoyed 11 annual consecutive gains in
gold prices, will also be under pressure to defend against
inflation at multibillion-dollar projects they’re building to
stem output declines and boost share performance.  It’s “imperative” that gold producers demonstrate that
they can contain costs, said Sonny Tahiliani, managing director
at MacroMoves, a New York-based consultancy. Capital costs will
probably rise more in countries which are experiencing higher
wage inflation and “increasingly restrictive mining policy,”
he said in an e-mail.  Barrick shares have fallen 25 percent this year in Toronto
and declined 21 percent since June 5, the day before the company
announced Sokalsky’s appointment. The NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index,
which comprises 16 gold mining companies, has fallen 20 percent
this year.  Strategic Direction  For Barrick, investors who were surprised by Regent’s
departure will be looking for clarity on the company’s strategy
from Sokalsky tomorrow, Day said.  “One, are they going to stick with gold and two, are they
looking for more acquisitions?” he said. “The market just
really wants to know what their strategic direction is.”  Investors are also bracing for news on cost increases and
delays at Barrick’s Pascua-Lama mine on the border of Chile and
 Argentina , he said. Barrick said May 2 it was reviewing the
budget and schedule for the $5 billion project in the Andes
mountains. Pascua-Lama’s cost forecast may rise to $5.5 billion,
 Anita Soni , an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a July 23 note.  Significant Margins  At mines already operating, Barrick’s net cash margin will
probably fall 7.7 percent from the first quarter, to $1,162,
Brian Yu, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a July 16 note.
That’s 1.1 percent lower than a year ago. Vancouver-based
 Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the second-largest producer by market value, may
say cash margins after byproducts fell 18 percent quarter-on-
quarter to $1,194 per ounce, Yu estimated.  “Any time you get cost pressure you obviously want to know
that the company is doing something concrete,” Day said in a
phone interview yesterday. “You don’t want just bland words
about plans to keep them under control.”  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, didn’t immediately return
phone calls seeking comment.  To be sure, producers will still report “significant”
margins, said Brian Christie, an analyst at Desjardins
Securities Inc. Gold miners will also continue to build their
cash positions, which may allow for dividend increases, he said
in a note.  Water Shortage  Still, Goldcorp shares fell 10 percent, the most in more
than three years, the day after the company raised its forecasts
for cash costs and lowered output projections July 10, citing
delays at a Canadian mine and a water shortage at its Penasquito
operation in  Mexico . After revenue from selling other metals,
the company expects gold costs will increase to about $370 an
ounce in the second quarter, compared with $251 in the first
three months of the year.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the world’s second-largest gold miner
by revenue, will provide target ranges this month to cut costs
in “aggressive total cost management,” Chief Executive Officer
 Richard O’Brien  said May 23. The Greenwood, Colorado-based miner
is expected to report second-quarter earnings after markets
close tomorrow.  “It’s all very well to have your costs rise 10 percent
when the gold price is rising 20 percent, then you don’t care so
much,”  George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a July 16 phone interview. “When the
gold price is flat and costs are still going up, then you really
have to take quick action.”  While gold prices in the second quarter remained at
historically high levels, Topping said he doesn’t expect any of
the gold companies he covers will report positive free  cash flow 
because miners are spending more on new mines and expansions.  Jeff Wilhoit , a Goldcorp spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Omar Jabara , a spokesman
for Newmont, declined to comment.  Metals Prices  Companies that use non-gold revenue to offset costs will
also be affected by lower prices for metals like copper, silver
and zinc,  Greg Barnes , an analyst at TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto, said in a July 18 note. Copper for delivery in three
months on the London Metal Exchange averaged $7,829 a metric ton
in the second quarter, 15 percent less than a year earlier.
Silver futures in  New York  were 23 percent lower.  “I think you are really going to find several of the
seniors talking of stripping out costs, both capital and
operating, in order to maintain their margins,” Stifel’s
Topping said. “That’s overdue and it should help the stock
prices stabilize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  