-- Bernanke Should Use His Words to Get the Economy Moving
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-25T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/bernanke-should-use-his-words-to-get-economy-moving-again.html
More than three years after it hit
bottom in 2009, the  U.S. economy  is still stuck in the mud. With
Congress and the White House paralyzed by election-year
politics, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  seems the only
person willing (or in a position) to do something.  In this instance, his actions might best come in the form
of words.  It doesn’t take an economist to realize the recovery has
lost  momentum . Fed officials expect the economy to grow at a
rate of just 2.1 percent in 2012, far too slow to make a
significant dent in unemployment. The longer the slump lasts,
the more permanent damage it will do, as idleness erodes the
skills and motivation that would allow people to return to work.  Unfortunately, the Fed’s arsenal is losing its potency with
each new application of stimulus. Economists at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. estimate, for example, that a third round of the
bond-buying known as quantitative easing would have less than
two-thirds the effect of the last round. Lower interest rates
simply don’t flow through to many consumers, because banks want
to  lend  only to people with sterling credit. Also, some Fed
officials  worry  that further purchases of Treasuries could
distort the market and undermine the intended effects.  Better Ideas  In their search for better ideas, some Fed officials are
looking across the Atlantic, where the  Bank of England  is trying
a new  tactic  to push money through to consumers and businesses.
Its Funding for Lending Scheme offers credit to banks at
interest rates that decline as the recipients’ lending
increases. The central bank says its program could boost credit
to companies and households by at least $124 billion.  Such a program isn’t likely to work well in the U.S. Banks
already have plenty of cheap cash, which they could lend if they
wanted. Goldman Sachs estimates that U.S. bank-funding costs are
about a full percentage point lower than those in the U.K. In
fact, U.S. institutions have parked more than $1.4 trillion in
excess  reserves  with the Fed, partly because the central bank
pays interest on it.  Still, the Fed does have one option that would provide some
stimulus without requiring it to take on credit risk or purchase
more securities. Bernanke can make an unequivocal promise to
keep  interest rates  low for a long period -- say, through 2015 -
- no matter what happens in the economy. Known as “forward
guidance,” this would go one step further than what the Fed did
in January when it said it intended -- but did not promise -- to
keep rates low through 2014.  The concern, of course, is that such a pledge could tie the
Fed’s hands if the economy suddenly gained momentum and started
to overheat. Current economic  indicators , though, suggest the
risk of that happening is very low. Bernanke himself called the
pace of  job creation  “frustratingly slow” and warned that
 consumer confidence  remains depressed amid worries about
employment and wages.  The economy needs help. Until officials in  Washington  get
their act together to provide fiscal stimulus, the Fed will need
to deploy its limited arsenal. Giving markets confidence that
interest rates will stay down for the foreseeable future would
be a good way to help keep the recovery going.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  politics should continue 
past the water’s edge;  Caroline Baum  on  who pays taxes  in the
U.S.;  Edward Glaeser  on how the U.S. can be  more like Sweden and
less like Greece ;  Michael Kinsley  on  positions that will prove
embarrassing  in 20 years;  Ezra Klein  on no easy answers for
 campaign finance ;  Steven Greenhut  on  San Francisco ’s arrogant
claim to  Yosemite’s water .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 