-- Billionaire Gupta May Acquire U.S. Drug Brands: Corporate India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-07-26T09:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/billionaire-gupta-may-acquire-u-s-drug-brands-corporate-india.html
Lupin Ltd. (LPC) , the world’s biggest
maker of drugs to treat tuberculosis, plans to acquire brands in
the U.S. to reduce its reliance on less profitable generic
medicines, President Nilesh Gupta said.  The Indian drugmaker founded by billionaire Desh Bandhu
Gupta may purchase branded drugs to treat skin diseases and
infections, the president said. The company hasn’t identified
any acquisition yet, Gupta, son of the founder, said.  Lupin is seeking to maintain its fastest pace of quarterly
sales growth in at least three years by adding to its product
portfolio in the world’s biggest drug market. The company, named
after a leguminous flower, and rivals including  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  are shifting strategy to cut their dependence
on selling generic versions of medicines as the number of
formulations losing patent protection plummets from their peak
in 2012.  Purchasing a brand is “the No. 1 priority for the
company,” Gupta, who has an MBA from the Wharton School of the
 University of Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview on
July 24. Lupin will seek to add drugs in the therapeutic
segments it has expertise in, he said.  The Mumbai-based company earned more than five times as
much selling branded medicines such as Antara, a treatment for
reducing cholesterol, compared with average sales of all its
copycat formulations, according to Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd.  ‘Worrying Factor’  Lupin has advanced 28 percent this year,  exceeding  the 20
percent gain on the BSE  India  Healthcare Index. The stock fell 2
percent to 574 rupees as of 2:13 p.m. in Mumbai trading.  “Acquiring additional brands would entail a lot of
clinical testing and marketing,” Souvik Chatterjee, senior
analyst at SMC Global Securites Ltd. said.“Whether they are
equipped to do all this is a worrying factor.”  Higher tax rates in the year that started April 1 after the
expiry of benefits at some of its manufacturing units may also
be weighing on the stock, Chatterjee said. Lupin currently
trades at 21.3 times estimated earnings, higher than peers
Ranbaxy,  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  and  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA)   The drugmaker’s  sales  rose 44 percent to 22.2 billion
rupees ($395 million) in the three months ended June 30, the
fastest pace of growth in at least three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Copycat Versions  Lupin and larger rivals including Ranbaxy and Dr. Reddy’s
are trying to boost profit by offering products that are similar
though not identical to those protected by patents, claiming
they are not copycat versions.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration classifies such
formulations as new drugs, and if approved, they can be sold
exclusively for as long as three years in the U.S.  “If the product clicks, then you make a lot of money and
your margins will be also higher,” Bino Pathiparampil, a
pharmaceutical analyst at IIFL Ltd., said in an interview. “The
development costs will be far higher than an ordinary generic
though.”  Lupin, established in 1968 by Chairman Gupta, a masters-
degree holder in chemistry, started selling branded products in
the U.S. in 2004 after acquiring the Suprax antibiotic from
Pfizer Inc.’s Wyeth unit. In the year ended March 31, Lupin got
28 percent of its U.S. sales from three branded products, while
the balance came from generics.  “In this fiscal, they will generate enough cash from the
patent expirations,” said Hitesh Mahida, an analyst at Fortune
Equity Brokers. The company “may need to acquire a brand and
launch it in fiscal 2014.”  Generic Exclusivity  Lupin’s sales are occasionally aided by the right to
exclusively sell generic versions for six months when a drug
loses patent protection, like in the case of the anti-psychotic
Geodon. Such opportunities will decline as the number of
medicines going off-patent drops.  Four drugs with sales exceeding $500 million lost patent
protection in the U.S. in 2016, compared with 10 this year,
according to IMS Health Inc. Worldwide, pre-expiry spending on
patented drugs will fall to $22 billion in 2016 from $47 billion
this year, IMS Health data show.  Ranbaxy, India’s biggest drugmaker, last month received FDA
approval for a patent-protected variation of the generic acne
medication isotretinoin. Sold under the brand Absorica, the drug
developed by Mississauga, Ontario-based  Cipher Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (DND)  is marketed as an improvement because unlike isotretinoin,
it doesn’t have to be taken along with a high-fat meal.  ‘Innovative Variations’  The Indian company, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based  Daiichi
Sankyo Co. (4568) , is looking to acquire similar products that are
“innovative variations” of medicines already on the market,
Chief Executive Officer Arun Sawhney said in a July 11 interview
in  Washington .  “At the moment, we’d be looking at assets that would
strengthen our dermatology portfolio,” Sawhney said. These are
products that have a “sustainable patronage and are not
susceptible to competition from 20 companies on any particular
day.”  Acquisition of branded drugs may boost costs at Lupin,
according to Balaji Prasad, a Mumbai-based analyst at Barclays
Plc. Selling such products requires a network of pharmaceutical
sales representatives to approach physicians across the U.S. to
promote the medicine over an existing, and often cheaper
generic. The FDA may also require companies to conduct clinical
trials on patients.  Clinical Trials  That can be a challenge for Indian drugmakers, who have
mostly built their expertise in selling drugs to bulk buyers
such as pharmacy chains and don’t have experience in conducting
clinical trials on a large number of patients.  “It’s not going to be an easy strategy,” Barclays’ Prasad
said by phone. “Making those changes to the drugs and selling
it will require clinical trials and significant upfront
investment.”  Lupin has a network of 170 sales representatives in the
U.S. to sell its branded portfolio, Gupta, 38, said. The
company’s future acquisitions are likely to be in an area that
doesn’t require a large number of sales personnel, he said.  The company is focusing on brands that “don’t need 500
representatives to cover a good number of doctors,” Gupta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  