-- Billabong to Decide on TPG Due Diligence Within Days
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-07-25T07:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/billabong-to-decide-on-tpg-due-diligence-within-days.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  will
decide “within days” whether to allow TPG Capital access to
the surfwear maker’s financial data after the buyout firm’s
A$695 million ($711 million) bid, Chief Executive Officer Launa Inman said.  TPG, which is run by  David Bonderman , returned yesterday
with an A$1.45 a share offer, five months after  Gold Coast ,
Australia-based Billabong rejected a takeover proposal. Since
the private equity firm offered A$3.30 a share in February, the
surfwear company has hired Inman, sold new stock at a discount
and cut earnings.  The buyout firm would allow Billabong directors and
investors Gordon Merchant and Collette Paull, who previously
opposed any offer below A$4 a share, the option of exchanging
their stakes for a holding in the new entity, according to the
statement from the Billabong.  Merchant, who founded the company and is its biggest
shareholder, and Paull are still taking part in board
deliberations, Inman said, indicating the two have yet to accept
TPG’s separate offer.  “If anything changes, protocols are in place to deal with
that,” Inman said today in a phone interview, without
elaborating.  Inman, who was named to the role in May, said her time at
the company had been a “baptism of fire” and that some
investors were disappointed that TPG’s previous offer was
rejected. Management is still working on a strategy presentation
scheduled for next month, she said.  The February approach valued Billabong at about A$851
million based on the 258 million shares it had at the time.  Since then, the company has increased its issued capital by
86 percent after it raised A$225 million selling new stock at a
discount to repay debt.  Billabong rose 0.4 percent to A$1.32 at the close of trade
in Sydney. The stock has fallen 72 percent in the past year,
cutting Billabong’s market value to A$542.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  