-- Billionaires May Win as Democrats Split Over Estate Tax
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-25T14:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/billionaires-may-win-as-democrats-split-over-estate-tax.html
Senate Democrats , who are united in
support of higher income tax rates for millionaires and
billionaires, are paralyzed by disagreements on how to tax the
estates of the wealthiest Americans.  Lobbied by business owners and billionaires, Democrats
including  Mark Pryor  of Arkansas and  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana
resisted a proposal from President  Barack Obama  to tax
individual estates of more than $3.5 million -- roughly three in
1,000 -- at a top rate of 45 percent. The split among Democrats,
who control the Senate, will give Republicans more influence on
the issue after the Nov. 6 election.  “It’s something that’s really divided and perplexed our
caucus about what’s the fair way to move forward,” said
Landrieu, who supports repealing the estate tax and wants to
reach a compromise with Republicans. “We don’t have the votes
to do anything, really, with it.”  As a result, when the Senate votes as scheduled at 2:15
p.m. in  Washington  today on a bill to extend income tax cuts
that expire Dec. 31, the proposal will be silent on the estate
tax. Democratic leaders in the Senate sidestepped the estate tax
to focus on an issue on which almost all of them agree: Obama’s
plan to let income tax cuts expire for the top 2 percent.  ‘No-Brainer’  “It really should be a no-brainer,” said  Michael Linden ,
director of tax and budget policy at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington group typically aligned with Democrats.
“You’ve got people who are otherwise very much in favor of
progressive taxation who just get a little queasy about the
estate tax.”  Democrats who balked at Obama’s proposal say they are
worried about the effect of increasing the estate  tax rate  and
lowering the per-person exemption to $3.5 million from $5.12
million for farms and small businesses. Republicans favor the
$5.12 million exemption, which means a compromise on the issue
would be more generous to estates than Obama’s plan.  One other reason, said Paul Caron, a law professor at the
University of Cincinnati, is the “brilliant” public-relations
move by estate tax opponents, who rebranded the issue as the
“death tax,” making it unpopular even among those who will
never have enough wealth to pay it.  Wal-Mart Stores  Additionally, home-state interests such as Montana
ranchers, represented by Democratic Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester, and the billionaires of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s founding
Walton family in Arkansas shape lawmakers’ positions on the
issue, said Michael Graetz, a law professor at  Columbia
University  in New York who co-wrote a book on the politics of
the estate tax.  Democrats, who control 53 seats in the 100-member Senate,
are trying to muster a majority for Obama’s plan to extend most
of the income tax cuts first enacted in 2001 and 2003.
Republicans can use Senate rules to require a 60-vote threshold,
meaning that the income tax plan isn’t expected to advance.  The politics of the estate tax center on two numbers: the
per-person exemption and the top tax rate. The exemption matters
most to business owners, farmers and ranchers who can use it to
avoid estate tax liability. For billionaires, the rate is the
priority.  This year, the per-person exemption is $5.12 million and
the top rate is 35 percent. Obama agreed to those parameters as
part of a December 2010 deal with Senate Republicans that also
extended expiring tax cuts and created a payroll tax cut.  3,600 Estates  Under those numbers, which Republicans want to extend,
3,600 estates would pay taxes, or fewer than 0.2 percent of
estates, according the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.  Obama proposed a $3.5 million per-person exemption and a 45
percent top rate, returning to parameters that were in effect in
2009. That would require 7,200 estates, or about 0.3 percent, to
pay taxes.  If Congress does nothing, as would be the case if the
Democratic bill and no others became law, the exemption would
drop to $1 million and the rate would rise to 55 percent. Under
that regime, the tax would affect about 2 percent of estates, or
55,200, according to the JCT.  The U.S. is expected to collect $11 billion in estate and
gift taxes in fiscal 2012, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office . Obama’s plan would raise $9 billion more, and allowing
the $1 million exemption and 55 percent rate to take effect
would raise an additional $22 billion beyond Obama’s proposal,
according to JCT.  Backing Off  Senate Majority leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
included Obama’s estate-tax proposal in the first draft of his
bill. He then backed off after hearing objections from some
Democrats, including Pryor and  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina .  “You’re not going to address every single issue in any
given piece of legislation,”  Jason Furman , deputy director of
the White House National Economic Council, told reporters on a
conference call yesterday. “Estate tax will have to be dealt
with separately.”  The same dynamic occurred in April 2009, as 10 Senate
Democrats joined Republicans in a test vote that showed majority
support for a $5 million exemption and 35 percent top rate.
Among Democrats joining the Republicans on that vote were  Patty Murray  and  Maria Cantwell  of Washington and Baucus and Tester of
Montana.  Grand Bargain  Baucus contends a decision on the estate tax should be part
of a so-called grand bargain lawmakers will try to reach later
on a wide range of tax issues. Reid hasn’t said why the
Democrats dropped the estate-tax provision, although second-
ranking Senate Democrat  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said it was
because of disagreement among party members.  “For whatever reason, I think Democrats get kind of weak
in the knees on the estate tax, and I don’t understand exactly
why,” Caron said. “The estate tax really is millionaires and
billionaires, so I don’t understand the optics and the
politics.”  Graetz said senators personally know successful business
owners who are worried about the tax, and that segment of the
population -- not the billionaires -- has become the dominant
narrative about the estate tax.  “It’s not small business owners that are paying the tax,”
Graetz said. “It’s small business owners that are making the
tax so difficult to impose.”  Small Businesses  Under current rules, the tax would affect about 200 small
businesses and 100 farmers, according to the Joint Committee on
Taxation. That would jump to 2,700 and 2,400, respectively, if
Congress doesn’t act. The numbers under Obama’s proposal would
be 400 and 300, respectively.  Chris Whitcomb, tax counsel at the National Federation of
 Independent Business  in Washington, said his group, which
represents small business, is concerned about both the exemption
and the rate. The current stalemate creates uncertainty about
what the tax will look like in 2013, he said.  Republicans have been trying to take advantage of the
disarray among Democrats to accuse them of seeking the $1
million exemption and 55 percent rate.  “My concern is for the small business owners, the ranchers
and the farmers of the country that are going to end up
suffering under this Democrat proposal,” said Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican.  The death-tax rhetoric has overwhelmed arguments for
keeping the estate tax, Linden said. He contends the tax reduces
concentrated wealth, is relatively efficient because it doesn’t
tax people as they earn, and affects only a few people. The
closest thing to a consensus view among Democrats, he said,
would have been seen as a huge concession a decade ago.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said the
tax would affect only a tiny fraction of people in his state.  The political debate on the issue has an “irresponsible
life of its own,” he said. “It is so absurd.”  The Senate Democrats’ bill is S. 3412. The Republican
proposal is S. 3413.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  