-- Billionaire Lebedev Says Russia Deprived Aeroflot of $1 Billion
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-25T10:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/billionaire-lebedev-says-russia-deprived-aeroflot-of-1-billion.html
State-run OAO Aeroflot deprived
minority owners of dividends by ceding revenue of about $1
billion in overflight fees to the Russian government during the
past nine years, billionaire shareholder  Alexander Lebedev  said.  “They’ve been illegally siphoning off money each year from
Aeroflot,” Lebedev, who owns 15 percent of Russia’s flagship
airline, said in an interview yesterday in Moscow. “They’ve
been breaking the law. Here’s something for Alexey Navalny to
investigate.”  Navalny, a Russian anti-corruption blogger and opposition
leader, was elected to the Moscow-based carrier’s board at an
annual meeting last month after being nominated as an
independent director by Lebedev. Navalny didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  The lost revenue comes from fees made to Aeroflot by
European airlines for the right to fly over Siberia to  Asia ,
Lebedev said. The payout amounts to 320 million euros ($387
million) each year, according to the European Union’s executive
arm, the European Commission. The 27-nation bloc in 2011
negotiated an  agreement  with  Russia  to change the royalties
system from 2014 to make it cost-related and non-discriminatory
between airlines.  Revenue Misdirected  “This revenue should be paid out as dividends and the
government can spend this money as it sees fit,” Lebedev said.  Aeroflot spokesman Irina Dannenberg declined to comment, as
did the Russian Transport Ministry’s spokesman, Timur Khikmatov.  The airline has had the right to the overflight fees since
the Soviet era, when it was fully state-owned, Elena Sakhnova,
an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone yesterday. Aeroflot
keeps about 70 percent of the royalties and the government
collects 30 percent to finance projects such as airport
upgrades, Sakhnova said, citing information provided by the
carrier.  Lebedev is a former lawmaker in Russia’s lower house of
parliament and a KGB officer who worked at the Soviet Embassy in
 London  during the  Cold War . His holdings include stakes in
banking, construction, property and agriculture companies.  The billionaire also owns the London Evening Standard
newspaper and the Independent in the U.K. Together with former
Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev , he co-owns the investigative
Russian newspaper  Novaya Gazeta .  Investors said Navalny’s role at Aeroflot should improve
corporate governance.  “Navalny is famous for fighting for the rights of minority
shareholders,” Kirill Bagachenko, who manages about $3 billion
in Russian equities, including Aeroflot shares, at TKB BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said June 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  