-- Billionaires’ Superyachts Dock in Thames for Olympics
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-26T14:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/billionaires-superyachts-anchor-in-thames-as-1-visit-olympics.html
Superyachts equipped with helipads
and submarines have joined Britain’s biggest warship, more than
a dozen tall ships and cruise liners on the Thames River for the
 Olympic Games .  Octopus, the yacht owned by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Paul
Allen , is moored at West India Dock, where the towers housing
Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc reflect in its gleaming blue
hull. Next to it is  Westfield Group (WDC)  Chairman  Frank Lowy ’s white
ship Ilona, with a red carpet leading to the gangplank and an
Australian flag billowing from the stern.  “We’ve seen some big boats here, but nothing of this
magnitude,” said Derek Newell, an analyst at Lehman Brothers
International, the remnants of the U.S. investment bank that’s
in administration, as he pointed up to Allen’s vessel. “It’s
like a small ferry.”  Seven weeks after a flotilla of more than 1,000 small craft
celebrated Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee, the city is
host to a glitzier collection of boats docked to celebrate the
games that run from July 27 to Aug. 12. They range from Allen
and Lowy’s yachts to  cruise ships  docked near the Excel Center,
an Olympic venue in east London, and Britain’s largest warship,
HMS Ocean, anchored near Greenwich.  ‘Unusual’  “It’s very unusual to have such a collection of vessels
all together in London at the same time,” said Martin Garside,
a spokesman for the  Port of London Authority , which oversees
navigation along 95 miles (153 kilometers) of the Thames.
“We’ve got everything from Sid and Doris in a small cabin
cruiser from the South Coast to these superyachts.”  Octopus tied up on July 20, according to port records. At
414 feet (126 meters) in length, it’s the world’s 10th-biggest
superyacht on a list compiled by  Boat International Media Ltd. ,
a publisher of yacht magazines.  The craft was built by Lurssen Werft GmbH of Bremen,
 Germany , whose  website  shows Octopus with space for two
submarines as well as a helicopter landing pad and a swimming
pool. A basketball hoop was visible from the dock.  Organizers of the Olympics are counting on rich visitors to
help fill stadiums. Tickets for the opening ceremony were still
available on the  London  2012 website yesterday for 2,012 pounds
($3,123), more than two-thirds of the median  monthly wage  for a
Londoner. Seats for track and field events priced at hundreds of
pounds didn’t sell out until last week.  Mall Magnate  Allen is worth $14.7 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Lowy’s family holdings in Westfield Group
total more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg  Lowy’s connection to the games extends beyond the arrival
of his yacht. Visitors to the Olympic Park will funnel through
one of his malls as they arrive on the subway, buses and trains.
Westfield Stratford City opened in time for the games and is
 Europe ’s largest urban shopping center.  Another billionaire, Frits Goldschmeding, has a three-
masted tall ship moored in an inlet around the corner from
Lowy’s boat. The clipper, completed in 2000, was financed by the
city of Amsterdam and Goldschmeding, who owns 34 percent of
 Randstad Holding NV (RAND) , the Dutch employment agency he founded.  Tall Ships  Another 14 tall ships arrived yesterday at Woolwich
Arsenal, the site of the Olympic shooting competition, according
to the port authority. They’ll sail daily between Greenwich and
Tower Bridge during the Olympics.  The yachts are a boon to the  Canal & River Trust , the
charity that runs West India Dock, which fell into decline in
the 1960s and closed in 1980s before a revival in the 1990s.  “During the Olympics, West India Dock is going to be at
its busiest since its days as a trading port,” Gareth Stephens,
harbor and water-space manager at the trust, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The increased number of bookings has
significantly boosted our income.”  The West India Dock has a view across the Thames to the
dome built to mark the millennium, now known as the O2 Arena,
and called the North Greenwich Arena for the duration of the
games. It will house gymnastics and basketball.  Stephens declined to say how much the trust is earning from
this year’s visitors. The docks will receive 15 boats as much as
175 meters in length during the games, said Fran Read, a
spokeswoman for the trust. Mooring cost as much as 9,000 pounds
a day, depending on the size of the ship.  Gym and Disco  Across the dock from Octopus and Ilona is  Seanna , a 65-
meter yacht that can sleep 12 guests along with canoes, a gym, a
disco and massage therapist, according to the website of Burgess
Yachts, which arranges charters. It charges as much as 462,000
euros ($559,000) for a week aboard. A crew member declined to
discuss who hired the boat, saying only it could be anyone.  A couple of smaller yachts were also moored at West India
Dock. The cruise ship Deutschland, owned by Peter Deilmann
Reederei GmbH, pulled into the quay this week, where it will
entertain German sports fans.  It’s not just the rich on the cruise ships. The Braemar and
Gemini are moored at the King George V Dock to provide housing
for 2,000 Olympic workers during the games. They have a view of
the Excel Center, where weightlifting, boxing and wrestling
contests take place.  Cruise Liners  The 196-meter Braemar has two pools, twin jacuzzis and a
poolside bar, as well as golf nets and a hair salon, according
to the website of its owner, Fred Olsen Cruise Lines Ltd.  The port authority stepped up security to police the extra
activity. It introduced an identification program for boats to
negotiate security checks especially for the games, and has
registered more than 1,100 vessels, Garside said.  “There are extra police on the streets of London, in the
skies above and in the waters of the Thames,” Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said today in a visit to the Olympic park. “This
is the biggest security operation in our peacetime history.”  Ruling the river is the 203-meter HMS Ocean, a Royal Navy
helicopter carrier that supported military action in  Libya  last
year and which Cameron visited yesterday.  “She’s bristling with military hardware,” Garside said.
“Dangling from her sides are various assault crafts. It’s a
very visible potent symbol of the kind of backup that’s
available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 