-- Blackstone’s GSO Said to Offer Fee Cut to Speed Fundraisi
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/blackstone-s-gso-said-to-offer-fee-cut-to-speed-fundraisi.html
GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
investment arm of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is offering a fee break
to clients that join the initial close of its second company
rescue fund, said two people familiar with the situation.  The firm is seeking more than $4 billion for GSO Capital
Solutions Fund II LP to invest in companies in need of cash,
said one of the people who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public. The firm expects to complete the
first stage of fundraising this quarter.  BC Partners Ltd., EQT Partners AB and Permira Advisers LLP
in  Europe  have offered similar breaks to entice early investors
as private-equity firms compete for money in a crowded market.
In the U.S., Carlyle Group LP and  Silver Lake  are among those
lowering management fees in exchange for large commitments in an
effort to woo institutions.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment.  The new GSO fund will charge a 1.5 percent management fee
on invested capital and any amounts borrowed for leverage or
financing. That will be cut by 0.25 percentage point for those
joining the first close, the people said.  GSO will take 20 percent of profits after the fund achieves
an 8 percent preferred return, regardless of when clients join.
The general partner will pledge the lesser of $100 million or 5
percent of fund commitments, the people said.  The team’s first fund, Blackstone/GSO Capital Solutions
Fund, closed in July 2010 with $3.25 billion. That fund had
generated a multiple of 1.1 times capital and a 9.7 percent
internal rate of return as of Dec. 31, according to performance
data by  California Public Employees’ Retirement System .  GSO, which was purchased by Blackstone in 2008, manages
more than $50 billion in assets, primarily debt. GSO was founded
in 2005 by  Bennett Goodman , Douglas Ostrover and J. Albert
Smith, all of whom previously worked at Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  