-- BNP Joins Credit Agricole to Seek Escape From Euro-Exit Risk
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-07-26T07:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/bnp-credit-agricole-seek-to-escape-euro-area-s-shifting-sands-.html
France ’s biggest banks are rushing
to cut the more than 140 billion euros ($171 billion) they
provide their operations in  Europe ’s troubled economies, seeking
to protect themselves against a possible breakup of the euro.  In a retreat, French banks, especially  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
Credit Agricole SA -- the largest by assets -- are trying to
make their businesses in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland less reliant on funds from the parent company.  In the decade after the creation of the euro, French banks
were among the region’s most ambitious and acquisitive,
investing about $36 billion in the five countries, lured by the
prospect of growth in those markets. Their pullback now reflects
the banks’ attempt to defend themselves against the risk,
however remote, of an exit from the euro of any of the countries.  “It’s an unhealthy sign,” said Philippe Bodereau, the
London-based head of research for financial firms at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond investor.
“It’s like shifting sands, with European banks protecting
against invisible currency risks within the  euro zone .”  Like other financial institutions in Europe, French banks
are trying to match assets and liabilities on a national level
to minimize risk. Reducing assets in the five countries to limit
cross-border exposure may erode BNP Paribas’s after-tax earnings
by 4.7 percent and  Credit Agricole ’s by 7.2 percent, estimates
Benoit Petrarque, a Kepler Capital Markets analyst in Paris.  ‘Safest Way’  BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, Societe Generale SA and
 Natixis SA (KN)  provide 150 billion euros from operations at home to
fund their businesses in Italy, Spain, Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, according to Morgan Stanley. Kepler estimates the
amount just for BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  at 143 billion euros.  “There is a will to cut the link between parents and units
in Southern Europe,” Pimco’s Bodereau said. “The most
significant link is funding between the parent and the local
unit” and reducing it is “the safest way to manage risks
during this crisis,” he said.  BNP Paribas’s spokesman Pascal Henisse declined to comment
as did Credit Agricole’s spokeswoman  Charlotte de Chavagnac  and
Nathalie Boschat, a spokeswoman at Societe Generale.  Funding exposures to units have been among elements
weighing on the banks’ shares. Before today,  BNP Paribas had
fallen  43 percent in the last 12 months, Credit Agricole 67
percent, Societe Generale 57 percent and Natixis 43 percent.  Euro Footprint  “When you look at what’s happening in Europe, betting to
become a pan-European and pan-euro-zone bank isn’t paying off,”
said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 500 million euros at
Ofi Gestion Privee, including BNP Paribas stock.  Unlike  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , Europe’s largest banks by market value, BNP
Paribas’s retail-banking expansion was largely in the euro area.  “You can have the most efficient organization, but a euro-
area footprint today increases your risk profile,” Porta said.  While the widening gap between French yields and those of
peripheral countries should have made it more attractive for the
banks to borrow at home for operations in other euro-area
countries, the risk of a potential euro breakup has put them on
the defensive, analysts said. They are instead cutting parent
funding for operations in non-French euro markets.  “In the past, you’d have local cross-border risks without
asking yourself too many questions,” said Kepler’s Petrarque.
“Now, local yields are increasing, and if a country ever had to
exit the euro, you can’t ignore hidden forex risks.”  Quitting Time  Spanish 10-year bonds yield more than 7 percent, while
Italian debt of a similar maturity carries a yield of 6.42
percent. Comparable French securities yield 2.3 percent.  The prospect of a Greek exit from the euro has been raised
in recent weeks by German leaders, with Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler telling broadcaster ARD on July 22 that he is “very
skeptical” Greece can be rescued and that the country’s exit
from the monetary union has “long ago lost its terror.”  Citigroup Inc. raised its estimate of the chances Greece
will drop the euro in the next 12 to 18 months to about 90
percent. In an analyst note, Citigroup updated its forecast for
a Greek exit from the 17-nation currency union from a previous
estimate of 50 percent to 75 percent, and said it would most
likely happen in the next two to three quarters.  Italy -- where French banks have the biggest public and
private exposure -- and Ireland have more incentive to quit the
euro than Greece, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Voluntary Exit  Many investors are convinced “that the negative
consequences of a euro breakup are so great that politicians
will pay whatever price necessary to avoid it,” BofA Merrill
Lynch foreign exchange strategists David Woo and Athanasios Vamvakidis wrote in a July 10 report. “We have reservations.”  Using cost-benefit analysis and game theory, the analysts
concluded in the report that investors “may be underpricing the
voluntary exit of one or more countries.”  French banks are acting on the possibility of that outcome.  BNP Paribas,  Credit Agricole (ACA)  and Societe Generale have cut
their combined holdings of Italian and Spanish sovereign debt by
44 percent and 79 percent respectively on average since mid-
2011, according to calculations based on the banks’ data.  For non-French euro-area operations, the banks are cutting
funding support, or assets minus deposits, capital, local debt
and European Central Bank long-term financing, analysts said.  Muddling Through  After going to as much as 700 billion euros in 2009 from
zero before the 1999 creation of the euro, French banks’ gross
funding gap, or the mismatch of loans and deposits, fell to 450
billion euros at the end of April, Morgan Stanley analysts
including London-based Huw Van Steenis wrote in a June 26
report. The banks want to cut more.  “It’s going to be a long muddling-through process because
a euro break-up, although unlikely in the end, has unfortunately
become more plausible,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based
analyst at AlphaValue. “For BNP and Credit Agricole the risk
isn’t asset quality, but the disastrous and unpredictable
economic effects that would follow a Spanish or Italian exit.”  French banks had $334 billion euros in public and private
debt holdings in Italy and $115 billion in Spain as of the end
of March, Bank for International Settlements figures show.
That’s the lion’s share of the $534 billion in holdings they had
in the five troubled European economies.  Italian Gorilla  France’s four largest banks’ loans exceed deposits at home,
adding to the urgency of shrinking parent funding outside.  BNP Paribas may narrow a 40 billion-euro funding gap in
Italy and Spain by moving some loans in those countries to
deposit-rich Belgium and Switzerland, three people familiar with
the matter said July 2.  BNP Paribas Fortis, the Belgian unit, said July 5 that it
plans to reinforce the Brussels hub for corporate-banking,
including trade-finance, extending coverage to countries like
Spain and  Germany . The plan won’t cover France or Italy, it said.  The largest French bank’s cross-border funding to its
Italian unit, Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, is down to 20 billion
euros from about 30 billion euros at the end of 2010, Chief
Operating Officer Francois Villeroy de Galhau said in a June 22
interview. The bank plans to keep cutting the funding exposure
“by developing BNL’s own financings,” Villeroy said.  BNL Worries  At the end of 2011, BNL, whose loans are more than double
deposits, borrowed 5.2 billion euros in the ECB’s three-year
loan program at 1 percent, its financial statements show. BNP
Paribas declined to provide details of BNL’s use of a second
round of ECB loans in February. The French bank also operates
Findomestic, Italy’s second-largest consumer finance business.  Credit Agricole’s Italian branches network, Cariparma, had
deposits increasing to 34.9 billion euros at the end of March,
exceeding loans. Still, with assets from franchises such as
corporate- and-investment banking and a 61 percent stake in Agos
Ducato, Italy’s largest consumer-finance business, the French
lender has a 22.8 billion-euro funding gap in Italy, according
to estimates from Kepler.  In Greece, Credit Agricole’s risks are tied to its Athens-
based unit Emporiki Bank. France’s second-largest bank, owned by
a group of regional lenders, had 23 billion euros of Greek loans
at the end of March, the largest holdings for a foreign bank.  Credit Agricole reduced funding to Emporiki to 4.6 billion
euros at the end of March from 5.5 billion euros in December,
partly as deposits rose, the bank said May 11. It also tapped
1.6 billion euros of ECB funding for Emporiki.  Emporiki Woes  Credit Agricole is considering all options for Emporiki,
including combining it with a local rival or walking away, a
person with knowledge of the bank’s plans said last month.  Societe Generale, led by Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , operates no branch networks in Italy or Spain. The loan
book at its Greek unit,  Geniki Bank (TGEN) , is about a tenth of Credit
Agricole’s Emporiki and provisioned at higher levels.  Its Greek unit has “very low reliance on Group funding”
and the bank has “limited non-sovereign exposure” to the five
European troubled economies, it said June 15.  “Beyond Greece, SocGen looks okay” as its capital base
would be less hit than BNP Paribas’s from a euro exit by
Portugal, Spain or Italy, according to Kepler’s Petrarque.  Still, mostly because of its corporate- and investment-
banking portfolios in Italy and Spain, Societe Generale runs
funding gaps of 13.6 billion euros and 7.7 billion euros in the
two countries respectively, Petrarque estimated.  Oudea’s Challenge  Societe Generale  had 13.9 billion euros of non-sovereign
risks in Italy and 11.1 billion euros in Spain at the end of
March, it said June 15. Societe Generale has concentrated its
expansion in eastern Europe and  Russia .  “The risk for SocGen is that, whenever economic conditions
worsen in the euro area, eastern European economies take a hit,
with its loan assets deteriorating,” said AlphaValue’s Nijdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  