-- BOK’s Kim Says He Sees Downside Risk to 3% Growth Target
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-25T04:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/bok-s-kim-says-he-sees-downside-risk-to-3-growth-target.html
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said the nation risks failing to meet a growth estimate for
2012 that the central bank already cut two weeks ago because of
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The economy is losing steam faster than we expected,”
Kim told lawmakers in  Seoul  today. “I see downside risk to our
3 percent growth forecast.”  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is losing momentum as export
growth slows and consumers and businesses lose confidence, the
BOK said in a report. Singapore’s monetary authority today
painted a similar picture as euro region woes ripple through
Asia. In South Korea, consumer sentiment dropped to the lowest
level in five months in July, the BOK said separately.  “We wake up every morning with more bad news about the
economy,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in Seoul. “It’s hard to consume or invest when
the future looks gloomy.”  South Korea ’s won weakened 0.3 percent to 1,149.28 per
dollar at 1:19 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Kospi Index fell 0.8 percent.  Gross domestic product may expand 0.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, Kim said, a projection
that matches the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of preliminary data due tomorrow. The economy will
probably grow about 1 percent in the third and the fourth
quarters, he said.  Lower Forecast  The BOK on July 13 reduced its 2012 growth forecast to 3
percent from a previous 3.5 percent.  “Considering exports account for about half of our
economy, how can we stay immune to changes in the international
landscape and the European crisis?” Kim said today.  Singapore ’s growth may fall below 1 percent should economic
slumps in the U.S. and  China  materialize and the European crisis
worsen significantly, the city-state’s central bank said today.  “Growth momentum is clearly slowing,” Monetary Authority
of Singapore Managing Director Ravi Menon said in a briefing in
the city state today as the central bank released its annual
report. Singapore’s current growth forecast of 1 percent to 3
percent is based on assumptions that there is no recession in
the U.S., no significant escalation of the euro zone crisis and
no hard landing in China, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  