-- Bristol-Myers Matches Analyst Estimates on Plavix Sales Drop
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-25T20:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/bristol-myers-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-plavix-sales-drop.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  said
second-quarter profit fell in line with analyst expectations, as
sales of the company’s top-selling drug Plavix plunged 60
percent after losing market exclusivity in May.  Net income  dropped 28 percent to $645 million, or 38 cents
a share, from $902 million, or 52 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit was 48 cents a share, matching the average
 estimates  of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue fell 18
percent to $4.44 billion, also meeting analyst projections.  Sales rose by 8 percent to $3.59 billion, excluding the
losses due to generic competition from the blood thinner Plavix
and Avapro, a hypertension drug, the company said. Investors are
watching to see whether Bristol-Myers’s newer products,
including the cancer drug Yervoy, can replenish sales, said
 Barbara Ryan , an analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities.  “Investors remain focused on new product opportunities
that can drive longer-term earnings per share growth,” she said
in a note to clients before the results were released.  Bristol-Myers lowered its 2012  forecast  for earnings
excluding the effect of its planned acquisition of Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc., to $1.78 to $1.88 a share from $1.90 to
$2. The company also reiterated a forecast for profit excluding
one-time items of $1.90 to $2.  The drugmaker  rose  less than 1 percent to $34.95 at 4 p.m.
New York time.  Eliquis Delay  The company is working to get answers to the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  on Eliquis, the blood thinner Bristol-Myers
is developing with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  The FDA in June rejected the
pill, asking for more data.  Bristol-Myers may have an answer to regulators by
September, Chief Scientific Officer Elliott Sigal said on a
conference call with analysts today.  “We’re working ferociously to submit this application,”
Sigal said. After that, “there could be up to a six-month
review period, but the way the engagement is occurring, it’s
possible the FDA won’t require that full six months.”  The FDA isn’t seeking new studies on the drug, and instead
wants information for existing trials, the companies have said.  Eliquis Estimate  Eliquis, aimed at patients with heart arrhythmia, could
generate $2.5 billion a year in sales by 2015 if approved,
according to  Tim Anderson , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
in New York. Johnson & Johnson, of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey ,
and Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer AG have a competing pill,
Xarelto, as does Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, of Ingelheim,
 Germany .  The company also plans to start a phase 3 clinical trial in
lung cancer patients of its drug that uses the body’s immune
system to attack cancer cells. That study will begin in August,
Sigal said on the call today. Phase 3 is the last before the
company would submit the drug for approval by the FDA.  Known as anti-PD-1 drugs, the medicine, BMS-936558, blocks
an “off” switch in the immune system that otherwise keeps it
from attacking cancer cells.  Bristol-Myers’s reiterated guidance means the company is
successfully hedging against currency swings, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York.  “We think maintaining guidance (especially revenue) is
impressive given the changes in Fx this quarter,” Schoenebaum
wrote in a note to clients today.  U.S. Sales  Bristol-Myers generates  65 percent  of its revenue in the
U.S., about 50 percent more than peers like Pfizer Inc. and
Merck & Co. That leaves it less vulnerable to foreign currency
fluctuations, Schoenebaum said.  Bristol-Myers has been acquiring companies and drugs to
replace Plavix, which at its 2011 peak sold $7.09 billion a
year. Sales of the medicine in the second quarter fell to $741
million from $1.87 billion in the same period last year.  Last month, the company agreed to buy Amylin for $5.3
billion, adding the diabetes drugs Bydureon and Byetta. Bristol-
Myers’ own experimental diabetes drug, dapagliflozin, failed to
win U.S. approval in January. That same month, Bristol-Myers
bought Inhibitex Inc. and its hepatitis C drug for $2.5 billion.
The company is racing to be first to market with a cure for the
liver infection that doesn’t rely on injectable drugs.  “We have been preparing for the expected loss of
exclusivity of Plavix and Avapro/Avalide for a number of years
and I am pleased with our company’s progress,” said Chief
Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti in the statement. “We are
building a strong foundation for success.”  Avapro Sales  Sales of Avapro, which lost patent protection in March,
fell 53 percent to $117 million.  Yervoy, used to treat melanoma, is the first medicine to
come to market from Bristol-Myers’s acquisition strategy. Its
sales grew 71 percent to $162 million. The drug was acquired
through Bristol-Myers’s purchase of Medarex Inc. in 2009 for
$2.4 billion and won marketing clearance last year.  Quarterly revenue was also helped by sales of the leukemia
treatment Sprycel, which increased 26 percent to $244 million.
Sales of Baraclude, a treatment for hepatitis B, jumped 22
percent to $357 million, while rheumatoid arthritis treatment
Orencia generated $290 million, a 27 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  