-- BAT First-Half Profit Growth Checked by Sterling’s Strength
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-25T08:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/british-american-first-half-profit-rises-on-higher-prices.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
 Europe ’s largest cigarette maker, said the strength of sterling
against currencies such as the Brazilian real checked growth in
first-half earnings, sending the shares lower.  The weakness of the euro, Russian ruble and South African
rand against the U.K. currency also restricted profit growth,
the London-based maker of Lucky Strike said today. Adjusted
profit from operations rose 3 percent to 2.84 billion pounds
($4.4 billion), in line with the 2.83 billion-pound median
estimate of five  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  “These results are no disaster,” Eddy Hargreaves, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity, said in a note. “But Southern
Europe weakened, and the currency impact is somewhat greater
than the market expected.” He recommends holding the shares.  BAT slid as much as 2.2 percent to 3,237 pence in London
trading. Currency fluctuations lowered profit by 4 percent in
the first half and could shave 5 percent off full-year earnings
per share if rates remain at current levels, Oriel Securities
analyst  Chris Wickham  said in a note.  In Brazil, BAT’s largest market by sales, the company
raised cigarette prices in April ahead of a tax increase in May,
which resulted in “good profit growth” that was largely offset
by a weakening real, the company said. The  real  has fallen 8.5
percent this year against the pound.  Price Increases  “We’ve had a good run over last few years on currency and
now some of our bigger ones have moved against us,” BAT
spokesman Kingsley Wheaton said in an interview.  The tobacco company has increased prices and pushed into
 emerging markets  such as Pakistan and Vietnam to offset rising
government levies and declining tobacco consumption in the
Americas. Developing markets account for 75 percent of BAT’s
volume and almost 60 percent of its profit.  Cigarette shipments were unchanged in the first half, as
rising sales of Lucky Strike and  Pall Mall  was offset by
sluggish conditions in southern Europe and a boost in one-time
shipments last year to  Japan  in the wake of that region’s
earthquake and tsunami, which hurt local tobacco producers.  “Substantial” declines in Spain and Italy pushed Western
European volume down 4 percent in the first half. Some cash-
strapped smokers are moving to fine-cut tobacco, the volume of
which rose by 7 percent in the region, Wheaton said.  BAT was down 1.2 percent at 3,267 pence as of 9:47 a.m. in
London, paring its gain this year to 6.9 percent.  Imperial
Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  fell 0.9 percent to 2,427 pence.  Russian Tax Increase  First-half sales were little changed at 7.45 billion
pounds, below analysts’ estimates of 7.57 billion pounds.  Growth in shipments of the company’s so-called global drive
brands, which include Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, and Pall
Mall, eased to 4 percent in the first half from 6 percent in the
first quarter, below what  Erik Bloomquist , a Berenberg analyst,
had estimated. Those brands now account for about a third of
shipments, up from 12 percent in 2002, according to Jefferies
International analyst Dirk van Vlaanderen.  In  Russia , where BAT’s market share and profit increased in
the first half, fueled by higher sales of Kent cigarettes, the
government plans to raise excise taxes on tobacco 40 percent
annually through 2015, according to its tax plan.  Australia  has passed a law, due to take effect on Dec. 1,
which would make the country the first to ban logos on cigarette
packaging in an effort to combat smoking. BAT, which is
challenging the ban, is the country’s biggest tobacco seller
with a 47 percent market share, according to  Barclays Capital .
The U.K. and  New Zealand  are also considering such legislation.  Last week,  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s
largest publicly traded tobacco company, reported second-quarter
profit that beat estimates, spurred by demand for cigarettes in
eastern Europe. Yesterday,  Imperial Tobacco  said declines in
tobacco shipments eased in its third quarter.  British American Tobacco also said it bought back 553
million pounds of shares in the period, and increased its
interim dividend by 11 percent to 42.2 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  