-- Broadband Research’s Kinnucan Pleads Guilty in Tip Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/broadband-research-s-kinnucan-says-he-will-plead-guilty-1-.html
John Kinnucan, the Broadband
Research LLC founder who earlier refused to cooperate in an FBI
probe of insider trading, admitted passing illegal tips on
companies to hedge-fund clients and obstructing justice.  Kinnucan, 55, who was indicted in February, pleaded guilty
yesterday in Manhattan federal court to one count of conspiracy
and two counts of securities fraud. He told U.S. District Judge
 Deborah Batts  that he both obtained and gave tips to clients of
his expert-networking firm, including two in  New York .  “From approximately 2008 to 2010 I worked with others to
obtain material nonpublic information from employees of public
companies,” Kinnucan told Batts. “I then passed the
information to clients.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Goldstein said Kinnucan
obtained inside information about  SanDisk Corp (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) 
and  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  , including quarterly revenue
numbers, after “befriending” employees of technology
companies.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
including paying for meals at high-end restaurants and shipping
them expensive food, as well as giving them confidential
information about other technology companies.  ‘Non-Monetary Benefits’  Goldstein told the judge that the government had evidence
proving Kinnucan shared tips he had obtained from employees at
public companies “through monetary and non-monetary benefits.”  “He passed that information to two portfolio managers here
in  New York City ,” she said. “The two fund managers then
traded on the information.”  The evidence against Kinnucan included cooperating
witnesses, electronic messages and telephone records, as well as
court-authorized wiretapped recordings, Goldstein said.  Goldstein didn’t identify the two fund managers in court
yesterday. Kinnucan had dozens of hedge fund clients in the U.S.  Kinnucan told his hedge fund clients in October 2010 that
he had refused a request to wear a wire for the FBI and inform
on his clients, a move that presaged more than dozen insider-
trading arrests in an initiative by Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Bharara’s office and the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New
York known as “ Perfect Hedge .”  ‘Eager Beavers’  “Today, two fresh-faced eager beavers from the FBI showed
up unannounced (obviously) on my doorstep thoroughly convinced
that my clients have been trading on copious inside
information,” Kinnucan said in an e-mail he sent warning his
clients in late 2010. “We obviously beg to differ, so have
therefore declined the young gentlemen’s gracious offer to wear
a wire and therefore ensnare you in their devious web.”  Since August 2009, at least 70 people have been charged
with insider trading by Bharara’s office with more than 60
convicted.  Kinnucan was arrested Feb. 16 at his home in  Portland ,
 Oregon , and has been in U.S. custody since then.  Prosecutors said that in the two months leading up to his
arrest this February, he engaged in a “campaign” of threats
and anti-Semitic rants.  “Too bad Hitler is not around, you should be in the gas
chamber,” Kinnucan said in one message left on a federal
prosecutor’s office phone in December.  Community Danger  Prosecutors said Kinnucan posed a danger to the community
and a threat to authorities handling his case, citing at least
24 menacing voice-mail messages he left after-hours at the
office phones of federal prosecutors and FBI agents and also at
the homes of two cooperating witnesses.  Batts said that while his comments were “vile,” she ruled
that he could be released on $5 million bond. Kinnucan was
unable to meet the conditions she set.  Kinnucan may have faced as long as 45 years in prison.
Under his plea agreement, he faces a sentencing range of 46
months to 57 months. Goldstein said the agreement includes a
two-level enhancement as Kinnucan also admitted yesterday that
he attempted to obstruct the probe.  “John Kinnucan engaged in an orchestrated campaign to
obstruct a federal investigation into his illegal conduct, the
very conduct for which he now stands convicted,” Bharara said
in a statement. “Briefly a cause celebre as some called him,
Mr. Kinnucan is now a felon facing sentencing for his  insider
trading  crimes.”  Batts scheduled Kinnucan’s sentencing for Jan. 15.  Kinnucan Remorseful  Jennifer Brown, a public defender representing Kinnucan,
said after court that her client was remorseful for his actions.  “With this plea of guilty, Mr. Kinnucan has accepted
responsibility for his conduct,” Brown said. “It’s been a very
difficult time for him because he is very far from his family.
It is his hope that with this plea it is a first step to
repairing the damage he has caused both to his family and to the
public.”  Kinnucan also agreed yesterday to pay a fine of as much as
$5 million and forfeit as much as $164,000.  “Mr. Kinnucan not only committed  securities fraud , but he
also engaged in threats and intimidation in an attempt to evade
justice,” Janice K. Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York
office, said in a statement. She said Kinnucan’s “plea is
vindication of the hard work of several agents from the FBI as
Mr. Kinnucan now stands guilty of the exact charges he tried to
repudiate.”  Wiretapped Calls  In court papers filed last year in the insider-trading case
against Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager who pleaded guilty last year, prosecutors said
the U.S. had listened in on wiretapped conversations that
Kinnucan had with Longueuil on the analyst’s phone.  None of the charges against Kinnucan involved SAC Capital.  Longueuil said during his plea that while researching
technology firms for two  hedge funds , he conspired to obtain
inside information on  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  and that he
conspired with Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management
LP. Barai pleaded guilty last year.  The unidentified insiders who conspired with Kinnucan
included employees at  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) , F5
Networks and SanDisk, prosecutors said.  Donald Barnetson, a former executive at Milpitas,
California-based SanDisk, pleaded guilty in federal court in New
York on Feb. 17 and said he conspired with Kinnucan and passed
on inside information about his company.  Walter Shimoon, a former Flextronics manager, pleaded
guilty in July 2011 and claimed he passed inside information to
Kinnucan while working as a consultant for  Broadband Research .
He said he was paid a total of $27,500 for passing tips about
his company, OmniVision Technologies,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Cooperators  Barnetson and Shimoon weren’t named in the indictment of
Kinnucan. Both have said they are cooperating in the probe of
insider trading by fund managers, expert networking consultants
and employees of publicly traded technology companies by the FBI
in New York and Bharara’s office.  Prosecutors alleged Kinnucan tipped several of his clients
after he obtained information from an F5 Networks insider that
the company was going to beat analysts’ estimates in July 2010.
At least two of Kinnucan’s clients executed trades in F5
Networks stock, either earning profits or avoiding losses
totaling more than $1.5 million, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  