-- Brown Says $14 Billion Plan Will Boost California Water
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-25T20:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/brown-says-14-billion-plan-will-boost-california-water.html
Governor  Jerry Brown  unveiled plans
for a $14 billion tunnel system to divert abundant Northern
California water to thirsty Southern California cities and farms
that grow half of the U.S.’s fresh produce.  Twin 33-foot tubes, each the diameter of a Los Angeles-
class attack submarine, would stretch 40 miles (64 kilometers)
from the Sacramento river, south of the state capital, to
existing  pumps and aqueducts  that supply cities such as  Los
Angeles  and  San Diego , and irrigate 3 million acres of farmland.  The plan announced today reopens a long-simmering dispute
between northern Californians and those in the more populous
south, much of which is semidesert. Voters in the most populous
U.S. state rejected a similar plan to divert water from the
Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta in 1982.  “This thing is never going to be free of controversy and
conflict,” Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, told reporters at a
briefing in  Sacramento . “But we know a lot more today than we
did then. Here we are, 30 years later, with a lot more knowledge
and a lot more science.”  The tunnels would carry as much as 9,000 cubic feet (255
cubic meters) of water a second, enough to fill an Olympic-sized
swimming pool in under 10 seconds. Water-user fees would pay for
the tunnels, while money from an $11 billion bond proposal on
the 2014 ballot would finance restoration of 100,000 acres of
floodplain and tidal-marsh habitat.  Supplying L.A.  Supplying water to Los Angeles, the second most-populous
city in the U.S., has been contentious since the turn of the
last century, when the city’s water superintendent, William
Mulholland, built more than 200 miles of aqueducts from the
Owens Valley and nearby mountains that fed farms.  Filmmaker Roman Polanski’s 1974 movie “Chinatown,”
starring  Jack Nicholson  and  Faye Dunaway , is set in Los Angeles
in what became known as the California Water Wars.  U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , appearing with Brown,
said the new tunnels would bring an end to “the epic water wars
that have plagued this state for decades.”  The restoration efforts are intended to ease pressure on
the ecologically sensitive Sacramento-San Joaquin Bay Delta,
located at the confluence of two rivers that feed into  San
Francisco Bay , where native plants and fish have suffered.  Currently, pumps that pull water from the delta kill two
out of every three fish that are sucked into the system, pushing
some species such as the Delta smelt to near extinction. Federal
courts have ordered the state to reduce the intake, forcing
farmers to idle thousands of acres.  Pumps Bypassed  Salazar said the tunnels would use gravity to draw water
under the delta, bypassing the “fish-killing” pumps.  Environmentalists oppose the project, saying it hasn’t been
studied enough to ensure that it won’t destroy salmon runs on
the Sacramento River. Some farming groups also oppose the
proposal because of the fees and because it calls for restoring
land now used for agriculture back to wetlands and habitat.  “We’re being asked to take a lot on faith,” said Senator
Mark DeSaulnier, a Democrat from Concord, a city in the delta.
“We’re being asked to believe that, in the future, the amount
of water diverted from the delta will be based on science, when
science has been persistently ignored up to this point.”  “We’re being asked to believe that fish will miraculously
need less water to survive in the future, and that returning
water exports to the levels that first decimated delta fisheries
will help restore the estuary,” he said. “That’s a lot to ask.
Too much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  