-- Brown to Unveil California Water Project for 25 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-25T16:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/brown-to-unveil-california-water-project-for-25-million.html
Governor  Jerry Brown  said he will
unveil plans today to divert abundant Northern California water
to thirsty  Southern California  for 25 million people and the
farms that grow half of the U.S.’s fresh produce.  The project would siphon water from the Sacramento River,
10 miles south of the state capital, through two 40-mile-long
tunnels to existing  pumps and aqueducts  that supply cities such
as  Los Angeles  and  San Diego , and irrigate 3 million acres.  The plan reopens a long-simmering dispute between northern
Californians and those in the more populous south, much of which
is semidesert. Voters in 1982 rejected a ballot measure that
would have authorized a similar plan after a campaign that
pitted northerners against Southland residents.  Water user fees would pay for the tunnels, while money from
a $11 billion water-bond measure voters will consider in 2014
would finance restoration of 100,000 acres of floodplain and
tidal marsh habitat.  The diversion of water to Los Angeles has remained a
contentious dispute in the most populous U.S. state since the
turn of the last century, when the city bought up large tracts
and then built miles of aqueducts to drain lakes in the Owens
Valley and nearby mountains that had fed water to farms.  Filmmaker Roman Polanski’s 1974 movie “Chinatown,”
starring  Jack Nicholson  and  Faye Dunaway , takes place in Los
Angeles during that California water-war era.  The restoration efforts are intended to ease pressure on
the ecologically sensitive Sacramento-San Joaquin Bay Delta,
located at the confluence of two rivers that feed into San
Francisco Bay, where native plants and fish have suffered.  That water ballot measure had been slated for this year,
but Democrats and Brown delayed it, in part because of worries
that too many high-cost measures might jeopardize Brown’s
proposed tax increase also on the ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  