-- BT Sales Miss Analyst Estimates as Clients Cut Spending
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-25T08:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/bt-quarterly-profit-rises-1-9-on-high-speed-web-sales.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line phone company, reported first-quarter sales that
missed analyst estimates as some customers reduced spending. The
stock declined the most in more than 11 months.  Sales in the three months ended June 30 dropped 5.9 percent
to 4.48 billion pounds ($6.9 billion), the London-based company
said in a statement today. The average estimate from analysts in
a  Bloomberg survey  was for 4.58 billion pounds.  Customers are cutting spending and deferring orders amid a
sluggish economy. BT’s global services business, which provides
phone and web networks to international companies, took the
biggest sales hit, declining 9.2 percent from a year earlier.  “It’s difficult to see corporate spending getting much
better,” said Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie. “That’s the
real big risk to the company for the rest of the year.”  BT shares dropped as much as 7.3 percent to 201.60 pence,
the biggest decline since August 2011, and were down 3.5 percent
at 9:25 a.m. in  London . BT had gained 14 percent this year
through yesterday, valuing it at 16.9 billion pounds.  The company said in May that revenue will continue to
decline next year as demand for fixed services falls.  ‘Gotten Worse’  Corporate customers, many of whom are in the financial
services industry, are taking longer to commit to new contracts
and the deals that are coming in are much smaller than usual,
Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said today. The biggest
contract BT has won this year was about 50 million pounds
compared to deals worth “three-figure millions” in a more
typical year, he said.  “Continental Europe has gotten worse rather than better,”
Livingston said in a call with reporters today. “I think one
has to plan for  Europe  as a whole remaining tough, certainly not
bounding back suddenly.”  To compensate for the declines in Europe, Livingston is
targeting business in  Asia , the  Middle East ,  Africa  and  Latin
America , he said.  Some of the global services decline is also related to the
weaker euro, which has been pummeled by the debt crisis in
countries like Greece and  Spain , said Stephane Beyazian, an
analyst at  Raymond James .  “It’s a little disappointing,” said London-based
Beyazian, who rates BT “outperform.” The decline in the global
services business is detracting from improvements in the retail
side of the company, he said.  Faster Web  BT has accelerated its 2.5 billion-pound roll out of fiber
broadband by one year to fend off faster Web offers from
competitors such as  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Adjusted first-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 1.9 percent
to 1.46 billion pounds, in line with analysts’ average estimate
for 1.45 billion pounds.  While some European operators such as Royal KPN NV this
year announced dividend cuts, BT said in May it will raise its
payout to shareholders by 10 percent to 15 percent annually for
the next three years.  BT has also added Premier League soccer rights for the
seasons starting in 2013 and 2015, and will start a soccer
channel to carry the games. The deal will cut earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 100 million
pounds and  cash flow  by 200 million pounds in 2013 and 2014, the
company said last month. BT will pay 246 million pounds per
season for rights to 38 live games.  The deal, which caused shares to fall 3.5 percent the day
after it was announced, will strengthen the company’s products
for consumers and win subscribers, Livingston said today. BT may
add more television rights in the future, he said without
providing details. The company’s retail revenue declined 3
percent last quarter.  “It puts BT in the best position and gives us more
options,” Livingston said. “We’re not the slightest bit
regretting it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  