-- Budget Office Questions Navy Shipbuilding Cost Estimates
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/budget-office-questions-navy-shipbuilding-cost-estimates.html
The U.S. Navy is underestimating the
cost of its proposed 30-year shipbuilding program by 19 percent,
the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office  said in a report.  The Navy submitted a plan to Congress in late March to buy
268 ships during the next three decades at an average annual
cost of $16.8 billion for a total of $505 billion, according to
the report. If other activities such as refueling nuclear-
powered aircraft carriers that typically are funded from the
service’s shipbuilding accounts are included, the average annual
cost is $18.8 billion, the CBO said in the report released
yesterday.  “By comparison, using its own models and assumptions, CBO
estimates that the cost for new-ship construction under the 2013
plan would average $20.0 billion per year, or a total of $599
billion through 2042,” the CBO said. “That figure is 19
percent more than the Navy’s estimate. Including the expense of
refueling aircraft carriers and the other items raises that
average cost to about $22 billion per year -- 37 percent more
than what the Navy has spent through its shipbuilding accounts
on average during the past 30 years.”  In response, a Navy spokeswoman, Lieutenant Courtney
Hillson, said, “The Navy welcomes the CBO’s review of our
shipbuilding estimates, and we will take the time needed to
review the CBO report.”  The Navy’s 2013 plan calls for buying 222 combat ships,
including aircraft carriers, submarines and amphibious warfare
ships, between 2013 and 2042, 17 more than called for in its
2012 plan, said the CBO. In addition, the plan calls for 46
“logistics and support” ships.  Falling Short  Among the prime contractors for the Navy’s shipbuilding
programs are  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  of  Falls Church ,  Virginia ;
 Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  of  Newport News , Virginia;
Austal USA of Mobile,  Alabama ; and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham,  Massachusetts ,
makes radar, electronics and self-defense missiles.  The 2013 plan for a fleet of about 300 warships “would
still leave the Navy short of its inventory objectives for
attack submarines, large surface combatants and amphibious
warfare ships for significant parts of the 2013-2042 period,
although those shortfalls are now less pronounced than they
would have been under the 2012 plan,” according to the report.  By contrast, the CBO said, the Navy would exceed its goal
of 11 aircraft carriers, including six new Gerald R. Ford-class
vessels, for all but four years of that period.  Rising Cost  The Navy now estimates the average cost of the six new CVN-
78 carriers, the first one of which is about 40 percent
completed at Huntington Ingalls Shipbuilding’s Newport News,
Virginia, yard, at $10.9 billion. The CBO’s average estimate for
the six vessels through 2042 is $13 billion.  The lead ship USS  Gerald Ford  has drawn the most scrutiny
this year from lawmakers, such as Senate Armed Services
Committee ranking Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona .  CBO yesterday confirmed an earlier McCain claim that the
projected cost of the CVN-78 grew 18 percent between 2008 and
2013. That’s up from a 10 percent increase since 2008 CBO
projected last year.  CBO projects the total CVN-78 cost by the time its
delivered in September 2015 will be at least $14.2 billion, up
from $13.3 billion in fiscal 2012 dollars, the agency estimated
in last year’s report.  The final cost of the CVN-78 could be even higher than
CBO’s estimate, for several reasons, according to the CBO.  These include the fact that the Navy’s own cost estimates
assume the vessel has a 50 percent chance of exceeding its
budget, the CBO said.  Critical Technologies  In addition, “a number of critical technologies” are
supposed to be incorporated into the ship, such as a new General
Atomics of San Diego electromagnetic catapult system for
launching aircraft. They remain under development and will
require integration as the ship nears the final stages of
construction, CBO said.  Difficulties in completing that integration could arise and
increase costs, and those increases would also probably affect
the costs for subsequent ships of the class,” according to the
CBO.  Some military experts have questioned the wisdom of relying
heavily on such large ships when nations such as  China  are
developing new anti-ship missiles, drones and attack submarines.  Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan Greenert said in
a Bloomberg interview yesterday that the service will soon
release its latest force structure plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  