-- Canadian Dollar Rises Most This Month on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-25T21:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/canadian-dollar-rises-from-two-week-low-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Canada ’s dollar rose from the lowest
level in two weeks and posted the biggest one-day gain this
month on speculation central banks will consider increasing
monetary stimulus to spur growth, boosting higher-risk assets.  The currency fell earlier to the lowest since July 12 on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening. European Central Bank
council member Ewald Nowotny said there were arguments favoring
giving the region’s rescue fund a banking license. Stocks and
crude oil, traditional drivers for the currency, gained.  “People are hoping for more stimulus,” said  John Curran ,
a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign-exchange dealer, by phone from Toronto. “I don’t see it
coming this year. There would have to be some drastic downturns
in employment and growth scenarios for them to come out and act.
People are going to be disappointed. Buy U.S. dollars.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, climbed 0.7
percent, the most since June 29, to C$1.0155 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency is up 0.1 percent this month
versus the greenback. One Canadian dollar buys 98.48 U.S. cents.  “There’s more positive sentiment,”  Steve Butler , managing
director in Toronto at Scotiabank, said by e-mail. “It’s giving
the market hope that there will be some policy action, either in
the U.S. or Europe or both.”  Market Trades  Butler said he bought Canadian dollars today as a “short-
term play.” The loonie may weaken to between C$1.035 and
C$1.040 per U.S. dollar eventually, while “on days like today,
you can’t fight the herd,” Butler said.  Government bonds  fell for the first time in four days. The
benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 1.59 percent, as the price of the 2.75
percent security due in June 2022 declined 17 cents to C$110.52.  Canada sold C$2.6 billion of 10-year bonds today at a yield
of 1.705 percent. The securities have a coupon of 1.5 percent
and mature in June 2023.  The sale drew bids of C$5.87 billion for a bid-to-cover --
the amount bid relative to the amount offered -- of 2.26 times.
The previous auction of 10-year bonds, on June 6, drew an
average yield of 1.765 percent and a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.37
times, according to  Bank of Canada  data.  Stocks, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed. Crude
for September delivery rose as much as 1.2 percent to $89.16 in
 New York . Canada’s currency, which is up about 0.6 percent this
year versus the greenback, tends to rise and fall with stocks
and commodity prices.  Granting a banking license to the ESM would give it access
to ECB lending, easing concern its 500 billion-euro cash
reserves won’t be enough if Spain or  Italy  require aid amid the
worsening debt crisis.  Nowotny’s comments “caused a spike in the euro and a risk
rally in general,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of
institutional foreign-exchange sales in Toronto at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) , in an e-mail. “The Canadian dollar benefited from
that.” Jespersen is “getting long U.S. dollars at C$1.0120
with an overall view that Canadian dollar gains are capped for
the summer.” A long position is a bet that an asset will
increase in value.  Commodity Currencies  Investors are moving out of the euro and sterling into
commodity currencies because the prospect of monetary stimulus
and below-average volatility levels has cushioned them from the
worst of the price declines in raw materials, according to Axel Merk, founder and president of Merk Investments LLC.  Among the 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, Canada’s dollar has gained 2.4
percent this year, lagging behind only the fellow resource-
linked dollars of  Australia , up 2.9 percent, and  New Zealand  up
3.5 percent.  “We dumped the euro and picked up some commodity
currencies,” Merk said during a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “Volatility has
come down year-to-date. Central banks are hoping for the best,
but planning for the worst, which means the commodity
currencies, which ought to be more volatile, are less
volatile.”  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to 7.28 percent today, after
falling to 6.22 percent at the end of last week, the lowest this
year. The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied volatility,
which traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the
expected pace of currency swings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  