-- Canada Gas Declines on U.S. East Coast Seasonal Weather Outlook
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-07-25T21:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/canada-gas-declines-on-u-s-east-coast-seasonal-weather-outlook.html
Canadian natural gas declined on
forecasts for normal U.S. East Coast weather next week that may
curb demand for the power-plant fuel.  August gas in Alberta  fell 4.8 percent as Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted temperatures in the
East will drop to seasonal norms July 30 through Aug. 3.
Unusually warm weather has spurred fuel demand from  power
plants , driving New York gas futures 27 percent higher since the
end of May.  “We’ve gone so far so quickly in the last few weeks,”
said  Peter Linder , president of the DeltaOne Energy Fund in
Calgary. “It’s a temporary pause for both the U.S. and Canadian
natural gas. The forecast for August is still warmer than normal
and I believe we are going to see, finally, falling U.S.
production.”  Alberta  gas for August delivery declined 11.75 cents to
C$2.34 per gigajoule ($2.19 per million British thermal units)
as of 5 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market.
Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada  and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 11.7 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $3.07 per million
Btu, after settling yesterday at a seven-month high of $3.187.  Weather Outlook  The high temperature in Washington on Aug. 1 may be 86
degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius), 2 below normal, and New York
City may be 3 below normal at 84 degrees, according AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. Indianapolis will see a
high of 85 degrees Aug. 1, 1 above normal, down from today’s
projected high of 102 degrees, 17 above normal.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.1 billion cubic
feet at 4 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.02 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was also 2.02 billion cubic feet.  There was no available capacity on TransCanada’s British
Columbia system at Kingsgate because of an excess of 50 million
cubic feet of volume. The system was forecast to carry 2.068
billion cubic feet today, more than the estimated capacity of
2.018 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.8
billion cubic feet at 4:35 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  