-- Carney Leading Bank of England Seen as Scandal Remedy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/canadian-leading-bank-of-england-seen-as-london-scandal-remedy.html
London is losing so much trust as
the global financial center that Prime Minister  David Cameron 
may need to consider an unprecedented choice for Bank of England
governor: Mark Carney, the Canadian who polices the world’s
financial system and has no ties to the bailouts or rigged
markets tainting Labour and Conservative governments alike.  The 47-year-old Carney, who received his masters and PhD
degrees from Oxford University, is no stranger to the  City of
London  after working there with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Now
serving as governor of the Bank of Canada and the head of the
Financial Stability Board, he is unscathed by the fallout from
the 2008 financial crisis.  As Mervyn King heads into his last 11 months as Bank of
England governor on the defensive after the self-regulated
market failed to prevent manipulation of the London Interbank
Offered Rate, no one in London with central bank experience
remains untainted by the Libor scandal. That may boost the
appeal of an outsider as Cameron’s government tries to clean up
a city that’s home to  the world’s biggest currency market .  “Mark Carney is one of the brightest, most capable people
I’ve ever met in global finance and central banking,” said  Tim Adams , a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary who worked with
Carney at Group of Seven meetings. “I’ve been around these
circles a long time and he’s smart, politically savvy, a good
manager and has an outstanding track record. It’s tough to find
all those elements in a single person.”  Domestic candidates for the job include  Gus O’Donnell ,
former head of the U.K. civil service, Financial Services
Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker , a three-decade veteran at the bank.  Prospects Dented  Libor is the latest episode to reveal failings in the City,
whose $2 trillion-per-day foreign-exchange market dwarves those
in New York, Hong Kong, Canada and the rest of Europe.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last
month for rigging the rate, the global benchmark for $500
trillion of securities, after a probe by regulators.  The scandal cost Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  their jobs and dented the
prospects of Tucker, the bank’s leading internal candidate. He
has been criticized by lawmakers for his failure to spot
wrongdoing in the reporting of Libor in 2007 and 2008.  “Why not get a head that’s global? Bankers aren’t very
popular, and a Canadian sounds like a good choice,” said Kent Matthews, a professor at Cardiff University and former Bank of
England researcher. “It may well be that to restore credibility
they have to look outside.”  ‘Light Touch’  London was also the site of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading
loss of at least $5.8 billion and the alleged $2.3 billion fraud
at UBS AG. Its “light touch” regulatory approach has been
blamed for failing to prevent the near-collapse of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and the run on Northern Rock Plc.  The situation has highlighted the appeal of figures such as
Carney, named by Time magazine in 2010 as one of the world’s 100
most influential people for helping shape new global financial
rules. That may boost his attractiveness to Britain’s government
as Parliament considers a bill giving the Bank of England macro
prudential tools and  banking-supervision powers .  Born in Fort Smith, a town of 2,400 halfway between Calgary
and the Arctic circle, Carney joined the finance ministry in
2004 and became Bank of Canada governor in February 2008. Group
of 20 leaders in November 2011 named him chairman of the FSB,
which is helping to write new regulations for international
finance. His term at the Bank of Canada ends January 2015.  Goldman Pedigree  In contrast to King’s academic background, he is a 13-year
veteran of Goldman Sachs, which also counts European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  as former employees.  Carney, who has a British-born wife, earned a reputation
for healing troubled markets while at the Canadian finance
ministry. In 2007, he brokered a restructuring of about C$35
billion ($34 billion) of asset-backed commercial paper, which
helped to avert a deeper crisis as the collapse of the U.S.
subprime market made banks worldwide reluctant to lend.  Appointed head of the Bank of Canada in 2008, he cut the
benchmark rate to a record and made a “conditional commitment”
to keep rates low for a fixed period. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  copied that commitment in August 2011.
Canada’s economy grew 2.5 percent in 2011 and may expand 2.1
percent this year, according to the International Monetary Fund.
In Britain, the economy may grow just 0.2 percent.  Big Bang  London’s regulatory model was first introduced with the
1986 “Big Bang,” when Conservative Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  pushed a free-market model to boost London’s role in
global finance. It was then championed by Labour administrations
under  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown .  “In the old days, it was a gentlemen’s club policed by
peer review where fraudsters became pariahs, and then we tried
this self-regulation system with a fraud agency that’s not up to
muster,” said Patrick Minford, a professor at Cardiff
University and a former adviser to Thatcher. “We need to move
on with a strong regulatory environment so we can get back to
being one of the strongest financial centers in the world.”  In addition to Tucker, London’s banking scandals have
thrown road blocks in front of potential Bank of England
candidates including ex-Barclays CEO  John Varley  and former  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman Stephen Green.  Outsiders  “You can’t easily choose a banker today,” said Douglas McWilliams, chief executive officer of the Centre for Economics
and Business Research in London. “You probably have to go
beyond government, and that’s when it becomes difficult.”  The U.K. isn’t a stranger to putting non-nationals in key
positions at the central bank. Its Monetary Policy Committee has
included Americans Deanne Julius, on the panel from 1997 to
2001, and  Adam Posen , who will step down at the end of August.
Kit McMahon, an Australian, worked at the bank for more than two
decades and was its deputy governor from 1980 to 1986.  Still, the complexities and scale of the Bank of England’s
 new powers  may weigh against choosing a governor with little
direct experience of the U.K. regime. The winning candidate
would oversee a financial district that’s home to banks worth
$271 billion in total, second only to New York, where the total
market value comes to $289 billion. Toronto’s banking industry
is worth $194 billion and Hong Kong’s comes to $74 billion.  “One of the great successes of the MPC has been the number
of non-Britons who’ve been on the committee,” said  Steven Bell ,
chief economist at hedge fund GLC Ltd. in London. “But for the
governor you want someone with deep knowledge of the British
economy and the regulatory issues.”  U.K. Ties  Dan Conaghan, author of a book on the Bank of England, said
he’s almost certain there’s never been a foreign head of the
central bank since it was founded in 1694. The central bank said
it isn’t possible to be definitive on the nationality of all the
governors.  Carney has so far given no public indication he’d apply for
the job when Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne starts
the formal selection process in the fall. In April, he rebuffed
a Financial Times report that the Bank of England’s Court of
Directors had approached him, saying he hadn’t been contacted.
Carney, who said in April he is “totally focused” on his
current jobs, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Among the other potential successors to King, O’Donnell has
been described by GLC’s Bell as the “best-qualified.”
O’Donnell said last month he’s using his new job as an adviser
at Canada’s  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  to learn about banks and
regulation. Turner said in an interview on July 24 that “I
would obviously not rule myself out.” Tucker has yet to show
his hand.  “Tucker would make the best candidate, but if not him,
then  Mark Carney  makes a very strong case,” said Shamik Dhar,
head of investment strategy at Aviva Investors in London and a
former Bank of England economist. “He’s a central banker and so
has the right experience, he knows the macroeconomic situation
and the international markets well, and he’s guided the Bank of
Canada extraordinarily effectively.”  Britain already has one Canadian running a British
institution. Moya Greene, a Newfoundlander who left Canada Post
to become Royal Mail Group Ltd. CEO in 2010, says that putting
an outsider into a top job can help by bringing a different
perspective.  “He’s a fantastic candidate, I’ve known him for quite a
long time, and I’d be very surprised they wouldn’t consider
someone as strong as Mark Carney,” she said in an interview.
“I do think it helps that you can see things with fresh and
different eyes sometimes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 Gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  