-- Canadian Pacific Gains as New CEO Stands by Cost Target
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-26T00:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/canadian-pacific-beats-estimates-as-ackman-ceo-pick-takes-helm.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  surged
after  William Ackman ’s choice as chief executive officer
reiterated a plan to transform  North America ’s least-efficient
major carrier into one of the region’s most profitable.  Operating ratio, a measure of expenses against revenue,
will be cut to about 65 percent in four years, CEO  Hunter Harrison  said on a call after the railroad Canadian Pacific
posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates. The
first-quarter average for peer railroads was 73.9 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Changes may include a reduction in terminals and a capacity
cut of 20 percent to 25 percent in the locomotive fleet over
four years, Harrison, the former head of competitor  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR) , said in a telephone interview today.
 Canadian Pacific ’s second-quarter ratio was 82.5 percent.  “Terminals have historically with railroads been huge cost
centers and they were developed when the mix of business was
totally different than it is today,” Harrison said. He said the
carrier has “far too many terminals,” without saying what he
considered to be an appropriate total.  Canadian Pacific’s network includes 19 rail yards and 15
so-called intermodal terminals, which handle containers that can
move by a combination of train, truck and ship, according to the
 railroad’s website .  Canadian Pacific  rose  5.3 percent to C$78.97 at the close
in Toronto. The shares had previously climbed 22 percent from
Oct. 27, the day before Ackman disclosed a stake that made his
Pershing Square Capital Management LP the largest investor.  Rail Strike  Second-quarter profit, excluding costs such as the
management change and a revised  tax rate , was 90 cents a share,
compared with the 85-cent  average  of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. A nine-day strike in May reduced earnings by about 25
cents to 30 cents a share, Canadian Pacific said.  The quarter’s operating ratio set a benchmark for Harrison,
67, as he pursues a turnaround like the one he led at larger
competitor Canadian National. The bigger carrier reported a
ratio of 66.2 percent in the first quarter, the lowest of North
America’s large railroads.  “A lot of this is going to require change,” Harrison said
in the interview. “And there are a lot of us that don’t like
change. There’s going to be people that resist, that push back,
that maybe leave the organization, so the challenge is to keep
the team together as much as we possibly can.”  Harrison was appointed June 29, a little more than a month
after Ackman won a proxy fight clearing the way for a new CEO.  Net Income  Excluding proxy battle costs and the effect of the strike,
the railroad posted “a quarter that was well above our
expectations,”  Walter Spracklin , an RBC Capital Markets analyst
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The core business
is running much better than anticipated and that is what people
are going to focus in on when they trade the stock today.”  Net income fell 24 percent to C$103 million ($101 million),
or 60 cents a share, from C$128 million, or 75 cents, a year
earlier, the company said in the statement. Revenue rose 8
percent to C$1.37 billion.  One of Harrison’s first tasks is union negotiations. The
Teamsters  Canada  Rail Conference, which represents more than
4,000 engineers, conductors and rail-traffic controllers, went
on strike in May after contract talks that began in October
stalled over the company’s pension plan.  Canadian National  Canada passed legislation May 31 ordering the Teamsters
back to work. The law sent all unresolved issues between
Canadian Pacific and the union to binding arbitration, giving
the two sides 90 days to settle on a new contract or face one
drawn up by the arbitrator.  The strike led to volume gains for  Canadian National , which
boosted its full-year forecast today to 15 percent growth after
posting higher second-quarter profit than analysts estimated.  Earnings were C$1.50 a share, excluding some items,
compared with the  average estimate  of C$1.47 from 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Including an income tax expense of 6
cents a share, net income was C$631 million, or C$1.44 a share,
compared with C$538 million, or C$1.18 a year earlier, the
company said.  Canadian National’s carload volumes also benefited from
economic growth, the company said. The shares fell 0.4 percent
to C$86.83 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  