-- Canon Cuts Profit Forecast on Strong Yen, Slowing Economies
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-25T08:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/canon-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-citing-slowing-economies.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
camera maker, cut its full-year profit forecast because of a
stronger yen and expectations for weaker growth in the U.S.,
Europe and  China .  Net income will probably be 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion)
in 2012, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today,
paring its April projection of 290 billion yen. That lagged
behind the 289.6 billion-yen average estimate of 20 analysts.
The second quarter’s  net income  of 51.7 billion yen also missed
analyst estimates for 67.6 billion yen.  Canon, which gets 80 percent of  sales outside Japan , cut
its sales targets for compact cameras, office equipment and
imaging systems. The company is facing slowing demand for laser
printers in Europe and the U.S., and overseas earnings are being
eroded after the yen gained the most against the euro of all
major currencies last quarter amid the  European debt crisis .  “Compact-camera sales are seen to be affected by
smartphones, and there are signs of concern for growth in
printers,”  Hisashi Moriyama , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in  Tokyo , said after the earnings announcement. “There are
risks of further forecast revisions if the yen stays strong.”  Canon fell 0.9 percent in Tokyo trading to 2,678 yen, the
lowest level since March 2009, before the announcement. The
stock  fell  as much as 3.1 percent to 27.80 euro in  Germany .  Slowing Economy  “The global economy is expected to realize only mild
growth amid the strong uncertainty over the eurozone debt
crisis,” Canon said in a statement. “Projections for the U.S.
economy point to a moderate recovery, while in Europe the
economy will likely remain sluggish. Growth in emerging
economies, such as China and  India , is expected to decline.”  The target for compact-camera sales this year was lowered
to 21 million units from 22 million forecast earlier, according
to the statement. The company kept the sales target for single-
lens reflex cameras, used by professionals, unchanged at 9.2
million units.  Office-equipment  sales may drop 5.2 percent to 1.8 trillion
yen, the company said today, abandoning an earlier forecast for
1.1 percent growth. Imaging-systems sales may rise at a 16.5
percent pace, slower than the 20 percent it previously forecast.  Appreciating Yen  The  Japanese currency  averaged about 102.90 against the
euro last quarter, compared with Canon’s estimate in April of
105 yen. A stronger yen cuts the repatriated value of sales
earned overseas.  Each 1-yen decline in the value of the dollar will erode
second-half operating profit by about 5.3 billion yen, the
company said today. The impact of a 1-yen decline by the euro is
estimated at 2.9 billion yen, the company said.  Canon based its full-year forecast on an exchange ratio of
100 yen to the euro, compared with 105 yen predicted earlier.
The company kept its dollar forecast unchanged at 80 yen.  The maker of Ixus, EOS and PowerShot cameras will cut costs
to cope with the strong yen, Chief Financial Officer Toshizo Tanaka told reporters in Tokyo. It isn’t planning job cuts, he
said.  “We haven’t seen a significant impact on businesses by the
European crisis during the fiscal first half,” Tanaka said.
“Nevertheless, we are cautious about the possible impact from
 Europe ’s situation in the second half.”  Natural Disasters  Canon brought back Fujio Mitarai, 76, as president in March
to replace Tsuneji Uchida, who announced his resignation in
January after the company forecast a smaller full-year profit
than analysts estimated. Mitarai served as Canon’s president
from 1995 to 2006 before becoming chairman.  The company, which also makes copiers and chipmaking
equipment, was hit by floods in  Thailand  last year just after
recovering from output disruptions caused by  Japan ’s March 2011
earthquake and tsunami.  Canon is boosting output overseas as the rising yen makes
it more expensive to manufacture in Japan. Canon set up a new
affiliate in  Brazil  with a plan to start making digital cameras
in the nation from July 2013, it said June 11. The company also
established a marketing subsidiary in  Vietnam  to boost services
in the nation starting next month.  Lower sales-volume estimates for laser printers and compact
cameras were among the reasons for cutting forecasts, Tanaka
said.  Camera makers are promoting high-end models as smartphones
with built-in cameras start to erode sales of point-and-shoot
models. In March, Canon introduced the EOS 5D Mark III,
featuring a new image sensor. The company is introducing its
first mirrorless model in September, joining  Nikon Corp. (7731)  in
tapping growing demand for lightweight cameras with
interchangeable lenses.  U.S. printer makers, including  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and  Lexmark
International Inc. (LXK) , lowered their earnings forecasts earlier
this month, citing weakness in Europe. Worldwide hardcopy
peripherals shipments declined 7.4 percent in the first quarter
this year, researcher IDC said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  