-- Carlyle, BC Get United Tech Division for $3.46 Billion
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-26T00:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/carlyle-bc-to-buy-united-technologies-unit-for-3-46-billion.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  agreed to
sell its Hamilton Sundstrand industrial unit to  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
and BC Partners for $3.46 billion as the company raises cash to
pay for aerospace supplier  Goodrich Corp. (GR)   The transaction will be financed with equity from the firms
and third-party debt from a group of banks, London-based BC
Partners and  Carlyle Group  said yesterday in a statement. The
deal with Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies  is
expected to close in the fourth quarter, the companies said.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  is now a step
closer to completing his fundraising for the $16.5 billion
Goodrich purchase announced last year. He will have an
opportunity to discuss the move on a conference call with
analysts after today’s second-quarter earnings release.  “That’s an attractive sale for United Technologies,”
Richard Whittington, a Drexel Hamilton LLC analyst in  New York ,
said in an interview. “It will go a way to helping them balance
the debt that they had to take on.”  United Technologies raised $9.8 billion in May in the
largest U.S. corporate bond offering in more than three years to
help pay for Goodrich, an acquisition that will let Chenevert
add the biggest maker of aircraft landing gear to brands that
include Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters.  Executives identified Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial in
March as one of the assets on the block to help pay for
Goodrich, and United Technologies said then that the sale, along
with the Rocketdyne and Clipper Windpower divisions, might bring
$3 billion of Goodrich’s price.  Three Businesses  Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial consists of three
businesses: Sundyne, a maker of high-speed pumps and compressors
used in oil and gas applications and chemical/industrial
infrastructure; pump-maker Milton Roy; and Sullair, which
produces compressors used to power air-driven industrial
equipment and tools.  “While these are strong, profitable companies with solid
customers and continued promising outlooks, they are not part of
UTC’s core of aerospace and building systems,” Chenevert said
in a statement. Raymond Svider, co-chairman of  BC Partners ,
called Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial a “a world-class
platform.”  The unit’s order backlog was $5.4 billion at the end of
2011, of which $2.8 billion would be realized as sales in 2012,
United Technologies said in its annual filing to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 9.  ‘Big Nugget’  Whittington, who rates United Technologies as a buy, said
Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial was “the big nugget” of
Chenevert’s planned asset sales.  Along with United Technologies’ bond offering, “this
should easily satisfy Wall Street concerns that they would be
able to adequately capitalize the new enterprise,” Whittington
said.  Rocketdyne, whose boosters propelled the first American
into Earth orbit and the first moon landing, was sold on July 23
to  GenCorp Inc. (GY)  for $550 million.  United Technologies rose 0.9 percent to $72.61 at the close
yesterday in New York, leaving the shares down 0.7 percent this
year. The stock has slumped 4.5 percent  since Sept. 20 , a day
before the Goodrich purchase was announced, trailing an 11
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Carlyle, BC  Carlyle, the Washington-based firm that oversees more than
$159 billion, will make the Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial
investment from its fifth flagship buyout fund, Carlyle Partners
V. The fund began investing in 2007 with $13.7 billion and had a
net internal rate of return of 10 percent as of March 31,
according to Carlyle. Its other investments include BankUnited
Inc., HD Supply Inc. and Syniverse Technologies Ltd.  BC Partners, which owns companies including gym operator
Fitness First Ltd. and casino operator Regency Entertainment SA,
said it has 12.6 billion euros ($15.3 billion) of advised funds.  It has been involved in two of the year’s largest leveraged
buyouts. Last week, BC Partners and Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board agreed to buy U.S. cable operator Suddenlink
Communications for $1.99 billion. The deal had an enterprise
value of $6.6 billion, lower only than Apollo Global Management
LLC’s buyout of El Paso Corp.’s oil and natural gas exploration
business for $7.15 billion, announced in February.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and RBC Capital Markets LLC served as
financial advisers to BC Partners and Carlyle on the Hamilton
Sundstrand Industrial transaction, and  Latham & Watkins  served
as legal adviser, according to the companies’ statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  