-- Caterpillar Echoing Wall Street Rebuts Gross’s Pessimism
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-25T22:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/caterpillar-echoing-wall-street-rebuts-gross-s-u-s-pessimism.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , among the first
companies to ring warning bells about the recession in 2007,
isn’t subscribing to the pessimism of investors such as  Bill Gross  even while moderating its global growth projections.  A U.S. recession this year is unlikely and the economy will
probably grow slightly more than 2 percent, down from an April
forecast for about 3 percent, Caterpillar said yesterday in its
second-quarter earnings statement. The climate is different than
in 2008 because short-term interest rates are lower, central
banks are prepared to inject more liquidity and the U.S. housing
market is slowly improving rather than falling off a cliff, the
company said.  “The good news is, this doesn’t feel like 2008,” Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in the statement.  Caterpillar has a track record of accurate forecasts. In
October 2007 it said the U.S. may fall into a recession, in
contrast to the outlook of companies including Ford Motor Co.,
DuPont Co. and  Intel Corp . at the time. Caterpillar, considered
a U.S. bellwether because it’s the world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, proved to be correct as the
economy experienced a slump that began in December 2007 and
ended in June 2009.  Caterpillar’s projections this year are more in sync with
the majority view of economists and contrast with comments made
by Gross in a July 16  Twitter  post. Gross, who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
U.S. is “approaching recession when measured by employment,
retail sales, investment and corporate profits.”  ‘Muddle Through’  Improvement in the U.S. economy, a “muddle through”
scenario for  Europe  and  China  trying to ramp up investments with
its slowdown bottoming will produce a pickup in world growth
later this year and into 2013, Bob Baur, chief global economist
for Principal Global Investors, which manages about $260
billion, said in a telephone interview.  Caterpillar, while lowering the upper end of its sales
 forecast  partly on a “weaker” global economy, raised its 2012
profit outlook and said actions to spur growth have begun in
several countries.  Brazil  late last year began lowering  interest rates  and
China’s investment initiatives should help growth later this
year and into 2013, the company said. In Europe, the central
bank’s monetary easing and a commitment to solving the debt
crisis are improving the euro zone’s long-term outlook, the
company said.  ‘Growth Prospects’  “We understand the world economic horizon is hazy,” Ed Rapp, chief financial officer of Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar, said in a video posted on the company’s website.
“We are encouraged by the pro-growth actions by governments and
central bankers throughout the world that are intended to
stimulate world economic growth prospects moving forward and out
into 2013.”  Prospects for growth in the U.S. likely will improve next
year if there is more clarity on issues such as taxes and health
care, Rapp said yesterday in an telephone interview.  Global growth will average 2.5 percent this year, lower
than the expansion of more than 3 percent it forecast in April,
Caterpillar said.  “We are planning for a world that is growing anemically in
the next 24 months,” Oberhelman said yesterday on a conference
call to discuss his company’s earnings. “We are not planning
for an implosion.”  ‘Modest Signs’  A majority of economists forecast the world’s largest
economy may avoid a recession even as growth decelerates amid a
cooling job market.  Federal Reserve officials predict a U.S. expansion of 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent this year, with unemployment stuck in a
range of 8 percent to 8.2 percent. The probability of a U.S.
recession within the next 12 months held at 20 percent this
month, according to the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey taken from July 6 to 10.  “We should see a little faster growth in the second
half,” said Baur, who is based in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . “The U.S.
is still on a healing path. I don’t see a recession imminent on
the horizon.”  U.S. housing, the industry that helped trigger the
recession, is stabilizing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in
testimony to Congress last week, said growth in construction and
historically low  mortgage rates  are among “modest signs” of a
housing recovery, even as some buyers show concern about
personal finances and the broader economy and have difficulty
meeting lending standards.  Bright Spot  Caterpillar forecast housing starts will exceed 750,000
units this year. While down from its prior forecast of 800,000
units, the prediction represents the best level since 2008.  The  auto industry  remains a bright spot in the U.S.
Economic growth is helping drive sales for Ford as more
consumers trade in their older vehicles for newer models, said
 Alan Mulally , chief executive officer of the Dearborn, Michigan-
based carmaker. In the first half of the year, annualized U.S.
vehicle sales rose to 14.6 million from 12.8 million a year ago,
according to  Ford (F) , which includes medium- and heavy-duty trucks.  “Even though it’s a slower recovery than we’ve had from
past recessions, we’re seeing that expansion of around 2 percent
to 2.5 percent,” Mulally said of the U.S economy on a
conference call yesterday.  ‘Fragile’ World  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the world’s largest cargo airline, last month
forecast 2.2 percent U.S. economic growth this year, up from a
projection of 2.1 percent in March. The company, which carries
everything from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals, said it
expects the economy to accelerate to 2.4 percent in 2013,
contingent on the U.S. avoiding a significant tax increase.  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Jim McNerney said yesterday “the world is a fragile one
economically.”  “Despite slower global economic growth and a range of
uncertainties, including the European sovereign debt crisis, we
continue to see positive worldwide expansion in air traffic,”
McNerney said on an earnings call with analysts.  Not all companies are sanguine.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,
the world’s largest package-delivery company, said on July 24
that a gradual deceleration of business-to-business shipments
reflects a softening of the  U.S. economy  in the second half of
2012 from earlier this year. UPS predicted the U.S. economy will
slow to 1 percent growth in the last six months of the year.  ‘Too Optimistic’  “Right now, the estimates are a little too optimistic,”
UPS Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said July 24 in a
telephone interview. “We’re not trying to ring the alarm bell,
but we do think that there’s probably a little more likelihood
that the numbers will turn lower than estimates.”  Caterpillar climbed as much as 4.9 percent earlier
yesterday in  New York   trading  after it posted record profit and
sales in the second quarter.  Still, the stock dropped as much as 1.4 percent midday
because investors were concerned about macroeconomic risks and
that rising inventories may hurt the company if the situation
worsens, Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for William
Blair & Co. who has a buy rating on the company, said in an e-
mail yesterday.  At the close yesterday, Caterpillar rose 1.4 percent to
$82.60.  “Although we think that macroeconomic concerns could
continue to be a driver of the stock in the near term, we think
today’s results demonstrate the company’s ability to execute at
a high level,” Barclays Capital analysts led by Andy Kaplowitz
said yesterday in a note.  Slower Growth  Kaplowitz, based in New York, said in a telephone interview
that Caterpillar has “tended to err on the side of optimism in
its recent forecasts,” which has worried investors.  “The expectations around the U.S. economy were for slower
growth and Caterpillar was going to have to moderate its
comments,” said Kaplowitz, who has a buy rating on the shares.
“That’s what Caterpillar has done.”  “Investors believe the U.S. economy is choppy and slower
growing than we believed a few months ago,” Kaplowitz said.
“But growth is not stopping. There are still some drivers of
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  