-- Caterpillar Raises Forecast as Construction Demand Climbs
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-25T20:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/caterpillar-raises-2012-forecast-as-construction-demand-climbs.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker
of construction and mining equipment, raised its full-year
profit forecast as increasing demand from North American
builders and overseas miners bucks an economic slowdown.  Earnings will be about $9.60 a share in 2012, up from a
previous forecast of $9.50, the Peoria, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement. That tops the $9.54 average of 21
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Caterpillar also
narrowed its projected range for sales to $68 billion to $70
billion, from $68 billion to $72 billion forecast in April,
citing “weaker economic conditions” and the stronger dollar.  Caterpillar, considered a U.S. economic bellwether, is
selling more excavators, scrapers and dozers even as it sees a
slowdown in some of its largest markets. Machinery sales are
climbing as developed countries replace aging equipment and U.S.
 construction  spending gains, rising 11 percent through May from
an 11-year low in February last year.  “This is a positive surprise that Caterpillar is so
constructive on the outlook given the macro uncertainty,” Larry  De Maria , a New York-based analyst for William Blair & Co. who
recommends buying the shares, said today in an interview. “The
company is executing exceptionally well.”  Caterpillar rose 1.4 percent to $82.60 in  New York .  Share buybacks are “not on our radar,” Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman  Doug Oberhelman  said on a conference call.
Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp also said on the call he would
be disappointed if the company couldn’t reduce inventories by $1
billion by the year-end.  Profit Beats  Dealer inventories of new machines rose by about $300
million in the quarter. Chinese inventories are being cut back
after demand there slowed. Oberhelman said he doesn’t want to
make a “bold” reduction in  China  so that Caterpillar has too
few machines in the country when demand rebounds.  Investors are concerned that Caterpillar is building up too
much inventory “that will hurt them if things get worse,” De
Maria said in a separate e-mail.  Net income for the second quarter rose to a record $1.7
billion, or $2.54 a share, from $1.02 billion, or $1.52, a year
earlier. Profit was more than the $2.28 average of 20  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales gained 22 percent to $17.4 billion from $14.2
billion, compared with the $17 billion average of 14 analysts’
estimates.  Caterpillar said it also narrowed its sales forecast
because of about $1 billion of “negative currency impacts.”
The euro has fallen 15 percent against the dollar in the past 12
months while the British pound has dropped 4.8 percent.  Global Forecast  The company said global economic growth will average 2.5
percent this year, lower than the expansion of more than 3
percent it forecast in April.  “We understand the world is facing economic challenges,
and if it becomes necessary, we are prepared to act quickly as
we did in late 2008 and 2009,” Oberhelman said in the
statement.  “While we’re prepared, the good news is, this doesn’t feel
like 2008,” he said. “ Interest rates  are low, central banks
are prepared to inject more liquidity if needed, and housing is
coming off lows.”  Caterpillar’s increase in its full-year earnings forecast
comes after at least nine analysts in the last four weeks
lowered their profit estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  