-- Central Banks Search Toolbox for Ideas as Growth Slows
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-26T12:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/central-banks-search-toolbox-for-ideas-as-growth-slows.html
Central banks are digging deeper
into their tool kits in search of innovative ways to unclog bank
lending and keep a weakening world economy afloat.  With the fifth anniversary of the financial crisis
approaching in August, policy makers from the  Federal Reserve ,
the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  all meet
within 24 hours next week. Central banks, facing a global
recovery that’s sputtering even after they delivered trillions
of dollars of liquidity and near-zero  interest rates , are having
to consider fresh strategies to combat the slowdown.  “Central banks are thinking hard about other ways to spur
their economies and get credit into corners of the economies
that need it and aren’t getting it,” said Nathan Sheets, global
head of international economics at Citigroup Inc. in New York
and director of the Fed’s international finance division until
last year.  Among the options up for consideration by the monetary
authorities in addition to potentially doubling-down on previous
policies: taking some of the credit risk of new lending onto
their own balance sheets and forcing commercial banks to pay for
parking cash in central banks’ coffers.  The likelihood of even easier policies leaves  John Stopford , head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management in
London, advising investors to buy the bonds of traditionally
safe economies such as the U.S. U.S. Treasury 10-year notes
yesterday traded at a record low yield of 1.3790 percent. He
suggests steering clear of cash.  Keep Trying  “It’s not obvious central banks have been effective, but
they’re going to keep trying,” said Stopford, whose company
oversees about $98 billion.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Federal Open Market
Committee meets July 31 and Aug. 1, a day before ECB President
 Mario Draghi ’s Governing Council and BOE Governor  Mervyn King ’s
Monetary Policy Committee. The institutions’ last meetings ended
with the Fed extending its Operation Twist program, the ECB
cutting its benchmark rate to a record low 0.75 percent and the
Bank of England restarting bond buying.  Faced with a European debt crisis that’s engulfing Spain
and a stagnating U.S. labor market with  unemployment  at 8.2
percent, they may need to do more soon. The  International
Monetary Fund  this month cut its 2013 growth outlook for the
advanced economies to 1.9 percent from 2.1 percent. It left its
2012 estimate at 1.4 percent.  ‘Exceptionally Low’  “The global macroeconomic environment is softening,”
 Carlo Bozotti , chief executive officer at  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,
Europe’s largest chipmaker, said July 24 as he indicated third-
quarter sales may miss analysts’ estimates amid weaker demand.  The central banks can still deploy tools they’ve adopted
before. The Fed may decide to extend its assurance that interest
rates will be kept “exceptionally low” into the middle of
2015, from late 2014 now, according to Roberto Perli, managing
director in charge of policy research at International Strategy
& Investment Group Inc. in Washington.  Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York, sees about a one-in-three chance that the Fed will begin
another round of bond buying next week. The odds of the Fed
agreeing at its September meeting to launch a third round of
quantitative easing, known as QE3, are almost two in three, he
added.  Draghi Openness  At the ECB, Draghi is reiterating openness to do more.
“Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro,” Draghi said in a London speech today.
“And believe me, it will be enough.”  That comment triggered speculation among investors that the
ECB will soon buy the bonds of strained markets four months
after it stopped doing so because it wanted governments to do
more to cut budget deficits, said  Ken Wattret , chief market
economist for the euro region at BNP Paribas SA.  The ECB will reduce its key rate to 0.5 percent in
September to protect price stability and make it cheaper for
cash-strapped banks to borrow from it, Wattret said. The central
bank for the 17 euro countries also will lower the rate it pays
on overnight deposits to minus 0.25 percent from zero, to
encourage banks to use the money for more productive purposes,
the London-based economist said.  The trouble is that low interest rates, floods of cash and
bond-buying have failed to ignite full-fledged recoveries after
the financial crisis left banks reluctant to lend. Banks in
countries using the euro are further hamstrung by the ever-less-
valuable bonds they own of cash-strapped peripheral nations.  “The lending channel is broken,” said Perli, a former Fed
economist.  Mortgage Securities  Bernanke himself told Congress this month that the Fed is
considering a range of further options to ease policy in case
the faltering economic recovery fails to lower unemployment.  “We haven’t really come to a specific choice at this
point, but we are looking for ways to address the weakness in
the economy should more action be needed to promote a sustained
recovery in the labor market,” he told the Senate Banking
Committee on July 17.  One of those ways could be buying up home mortgage
securities rather than Treasuries to encourage lending, Credit
Suisse’s Soss said. In its first round of QE, the central bank
bought Treasuries and housing debt, while it limited its
purchases to Treasuries in the second round.  The impact of buying only mortgage bonds would be muted,
with the average rate for a 30-year mortgage having already hit
a record low of  3.53 percent  for the week ended July 19,
according to Soss, who was an assistant to former Fed Chairman
 Paul Volcker .  Lending Program  Bernanke also has voiced interest in the Bank of England’s
funding for lending program and has suggested the Fed is
exploring whether it can use its discount window in that regard.
The BOE plan rewards new lending with access to cheaper
financing.  Under a proposal put forward by St. Louis-based
Macroeconomic Advisers, the Fed would create a program to extend
longer-term credit to banks using home mortgages as collateral.
The aim would be to embolden the banks into granting loans to
borrowers who currently don’t have access to such credit.  “Not all of the economy is feeling the beneficial effect
of low interest rates,” said Antulio Bomfin, a former Fed
official who is now a senior managing director at Macroeconomic
Advisers. ‘You see that the most in the mortgage market.”  ‘Highly Critical’  Such a strategy probably would be met by opposition from
congressional Republicans, who are already concerned that the
Fed is risking future inflation with its easy money policies.  “My sense is that Republicans will be highly critical of
the Fed if it pursues additional stimulus in any form,” said
 Sarah Binder , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in
Washington. “Venturing into mortgage markets beyond buying
mortgage-backed securities seems to be a step too far into
fiscal policy for Fed critics.”  Bernanke also has left open the possibility that the
central bank will cut the 0.25 percent interest rate it pays
commercial banks on reserves. Such a move, which has repeatedly
been advocated by former Fed vice chairman  Alan Blinder , was
shelved by the Fed last September partly out of concern it would
disrupt money markets and interfere with the extension of
credit.  Spanish Bonds  The ECB also may need to do more as the impact of its July
5 rate cuts fade with the reigniting of the debt crisis and the
region’s economy stagnating. Spanish 10-year  bond yields  this
week rose above 7.5 percent for the first time since the 1999
creation of the euro and German business confidence fell more in
July than economists forecast, to the lowest in two years.  Lower interest rates may induce banks to stop lending to
each other because the returns are no longer large enough to
cover transaction costs, said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. Money market funds, a source of bank
financing, are restricting new investment because the securities
they invest in pay negative returns, she said.  “The ECB will need to try more imaginative policies to
stand a chance of breathing life into the euro zone’s banking
sector and wider economy,” said McKeown in London.  One option is to offer banks a third chance to borrow as
much cheap cash as they want for three years, said Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. economist  Dirk Schumacher . Although the ECB already
lent 1.02 trillion euros ($1.24 trillion) that way to help
banks, the point of another round would be to prompt investors
to buy riskier debt of countries such as Spain.  Emergency Loans  Other options include mimicking the Fed by giving greater
guidance over the future direction of interest rates and
lowering bank reserve requirements, said Schumacher in
Frankfurt.  The ECB could also broaden the collateral it accepts when
making emergency loans, perhaps by suspending the complete use
of sovereign ratings in deciding what is eligible, or reducing
the haircuts it imposes, he said. As well as generating cash for
banks, that could also prompt the firms to create economy-
boosting assets they can then borrow against, such as household
and corporate loans.  In a sign it is willing to act even if it undermines its
 balance sheet , the ECB last month lowered the minimum rating
threshold for mortgage-backed securities to BBB- from A-,
offering support for Spanish banks in particular which had been
unable to use some securities for loans.  Double-Dip Recession  At the Bank of England, officials say they may eventually
reassess cutting their 0.5 percent benchmark and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. predicts they will boost their so-called quantitative
easing program from the current 375 billion pounds ($580
billion). In the meantime, U.K. central bankers are getting more
creative.  In an effort to find a new way get the banks to do more and
temper the first double-dip recession since the 1970s, they
unveiled this month a funding for lending program along with the
U.K. Treasury. Under the plan, banks will be able to borrow
treasury bills from the central bank for a fee and collateral
from Aug. 1 to fund lending into the economy.  Banks will have 18 months to use the facility and then as
many as four years to repay. The Bank of England would thus be
exposed to potential balance sheet losses should the collateral
go bad and the bank have trouble repaying. Any Fed program would
face the same drawback.  There is pressure for stronger steps.  Charles Wyplosz ,
director of the International Center for Money and Banking
Studies in Geneva, says the crisis will only end once the ECB
either partly guarantees all euro-area debt or caps bond yields.  Quantitative Easing  The ECB will ultimately be forced to consider policies it
previously resisted, namely quantitative easing to avert
deflation and supersizing Europe’s rescue fund by giving it
access to central bank cash, said  David Owen , chief European
financial economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.  He estimates asset purchases totaling 500 billion euros and
spreading across the region will begin by the end of the year.
ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in a July 24
interview that there are “pro arguments” for allowing the
European Stability Mechanism rescue fund to access ECB lending,
although Draghi said May 24 that giving it a bank license would
amount to the central bank financing governments, which is
prohibited.  Meantime, the  Bank of Japan  may also be willing to adopt
fresh forms of monetary easing should it prove difficult to
raise inflation to the target of 1 percent, two new board
members suggested. Buying foreign bonds would be one option,
Takehiro Sato said on July 24.  For all the internal debates and added risk they may take
on, monetary policy makers may be fighting a losing battle given
they’re working against a debt-laden world economy, said Peter Fisher, New York-based head of fixed income at BlackRock Inc.  “Central banks have put in very accommodative policies and
in general where deleveraging is taking place you’ve got to get
used to lags and longer than usual ones,” Fisher, a former Fed
official, said on July 16. “I’m nervous at the rationale that
by expanding balance sheets they can respond to a modest
downward trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  