-- Chile Traders See Key Rate Left Unchanged for Seventh Month
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-25T12:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/chile-traders-see-key-rate-left-unchanged-for-seventh-month-1-.html
Chilean traders and investors expect
policy makers to leave the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
5 percent for a seventh straight month in August as inflation
remains below the central bank target.  Traders forecast policy makers will reduce borrowing costs
to 4.75 percent by November and 4.5 percent by February,
according to the bi-weekly survey posted on the central bank
website today. Traders in the July 10 survey estimated the key
rate would fall to 4.75 percent by October.  Policy makers have kept rates unchanged since a surprise
reduction in January as they monitor the impact  Europe ’s debt
crisis and  China ’s slowdown will have on  Chile ’s inflation and
growth. Any change in policy probably will hinge on events
abroad, former central bank President Vittorio Corbo, now a
researcher with Santiago-based polling company CEP, wrote.  “If risks from the external sector materialize, it’s most
probable the central bank in coming months will start to reduce
the monetary policy rate,” Corbo wrote in a report e-mailed on
July 24. “However, it’s most probable the central bank will
remain cautious for some months given that production is around
potential and the labor market remains very tight.”  Chile’s peso appreciated 0.6 percent to 491.9 per  U.S.
dollar  at 8:37 a.m. in Santiago. The peso will trade at 495 per
dollar in three months, according to today’s survey.  Chile’s inflation rate has declined in the past four
months, reaching 2.7 percent in June, below the central bank
target of 3 percent. Traders estimated inflation will reach 2.5
percent in 12 months, matching forecasts from the previous
survey.  Economic growth in the world’s top copper producer was 5.6
percent in the first quarter, the fastest expansion since the
three months through June 2011. The  unemployment rate  was 6.7
percent in the three months through May, down from 7.2 percent
in the year-ago period.  Chile’s economic growth will ease this year, with gross
domestic product climbing 4 percent to 5 percent, according to
Corbo, who led the central bank from 2003 to 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 