-- Chilean Peso Ends Losing Streak as Nowotny Remark Buoys Markets
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-25T19:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/chilean-peso-ends-losing-streak-as-nowotny-remark-buoys-markets.html
Chile’s peso, the region’s best-
performing currency in the past month, gained for the first time
in four days as speculation European leaders will take tougher
measures to rein in the debt crisis reduced appetite for the
relative safety of dollars.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 491.65 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its gain since June 25 to 3.5 percent. Copper, which
makes up half of Chile’s exports, climbed as much as 1.5 percent
to $3.404 a pound on the Comex in New York.  Ewald Nowotny, a member of the  European Central Bank ’s
council, said there are arguments in favor of granting the
European rescue fund a banking license that would give it access
to ECB lending. The euro rose and commodities gained as
Nowotny’s comments helped allay fears that the European
Stability Mechanism would not be large enough to bail out Spain
and Italy.  “We have seen a rebound today in the Chilean peso in line
with what we have seen in the rest of the region’s currencies
and  emerging markets ,” said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s overall
optimism about statements from European officials. Also, in the
case of Chile, copper prices are moving upwards as well as a
result of the improved international climate.”  Interest Rate  Chile’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged since January, even as the central banks in countries
including  Brazil ,  Israel  and  South Africa  have lowered theirs.
Faster-than-forecast growth in the Andean country has offset
slowing price rises and concern about the global economy.  The Santiago Chamber of Commerce yesterday urged the
central bank to consider lowering the rate, saying high local
interest rates had attracted investment that was pushing the
peso higher, according to an e-mailed statement.  Local investors, a category dominated by pension funds and
excluding banks and brokers, increased their long peso position
in the forwards market by $832 million in a week to $17.5
billion on July 23, according to data published today by the
central bank. Chile’s 73.5 trillion peso ($149 billion) pension
funds are the country’s biggest investors.  “The peso has been outperforming, mostly for the carry
trade,” said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards at
EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “Our central
bank has a higher  interest rate  than others and that means that
when the dollar rebounds there is selling of dollars.”  In a so-called carry trade, investors borrow funds where
interest rates are low and buy assets that offer higher yields.  International investors had a $9.3 billion short peso
position in the forwards market on July 23, up from $9.2 billion
a week earlier. Banks and brokers had an $8.1 billion short peso
position in the forwards market, offset by an $8.2 billion long
peso position in the  spot market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  