-- China’s CIC Has Worst Overseas Performance in 2011 on Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/china-s-cic-has-worst-overseas-performance-in-2011-amid-slowdown.html
China ’s  sovereign wealth fund  said
it will invest with a longer-term focus after it posted a 4.3
percent loss on its overseas holdings last year because of
declines in global commodity prices.  Net income at the $482.2 billion fund, with a resources-
heavy portfolio, fell to $48.4 billion in the year ended Dec. 31,
Beijing-based China Investment Corp. said in its annual report
released yesterday on its  website . The overseas  investment
performance  was the worst since the fund was set up in 2007, and
compares with an 11.7 percent return in 2010.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  tumbled 7.6 percent last year as the
 European debt crisis  hampered growth prospects and sapped demand
for commodities, driving down the value of state-owned
investment companies’ holdings. CIC Chairman  Lou Jiwei , who
deployed almost all the fund’s cash as the global economy was
improving, is focusing on longer-term returns after market
volatility in 2011 reached the highest level since the 2008-2009
global financial crisis.  “They’re very clear that they have shifted their return
time horizon to 10 years, and that comes up two or three times
in the annual report,” Victoria Barbary, a senior researcher of
sovereign investment at Milan’s  Bocconi University , said by
telephone from  London . “They’re not looking at this year’s
returns. It doesn’t matter what this year’s return is as long
as their annualized return over a 10-year period is
positive.”  CIC was set up to improve returns on foreign-exchange
reserves by investing overseas. In China, the fund’s holdings
are largely limited to stakes in financial institutions for the
government.  Long Term  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, said earlier this month that profit for the year to
March 31 declined 16 percent as contributions from units fell
amid the global slowdown, while total shareholder return
narrowed to 1.5 percent from 4.6 percent in the previous year.  Long-term holdings accounted for 31 percent of CIC’s
overseas portfolio as of Dec. 31, while public equities made up
25 percent and fixed-income securities 21 percent, according to
the report that didn’t provide year-earlier comparisons.  “In 2011, we calibrated our  asset allocation  to better
reflect the longer investment horizon and to enhance the
flexibility of our investment portfolios,” Lou said in the
annual report.  Private Equity  CIC boosted  private-equity  positions and expanded real
estate holdings to pursue stable asset returns last year, while
continuing to make direct investments in oil and gas, mining and
infrastructure, according to the report.  “They’ve moved quite heavily into private markets and
commodities,” Barbary said. “In the private-equity space,
which they’ve only been investing in for two years or so, you
have the old hockey stick effect: it declines in value to start
with and it grows in value before realization. And they’re still
in that downward curve in the hockey stick.”  The fund held 62 percent of its so-called diversified
fixed-income investments in  government bonds , and 21 percent in
corporate debt, it said.  While CIC’s equity investments suffered losses as global
markets plunged, its bond and credit product holdings generated
“relatively good returns,” CIC said, without providing details.
Most of its investment portfolios achieved positive returns and
outperformed relevant benchmarks, it added.  Equities fell 9 percent to $59.7 billion as of Dec. 31,
while fixed-income securities increased to $38.6 billion, CIC
said.  Alternative investments  expanded 38 percent to $40.5
billion, it said without elaborating.  CIC International  The fund in September set up China Investment Corporation
International Co. to manage its overseas investments, Lou said
in the annual report. In December 2011, $30 billion was injected
into CIC International to enhance its role as a vehicle to
diversify China’s foreign-exchange holdings, he said.  CIC fully deployed its investible capital in 2011,
according to the report.  With global economic growth expected to pick up in the rest
of the year and into next year, “now is a good time to make new
investments, especially after they’ve got all that new money,”
 Zhao Qingming , a senior analyst in Beijing at China Construction
Bank Corp., said ahead of CIC’s release.  Natural Resources  CIC holds stakes in China’s biggest banks through unit
Central Huijin Investment Ltd., which contributes to the fund’s
profit.  Investment income from long-term equity holdings rose 31
percent last year to $53.4 billion, while the company recorded
$11.4 billion in unrealized losses from fair-value changes,
reversing a $9.8 billion gain in 2010, according to the report.  The fund, created with an initial $200 billion from the
Ministry of Finance, has cash holdings of $20.1 billion in 2011,
up from $14.5 billion in the year earlier, according to the
report.  CIC is ranked the world’s fifth-largest state-owned
investment entity after funds in the  Middle East ,  Norway  and
China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE,
according to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute .  Noble Group Ltd., the Hong Kong-based owner of mines and
farms and trader of commodities from aluminum to zinc in which
CIC bought a 15 percent stake in 2009, fell 48 percent in
Singapore trading last year. The global depository receipts of
JSC KazMunaiGas Exploration Production, the London-traded unit
of Kazakhstan’s state-run energy company that sold a $939
million stake to CIC in September 2009, tumbled 25 percent last
year. KazMunaiGas rallied 23 percent so far this year.  Fragile Recovery  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , the world’s second-largest exporter of
metallurgical coal in which CIC bought a $1.5 billion stake in
2009, slumped 42 percent last year in Toronto trading. Teck
Resources contributed to CIC’s 11.7 percent global investment
returns in 2010 when the stock surged 68 percent.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
dropped 8.3 percent in 2011, while the Bloomberg World Coal
Index plummeted 21 percent.  Natural resources are the most important part of CIC’s
direct investments as they are “the most important growth
element in China’s economic expansion,” Guo Xiangjun, CIC’s
chief risk officer, told a conference in Beijing on July 17.  North America  was the biggest market for CIC’s diversified
equity portfolio, accounting for 43.8 percent, followed by the
Asia-Pacific region with 29.6 percent. Nineteen percent of such
stock holdings were in financials, while energy accounted for 14
percent, according to the report. Diversified holdings made up
80 percent of the fund’s overseas investments.  CIC doesn’t want to buy any European government bonds on
concerns of the debt crisis, although it’s still looking for
opportunities in the region, President Gao Xiqing said in an
interview in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , in May.  “Looking ahead, the global economy will continue to
recover, but the process will be fragile,” Lou said in the
annual report, adding that CIC will take a “prudent” stance
“with fresh volatilities in the financial markets still posing
serious risks.”  --Zhang Dingmin. With assistance from Sanat Vallikappen in
Singapore. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  