-- China Overseas Sales Rebound in JPMorgan Banker’s Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T13:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/china-overseas-sales-rebound-in-jpmorgan-banker-s-outlook.html
Chinese companies’ overseas share
sales will rebound next year as regulators root out fraud and
misconduct that contributed to erasing $6.4 billion in value for
mainland firms listed in the U.S., the senior investment banker
in  China  for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said.  There will be “a flurry of deals” once foreign investors’
confidence in Chinese companies returns, Fang Fang, chief
executive officer of China investment banking for New York-based
JPMorgan, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. The bank is
ranked third among managers of overseas share sales by Chinese
companies since the start of 2010.  “I’m hopeful that sometime in the second half, investors
will come back to the table,” he said. “Investors will
eventually see the value and have to do something. They can’t
just sit on a pile of cash for too long.”  A revival in overseas equity sales, on track this year to
raise about a third of 2010’s $61.5 billion, would bolster
growth in the world’s second-largest economy. Only one Chinese
company has made its U.S. trading debut in 2012, compared with
about 60 in the previous three years, as short sellers such as
 Muddy Waters  LLC said companies including Sino-Forest Corp.
misstated accounts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There are just a lot of companies who want to raise
money,” Fang said. “We need investors to come back to the
table.”  Investor Caution  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission cautioned
investors in June 2011 about buying stakes in foreign companies
entering the U.S. through so-called reverse mergers. The
process, which entails the purchase of publicly traded shell
companies to gain U.S. listings, may be prone to “fraud and
other abuses,” the regulator had said.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks
82 such companies, has lost 46 percent of its value since May
31, 2011, two days before Muddy Waters issued a report saying
Sino-Forest overstated production. The allegation sparked a 74
percent drop in the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
timber company’s stock and drove borrowing costs above 60
percent before it filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March.  Muddy Waters founder  Carson Block  became the face of the
short-selling wave against Chinese companies after his research
led regulators to suspend trading in four of his first five
targets, including Sino-Forest. Companies that have been
highlighted more recently by the short seller include  New
Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s largest
private education services provider.  New Oriental  New Oriental last week plunged 57 percent over two days in
 New York  trading after the Beijing-based company said it was
under investigation by the SEC and Muddy Waters questioned its
accounting practices. The stock has since rebounded by 29
percent after New Oriental said July 19 that the allegations by
Muddy Waters contained errors and were misleading.  U.S. investors filed a lawsuit against New Oriental on July
23 in  Los Angeles  seeking damages for the stock losses.  Companies on the reverse mergers index have lost as much as
 99 percent of their value  over the past year, led by  China
Nutrifruit Group Ltd. (CNGL)  and Qiao Xing Universal Resources Inc.
Those declines compare with the 25 percent drop in the Bloomberg
China-U.S. Equity Index, which tracks the 55 most-traded Chinese
shares in the U.S., and the 0.07 percent gain in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   China Development Bank Corp., the nation’s biggest policy
lender, is providing more than $1 billion to help companies
leave the U.S. stock market, as allegations against other local
firms surface.  Fushi Copperweld  Fushi Copperweld Inc.  has gained  13 percent to $8.84 since
the company said June 28 that it agreed to be bought out for
$9.50 a share in a deal financed by CDB. The stock fell to a
six-month low of $5.81 in April after Muddy Waters said the
maker of copper-clad aluminum and steel wire “presents a high
risk of fraud.”  Fushi denies those allegations.  Short-sellers such as Muddy Waters provide a “healthy
mechanism to help clean the ecosystem,” said JPMorgan’s Fang,
46. His bank has managed two overseas IPOs for Chinese companies
this year, down from four last year and 14 in 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Practical View’  “I have always been a proponent of having those mechanisms
in place,” he said at his office yesterday. “Corporates need
to take a practical view on why people sell short their stocks
and shouldn’t feel emotionally.”  Fang, who is also vice chairman of Asia investment banking
for the U.S. lender, began his career in 1993 as an associate at
Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York. He joined JPMorgan in 2001 as
an investment banker in  Hong Kong .  In 2008, Fang was appointed as a member of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference , making him the only
executive from a U.S. financial company to be a part of the
nation’s top advisory body to the government. The five-year
term, set to end in March, gave Fang the authority to propose
legislation, which he has used to promote greater
internationalization of the  yuan .  China and the U.S. must also resolve a dispute over
regulation of accounting firms to ensure that mainland companies
listed in the U.S. can attract investors and that American
companies such as  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  and General Electric Co. can
operate in China, Fang said yesterday. Yum, owner of the KFC and
Taco Bell restaurant brands, has more than 4,600 locations in
the Asian nation.  Deloitte Lawsuit  The SEC on May 9 sued Shanghai-based Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., alleging that the auditor refused to provide
documents related to a China-based company under investigation
for potential accounting fraud. The regulator last week asked
for a six-month stay of a separate lawsuit against Deloitte so
it can continue talks with Chinese authorities to obtain
documents tied to a company in China, according to Bloomberg
BNA, a division of Bloomberg LP.  Deloitte has said that under Chinese rules, accounting
firms in the country aren’t allowed to hand documents to any
foreign regulator without government approval. The firm argued
in an April 11 filing to a U.S. district court that the SEC’s
dispute is with the China Securities Regulatory Commission and
should be resolved through diplomatic negotiations, according to
a Bloomberg BNA Law report.  “Both sides need to come to the table and hash out an
arrangement,” said JPMorgan’s Fang. “It will be a six- to 12-
month process to sort it out, and for people to feel comfortable
that the bad ones are weeded out, to get back to normal life.”  Historic Ties  JPMorgan’s ties to China go back to 1911, when it led a
syndicate in managing a $7.5 million bond sale by the Huguang
Railway, according to the lender’s website. In 1921, Equitable
Eastern Banking Corp., one of the bank’s predecessor firms,
opened a Shanghai branch. The U.S. firm last week opened its
seventh branch in the nation, in the city of Suzhou.  The lender in May increased capital at JPMorgan Chase Bank
(China) Co., its locally licensed banking unit, by 2.5 billion
yuan ($391 million) to 6.5 billion yuan. That was the second
infusion since the subsidiary was incorporated in 2007, and will
allow JPMorgan to increase loans to its largest clients in
China, where foreign banks may lend a maximum of 10 percent of
their net capital to a single borrower.  With 114 trillion yuan of assets at the end of last year,
China’s  banking system  is larger than the combined size of the
30 other  emerging markets  tracked by  Fitch Ratings , and smaller
only than the U.S. and Japan.  Joint Venture  The U.S. lender’s other operations in the country include
asset management,  venture capital  and a commodity futures joint
venture. It started offering investment banking services in
China last year, after receiving approval for its joint venture
with Shenzhen-based First Capital Securities Co. The venture, 33
percent-owned by JPMorgan, had 117 employees at the end of 2011,
according to its  financial report .  JPMorgan First Capital ranks 46th this year among
underwriters of Chinese domestic corporate bonds, having worked
on three sales for 2.64 billion yuan, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan this year has managed five overseas equity and
equity-linked offerings by Chinese companies that raised $678.7
million, the data show. That gives it a market share of 6.3
percent, putting the bank behind rivals including Bank of
America Corp.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Fang said the importance of China to U.S. companies such as
Yum, and China’s need for foreign capital, means both sides
“need to resolve” the dispute over regulation of accounting
firms.  Fundraising by Chinese companies in overseas markets
through equity offerings is set to lag behind that of previous
years. Mainland firms have raised $10.8 billion through 52 such
sales this year, compared with $27.2 billion in all of 2011 and
$61.5 billion for 2010, the data show.  “I don’t think the Chinese government has the intention to
cut off that financing avenue,” Fang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  