-- China May Boost Tax on Existing Homes, Securities Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T08:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/china-may-boost-tax-on-existing-homes-securities-says-1-.html
China  may increase the transaction
tax on existing homes as the country sends out inspection teams
to check on the implementation of property policies, China
Securities Journal reported, without saying where it got the
information.  If China’s home prices continue to rise in coming months
and inspection teams find problems, the possibility of new curbs
can’t be ruled out, the newspaper reported, citing an
unidentified person. Raising transaction taxes for existing
homes may come first, according to the report, which didn’t
provide additional details.  “Prices and sales for existing homes certainly rebounded
stronger than first homes,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Industrial Securities Co. “Sentiment of
those landlords played a big role in the market. The government
will closely monitor the home and land market before they issue
new tightening policies.”  A  gauge  tracking property shares in  Shanghai  slumped 1.9
percent at the close to the lowest since April 17. It also
posted the biggest decline among the five industry groups on the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  benchmark. China Vanke Co., the
country’s biggest developer by market value, dropped 2.5 percent
to 9.1 yuan in Shenzhen trading, the lowest in three weeks.  China will send eight teams to 16 provinces this month to
check on the implementation of its property curbs, according to
a statement on the central government website yesterday. The
nationwide check is aimed at “firmly” restraining property
speculation and consolidating result of the curbs, it said.  Prices Rebounding  The inspection comes after Premier  Wen Jiabao  reinstated
that China must “unswervingly” continue its property controls
and prevent prices from rebounding, while local governments that
introduced or covered up a loosening of curbs on residential
real-estate must be stopped.  China’s new home prices in June rose in the most cities
tracked by the government in 11 months, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics. Existing home prices in Beijing
and Shanghai both rose 0.2 percent in June from a month earlier,
according to the government data.  Residential land in Beijing’s Haidian district sold at an
auction on July 10 for a record 2.63 billion  yuan  ($411 million),
or 33,831 yuan per square meter (10.76 square feet). That makes
it the most expensive tract ever sold in the capital, higher
than the previous record set in 2009, when Chinese property was
in the middle of a price bubble that started deflating last year,
according to Bacic & 5i5j Group, the city’s second-biggest real
estate agent.  --Bonnie Cao Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  