-- China Car Sales Prove Impossible to Know for Shareholders
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/china-car-sales-prove-impossible-to-know-for-shareholders.html
Forget spreadsheets. Yankun Hou, an
award-winning  auto industry  analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , counts Toyotas
and BMWs in the parking lots of car factories in China using
 satellite images  from Google Maps to gauge inventory buildups.  Scott Laprise  at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets said he pretends
to be a customer and takes snapshots of showrooms with his
BlackBerry to gauge retail demand. At  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411) , Jeremy Yeo checks order flows at auto parts manufacturers
and Erwin Sanft at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  oversees a monthly survey of
70 dealerships across China.  The examples illustrate the lengths  analysts  will go to get
an edge explaining what is happening in the world’s largest  auto
market , where the public is kept in the dark as to how many
vehicles are sold off dealerships nationwide. That leaves
investors foraging through industry associations, data vendors
and consumer websites to piece together whether to buy or sell
 General Motors Co. (GM)  or  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares based on China demand.  “When you see how lacking the data is in China, it’s
difficult not to wonder about the true state of the market,” 
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $500 million in 
assets at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “When 
there’s not enough information on the  market, there’s nothing 
we can do but to simply cut back on investing.”  More broadly, analysts and economists have complained that
China’s numbers are opaque and that the country’s growth figures
may be overstated.  With cars, one complaint is that unlike the U.S.,  Germany 
and  Japan , China doesn’t release figures on private car
registrations. These numbers are compiled by Chinese police and
include the buyer’s age, gender, zip code and vehicle model.  Rising Stockpiles  Recently, the absence of official retail vehicle sales and
inventory data has led to a divergent picture of auto demand in
China. Auto manufacturers are reporting better-than-estimated
deliveries to dealerships, while distributor groups tell of
rising stockpiles at showrooms.  Releasing registration data would allow car manufacturers
to better adjust production to match sales, avoiding oversupply
when demand is softening, according to Geoff Broderick, vice
president at  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power &
Associates.  “Registration is the real barometer of what’s happening in
the retail space and shows the real health of the industry at
any point of time,” Shanghai-based Broderick said in an
interview.  Getting Data  Carmakers have tried to get the data before. In 2008,
 Zhengzhou Yutong Bus Co. (600066)  Chairman Tang Yuxiang submitted a
petition on behalf of the auto industry to the nation’s
legislature asking for registration data to be made available
each month. Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. Chairman Zuo Yanan
lobbied unsuccessfully a year later for the data to be released.  For now, investors and analysts need to rely on figures
from the state-backed China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, which provides monthly wholesale data that
measures vehicle deliveries to dealerships -- not to consumers.
CAAM also provides wholesale breakdowns by passenger vehicle
categories, and the top 10 models by sales and exports.  The lack of publicly available retail sales data leaves
investors guessing whether unsold cars are piling up at
dealerships.  It’s not just counting cars that’s difficult. The National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top economic
planner, monitors average retail vehicle price movements each
month, without breaking down the numbers by city or model.  Sporadic Release  Other groups include the  China Automobile Dealers
Association , which releases sporadic data on used-car sales and
dealership inventory levels. The organization represents 2,100
dealer groups, a fraction of the estimated 60,000 sales outlets
in the country. Another industry body, the  Passenger Car
Association , releases sales data each month based on surveys of
its members.  To make up for the lack of pricing data, websites such as
cheshi.com have sprouted to compile dealership discounts and
incentives from their own surveys of distributors.  “The data is not necessarily telling you everything,”
said CLSA’s Laprise, who is based in Beijing and was voted best
 China  analyst in a 2011 Wall Street Journal survey. “It’s a bit
like piecing a puzzle together. You go check everything yourself
and assume you have to see it for yourself.”  BNP started conducting monthly dealer surveys at more than
70 dealers across the country two years ago to get “visibility
into what was going on outside of the factories,” said Sanft,
the brokerage’s chief strategist for Pan-Asia equities. “There
is no official data on what goes on once vehicles are sent to
the dealerships.”  ‘Touchy Feely’  Yeo at Mizuho uses dealership visits to verify the data
that’s put out by these various groups.  “It’s very touchy feely and very difficult to quantify
these things,” said Yeo, who’s based in  Hong Kong  and visits
car showrooms each time he’s in mainland China. “You try and
get as many anecdotes as you can from the industry.”  That compares with the U.S., where industry researcher
Autodata Corp. provides monthly breakdowns of retail sales by
individual automakers, incentive levels and the top 20 vehicle
models.  The European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association compiles
new vehicle registrations and production numbers from the 27
European Union countries plus  Switzerland ,  Norway  and  Iceland .
In Japan, the Japan Auto Dealers Association reports monthly new
car sales by brand and vehicle type, while the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association provides production and export data.  The lack of exhaustive and reliable data means analysts
covering China’s auto market are rewarded for being creative,
going beyond crunching circumspect numbers to provide insight
into the outlook of the market.  “The industry is becoming increasingly over-researched and
analysts are forced into bean counters,” Hou, who was voted
best autos analyst in a 2011 Institutional Investor survey, said
in a July 16 e-mail to clients accompanying his Google maps.
“Let’s bring some fun back to research!”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  