-- China Names Acting Beijing Mayor as City Tackles Flood Aftermath
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T04:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/china-names-acting-beijing-mayor-as-city-tackles-flood-aftermath.html
China  appointed Wang Anshun acting
mayor of Beijing after his predecessor was promoted to lead the
city’s Communist Party committee, as authorities cope with the
aftermath of flooding that killed at least 37 people.  Wang replaces Guo Jinlong, who was named head of Beijing’s
Communist Party branch in early July. The holder of the party
post is typically named to China’s Politburo, which will get an
overhaul as the country undergoes a leadership transition later
this year.  Among Wang’s first tasks will be addressing public anger
over the government response to the flooding, which occurred
after the heaviest rainstorms in more than 60 years hit the city
on July 21. Authorities issued a new alert today warning that
more rain was forecast for the capital tonight.  Users of Chinese microblog services accused the government
of hiding the actual death toll from the floods and neglecting
the city’s outdated sewer systems. On July 23, the state-run
 Global Times newspaper  said the casualties had revealed the
vulnerability of Beijing’s drainage infrastructure.  In a media briefing yesterday, Wang Hui, the director of
the Beijing government news department, denied a cover-up. She
said the most important task in the coming days would be to
confirm the casualty toll and identify the victims.  On July 23, the Communist Party’s Beijing branch ordered
media to highlight “heroic and moving stories” that emerged
from flooding, the city’s official Beijing Daily said yesterday.  ‘Generous Quality’  The story quoted Guo as praising Communist cadres for
“their dedication, generous quality, and serious and
responsible work” in the flood-relief efforts.  “We don’t even need to tell them to do that,” Wang Hui
said at the media briefing yesterday. “A lot of media are
reporting that on their own.”  The weekend flood caused about 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion) in damage, according to the China Daily newspaper.
Heavy rains have battered provinces across the country.  Chinese authorities reported that water flow into the
reservoir above the Three Gorges Dam on the  Yangtze River 
reached a record 71,200 cubic meters per second yesterday,
according to the Xinhua News Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  