-- Chrysler Brands Lead Industry Gains in J.D. Power Appeal Study
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-07-25T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/chrysler-brands-lead-industry-gains-in-j-d-power-appeal-study.html
Chrysler Group LLC led industrywide
gains in a  J.D. Power  & Associates study of owner satisfaction
with new models that may boost automakers’ prospects for luring
U.S. consumers who have put off new-vehicle purchases.  Chrysler, revamping its lineup under majority owner  Fiat
SpA (F) , improved its scores for all brands that were in the survey
a year earlier,  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power
said in a statement. Dodge notched a 21-point increase for the
biggest gain among all brands. The Chrysler and Ram nameplates
jumped above the industry average, which rose to 788 points from
781 a year earlier.  J.D. Power’s U.S. Automotive Performance, Execution and
Layout study, known as Apeal, surveys buyers of new vehicles
after the first 90 days of ownership on attributes such as
styling and mobile-phone connectivity. The study has particular
significance given that the average age of vehicles traded in is
near a historical high at about six years, J.D. Power said.  “If you can come to market with exciting new products,
you’re more likely to persuade people that now’s the right time
to trade,”  David Sargent , J.D. Power’s vice president for
global vehicle research, said in a telephone interview.  Porsche AG (PAH3) ’s namesake brand,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW finished in the top three
spots for a third consecutive year in the study, which tends to
favor luxury nameplates, Sargent said.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s premium
Audi brand boosted its score by 13 points to finish fourth at
848, and its namesake Volkswagen improved 14 to 812.  GM Improves  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s  Chevrolet  led the industry with three
models that finished best in their respective segments with the
Chevrolet Volt compact, Avalanche large pickup and Sonic
subcompact car, according to J.D. Power. The Cadillac, Buick and
GMC brands also joined Chevrolet in improving their scores from
a year earlier.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s namesake brand scored six points better
than a year earlier, while its Lincoln brand lost five points.
Both brands scored above the industry average.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Scion lost the most points among the
study’s 34 brands, dropping by 18 to 764. The company’s main
brand gained 17 points to a below-average 780, while luxury
brand  Lexus  improved by six points to 833.  Models that perform well in the study sell faster off
dealer lots, make more money for dealers and automakers, and are
more likely to be recommended to other shoppers by their owners,
Sargent said. Buyers who give their vehicles better scores also
are more likely to purchase the same brand again, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Hasan Dudar in Southfield, Michigan at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  