-- Cities at Tipping Point Tear Up Contracts to Stay Solvent
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/cities-at-tipping-point-tear-up-contracts-to-stay-solvent.html
Philadelphia, which may close a
quarter of its schools by 2017 to save cash, has to boost pay
for firefighters even though the city’s fiscal overseer says
that would “blow up the budget.”  An arbitration award means the estimated $238 million cost
of the wage and benefit increase through 2017 must be borne by
the city where a  quarter  of residents live in poverty, double
the state rate.  The burden of personnel expenses shouldered by Philadelphia
also bears down on cities across the U.S. as  tax revenue  fails
to keep pace with labor costs. Municipal leaders now regard
steps that were considered drastic, such as imposing unpaid time
off and using IOUs, as reasonable options, said  Gary Chaison ,
who teaches industrial relations at  Clark University  in
Worcester,  Massachusetts . He called it a “tipping point.”  “So many cities are under financial siege that they are
ready to abandon their collective-bargaining agreements even if
they have emergency procedures in place like  Detroit , and even
if it means antagonizing completely, and probably permanently,
their public-sector unions,” Chaison said. Some, such as
 Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , have used bankruptcy to break labor
contracts.  Rising personnel costs have helped drive revenue-strapped
cities toward insolvency from coast to coast.  Cost Driver  “A majority of their costs are tied up in people,” said
 Christopher Hoene , research director for the  National League of
Cities  in  Washington . “If you look at any organization of any
size around the country, you’ll see anywhere between 60 to 80
percent of their costs are in personnel-related expenditures.”  A league survey in 2010 showed 79 percent of cities cited
increasing employee-pension expenses as a source of budget
pressure, up from 61 percent in a 2003 survey. Tax increases and
service rollbacks, which can bog down economic growth, lie in
wait for those that can’t control labor expenses, Hoene said.  “It’s likely a lot of cities faced with these cuts have a
slow road to recovery,” he said.  In the wake of the housing collapse that helped spark
longest recession since the 1930s, local governments that depend
on property taxes must gird for a “couple years of continued
decline,” said Michael Pagano, dean of the  University of
Illinois  at  Chicago ’s Urban Planning and Public Affairs college.  Labor Cuts  Detroit Mayor Dave Bing, a Democrat, cut wages for most
city workers under union contracts by 10 percent on July 18.
Another Democrat, Mayor Alvin Brown in Jacksonville,  Florida ,
said July 19 that he closed an $80 million budget gap this year
partly by reducing the city payroll by almost 500 jobs.  For some communities, bankruptcy has provided a respite. In
 California , Stockton sought court protection last month, while
San Bernardino’s City Council has voted to take that step. Both
cities cited labor costs among the reasons for insolvency. Last
year, Central Falls, the Ocean State’s smallest city, entered
Chapter 9 partly to cut personnel expenses, including pensions.  Yet bankruptcies by municipal governments, numbering 43
since 1981, are dwarfed by corporate Chapter 11 filings, at more
than 20,000 in the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Most cities will opt for service cuts and tax
increases instead of court protection, Hoene said.  In Phoenix, budget pressures driven partly by personnel
costs led lawmakers to impose a 2 percent tax on groceries in
2010, said Sal DiCiccio, a City Council member. This year, he
sought to restrain pay increases for union workers without
success, he said.  Saying ‘No’  “It’s up to political figures to say no,” DiCiccio said
about dealing with union demands.  The median sale price for Phoenix homes in June was down 43
percent from a peak of about $264,000 in June 2006, according to
DataQuick, a San Diego-based provider of property information.  Philadelphia, the fifth-most-populous U.S. city with more
than 1.5 million residents, has raised property taxes in each of
the past three years. Yet municipal firefighters haven’t had a
pay increase in four years, said Bill Gault, president of Local
22 of the International Association of Fire Fighters. From 2008
to 2012, inflation pushed prices almost 8 percent higher,
according to a Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis  calculator .  Michael Zobrak, the lawyer who led a legally mandated
arbitration examining firefighters’ wages in Philadelphia,
concluded that the city could afford annual raises of 3 percent
for three years, retroactive to July 2010. Kenneth Jarin, the
city’s representative on the three-member panel, said that would
cost taxpayers $238 million through fiscal 2017, including
retiree benefits. He put this year’s expense at $77 million.  Precedent Setter  As it stands, the award would “blow up” this year’s
budget and set a precedent for other unions to pursue similar
deals, said Sam Katz, chairman of the Pennsylvania
Intergovernmental Cooperation Authority, which oversees
Philadelphia finances. Mayor Michael Nutter hasn’t decided
whether to appeal, according to  Mark McDonald , a spokesman. The
union has sued, asking a state court to compel the city to
implement the award.  “It’s a really difficult moment,” Katz said. “There are
some clouds on the horizon, and affordability of this and future
labor contracts are very much a part of those clouds.”  Concessions already made by his union’s members will save
Philadelphia taxpayers $14 million a year, Gault said.  “There are no private-sector cops and firemen to compare
us to,” Gault said. “We’re just an easy target. We can’t
strike.”  Minimum Wage  About 125 miles (200 kilometers) north of Philadelphia,
Scranton Mayor Christopher Doherty resorted to  minimum-wage 
paychecks earlier this month in the city of 76,000. The move
prompted workers to sue in U.S. District Court, claiming Doherty
violated federal laws.  A state court ruling that upheld an arbitration award to
police and fire unions, estimated to cost Scranton $30 million
in back pay, sparked the current fiscal crisis. The unions have
agreed to accept about $20 million, and wait until June 2013,
said Thomas Jennings, a lawyer for the bargaining units.  In many cities, unions are bowing to demands from mayors
and managers, said Adam Weigold, a portfolio manager at Eaton
Vance Corp., a Boston-based  fund manager  with $1.2 billion of
municipal debt. While cutting such a deal often “doesn’t make
headlines,” it helps keep communities solvent, he said.  “Unions at some point will have to make some concessions
for these entities to be viable financially in the long term,”
he said. “I think we’re there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  