-- Citigroup Spinout Said to Get $2 Billion for Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/citigroup-spinout-said-to-get-2-billion-for-buyout-fund.html
Court Square  Capital Partners , the
private-equity firm that spun out from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2006,
has raised more than $2 billion so far for its latest buyout
fund, according to a person familiar with the situation.  Court Square Capital Partners III LP is seeking $3 billion,
the same amount that its prior fund raised in 2006, this person
said. Trevor Gibbons, an outside spokesman at Edelman in New
York, declined to comment for Court Square.  The firm, based in New York, is seeking capital as a record
1,858 private-equity funds compete for money, according to data
compiled by Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm. The new
fund will invest in upper mid-market companies with enterprise
values of $150 million to $1 billion, mainly in business
services, telecommunications and technology, general industrial
and health care, according to April meeting minutes from the
Arkansas Teacher Retirement System.  Court Square in May purchased PRV Aerospace LLC, a
precision manufacturer of flight parts for the commercial
aerospace and defense industries, from private-equity firm
Platte River Ventures. The firm in March agreed to buy
Physiotherapy Associates, a provider of outpatient
rehabilitation services, from Water Street Healthcare Partners
and Wind Point Partners.  The predecessor fund was producing a multiple of 1.3 times 
capital and 9.9 percent internal rate of return as of March 31, 
according to performance data from Oregon Public Employees 
Retirement Fund, which said the fund has drawn down $79.3 
million of a $100 million commitment.  The firm has invested more than $4.5 billion in more than
150 deals that have returned $14 billion, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  