-- Citigroup Sees 90% Chance That Greece Leaves Euro
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-07-26T07:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/citigroup-sees-90-chance-that-greece-leaves-euro.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  said there’s now a 90
percent chance that Greece will leave the euro in the next 12 to
18 months, with prolonged economic weakness and spillover for
the currency bloc.  In an analyst note, Citigroup updated its forecast for a
Greek exit from the 17-nation currency union from a previous
estimate of 50 percent to 75 percent, and said it would most
likely happen in the next two to three quarters. Specifically,
the bank assumes a Greece exit would occur on Jan. 1, 2013,
while saying that is not a forecast of a precise date.  Greece’s so-called troika of international creditors, the
 European Central Bank , the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund , are in  Athens  this week amid doubt
the country will meet its bailout targets and reluctance among
 Germany  and other euro-area states to put up more funds should
Greece fail to do so.  “Before the Greek election, the troika members were
willing to be patient, while Greece slipped off-program in
expectation that the election might produce a government that
was able and willing to get the program back on track,”
 Michael Saunders , chief western European economist at Citigroup,
in London said in the note. “It is now fairly clear that these
hopes have not been fulfilled.”  Turmoil  Worsening turmoil in Spain and Italy may make European
politicians less willing to give further help to a country that
keeps on missing its targets, Citigroup said. Citigroup said
that even with the Spanish bank rescue, both Spain and Italy are
“likely” to need some form of full bailout by the end of 2012.  Yields on Spain’s two-, five-, 10- and 30-year  government
securities  climbed to euro-era highs this week, with the 10-year
bond returning as much as 7.69 percent on July 22. The extra
yield that investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds over
German bunds on July 24 rose to the highest since Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  took power on Nov. 16.  “Our base case is for prolonged economic weakness and
financial market strains in periphery countries, spilling over
into renewed recession for the euro area as a whole this year
and the next,” the Citigroup note said.  In Greece, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras meets European
Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  at 5:30 p.m. local time
today. The country risks running out of money without the
disbursement of a 4.2 billion-euro payment ($5.1 billion) that
was due in June as the first part of a 31 billion-euro transfer.  Policy makers are now talking openly about the possibility
that the country will need another bond restructuring.  Evangelos Venizelos , leader of Greece’s Pasok party, said July 7 that a
writedown of bonds held by the ECB should be one of the steps to
further cut the country’s public debt.  “There still looks to be a considerable, and probably
unbridgeable, gap between the reform measures and fiscal
improvements insisted upon by the creditors and those that are
politically and economically achievable in Greece,” said
Citigroup.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  