-- Clean-Tech Index Declines to Nine-Year Low on Uncertainty
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-07-25T23:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/clean-tech-index-declines-to-nine-year-low-on-uncertainty.html
The  WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index (NEX) , a global index of clean-energy stocks,
declined to a nine-year low as the industry faces oversupply,
falling prices and uncertain government support.  The NEX index, as it’s known, fell 81 cents to $102.40 in
New York yesterday, its fourth consecutive drop and its lowest
price since April 2003. The index has lost 19 percent of its
value this year.  NEX tracks 96 solar, power-storage, energy-efficiency, wind
and biofuel companies, all industries that have been hard-hit as
governments in  Europe  and the U.S. scale back subsidies and the
weak global economy slows demand, said Joseph Salvatore, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . That’s
pushing some investors to seek safer havens.  “There is certainly a risk element to the sector,”
Salvatore said in an interview yesterday. “There is a lot of
policy uncertainty, which is not good for an industry that is
still heavily reliant on government support.”  The NEX is falling while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 6.4 percent this year. Investors are seeking stability
and shifting away from industries perceived as speculative and
risky, such as renewable energy, he said.  “Investors are redeeming and exiting,” Salvatore said.
“It’s been consistent for the last year.”  The NEX is down about 78 percent since a 2007 high, before
the global economic crisis drove down valuations.  Valuations ‘Crumpled’  “Renewable-energy valuations got a bit out of hand and
they crumpled,” said Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC
in  New York .  The clean technology industries may follow the same pattern
as previous emerging industries, he said. “In 1998 to 2000,
there was an Internet sector and we now call it technology or
media,” he said. “Maybe that’s the way to see it --alternative
energy is really just the energy and utility sector.”  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest maker of thin-film
solar panels, has lost 88 percent of its market value in the
past year, making it the  worst performer  on the NEX over that
period. Prices for solar panels fell by half last year, driving
down earnings for the Tempe, Arizona-based company.  Dialight Plc (DIA) , a U.K. maker of light-emitting diodes, was
the best performer with a 30 percent gain as demand increased
for the energy-efficient lighting technology.  Falling share prices may prompt acquisitions, as large
companies or private equity investors buy up clean-energy
providers, according to Andrew Musters, head of private equity
for SAM Group Holding AG, a Zurich-based  investment company .  “Clean technology has evolved into a key global industry
with significant growth potential,” he said in a July 2 report.
“The global structural drivers of clean growth are intact, and
capital needs remain high given the global demand for clean
technologies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  