-- Cleveland-Area Bridge Bomb Plotter Hayne Pleads Guilty
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-25T17:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/cleveland-area-bridge-bomb-plotter-hayne-pleads-guilty.html
One of five men accused of plotting
to blow up a Cleveland-area bridge pleaded guilty and will
cooperate with prosecutors.  Anthony Hayne, indicted with his four co-defendants in May
for planning to destroy a bridge linking Brecksville and
Sagamore Hills,  Ohio , pleaded guilty today to all three counts
he faced before U.S. District Judge David D. Dowd Jr. in
 Cleveland , according to the prosecution and his attorney,
Michael O’Shea of Rocky River, Ohio. No sentencing date was set.  “He decided that he wanted to take responsibility for his
individual actions in this case,” O’Shea said in a telephone
interview.  Charged with Hayne were Douglas L. Wright of Indianapolis,
Brandon L. Baxter of Lakewood, Ohio, Connor C. Stevens of Berea,
Ohio, and Joshua S. Stafford, of Cleveland.  They all pleaded not guilty before a U.S. magistrate judge
on May 7.  “He agreed to cooperate and to testify,” against the
other men, Michael Tobin, a spokesman for Cleveland U.S.
Attorney Steven Dettelbach, said today of Hayne in a telephone
interview.  The defendants came to the attention of U.S. authorities
after a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  informant met Wright at
an October protest, according to an affidavit supporting the
initial criminal complaint filed April 30 against Wright, Baxter
and Hayne.  Shifting Plans  The men allegedly considered using smoke grenades to topple
signs of financial institutions atop high-rise buildings in
downtown Cleveland, prosecutors said in the complaint.  Their plan evolved into one to use C-4 plastic explosives
to destroy the Brecksville-Northfield High Level Bridge, which
carries traffic on State Route 82 through the Cuyahoga Valley
National Park, according to the charging documents.  The explosives, which were to be remotely detonated, were
controlled by an undercover FBI agent, and the public was never
in danger, prosecutors said.  Each man was charged with conspiracy, with attempting to
use a weapon of mass destruction to destroy property used in
interstate commerce, and with attempting to use an explosive
device to damage or destroy real property.  Hayne will probably receive a sentence of 15 1/2 to 19 1/2
years if his cooperation is deemed satisfactory by the court,
Tobin said.  O’Shea estimated his client’s sentence at about 15 years.  “He feels absolutely terrible,” the attorney said. “He’s
very glad no one got hurt.”  The case is U.S. v Wright, 12-cr-00238, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 