-- Clinton Donor Among Billionaire Backers of Pro-Obama PAC
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/clinton-donor-among-billionaire-backers-of-pro-obama-pac.html
The Democratic billionaires are
back.  Last month was the first time a super-political action
committee supporting President  Barack Obama  attracted the
attention of multiple big-money contributors, a review of
Federal Election Commission records shows.  The billionaire donors to Priorities USA Action were: Irwin Jacobs, who built  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ; Jon Stryker, an architect whose
fortune comes from his family’s medical supply business; and
Haim Saban, a media executive who was one of President  Bill Clinton ’s top fundraisers.  The trio gave a combined $3 million, about half what the
super-PAC raised in June, its best fundraising month yet. It was
the first time any of those donors had contributed to
Priorities.  Meanwhile,  George Soros , a billionaire financier who
underwrote much of the failed effort to oust President  George W. Bush  in 2004, cut a $1 million check in June to American Bridge,
a super-PAC that focuses on opposition research.  The donations are significant because Obama’s supporters
have lagged far behind the fundraising pace of Republican super-
PACs seeking to defeat him. Priorities has raised $21 million,
compared with $122 million collected by the two primary groups
opposing him.  Republican Billionaires  Republican super-PACs have secured multiple contributions
from billionaires including  Las Vegas Sands (LVS)  chairman  Sheldon Adelson , Houston investor Harold Simmons and  William Koch , head
of Oxbow Carbon. Their money has flowed mostly to American
Crossroads, a super-PAC formed with help from Bush’s political
strategist  Karl Rove , and Restore Our Future, which was founded
by former aides to presumptive Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney.  Returning to the Democratic fold in a big way is former
Bill Clinton bundler Saban, a 67-year-old billionaire music and
television producer who made his fortune with the Mighty Morphin
Power Rangers children’s series.  A strong supporter of Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in
the 2008 primary, Saban made his first contribution to an Obama
campaign on Dec. 19, 2011, giving his re-election bid $5,000,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based group that tracks federal donors.  Just 18 days earlier, White House visitor records show,
Saban paid a visit to the West Wing where  William Daley , then
Obama’s chief of staff and now the president’s campaign co-
chairman, signed him in for a meeting.  Oval Office  Saban told The Hollywood Reporter afterward that he and
Obama “talked policy” during a one-on-one meeting in the Oval
Office.  On June 25, Saban gave $1 million to Unity 2012, an
umbrella group for Priorities and several other Democratic
super-PACs. Saban was the only donor listed in the new group’s
July quarterly report, and $333,333 of his money went to
Priorities.  Saban has maintained his relationship with Bill Clinton.
The former president headlined a Democratic National Convention
fundraising event in June at Saban’s  Beverly Hills , California,
home, according to the convention website.  Bill Burton , a co-
founder of Priorities, is also seeking Clinton’s help in raising
money, he said July 14 on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Israel Support  Saban, a dual citizen of the U.S. and Israel, has told
reporters previously that his interests include support of the
Jewish state and abortion rights. He is chief executive officer
of Broadcast Media Partners Inc. and chairman of Univision
Communications Inc., the Spanish-language network.  “As a long-time supporter of the Democratic Party, I
recently made contributions to multiple super-PACs that back
causes central to the party,” Saban said in an e-mailed
statement last night. “I have, and always will be, a champion
of the Democratic Party, President Obama, and the party’s
elected officials.”  Before June, the only billionaire who’d given to Priorities
was director  Steven Spielberg . He wrote a $100,000 check a year
ago and hasn’t contributed since.  “They’re concerned about the hundreds of millions of
dollars that’s coming in from the right in this election,”
Burton said of his recent donors on Political Capital.  Restore Our Future has raised $82 million and American
Crossroads $40 million, and both groups have been using that
cash to broadcast attack ads against the president.  Burton, a former Obama White House aide, and longtime
Democratic strategist  Paul Begala  are among the leaders of
Priorities.  Obama Blessing  Obama gave his blessing to the super-PAC in February. He
had previously expressed his distaste for super-PACs, created by
a series of 2010 court decisions and federal regulations.  Super-PACs can accept unlimited sums of money from
individuals, corporations and unions, and freely spend to help
elect a particular candidate.  The first billionaire to contribute to Priorities in June
was Irwin Jacobs, who has $1.1 billion in Qualcomm stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He gave $2 million on
June 11.  The 78-year-old founded and was former chairman of San
Diego-based Qualcomm, the world’s largest maker of chips that
run mobile phones. He is now chairman of the Salk Institute for
Biological Studies, based in  San Diego .  Attempts to reach Jacobs through the Salk Institute were
unsuccessful.  Frequent Giver  Jacobs, who listed himself on the contribution as retired
and living in La Jolla, California, gave $100,000 this year to
the American Bridge super-PAC. That’s the only super-PAC to
which Soros has donated this year, after giving a combined
$175,000 last year to super-PACs working to elect Democrats to
Congress.  The Center for Responsive Politics shows that Jacobs is a
frequent donor to Democrats, the Democratic National Committee
and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.  Jacobs is tied with  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive
officer of  Dreamworks Animation (DWA) , as the super-PAC’s top donor.
Katzenberg gave Priorities $2 million in May 2011 and hasn’t
contributed to it since.  Michigan Company  A day after Jacobs cut a check, Priorities listed a
$750,000 contribution from Jon Stryker, who has $1.6 billion in
 Stryker Corp. (SYK)  stock, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The
company, founded by his grandfather, is based in Kalamazoo,
Michigan, and develops, manufactures and markets surgical and
medical products.  Jon Stryker listed his profession as an architect with an
address in New York City. He is a major donor to state
Democratic candidates in Michigan, records show.  He’s also founder and president of Arcus Foundation, which
is described on its website as advancing social justice,
including gay rights, and conservation causes, particularly
those focused on the great apes.  The foundation declined to make Stryker available for an
interview. Stryker funded Arcus with $247 million, according to
a 2008 article in The Chronicle of Philanthropy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  