-- Coca-Cola Femsa Misses Estimates as Peso Dips, Costs Rise
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-07-25T20:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/coca-cola-femsa-misses-estimates-as-peso-dips-costs-rise.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) ,  Latin America ’s
biggest Coke bottler, fell the most in two weeks after posting a
second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The shares slid 7.2 percent to 152.96 pesos in Mexico City,
the largest drop since July 11. Net income declined to 2.71
billion pesos ($198 million), the company  said  late yesterday.
Analysts expected a 2.96 billion-peso profit, based on the
average of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Coca-Cola Femsa absorbed blows from a weaker Mexican peso,
rising labor costs and more expensive high-fructose corn syrup.
The peso slid 12 percent against the dollar during the year
ended June 30, and Chief Financial Officer Hector Trevino said
the weakening currency magnified the  Mexico  City-based company’s
dollar-based materials costs.  “The first read-through is pretty weak across the board,”
said Alan Alanis, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York 
who has a neutral rating on Coca-Cola Femsa. “Flat volumes,
contracting margins and shrinking earnings per share: Those are
the highlights of the quarter.”  While three acquisitions in Mexico over the past year
boosted sales 28 percent to 36.3 billion pesos, beverage volume
excluding the new units was little changed, Coca-Cola Femsa
said. The company’s operating income as a percentage of sales
fell to 13 percent from more than 15 percent a year earlier.  Net Income  Net income amounted to 1.35 pesos per share, down 9 percent
from a year earlier, Coca-Cola Femsa said in a  statement  to the
Mexican stock exchange.  Higher labor costs in  Venezuela  and  Argentina  and steeper
freight costs in Argentina and  Brazil  helped push operating
expenses up 38 percent from a year earlier. Trevino said the
company would benefit from steadier costs in the second half of
the year, especially if the peso stabilizes.  “Should currency volatility recede, we look forward to a
more stable cost environment for the second half of 2012,” he
said on a conference call with analysts and investors. “All in
all, I do see a second half of the year that will be better on
the margins than what we are presenting in this quarter.”  Coca-Cola Femsa closed transactions in 2011 to buy  Grupo
Tampico  for 9.3 billion pesos and  Grupo Cimsa  for 11 billion
pesos, including debt. It completed the purchase of  Grupo
Fomento Queretano  for 6.6 billion pesos in May.  ‘On Track’  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Salazar said in a statement
that the company is “fully on track to meet our previously
announced net synergy targets.”  Teams of Coca-Cola Femsa employees are studying the
operations and finances of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s Philippines unit, as
the Mexican company evaluates whether to make its first foray
outside Latin America, Trevino said.  In February, Coca-Cola Femsa entered a 12-month exclusive
agreement with Atlanta-based Coca-Cola to discuss buying a
controlling stake in the Filipino unit. The U.S. company owns
about 30 percent of Coca-Cola Femsa, which is majority-owned by
Monterrey, Mexico-based Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB.  While Trevino said in April that a decision could come by
the end of September, he said yesterday that it might take until
the end of the year.  “We feel enthusiastic about this idea,” he said on the
conference call. “During the second half of the year, we should
be able to reach a decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  