-- Columbia Students Dissect Robots in Campus Cliffhanger
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/columbia-students-dissect-robots-in-campus-cliffhanger.html
Lounges, balconies and terraced
gathering spaces jut out of the 14-story sheer-glass facade of
 Columbia University Medical Center ’s planned medical and
graduate education building. In an architectural rendering, the
structure appears to have disrobed.  That be-bopping southern edge is called the Study Cascade,
said Elizabeth Diller, partner in the Manhattan architecture
firm  Diller Scofidio & Renfro , which designed the building.  Shared meeting and study areas carved in diagonals and
softly curved edges clamber up the building behind large sheets
of glass. Zigzagging wood-clad stairways hook the levels
together. (The northern two-thirds of the building slips behind
an unassuming veil of a material yet to be finalized.)  This sun-splashed vertical canyon unites floors of
classrooms and labs and throws together students, teachers,
researchers, and doctors brushing up their skills.  The shared spaces “promote communal and collaborative
study,” Diller explained in an interview. “No longer do
students learn only with a teacher standing at the front of the
class. Smaller groups meet to solve problems. They break up and
come together. You can get quiet time and social space but they
kind of bleed together.”  To have human interaction shape a building is an
extraordinary departure from the standard considerations that
affect health-care architecture, namely technology, insurance
reimbursements -- even the distances between nurse stations and
patient rooms.  The medical-education building focuses on collaboration and
problem solving that unites many disciplines from all four
medical-education programs: physicians and surgeons; nursing;
dental medicine; and public health.  Team Work  Teams are the future of both medical research and patient
care, according to P. Roy Vagelos. A medical doctor and former
chairman and chief executive officer of  Merck & Co. (MRK) , he and his
wife, Diana, put $50 million into the 100,000-square-foot
building’s fundraising campaign in 2010.  “An older person may come in with a condition that affects
the heart and kidneys. Maybe there’s arthritis or an immune
problem,” Vagelos said. “That patient should not be referred
to one doctor after another. Early evaluation and a plan
developed with all the relevant specialists is much more
efficient. It also avoids treatments that interfere with each
other.”  The building’s heart is floors five through eight, which
are devoted to developing clinical skills through simulations
and anatomy.  Actors, Robots  While carving up cadavers has long helped students learn
their way around the human body, simulations using actors and
robotic dummies are growing in importance. In these labs,
teachers can observe how groups of students figure out a
response to the symptoms presented.  Teaching doctors can instruct an actor to create an
emergency. That avoids learning on the job.  The Study Cascade extends this collaborative, problem-
solving approach to classrooms and larger meeting and teaching
spaces. At the 10th floor, for example, tiny lounges in bumper-
car-style balconies hang above an airy student commons in the
sky.  The dynamic series of spaces, framing city and river views
in ever-changing ways, will foster exploration. People from
different disciplines may find themselves chatting with newly
met colleagues over a cup of coffee.  Spectacular View  The Study Cascade explodes out of the building at street
level. Next to the glass-wrapped lobby, a small public lawn will
replace an ugly concrete driveway. Behind the lobby, a
windswept, cracked-slate courtyard between two 30-story
residential towers will become a lushly planted garden opening
to a spectacular view of the  Hudson River  and the George
Washington Bridge.  The garden is the only gap in the view-snuffing wall of
buildings Columbia built along a cliff above the river, and
Diller’s team makes the most of it.  If appealing collaborative spaces work for medical
education, think what they could do for patient care.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Greg
Evans  on film.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at at
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net , or at
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 