-- Companies Say 3 Million Unfilled Positions in Skill Crisis: Jobs
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/companies-say-3-million-unfilled-positions-in-skill-crisis-jobs.html
Roddale Smith knew he could do
better than toting chairs around at Cincinnati Children’s
Hospital Medical Center. And when he decided to pursue an
education, he didn’t have to go far. His employer brought the
classroom to him.  It paid off for both sides. Smith, 32, graduated from
nursing school last month and  Children’s Hospital , in need of
skilled workers, has a new job waiting for him. His salary, now
$12 an hour, will almost double.  “Moving furniture does not have a direct impact on patient
care,” said Smith, who started his training in 2008. “I wanted
a career, earning a larger salary and making a more significant
difference.”  Even with almost 13 million Americans  looking  for work and
8 million more settling for part-time jobs, almost half the
1,361 U.S. employers surveyed in January by ManpowerGroup say
they can’t find workers to fill positions. At the same time,
American employers are less likely than their counterparts
overseas to invest in training, the Milwaukee-based staffing
company reported last month.  Companies have reported more than 3 million job  openings 
every month since February 2011, according to the Department of
Labor.  To narrow the skills gap, employers are teaming up with
philanthropies, governments and community colleges to develop a
ready resource: their existing workforce. The practice, known as
upskilling, builds on the “up from the mailroom” idea, the
management philosophy that the best person for a job could be
one a company already has.  Hospitals Lead  Hospitals, which experienced a nursing shortage more than a
decade ago, in particular are turning to their own staff to
cultivate technicians and nurses, said Fred Dedrick, executive
director of the National Fund for Workforce Solutions. The
Boston-based nonprofit organization partners with companies and
governments to set up regional training cooperatives.  Children’s Hospital is part of one such group, a three-
state  effort  called Partners for a Competitive Workforce. The
consortium’s five health-care members have identified the skills
they need and joined forces to design training programs.  “It’s a grow-your-own strategy,” said partnership
Executive Director Ross Meyer. “We are seeing employers
stepping up because they’re not getting their needs met. We’ve
leveraged public, philanthropic and private dollars to fill the
gap.”  Training Pool  The potential training pool can include housekeepers,
clerks, low-skilled technicians and cafeteria workers. Some have
no formal training beyond high school and haven’t been inside a
classroom in decades.  Besides hospitals, factories and construction companies are
reviving apprenticeships and collaborating with community
colleges and each other to develop courses. The Department of
Labor spends about $7 billion a year to fund jobs training and
other workforce development.  Most companies are using that support to avoid layoffs or
train existing employees, said Jane Oates, assistant secretary
for employment and training at the Department of Labor.  “You get a new worker of any age who comes into a job, I
don’t care how qualified they are on paper, you don’t know how
they’re going to work,” she said. With an existing employee,
“you know they’ve come to work for the last X years.”  Grooming Workers  Grooming incumbent workers fell out of favor with the rise
of  information technology  and the knowledge and service
economies, which created demand for highly specific skills and
led to certification programs and other types of education, said
Anthony Carnevale, director of the Georgetown University Center
on Education and the Workforce, in Washington.  “‘Qualified’ used to mean a high school degree,”
Carnevale said. “Now the qualification level has gone up so
they’re pressing for better people.”  Technical proficiency isn’t always enough. Employers also
report a shortage of what they call “soft skills,” including
the ability to solve problems, think critically and work in
teams. Workers who exhibit such traits can be candidates to
train for higher-skilled jobs.  “They’d prefer to buy the skill rather than have to make
it, but the skill base in the workforce is not there,”
Carnevale said.  Efforts like Cincinnati’s remain highly localized and no
match for the growing skills gap. By 2020, employers worldwide
could face a shortage of 85 million high- and medium-skilled
workers, according to a June report from the  McKinsey Global
Institute  in Washington.  ‘Market Responses’  “Business-as-usual market responses won’t be enough,”
said Susan Lund, McKinsey director of research. “Rather than
wait to fix the whole educational system, companies are saying,
‘Let’s just work in a micro way to do what we can do now.’”  One challenge is that programs must be tailored to local
needs. In 2003, the Port of  Seattle  opened Airport University on
the main concourse of Sea-Tac International. The classroom
program, free to workers, was partly a response to airlines’
increasing reliance on contractors for food service, cleaning
and other tasks. The shift left many airport laborers with jobs,
including operating the airport’s wheelchairs, that offered
little opportunity for advancement.  Denise Johnson was earning $8.55 an hour as a manicurist at
a Sea-Tac nail salon when Airport University recruited her. The
classes fit her work schedule, said the single mother. She
expects to graduate with an associate’s degree in hospitality
and tourism next summer and plans to start a business or non-
profit, perhaps helping other young women obtain job skills. In
the meantime, Johnson, 27, now earns $15 an hour as an office
assistant at Airport University.  Apprentice Program  In  Pennsylvania ,  Aker Philadelphia Shipyard (AKPS)  won state help
to revive a dormant apprentice program for welders last year,
graduating 20 people in February. The company plans to bring 20
more on board in August, Vice President Mike Giantomaso said.  Working with a $7,000 city grant, Johns Hopkins Bayview
Medical Center in Baltimore started offering free classes to
workers in 2010. Marina Vargas-Deise was among the first to
enroll. She had been caring for elderly patients -- brushing
teeth, changing diapers and delivering food trays -- since 2006.  After passing courses in anatomy, physiology, math and
medical terminology at Bayview, Vargas-Deise enrolled at the
Community College of Baltimore County, graduating in May. Now
she can draw blood, perform heart tests and conduct other
clinical work. She’s studying for her medical assistant’s
license.  New Career  “I wasn’t informed about how to start a new career,”
Vargas-Deise said. “I didn’t even know what I needed.” She
looks forward to more interesting work, better pay and more
responsibility.  Bayview  will get a reliable, time-tested worker with skills
in short supply.  “When you’re hiring off the street you don’t know who
you’re getting,” said Bayview Career Specialist Karen Jones.
“It’s better to tap your resources from within. You have people
who know the hospital, they have a good work ethic. We’d rather
work with them and move them up the pipeline.”  Cincinnati’s Smith also was a known quantity when he
applied for training at Children’s Hospital. His first classes,
in math and chemistry, were taught on the hospital campus in
conjunction with Cincinnati State Technical and Community
College. When he passed, he was eligible to enroll in school
full-time, with tuition paid for in advance by his employer.  “I worked my butt off, didn’t call off. I always came to
work,” he said. “That same dependability, that same toughness,
I’m just taking it to another level.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
 Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  