-- ConocoPhillips Net Income Falls After Refining Spinoff
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-07-25T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/conocophillips-net-income-falls-after-refining-spinoff.html
ConocoPhillips said second-quarter
profit fell 33 percent for the newly independent oil and
natural-gas producer after losing income from its refining
segment, which was spun off April 30.  Production fell about 6 percent, consistent with the
company’s forecast for declining output, to the equivalent of
1.54 million barrels of oil a day because of asset sales,
maintenance downtime and curtailments of conventional North
American gas.  “They slightly beat expectations, but production was in
line with their guidance,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst
with  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis  who has a buy rating on
ConocoPhillips shares and owns none. “This is probably going to
be the ConocoPhillips of the future, where they can be a steady
Eddie” among exploration and production companies, he said.  Net income dropped to $2.27 billion, or $1.80 a share, from
$3.4 billion, or $2.41, a year earlier, Houston-based
ConocoPhillips said in a statement today. Profit excluding
refining and other one-time costs and gains was $1.22 a share,
three cents more than the average of 17 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The results included one month of earnings from
ConocoPhillips’ former fuel-making business, compared to three
months of refining earnings in the year-ago quarter. Its spinoff
this year of refining, chemical and pipeline businesses created
 Phillips 66. (PSX)   Remaking Itself  ConocoPhillips is now the largest U.S. oil and gas producer
without refineries or a chemical business, based on market
value. The company has been selling assets and buying back
shares as part of a three-year plan to remake itself and boost
returns.  ConocoPhillips has ended share buybacks for now, though it
may restart them in the future, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets said in a telephone interview today. The company
repurchased about 52 million shares in the second quarter,
bringing its buyback total to about 20 percent of shares
outstanding when the program began in 2010, it said in today’s
statement.  Planned capital spending of about $16 billion this year
reflects investments and the timing of asset sales, Sheets said.
That annual spending will be about $15 billion in coming years
as the company seeks to boost production and margins, he said.  Funding Spending  ConocoPhillips may use proceeds from asset sales to help
fund its capital program in the near term, as  cash flow  may not
cover spending and the dividend because of lower commodity
prices, Sheets said.  Brent crude futures, a benchmark oil price used by much of
the world, fell 7 percent from a year earlier to average $108.76
a barrel in the second quarter. Gas futures traded in  New York 
plunged 46 percent to average $2.354 per million British thermal
units.  The company can adjust its spending if prices fall further,
Sheets said. Dividend payments were shown as the top priority
among uses of cash in a slide presentation today.  The company said it’s on track to have $8 billion to $10
billion of asset sales by the middle of 2013. It raised about
$1.6 billion of that in the first half of the year.  Strategic Objectives  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ adjusted earnings, which exclude refining
income and other one-time items, fell 34 percent to $1.54
billion in the second quarter from $2.31 billion a year earlier.  “We’re making progress on all the strategic objectives
that we’ve talked about,” Sheets said. While the level of
prices affects short-term results, it “doesn’t affect our long-
term plans,” he said.  Revenue, excluding refining and other discontinued items,
fell 14 percent in the second quarter to $15.2 billion from
$17.7 billion a year earlier, ConocoPhillips said. Output of oil
and gas may be the equivalent of 1.565 million to 1.585 million
barrels of oil a day this year, including the effect of
dispositions, Sheets said today. That’s within an earlier
forecast of as much as 1.6 million barrels a day of production.  Output from shale formations such as the Eagle Ford and
Bakken continues to rise, the company said, and it plans to add
more assets in  North America .  Testing Mancos  ConocoPhillips is examining its holdings in the U.S. and
 Canada  for additional opportunities, Chief Executive Officer
Ryan Lance said during a conference call with analysts today.
For example, he said, the company plans to test the Mancos shale
in the western U.S. this year.  ConocoPhillips plans to return some curtailed North
American gas operations to production in the third and fourth
quarters because of higher prices, Sheets said. The company had
curtailed gas totaling the equivalent of about 10,000 to 12,000
barrels of oil a day, he said.  Gas is trading in New York for more than $3 per million
British thermal units today after falling to a 10-year-low of
about $2 earlier this year, prompting producers to cut back some
production.  ConocoPhillips is the first of the largest U.S. oil
companies to report second-quarter earnings this year.  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the biggest U.S. oil company by market value, plans
to release results tomorrow, followed by  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the
second-largest U.S. oil company, on July 27.  Unlike ConocoPhillips, Exxon and Chevron operate refining
and chemical plants.  ConocoPhillips fell 2.6 percent to $53.24 at the close in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  