-- Cooley, Freshfields, Jackson Lewis: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/cooley-freshfields-jackson-lewis-business-of-law.html
Cooley LLP opened a Los Angeles
office with the addition of four partners from three law firms.  The new partners include David Hernand, former co-chair of
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s media, entertainment and technology
practice, who will be the partner-in-charge of the new office.  Former  DLA Piper  LLP partner  David Young , who was the firm's
corporate and finance group chair for Los Angeles, San Diego and
Phoenix, will head Cooley’s business and technology practice group
in Los Angeles, Cooley said.  Christopher Shoff, who was also a partner at DLA Piper, and
Jennifer Massey, a former partner at Hollywood entertainment  law
firm  Morris Yorn Barnes Levine Krintzman Rubenstein & Kohner
have also been hired, the firm said.  The new office, in Santa Monica, is Cooley’s fourth in
California and will serve the firm’s existing relationships and
clients who number 200 in the region, the firm said.  “Entering the Los Angeles market has long been a strategic
goal of our firm,” Cooley Chief Executive Officer Joe Conroy
said.  The firm said  Los Angeles  was the fourth largest venture
capital/emerging company market in the country with an influx of
$567 million in venture capital brought by entrepreneurs in the
region in the first quarter of 2012. The firm said it hopes to
become the “go-to” firm to navigate the convergence of
technology, venture capital, content and digital media companies
in the area.  Hernand has experience representing large and small
corporate, private equity, venture capital, talent agencies and
investment banking clients on mergers, strategic partnering
arrangements and raising public and private capital.  Young has experience in the Southern California venture
capital and technology community. He specializes in emerging
growth companies and the venture capital firms, strategic
investors and investment banks that finance these companies.  Shoff was a partner in the corporate and finance group that
Young headed. He has experience in venture capital and initial
public offering work. He specializes in emerging growth
companies in a variety of sectors including technology, media
and life sciences.  Massey has a practice advising clients on the convergence
of technology and entertainment. She represents Silicon Valley
companies in their entertainment and content-related
initiatives, and counsels Hollywood talent in partnering with
and investing in technology companies.  The firm also hired Randy Churchill to head Cooley’s
business development outreach in the region. He has worked in
the Los Angeles entrepreneurial community as an attorney,
financial printing account executive and, since 2000, director
of emerging company services for PwC’s Southern California
technology practice, the firm said.  Cooley has 650 attorneys in 10 U.S. offices as well as an
office in Shanghai.  Freshfields Appoints China Head of Energy and Natural Resources  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP appointed Gang Yuana
head of the energy and natural resources practice in China.  Yuana specializes in energy and resources-related corporate
and regulatory work and advises state-owned Chinese energy and
resource companies in their cross-border transactions, the firm
said.  “As China’s demand for energy continues to grow, Gang will
lead Freshfields’ work in assisting our Chinese energy and
natural resources clients fulfill their overseas ambitions, from
M&A and joint ventures to the development of international
energy projects,” Robert Ashworth, Freshfields Asia managing
partner, said in a statement.  Freshfields has over 2,500 lawyers in 27 offices, 15
countries and 16 jurisdictions across the world.  News  Romney-Obama Lawyers Rake in Millions as Campaign Spending Soars  Every four years, a new mix of politicians assembles to
compete for the opportunity to run for president. While the
candidates’ names and faces change, the lawyers stay the same,
Bloomberg News’ Jonathan D. Salant reports.  Attorney Michael Toner, a partner at Wiley Rein LLP, began
his presidential-campaign legal career in 1996 working for
Republican nominee  Bob Dole . He worked for  George W. Bush  in
2000. In 2008, his first client was former Tennessee Senator
Fred Thompson before signing with party nominee  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain .  Democrat Bob Bauer, a partner at Perkins Coie LLP, worked
for former New Jersey Senator  Bill Bradley ’s presidential
campaign in 2000, his law partner represented Massachusetts
Senator  John Kerry  in 2004, and Bauer landed then-Senator Barack Obama of Illinois in 2008.  Republican Ben Ginsberg, a partner at  Patton Boggs LLP , cut
his teeth in 1996 working for then-California Governor Pete
Wilson’s White House run before joining Bush in 2000 and 2004.
Four years later, he landed a new client, former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, and he’s still representing him today.  At the presidential level, “you go to people who aren’t
going to learn on the job,” said U.S. Court of Appeals Senior
Judge Ralph K. Winter Jr., who taught election law at  Yale
University  in Connecticut and is still an adjunct professor
there.  Or, as Toner put it, you go to the “fraternity,” a tight-
knit pool of campaign finance and election-law specialists who
spend much of their time in between presidential contests either
helping to write new laws or blowing up the ones already on the
books. Either outcome is good for business.  The five law firms specializing in presidential campaigns
have been paid $50 million since 1999 by candidates, political
parties and political action committees, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign spending.  For more, click here.  Ex-News Corp. Editors Brooks, Coulson Charged Over Hacking  Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , former lead editors of the
News of the World tabloid in Britain, are among eight former
 News Corp. (NWSA)  journalists being charged with conspiring to
intercept voice mail to get stories.  The group sought between 2000 and 2006 to hack the mobile-
phone messages of more than 600 people, including U.S. actors
 Brad Pitt  and Angelina Jolie and murdered British schoolgirl
Milly Dowler, who went missing in 2002, the Crown Prosecution
Service said in London yesterday.  “There is sufficient evidence for there to be a realistic
prospect of conviction,” Alison Levitt, the top legal adviser
to Britain’s director of public prosecutions, said at a press
conference. The criminal cases are “in the public interest.”  The others charged are former managing editor Stuart
Kuttner, former news editor Ian Edmondson, former chief reporter
Neville Thurlbeck, former assistant editor Greg Miskiw, former
assistant news editor James Weatherup and former private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who worked for the tabloid.  “I am not guilty of these charges,” Brooks said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “I did not authorize, nor was I aware
of, phone hacking under my editorship.”  Coulson said in a televised statement outside his home that
he never did anything to harm the police probe into Dowler’s
disappearance.  “I have always operated under the strict guidance and
advice of News International’s lawyers and under the
instructions of the newspaper’s editors, which will be
abundantly clear when this matter comes to court,” Thurlbeck
said in a statement issued by his lawyer Henri Brandman.  Edmondson, who was fired in January 2011, said in a
statement through his law firm that he looks forward to clearing
his name at trial “when the truth finally emerges.”  “I am extremely disappointed by today’s decision, given
that in 2006 I was the subject of a comprehensive police
investigation,” Mulcaire said in an e-mailed statement. “I
intend to contest these allegations strenuously.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Citic to Buy Credit Agricole’s CLSA Unit for $1.25 Billion  Citic Securities Co. (6030) , China’s largest brokerage by market
value, agreed to buy  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s CLSA unit for
$1.25 billion, joining banks across Asia acquiring the assets of
troubled European financial firms.  Gide Loyrette Nouel advised Crédit Agricole and Investment
Bank (Crédit Agricole CIB) in connection with the sale. Kirkland
& Ellis LLP advised Citic.  The GLN team was led by partner Guillaume Rougier-Brierre,
with assistance from Arnaud Lunel in Paris, as well as Rebecca
Silli in Hong Kong and Thomas Urlacher in Beijing  The Kirkland team was led by Hong Kong partner Nicholas
Norris with partners Michel Debolt in Hong Kong, Edwin del
Hierro in Chicago, and Pierre-André  Dubois and Ian Taplin in
London.  The Chinese firm completed its purchase of a 19.9 percent
stake in the brokerage for $310.3 million, the companies said in
a statement on July 20. Citic Securities will buy the remaining
80.1 percent for $941.7 million, subject to conditions including
regulatory approval, the companies said.  Buying CLSA would give Citic Securities the overseas
research component lacking in its operations as Chairman Wang Dongming seeks to expand beyond mainland China. His challenge
will be to marry CLSA’s independent-focused culture with that of
the state-backed brokerage, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said.  “In the long term, this transaction, if successfully
executed, could become critical” for Citic Securities to
compete with investment banks at home and abroad, Joseph Leung
and Josh Klaczek of JPMorgan wrote in a note on July 20. “The
downside risk is execution, particularly given cultural
differences.”  For more, click here.  Moves  Former Caesars Entertainment Chief Counsel Joins Jackson Lewis  Jackson Lewis LLP said Ann Haley Fromholz joined the firm’s
Los Angeles office as partner.  Fromholz joins from Caesars Entertainment Corp. in Las
Vegas, where she served as vice president and chief counsel for
the Enterprise Labor and Employment group. Previously, she
worked as senior counsel in the labor and employment division
for both ConocoPhillips and Kaiser Permanente, the firm said.  In her in-house counsel positions, Fromholz advised
management and human resource professionals about employment
discipline and termination, as well as personnel policies and
practices.  At Caesars, Fromholz was responsible for managing the labor
and employment division of the legal department, and worked with
human resources at 38 properties nationwide to ensure employment
law compliance. She managed over 100 single-plaintiff employment
cases and several wage hour and discrimination class actions,
the firm said.  Jackson Lewis has over 700 attorneys in 49 locations
nationwide.  Mayer Brown Expands Hong Kong Corporate & Securities Practice  James Fong has joined Mayer Brown LLP as a partner in the
corporate and securities practice. Fong, who was a partner at
Hogal Lovells LLP, has more than 12 years of experience in
handling corporate finance transactions, including Hong Kong
IPOs, listing of  exchange traded funds , block trade, rights
issue, takeover, private equity, joint ventures and regulatory
compliance, the firm said.  Fong is the third recent hire in China for the firm. Henry
Wang and Billy Au joined the Beijing office this month, with Au
also working out of Hong Kong.  “As part of the strategic plan, the addition of James Fong,
Henry Wang and Billy Au in Greater China will see our practice
having a much more in-depth capability in ECM and M&A
offerings,” said  Patrick Wong , the head of corporate and
securities in Asia.  Mayer Brown has 20 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 