-- Corn Rises in Chicago as Rains May Fail to Reverse Crop Losses
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-07-25T11:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/corn-soybeans-decline-as-rains-may-ease-stressed-u-s-crops.html
Corn rose in  Chicago  on speculation
rains forecast for parts of the U.S. may fail to reverse crop
losses caused by the worst Midwest drought in at least a
generation. Soybeans also gained.  Areas of Indiana and  Ohio  had as much as 0.75 inch of rain
yesterday, and parts of the eastern Corn Belt may receive an
inch tomorrow, Telvent DTN said. While rain may ease crop
stress, “this will not be a drought-breaking situation,” the
forecaster said. As of July 22, 86 percent of the corn crop
already entered the silking stage, critical for determining
 yields , Department of Agriculture data show.  “Even with these rains, in a lot of areas it could be too
little, too late” for corn, Christopher Narayanan, head of
agricultural commodity research at Societe Generale SA, said by
telephone from  New York . “Beans still have another week or two
to recover if we get some good rains, because pod filling is
just now starting. You have a little bit of time, but not a
whole lot.”  Corn for December delivery gained 1.1 percent to $7.87 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:33 p.m. London time.
Futures jumped to a record $8 on July 23 as the USDA said crop
conditions were the worst since 1988.  Soybeans Retreat  Soybeans for November delivery rose 0.5 percent to $15.7725
a bushel. About 36 percent of the U.S. soybean crop was in the
pod-setting  stage  as of July 22, according to the USDA.  Midwest temperatures may be as much as 8 degrees Fahrenheit
above normal for at least the next two weeks, with below normal
rains, Joel Widenor, co-founder of Commodity Weather Group LLC,
said in a note yesterday. About 55 percent of the contiguous
U.S. was in moderate to extreme drought at the end of June, the
highest percentage since 1956, National Climatic Data Center
figures show.  “Severe drought conditions persist across most production
regions,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in a report today. “The USDA is
expected to substantially cut its U.S. production next month
given the ongoing decline in crop conditions.”  The next USDA estimate is due on Aug. 10.  Corn yields from the eastern third and north-central parts
of  Iowa , the biggest U.S. producing state, were 33 percent
smaller than measured a year earlier, according to results from
field inspections on the second day of the annual Doane Advisory
Services Co. crop tour.  Wheat for September delivery rose 1.2 percent to $8.895 a
bushel. In Paris, November-delivery milling wheat increased 2.6
percent to 257.50 euros ($312.73) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  