-- Corning Second-Quarter Profit Slips 39% as LCD Prices Fall
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-07-25T21:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/corning-second-quarter-profit-falls-39-amid-lcd-price-declines.html
Corning Inc. (GLW) , the world’s largest
maker of glass for flat-panel televisions, reported a 39 percent
drop in second-quarter earnings amid price declines for its LCD
screens.  Net income fell to $462 million, or 30 cents a share, from
$755 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, the Corning, New
York-based company said today in a statement. Profit excluding
some items was 31 cents a share, matching the average of 18
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  After about six months of steep price declines amid
increasing competition, Corning has been asking customers to
agree to more stability, Chief Financial Officer Jim Flaws said
today in an interview. The company has made agreements with
almost all its customers and price declines will be more
predictable in the future, he said.  “Investors were really hoping we could pull that off,”
Flaws said. “We go in and negotiate with each customer and
obviously we hope that what we’re offering in terms of our price
and our quality and our service compared with our competitors,
they’re willing to mitigate the declines.”  Corning has been expanding into new markets for glass,
including its Gorilla Glass used in mobile devices made by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , as the market for LCD
television sets matures. Global TV shipments in 2011 fell for
the first time in six years because of excessive inventory in
the U.S. and  Europe , and the end of Japanese government
subsidies for purchases, according to  DisplaySearch , a unit of
researcher NPD Group.  LCD Demand  Corning  fell  7.7 percent to $11.14 at the close in  New
York . The shares have declined 14 percent this year.  “The No. 1 thing most people are concerned about with
Corning is the impact of economies on LCD TV demand,” Steven Fox, an analyst with Cross Research, said in an interview before
the results were announced. “Gorilla Glass and other products
will help make up for some of the loss.”  Flaws said demand slowed in Spain and  China , especially for
cars, in the second quarter.  “It has us very alert to whether this is the future,” he
said.  Revenue in the quarter declined 4.8 percent to $1.91
billion. Analysts projected $2.02 billion, the average of 16
 estimates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  