-- Ctrip Slumps on Declining Margin as SMI Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-25T20:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ctrip-slumps-on-lower-sales-growth-as-smi-jumps-china-overnight.html
Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) ,
 China ’s largest online travel agency, fell to a three-year low
in New York after cutting its profit margin forecast.
 Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  surged.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. slumped 0.3 percent to 84.34
yesterday in New York, led by a 12 percent slump in Ctrip. SMI,
as the circuit-chip maker is known, climbed to the highest level
since May after raising estimates for third-quarter sales and
profit margin.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) 
declined the most among peers on the gauge.  Ctrip’s operating margin this year will be as low as 25
percent due to rising marketing costs, from its previous
estimate of 30 percent, Chief Financial Officer Jenny Wu said
yesterday on a conference call after second-quarter results
showed net income dropped 55 percent. The Chinese economy faces
“significant” downside risk, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in an annual review July 24. The IMF cut its 2013 growth
forecast for China on July 16 to 8 percent from 8.2 percent in
April.  “People are concerned about Ctrip’s performance amid
fierce industry competition and the impact of an overall
economic slowdown,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity
Partners LLC, said by phone yesterday  from  San Francisco . “Its
profit margin will shrink further in the second half and a 5
percentage cut is a big deal for the industry.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.6 percent to $32.68,
snapping a three-day decline. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
was little changed at 1,337.89, as disappointing results at
Apple Inc. and an unexpected decline in new home sales
overshadowed a rally in financial and industrial shares.  Ctrip sank to $13.13, the lowest price since March 2009.  The Shanghai-based company reported second-quarter sales of
$153 million, below the $154.8 million average estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue for the July-September
period will grow 15 percent to 20 percent from a year earlier,
it said in a July 24 statement, compared with the average
estimate of a 19 percent increase by 10 analysts before the
announcement.  Operating margin , which measures operating profit as a
percentage of sales, fell to 17 percent in the second quarter
from 32 percent a year ago, according to Wu.  ‘Downward Trend’  “This year our margin was on a downward trend,” Wu said
on the conference call. “We’ll see costs and expenses climbing
up on a year-on-year basis. Since the later part of the second
quarter, we launched a more aggressive sales and marketing
campaign” to expand business, she said.  Beijing-based  Elong Inc. (LONG) , a smaller competitor to Ctrip,
advanced 4.4 percent, the most in four weeks, $12.10.  SMI, whose biggest customers include U.S. communication
chipmaker  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , jumped 6.5 percent to $1.80,
completing the biggest three-day increase in 11 months.  The Shanghai-based company raised its forecast for second-
quarter sales growth to as much as 26 percent from the prior
three months, up from its previous estimate of 21 percent, due
to an improvement in business, according to its July 23 filing
to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. It also lifted gross margin
estimate to as much as 24 percent from 22 percent.  SMI made the change as “we have seen improvement on
business from our customers, exceeding our earlier
expectations,” the filing cited CFO Gareth Kung as saying.  Broadcom Results  Broadcom, based in  Irvine ,  California , forecast third-
quarter sales will be $2 billion to $2.15 billion in a July 24
statement, comparing with the $2.1 billion  average estimate  of
38 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter sales gained
9.7 percent from a year ago to $1.97 billion.  The results of Broadcom helped drive up SMI’s stock, which
has been an “underperformer of late,” Steven C Pelayo,
regional head of technology research at HSBC Securities Asia
Ltd., said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Industry
pressures, such as weak demand and growing chip inventories, may
be a problem soon.”  New Oriental, China’s biggest private educational services
provider, tumbled 6.6 percent to a $11.49, the biggest loss in a
week. The Beijing-based company declined a record 42 percent
last week. It said in a July 17 statement that the SEC was
investigating its accounting practices. In a July 18 report,
short-selling firm Muddy Waters LLC questioned the ownership of
some of New Oriental’s schools, alleging it inflated financial
statements.  TAL Slides  TAL Education Group (XRS)  slumped 3.8 percent to $7.62, extending
a three-day loss. The Beijing-based company said sales for the
June-August quarter will rise 26 percent to 31 percent to as
much as $67.4 million, after a 48 percent increase in the
previous three months, according to a July 24 statement.  The slowdown in China will continue to put pressure on
companies’s sales and profit, Jingyi Li, analyst at Harding
Loevner LP in Somerville,  New Jersey , whose $19 billion in
assets under management includes Chinese equities, said in a
phone interview.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks in mainland China
retreated 0.5 percent to 2,136.15 yesterday, its lowest level
since March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  