-- Cyber Attacks on Activists Traced to FinFisher Spyware of Gamma
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-07-25T12:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/cyber-attacks-on-activists-traced-to-finfisher-spyware-of-gamma.html
It’s one of the world’s best-known
and elusive cyber weapons: FinFisher, a spyware sold by U.K.-
based Gamma Group, which can secretly take remote control of a
computer, copying files, intercepting Skype calls and logging
every keystroke.  For the past year, human rights advocates and virus hunters
have scrutinized FinFisher, seeking to uncover potential abuses.
They got a glimpse of its reach when a FinFisher sales pitch to
Egyptian state security was uncovered after that country’s
February 2011 revolution. In December, anti-secrecy website
WikiLeaks published Gamma promotional  videos  showing how police
could plant FinFisher on a target’s computer.  “We know it exists, but we’ve never seen it -- you can
imagine a rare diamond,” says Mikko Hypponen, chief research
officer at Helsinki-based data security company  F-Secure Oyj. (FSC1V)  He
posted the  Egypt   documents  online last year and said if a copy
of the software itself were found, he’d write anti-virus
protection against it.  Now he may get his wish.  Researchers believe they’ve identified copies of  FinFisher ,
based on an examination of malicious software e-mailed to
Bahraini activists, they say. Their research, which is being
published today by the University of Toronto Munk School of
Global Affairs’ Citizen Lab, is based on five different e-mails
obtained by Bloomberg News from people targeted by the malware.  Global Reach  Pro-democracy activists  received the malware  in  Washington ,
 London  and Manama, the capital of  Bahrain , the Persian Gulf
kingdom that has been gripped by tension since a crackdown on
protests last year.  The findings illustrate how the largely unregulated trade
in offensive hacking tools is transforming surveillance, making
it more intrusive as it reaches across borders and peers into
peoples’ digital devices. From anywhere on the globe, the
software can penetrate the most private spaces, turning on
computer web cameras and reading documents as they are being
typed.  “Selling software that allows for the taking over of
computers without rule of law can lead to abuse,” says Courtney
Radsch, senior program manager for freedom of expression at
Washington-based Freedom House, which promotes  human rights .  Gamma executive Martin J. Muench declined immediate comment
pending research after being e-mailed a Web link to the Citizen
Lab report and questions related to its findings. Muench, who
 leads  the FinFisher product portfolio, is the managing director
of the group’s Munich-based Gamma International GmbH. Gamma
Group also markets FinFisher through Andover, England-based
 Gamma International  UK Ltd.  Muench said in a July 23 e-mail that the company can’t
comment on any individual customers and that Gamma complies with
the export regulations of the U.K., U.S. and  Germany .  Monitoring Criminals  Muench, 30, said in that e-mail that FinFisher is a tool
for monitoring criminals, and that to reduce the risk of abuse
of its products the company only sells FinFisher to governments.  The recipients of the Bahrain-related e-mails -- who
include a naturalized U.S. citizen who owns gas stations in
 Alabama , a London-based human rights activist and a British-born
economist in Bahrain -- each say they don’t know of any law
enforcement investigations or charges against them.  Two of the recipients said they were suspicious of the e-
mails and didn’t click on the attachments, while the third said
he tried and failed to download an attachment to his Blackberry.  The analysis of their e-mails showed the malware they
received acts as a Trojan, a type of software named after the
legendary wooden horse that Greek warriors used to sneak into
Troy before sacking the ancient city. It takes screen shots,
intercepts voice-over-Internet calls and transmits a record of
every keystroke to a computer in Manama.  Stolen Password  Observation of a researcher’s purposely-infected laptop in
Washington also showed the Trojan stole a password for an e-mail
account, which was then accessed without permission.  The malware itself practically came with a product label
for a brand of FinFisher called  FinSpy , which is marketed for
spying on computers: On the infected laptop, the computer code
the malicious program installed bore multiple instances of the
word “FinSpy,” an examination of the computer’s memory showed.  The technical evidence of a match came from the work of
Morgan Marquis-Boire, a security researcher at Citizen Lab, who
analyzed the infected e-mails for this story. He’s publishing
the detailed report of the findings in a paper today through
Citizen Lab, at  http://citizenlab.org/2012/07/from-bahrain-with -
love-finfishers-spy-kit-exposed.  Digital DNA  Marquis-Boire extracted a signature from the activists’
samples -- a sort of digital DNA. He then gave the signature to
other researchers to see if they could find a matching sample
they might have collected in the course of their work.  The needle-in-a-haystack search came up with a match: a
program that bore the hallmarks of a demonstration copy of
FinFisher.  The evidence that the new sample they found was FinFisher
itself was persuasive, Marquis-Boire said, because the presumed
demo connected back to two websites, one with “ff-demo” in the
name and the other with “gamma-international” in the name. The
latter website, in turn, was registered to Martin Muench at
Gamma International in Munich, online  registration  data show.  Bahrain has no policy of targeting political activists
through surveillance technology, Luma Bashmi, a spokeswoman for
the government’s Information Affairs  Authority , said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Such allegations are taken very seriously and if there is
any evidence that there is any misconduct in use of such
technology, each case will be investigated immediately according
to the laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Bahrain,” she
said.  Cyber-Arms Bazaar  FinFisher is just one of many increasingly available
weapons for sale in the global cyber-arms bazaar.  The hacking techniques go beyond traditional surveillance
of phone calls, e-mails and  text messages , which governments
conduct by tapping into communications networks that pass
through their territory.  Reports  in the past year of repressive
regimes using Western gear for domestic surveillance led the
U.S. and European Union to impose restrictions on sales to some
countries, such as  Syria .  Technologies such as FinFisher mark the next step in a
digital arms race, and are provided by other companies, such as
Milan-based  HackingTeam , whose programs, once installed,
transmit an infected computer’s activities. They are the retail
cousins of state-made cyber weapons such as the Stuxnet computer
worm, which damaged centrifuges in an Iranian nuclear plant and
was jointly developed by the U.S. and  Israel , according to the
 New York  Times.  Surveillance Breakthrough  The discovery and tracking of such spyware shows how even
the tiniest nations obtain cyber small arms and deploy them at
home and across borders.  “We’re moving to a new place with surveillance,” says
John Scott-Railton, a doctoral student at the  University of
California  Los Angeles’ Luskin School of Public Affairs who has
helped track Trojans in Libya and Syria, where he says pro-
regime hackers cobbled together malware attacks from free or
inexpensive products available online. He also coordinated
research for this study, passing the first malware samples from
Bloomberg to Marquis-Boire.  The Bahraini case is a breakthrough because it shows the
use of a more sophisticated, invasive hacking tool available for
purchase by nations that might not be able to develop their own
cyber weapons, Scott-Railton says. “The time for active
penetration by states at a widely deployable scale has come,”
he says.  Hacker Turned Executive  Founded in 1990, Gamma Group relies on hacker-turned-
executive Muench to market such capabilities to clients around
the world. Just over six feet tall, Muench is a rock star of the
global interception-technology conference circuit, listed in
agendas only by his initials, MJM.  Wearing a trim black suit and skinny black tie, he attended
the ISS World trade show, known in the industry as the
Wiretapper’s Ball, in  Kuala Lumpur ,  Malaysia , in December. One
of his talks was titled “Offensive IT Intelligence Information-
Gathering Portfolio -- An Operational Overview.”  FinFisher has such mystique that an intelligence worker who
helps manage a Southeast Asian country’s cybersecurity said
Muench’s presence at the show was the main reason he took extra
precautions to detect hacker threats lurking in the wireless
networks at the venue. The operative, who said he has attended a
demonstration of the product, insisted that his name not be
published because of his intelligence work.  Remotely Controlled  FinFisher promotional materials provide a general view into
its capabilities, without naming the countries where it’s sold.  “When FinSpy is installed on a computer system it can be
remotely controlled and accessed as soon as it is connected to
the internet/network, no matter where in the world the Target
System is based,” a Gamma  brochure  published by WikiLeaks says.  In response to questions about FinFisher’s deployment,
privately held Gamma issued a statement Jan. 27 that quoted
Muench saying, “Most people understand that we can’t divulge
details about our clients, the products they buy or how they use
them -- we don’t want to tip off the criminals!”  The statement addressed the documents found in Cairo, which
priced the system at 388,604 euros ($470,000), including
maintenance. Gamma said no sale was made, and the trial version
shown during its pitch never targeted unwitting computer users.  “Gamma presented the product FinSpy showing its
operational capabilities with a Gamma-supplied special target
notebook for demonstration purposes only,” the statement said.  In the case of Bahrain, the malware did reach real targets,
and led to an analysis of the software.  Suspicious E-mails  In Manama, Ala’a Shehabi, the U.K.-born economist, noticed
she and other activists were receiving suspicious e-mails that
purported to have news on topics including torture and
prisoners. She forwarded them to Bloomberg.  Tests showed that the attached photos and documents would
secretly install a program taking over their computers if
clicked on and opened.  The analysis by Marquis-Boire exposed how the malicious
program went through elaborate processes of hiding itself,
running through a checklist of anti-virus programs to see if any
were on the computer, and establishing a connection with the
server in Manama to which it would send its data.  A dreadlocked New Zealander based in  San Francisco ,
 Marquis-Boire  has plastered his laptop with a bumper sticker
that says, “My other computer is your computer.” (He did the
research separately from his job as a security engineer at
Google Inc., which wasn’t involved in this project.)  Virtual Machine  The other half of the analysis involved watching the
malware as it went about spying.  Bill Marczak, a computer science doctoral candidate at the
University of California Berkeley, also received four samples
from Shehabi. He installed the samples on a “virtual machine”
on his laptop and monitored the Trojan’s behavior. Marczak, who
spent his high school years in Bahrain, is a founding member of
 Bahrain Watch , a group that advocates for more transparent
governance in the kingdom.  Marczak established the link to Bahrain by tracing the
Trojan’s transmissions back to an Internet address in Manama.
After receiving the fifth sample from Bloomberg News, Marczak
found it led to the same online address.  Other information also pointed to FinFisher. Some details
from FinFisher product specification documents obtained by
Bloomberg News matched details of what Marczak found as he
watched files stream out of his laptop.  Skype Data  According to the product specifications, when FinFisher
filches Skype data, it transports the information back to the
system’s operators in files prefaced with the number 14 and
ending with a series of characters representing the time the
file was created.  When Marczak made a Skype call on his infected machine in
California, he watched the Trojan grab the data -- and send it
to Bahrain in files that, indeed, began with 14 and ended with a
timestamp.  The apparent use of FinFisher against Bahraini activists
underscores the need for broader Western export controls of
surveillance technology, says Eric King, the head of research at
London-based Privacy International.  The group’s lawyers informed U.K. regulators in a July 12
 letter  that it plans to sue the government for failing to
enforce laws already on the books that give it the power to
block exports that can be used to violate human rights.  Repression Risk  “Plainly there is a very real risk, if not an
inevitability, that surveillance equipment, such as the
FinFisher products, has been, and continues to be, exported to
countries where it is highly likely to be used for internal
repression and breaches of human rights,” the letter to the
U.K. secretary of state for business innovation and skills said.  The Department for Business is considering Privacy
International’s letter and will respond, a spokesman said. The
U.K. government has proposed that arms-related export controls
followed by most Western nations be expanded to add certain
surveillance technology, and is pursuing this with other
countries, the department said in a statement.  Tensions have simmered in Bahrain since the government
cracked down on mass protests last year involving opponents of
Sunni Muslim rule over the Shiite majority. At least 35 people
died in the violence between Feb. 14 and April 15, 2011,
including four police officers and a soldier, according to the
Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, which investigated
the unrest and found instances of  torture . Low-level protests
continue in the island nation of 1.2 million people, home to the
U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet.  Infection Attempts  Three Bahraini dissidents who said they received the
malware-laden mailings were in Washington, London and Manama
when the malware attempted to infect their computers in April
and May. The first e-mails they received, sent in April, were
titled “Existence of a new dialogue - Al-Wefaq & Government
authority” and, in Arabic, “Events this week.”  E-mails sent in May had the subject lines “Torture reports
on Nabeel Rajab,” a reference to a jailed opposition leader;
“King Hamad Planning,” a reference to the Bahraini king’s trip
to London for Queen Elizabeth II’s diamond jubilee; and
“Breaking News from Bahrain -- 5 Suspects Arrested.”  Husain Abdulla, a U.S. citizen who is director of Americans
for Democracy and Human Rights in Bahrain, said he tried to
download the “Existence of a new dialogue” attachment on his
Blackberry while walking from a Washington Metro station to
meetings at a Congressional office building.  Abdulla, 34, the Mobile, Alabama-based owner of gas
stations, now is considering lawsuits and a complaint to the
U.S. State Department about the border-crossing hack.  Seeking Protection  “I’m going to take any legal venue I can to protect
myself,” Abdulla says.  Shehabi, 31, whose e-mails were the first to be analyzed
for the study, is a British-born Bahraini activist and an
economics lecturer with a PhD from  Imperial College London . She
received the e-mails in Bahrain.  “This was an attempt at violating my privacy in a country
that does not believe in  privacy rights ,” she says. “The U.K.
company is responsible for selling infiltration tools to a
government they know will use them to repress pro-democracy
activists.”  London-based Bahraini activist Shehab Hashem, 29, says he
received three of the e-mails after he travelled to  Sweden  and
 Switzerland  to draw attention to human rights violations in
Bahrain. Two of those were identical to e-mails Shehabi
received. The other, which he provided to Bloomberg News, was
the fifth sample in the study.  “I thought it was just spam,” he says. “I never thought
that someone would be interested in hacking into my computer.”  In Finland, Hypponen said before the publication of today’s
report that he and other  malware hunters  would enjoy dissecting
a FinFisher sample.  “There’s lots of chitchat amongst the security people
about how it might work, but it’s mostly just speculation.
Nobody knows for real,” he said.  Identifying FinFisher could turn the tables. “It’s hard
for them to sell a tool to secretly infect computers if anti-
virus programs can detect it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  