-- Cyprus Says Russia Is Benefactor, Denies Naval Base Offer
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-07-25T13:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/cyprus-says-russia-is-benefactor-denies-naval-base-offer.html
Russia is acting as the guarantor of
Cypriot security and territorial integrity as the island pursues
a financial rescue to help mitigate threats to its economy,
Foreign Minister Erato Kozakou-Markoulli said.  Russia wasn’t offered the use of a naval base on the
southern coast of Cyprus in exchange for a second bailout loan
in less than a year, Kozakou-Markoulli told reporters in Moscow
today after  talks  with her Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov .  Russia, whose only military base outside the former  Soviet
Union  is in the Syrian port of Tartus, less than 200 kilometers
(124 miles) east of Cyprus, is weighing a request for 5 billion
euros ($6.1 billion), which the euro area’s third-smallest
economy is seeking on top of a possible European bailout.  Cyprus has been divided since NATO member  Turkey  invaded
the island in 1974 after a coup aimed at uniting it with  Greece .
The internationally recognized Greek Cypriot government took
over the rotating European Union presidency in July. Turkey, the
only country that recognizes the breakaway state, may annex
northern Cyprus if a four-decade split isn’t resolved through
United Nations-led reunification talks, a Turkish government
official said in March.  Cypriot Shield  Russia’s position in the UN, where it’s among five nations
that wield a veto as permanent members of the  Security Council ,
is a “shield against any actions against our independence,”
Kozakou-Markoulli said in remarks translated into Russian.  Russia joined  China  on July 19 in using its veto for a
third time to protect the government of Syrian leader Bashar al- Assad, striking down a Western-drafted resolution that called
for an arms embargo and other sanctions on the Middle Eastern
nation.  Cyprus, led by President Demetris Christofias, the Moscow-
educated former head of the Cypriot communist party AKEL, last
month followed Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  in requesting
help to return to financial health. The economy, hurt by more
than 4 billion euros of writedowns in Greek government debt held
by Cypriot lenders, is seeking support from the euro region’s
firewall funds to bolster its banking industry.  OAO Novatek (NVTK) , Russia’s second-largest natural gas producer,
joined  Total SA (FP)  and GPB Global Resources in May to bid for
energy exploration permits off Cyprus as the nation held its
second licensing round after finding gas last year. Cyprus
angered Turkey with its decision to start drilling in Block 12
of its offshore territory in September, prompting the government
in Ankara to send warships to the area in response.  Russian Bailout  Russia agreed to lend Cyprus 2.5 billion euros in December.
The world’s biggest energy exporter had $505.3 billion of gold
and foreign-currency  reserves  as of July 13, the world’s fourth-
biggest stockpile after China,  Japan  and  Saudi Arabia . The
Cypriot bailout request has been called into question by Russian
officials representing the country’s financial authorities
because of a possible need to maintain reserve buffers if the
global economic outlook deteriorates, RIA Novosti reported
yesterday.  Cypriot government officials will continue talks with
representatives of the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank  until September in an
attempt to reach common ground, Kozakou-Markoulli said.  Troika Talks  The visit by the so-called troika began on July 23 and is
due to be completed by July 27, according to the Cypriot Finance
Ministry. Christofias, the country’s president, said earlier
this month that the terms for a new Russian loan would be less
onerous than for euro-area rescue funds, which are provided in
exchange for requirements to narrow budget deficits.  Mainly Russian non-residents hold one of every two euros
deposited at Cypriot banks, directly or indirectly, according to
Theo Parperis, chairman of the Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Cyprus.  Foreign companies that use Cyprus as a base or vehicle for
offshore operations contribute about 15 percent to the island’s
economy, said Parperis, who is also a partner in
PricewaterhouseCoopers Cyprus.  Cyprus intends to use its six-month presidency of the 27-
nation EU to help the European Commission build a strategic
partnership with  Russia , Kozakou-Markoulli said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  