-- Daimler Sticks to 2012 Forecast as Investments Sap Profit
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-25T11:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/daimler-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-model-investments.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , stuck to its goal of keeping
earnings steady, even as car and truck demand softens and the
company boosts spending on new models.  Daimler plans to raise vehicle deliveries in 2012 and match
last year’s operating profit from ongoing business of 9 billion
euros ($11 billion). The company also reiterated a goal of
boosting the operating margin at the Mercedes-Benz Cars division
to 10 percent of sales in 2013.  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 13
percent to 2.24 billion euros because of investments in new
cars, Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said today in a
 statement . Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said the
forecasts are based on “current market conditions” and that
achieving the targets will be a “challenge” because of
concerns about slowing global economic growth.  The Mercedes-Benz Cars operating margin in the quarter of
8.6 percent was a positive “surprise” amid car-price pressure
in  China ,  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at Bernstein
Research, said in a research report. “While top-down fears
persist, the bottom-up report from Mercedes is solid,” said
Warburton, who estimated the unit’s margin at 8.1 percent.  Shares in Daimler, which is also the world’s largest maker
of heavy-duty trucks,  jumped  as much as 4.6 percent to 37.80
euros, the biggest intraday gain since March 8, and was trading
up 4.1 percent at 1:11 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has risen 11
percent this year, valuing the company at 40.1 billion euros.  Ranking Target  Mercedes-Benz ranked second behind Munich-based  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in the global luxury-car industry from 2005
until 2011, when its sales fell behind  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.
After opening a new plant  Hungary  in March, Daimler unveiled
plans last week to double investment in a German small-car
factory to 1.2 billion euros as it rolls out five new compact
models to retake the lead from BMW.  The expansion counters a slowdown in  Europe , where auto
demand is poised to decline for the fifth consecutive year,
prompting efforts by mass-market rivals like  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
and  General Motors Co. (GM)  to shut factories in the region.  “Economic uncertainty and risks exist in nearly all
regions,” Zetsche said in today’s statement. “We therefore
remain vigilant in our monitoring of general economic
developments and the volatile markets.”  Peugeot’s Profit  Peugeot said today that recurring operating profit plunged
to 4 million euros in the first half from 1.16 billion euros a
year earlier on slumping demand in Europe. The Paris-based
automaker plans to reduce costs by an additional 1.5 billion
euros by lowering production, spending less on factories outside
Europe and stepping up cooperation with GM.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  today
forecast a full-year loss exceeding $1 billion at its European
operations that will hurt the U.S. company’s group earnings.  Daimler’s second-quarter Ebit matched the 2.2 billion-euro
average of 13 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income fell 11 percent from a year earlier to 1.52 billion
euros. Sales rose 10 percent to 28.9 billion euros, helped by
currency effects.  “Given the planned investments in new vehicles, our
results are quite impressive,” Zetsche said on a conference
call with journalists.  Ebit last year totaled 9 billion euros. Analysts are
expecting earnings in 2011 of 8.5 billion euros, according to
the average of 21 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility ‘Hint’  “They inserted a hint to volatility and risks in their
outlook, and therefore make themselves a bit more dependent on
market developments,” said  Tim Schuldt , an analyst with Equinet
in Frankfurt. “It’s not ruled out that they may have to make an
adjustment in the course of the year.”  Mercedes-Benz Cars, which also includes the Smart city-car
brand, posted a 16 percent drop in Ebit to 1.31 billion euros,
while sales rose 5 percent to 15.4 billion euros. The second-
quarter margin narrowed from 10.7 percent a year earlier. The
full-year margin in 2011 was 9 percent.  Investments in production assets will rise this year by 1.5
billion euros, and research and development spending will
increase by another 500 million euros, Chief Financial Officer
Bodo Uebber said on the call.  First-half Mercedes-Benz car deliveries rose 6.9 percent to
a record 652,924 vehicles, boosted by demand for the revamped B-
Class compact. The company expanded capacity for a new version
of its A-Class hatchback with an agreement signed yesterday with
Finland’s Valmet Automotive Inc. to produce more than 100,000
vehicles from 2013 through 2016. Daimler has more than 40,000
orders for the car, which goes on sale in September.  Limiting Costs  “We realized demand was outgrowing our original
planning,” Zetsche said. Producing at Valmet allows higher
volumes with “little addition to fixed costs,” he said.  Still, Mercedes has struggled to keep pace with rivals. BMW
sales rose 8.3 percent to 747,064 vehicles in the first six
months of 2012, while Audi’s deliveries surged 12 percent to
733,250 cars and SUVs.  Car pricing at Mercedes has probably “deteriorated
significantly,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst with
Credit Suisse, said in a note. “Whilst the magnitude of impact
may not be as large, BMW and Audi are unlikely to be immune.”  Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany  is scheduled to
publish second-quarter figures tomorrow. Munich-based BMW plans
to report on Aug. 1.  Daimler’s truck division increased second-quarter Ebit by 8
percent to 524 million euros as revenue jumped 22 percent to
8.13 billion euros, propelled by demand in  North America  and
Asia. The unit’s performance contrasts with  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s 4.1
percent decline in Ebit in the period.  Actros’s Boost  “We saw a good development in the U.S. and Japan, not only
because the markets improved but also relative” to competitors,
Zetsche said. Sales of the Actros new heavy-duty truck helped
the company outperform in a weak European market, he said.  The bus unit posted an operating loss of 57 million euros,
including 46 million euros in costs for repositioning the
business which entails closing the Orion brand in North America.  The bus operation’s performance is expected to improve in
the third and fourth quarter,  Andreas Renschler , Daimler’s chief
of commercial vehicles, said on the call. He reiterated a margin
target that stands at an average of 6 percent starting 2013.  Daimler has increased its stake in its Chinese import and
marketing organization to 75 percent from 51 percent, Zetsche
said. The company wants to create a legal entity to sell
imported and locally produced cars to tackle marketing flaws.  “In the markets outside China, we saw higher growth rates
than Audi or BMW,” Zetsche said. “With our altogether older
model lineup, we are very successful.”  Daimler is in “constructive” talks to complete the sale
of its 7.5 percent stake in planemaker Airbus’s parent  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  to Germany by the end of 2012,
Uebber also said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  