-- Dean’s Organic Milk Claims Draw Criticism From Cited Scientist
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-07-25T14:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/dean-s-organic-milk-claims-draw-criticism-from-cited-scientist.html
Cartons of  Dean Foods Co. (DF) ’s Horizon
organic milk fortified with DHA feature a picture of a young
girl to illustrate the heart, eye and brain benefits of the
additive, referencing the work of a prominent nutritionist.  The problem: the author says her study doesn’t support
those health claims, and has joined with the scientific journal
that published the work to demand removal of the citation.  “It’s not right -- it’s inaccurate,” said Penny Kris-
Etherton, a professor of nutrition at Penn State University, who
wrote the report. “It’s really a marketing strategy to sell
more of their milk.”  It’s not the first time Dean, the largest U.S. dairy
processor, has drawn criticism for its advertising and health
claims -- and Kris-Etherton’s objection may lead to Dean
dropping the citation from its cartons. The company last year
toned down its advertising about claims made about the brain-
supporting attributes of DHA, an Omega-3 fatty acid normally
found in oily fish, in response to a complaint to the Federal
Trade Commission. Dean also is the target of at least five
class-action lawsuits filed by consumers alleging that the
statement that DHA “supports brain health” is false.  The  Food and Drug Administration   says  that adding foods
with DHA and another fatty acid, known as EPA, to a diet may
reduce the risk of  heart disease . The agency has not authorized
specific health claims on DHA’s effects on brain and eye health,
and some scientists say studies are inconclusive. DHA, or
docosahexaenoic acid, is often taken as a fish-oil based dietary
supplement.  Voluntary Removal  Dean says it may voluntarily remove the reference on its
carton to Kris-Etherton’s  work  published in the American Journal
of Clinical Nutrition to support a claim that “many Americans
don’t get the recommended DHA from their everyday diet.”  Kris-Etherton, who has served on nutrition panels for the
USDA and the  American Heart Association , says her research did
not identify an ideal intake level for the supplement. The
carton also states that “doctors and nutritionists agree that
DHA may make a big difference for kids and adults alike.”  “It’s appropriate to use published scientific studies as
references for support of a statement,” Sara Loveday, a Dallas-
based spokeswoman for Dean unit WhiteWave Foods Co., which
controls the Horizon brand, said in an e-mail. “However, per
the author’s request, we are considering removal of the claim
within our next round of packaging changes in 2013.” She said
the citation “will likely be removed, but we are still working
through internal alignment.”  Higher Prices  High prices -- and controversies over what exactly
qualifies as “organic” food -- are hallmarks of a market that
has grown  almost fourfold  since 2002, to $29.2 billion in sales
in 2011. As consumers embrace organic items, food researchers
and organic activists say that a niche sector once dedicated to
food purity has been taken over by large corporate interests who
are steamrolling a lax regulatory system into approving
synthetic additives that dilute the brand.  “There were and are powerful political pressures to weaken
the standards, so as many people as possible could qualify as
organic,” says  Marion Nestle , a nutritionist at  New York
University  who has studied the growth of the organic industry.  The DHA in Horizon milk is a non-organic oil derived from
algae manufactured for the company. On cartons, the milk is
described as an “excellent source of hard-to-get plant-based
DHA,” along with the boast that it has a “great taste” with
“no fish oils.”  Brain Claims  The disputed brain health claims about DHA give Dean a
marketing edge for an organic product that already sells at a
premium in retail outlets such as  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  and
Trader Joe’s Co. A half-gallon carton of organic milk had an
average advertised price of $3.93, compared with $1.97 for non-
organic milk, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data
for the first two weeks of July.  DHA usually adds between 30 cents to 80 cents to the half-
gallon price, according to a survey by the USDA’s National
Organic Program, which is charged with ensuring the integrity of
organic products.  The Horizon brand accounts for about 40 percent of the
organic milk market, according to Amit Sharma, an analyst who
covers Dean for BMO Capital Markets in  New York . Horizon is part
of Dean’s WhiteWave unit, which had sales of $2.1 billion in
2011.  Consumers are willing to pay that premium, based largely on
health claims.  “You hear good things about DHA -- brain health,” says
Jeff Haigney, outside a Whole Foods supermarket in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland , where his shopping cart included a half-gallon
of Horizon DHA-enriched milk.  ‘Controversial’ Evidence  “The evidence is controversial,” Nestle says. “If you’re
a skeptic like me, you’re not persuaded by the totality of
evidence. If you’re a believer in supplemental nutrition, then
you want to do everything to get it in food.”  On one point nearly everyone agrees: DHA doesn’t need to be
added to milk. Researchers such as Kris-Etherton say consumers
can get the same brain-boosting benefits from two servings of
fish per week.  DHA is just one of 234 additives allowed by the USDA’s 15-
member National Organic Standards Board, which advises Secretary
of Agriculture Tom Vilsack on items that can be included in food
that is labeled “organic.”  The list of approved non-organic ingredients was supposed
to be limited to items related to  food production , such as
baking powder for bread, along with additives including vitamins
A and D that are deemed essential to health by the FDA,
according to  Jay Feldman , a member of the organic standards
board.  New Additives  In recent years, however, more additives that are neither
essential to making food nor to health have been approved,
Feldman said in an interview.  Feldman and other critics say the larger menu of non-
organic ingredients reflects the expanded influence of large
corporations. Many of the well-known organic food brands such as
Muir Glen, Cascadian Farms and Kashi are subsidiaries of
companies such as  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and  Kellogg Co. (K)   “We have this unrelenting drive to approve ingredients to
make the industry grow,” says Urvashi Rangan, director of
consumer safety and sustainability for  Consumer Reports . “That
undermines the standards that people expect out of organic.”  The Agriculture Department says its organic panel includes
a broad range of members who reach conclusions independently.  Board Makeup  “USDA strives to appoint members to the Board that reflect
the diversity of the U.S. organic agriculture and the American
people,” says Soo Kim, an agency spokeswoman.  “I think that organic increasingly is looking to compete
with conventional on the shelf,” says Feldman, executive
director of  Beyond Pesticides , a Washington-based nonprofit that
supports the use of alternatives to pesticides.  The DHA in Horizon’s milk is made by  Martek Biosciences , a
U.S. unit of Heerlen, Netherlands-based  Koninklijke DSM NV (DSM) , a
food supplement business that also manufactures plastics and
resins used in  body armor , auto parts and biodiesel products for
companies such as oil producer  BP Plc. (BP/)   Martek’s algae-based DHA first appeared in organic food
about a decade ago as an additive to infant formula.  When the use of the ingredient was challenged by the
Cornucopia Institute, an organic food advocacy group, Barbara
Robinson, then-head of the National Organic Program, ruled in
2006 that DHA could stay in organics without undergoing review
by the standards board because government regulators considered
it an essential nutrient.  The following year, Horizon introduced its line of milk
featuring Martek’s DHA.  Reversed Decision  In 2010, the Agriculture Department  reversed  the decision,
ruling that DHA and 11 other additives didn’t fit regulators’
“essential” definition and needed approval by the organic
standards board.  The panel  voted 10-4 on Dec. 2 to recommend adding DHA to
the list of approved ingredients. A final decision rests with
Vilsack.  Miles McEvoy , the current deputy administrator of the
National Organic Program, was unavailable to comment on the DHA
controversy.  Mark Kastel, executive director of the Cornucopia
Institute, an organic food advocacy group, said that the
Agriculture Department should have required the removal of DHA
from organic products following the 2010 ruling.  ‘Last Refuge’  “Parents are seeking out organic as the last refuge
without synthetic components,” said Kastel, whose Cornucopia,
Wisconsin-based group filed the FTC complaint against Dean’s
marketing claims for DHA. “Now somebody with a test tube and a
factory is going to compete when there’s no scientific evidence
that the nutrition is commensurate with a natural product.”  The FTC said that Horizon’s advertising suggested that
consuming DHA-enriched milk boosted intelligence or cognitive
function. The agency said in a Dec. 13, 2011  letter  to Dean
Foods that “the staff encourages WhiteWave to exercise caution
in future advertising when describing the certainty of the
supporting science or characterizing the extent of any benefits
of DHA beyond the support of normal brain and eye development or
function in children over the age of two.”  Because the company had already changed its radio,
television and web ads, the agency closed its investigation
without taking enforcement action.  Dean spokeswoman Loveday said that while Dean Foods
disagreed with the substance of the FTC requests, “we opted to
cooperate by agreeing to minor changes.”  Milk Lawsuit  The consumer lawsuits filed against Dean allege that the
company’s brain health claims on the milk carton and in other
advertising are “false, misleading and reasonably likely to
deceive the public,” according to a filing by the plaintiffs
seeking to consolidate the complaints in federal court in Miami.  Patricia Syverson, identified in court filings as one of
the lead lawyers on the case, declined to comment through Lydia
Rueda, a spokeswoman for Phoenix-based law firm  Bonnett,
Fairbourn, Friedman & Balint.  Loveday said Dean “does not
discuss details of pending litigation.”  Feldman says the standards board needs to be tougher on
applications for non-organic, non-essential additives.  “I don’t think anyone can make a case that fortification
materials are essential,” says Feldman, a member of the board
who voted against allowing DHA onto the list of approved non-
organic substances. “You can say they’re desirable. You can say
that consumers want them. But you can’t argue that they’re
essential to health.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  