-- Whole Foods to Review DHA Health Claims as Dean Removes Citation
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/dean-switch-on-organic-milk-cartons-hailed-by-scientist-it-cited.html
Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  is reviewing
health claims about DHA, in an action that may determine whether
the world’s largest retailer of natural and organic foods will
continue carrying some products touting the supplement’s
benefits.  The company’s quality standards team is examining the
scientific evidence behind claims about DHA, said Kate Lowery, a
spokeswoman for the Austin, Texas-based retailer.  “We’re reviewing the claims and supporting research.”
Lowery said in an interview. “We try to carefully evaluate
what’s on our shelves.”  Whole Foods outlets currently sell milk, eggs and tablets
containing DHA, an Omega-3 fatty acid formally known as
docosahexaenoic acid, that is often taken as a fish-oil-based
dietary supplement.  The review of DHA claims coincides with  Dean Foods Co. (DF) ’s
confirmation that it is considering the removal of a scientific
citation from a DHA-enriched version of its Horizon milk brand.
Those cartons include a reference to a study by Penny Kris-
Etherton, a professor of nutrition at Penn State University.  The packaging for Horizon organic milk fortified with the
DHA features a picture of a young girl to illustrate the heart,
eye and brain benefits of the additive, and cites a paper by
Kris-Etherton about sources of DHA in the American diet.  ‘Likely’ Removal  Kris-Etherton , who has served on nutrition panels for the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  that set standards for organic
labeling, says her research didn’t identify an ideal intake
level for the supplement. She joined with the publisher of the
work, the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, to ask that
the citation be removed.  The reference to the paper “will likely be removed” when
packaging is changed in 2013, said Sara Loveday, a Dallas-based
spokeswoman for  WhiteWave Foods Co. , a unit of Dean that
controls the Horizon brand. Dean Foods stands behind the claims
on its packaging, and there is a preponderance of evidence that
supports them, she said in an e-mail.  “We have no intention of removing the claim we’ve made”
that many Americans don’t get the recommended amount of DHA, and
the additive plays a role in brain health, eye function and
heart health, Loveday said. “Packaging changes require
significant lead time.”  Lowery said Whole Foods was “not at this point”
considering the removal of Horizon DHA-enriched milk. “In the
normal course of business, we are continuously evaluating
products, ingredients and label claims based on new research and
information,” she said.  Health Claims  Dean last year toned down its advertising about claims made
about the brain-supporting attributes of DHA, normally found in
oily fish, in response to a complaint to the Federal Trade
Commission.  The FTC cannot comment on the Whole Foods review, or any
particular company’s activities, Mary Engle, director of the
agency’s advertising practices division, said in an e-mail.  “Any DHA claims, and more generally any health claims,
need to be backed by competent and reliable scientific
evidence,” Engle said.  The Horizon brand accounts for about 40 percent of the
organic milk market, according to Amit Sharma, an analyst who
covers Dean for BMO Capital Markets in  New York .  Organic milk and cream sales in the U.S. totaled $2.4
billion in 2011, up 13 percent from the previous year, according
to the Brattleboro, Vermont-based Organic Trade Association, the
main organic producers’ trade group.  FDA Recommendation  The  Food and Drug Administration   says  that adding foods
with DHA and another fatty acid, known as EPA, to a diet may
reduce the risk of  heart disease . The agency hasn’t authorized
specific health claims on DHA’s effects on brain and eye health,
and some scientists say studies are inconclusive.  Assertions about the health benefits of food are
increasingly part of marketing campaigns to woo customers.
Competition has also intensified in the organic food market,
which has grown  almost fourfold  since 2002, to $29.2 billion in
sales in 2011.  Some food marketing campaigns have triggered class-action
lawsuits and settlements of as much as $35 million over
allegations companies are making bogus health promises in order
to generate profits.  The Dannon Co., a U.S. unit of the world’s biggest yogurt
maker  Danone SA (BN) , agreed to pay the $35 million in 2009 over
claims it misled consumers because it didn’t have conclusive
evidence to market its Activia and DanActive yogurts as
preventing illness. The company says it stands by its
advertising.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Quaker Oats and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  are
facing lawsuits for selling food as wholesome even though they
contain artery-clogging  trans fats .  Decision Followed  Any decision by Whole Foods not to carry products with
certain DHA claims will empower plaintiffs’ lawyers who are
bringing cases about the supplement, said Stephen Gardner,
litigation director at the Washington-based consumer advocacy
group Center for Science in the Public Interest.  “They hold people to higher standards for a lot of their
products,” Gardner said. “If their conclusion is they think
it’s ineffective or there’s no basis, it’ll have an impact
because the plaintiff’s lawyers will want to use it.”  Other retailers may follow Whole Foods if the organic
retailer opts not to sell products with DHA claims, he said.  Dean faces at least five class-action lawsuits filed by
consumers alleging that the statement that DHA “supports brain
health” is false.  “We plan to aggressively defend ourselves around the
labeling and marketing of our Horizon DHA Omega-3 enhanced  milk
products ,” Loveday said in an e-mail. “We believe these
lawyer-driven cases have no merit.”  Horizon DHA  DHA has been the subject of other litigation.  Mead Johnson
& Company LLC  settled a class action lawsuit in 2011 that
claimed the company falsely represented Enfamil LIPIL as the
only formula that contains DHA and fatty acid ARA. Mead Johnson
set up a fund of up to $12 million for class members.  The DHA in Horizon milk is derived from algae. On cartons,
the milk is described as an “excellent source of hard-to-get
plant-based DHA,” along with the boast that it has a “great
taste” with “no fish oils.”  A half-gallon carton of organic milk had an average
advertised price of $3.93, compared with $1.97 for non-organic
milk, according to USDA data for the first two weeks of July.  DHA usually adds 30 cents to 80 cents to the half-gallon
price, according to a survey by the USDA’s National Organic
Program, which is charged with ensuring the integrity of organic
products. Horizon’s DHA-enriched milk sells for as much as $4.99
a half-gallon at Whole Foods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  