-- Delta Joins US Airways Beating Estimates on Higher Fares
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-25T20:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/delta-joins-us-airways-beating-estimates-on-higher-fares.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways 
Group Inc. beat analysts’ second-quarter profit estimates as
fare increases helped the carriers reap more revenue from each
passenger.  Delta’s earnings excluding some costs were $586 million, or
69 cents a share, while US Airways said its adjusted profit was
$321 million, or $1.61 a share.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  reported
net income of $52 million, or 16 cents a share, matching
analysts’ estimates.  Charging more for tickets buoyed the airlines’ results in a
quarter when U.S. job growth slowed amid concern that the
recovery was losing steam. Delta, the world’s second-biggest
carrier, posted a 0.3 percent gain in traffic even as it shrank
seating capacity to help maintain pricing power.  “We have to give credit to constant cost control by the
carriers,”  Ray Neidl , an analyst with New York-based Maxim
Group LLC, said in an interview. “That’s very important. Longer
term, especially if we are headed into a recession, cost control
is the key and they’ve been doing a good job on that.”  Delta rose 1.5 percent to $9.47 at the close in  New York .
US Airways fell 3.8 percent to $11.12, reversing an earlier gain
of as much as 7.8 percent. JetBlue slid 0.2 percent to $5.26.  Southwest Airlines Co. reported record profit and revenue
on July 19 and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  had a profit
excluding costs linked to its bankruptcy restructuring. US
Airways is trying to engineer a merger with larger competitor
American.  ‘Very Strong’  “For this quarter and looking ahead to the third quarter,
it looks like revenue trends are very strong,” said Neidl, who
recommends buying Delta and US Airways and holding JetBlue.
said. Analysts will be looking for executives’ comments about
demand beyond the U.S. Labor Day holiday in September, the end
of the historically busy summer travel season, he said.  Bookings this quarter indicate continued strong  travel
demand , Delta and JetBlue executives said on conference calls
today with analysts and investors. US Airways said it has seen
some slowing in close-in business travel bookings, although
leisure travel remains robust.  Delta Air  Delta’s 8.5 percent gain in passenger revenue from each
seat flown a mile helped blunt a 24 percent jump in spending for
fuel, its largest expense. A slide in  fuel prices  left the
Atlanta-based carrier paying more than spot-market rates because
of hedging contracts that locked in costs in advance.  Including the effect of those fuel contracts, Delta
reported a net loss of $168 million, or 20 cents a share. That
compared with net income a year earlier of $198 million, or 23
cents. Sales climbed 6 percent to $9.73 billion.  “We remain committed to our hedging strategy and we view
our hedge portfolio as protection from volatility in the fuel
markets,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Jacobson said on a
conference call. “We don’t expect our hedge book to be a profit
center, but as a means to better manage our business by reducing
the volatility of our largest expense.”  Delta’s adjusted profit topped the 68-cent average of 17
analysts’  estimates  on that basis compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
on that basis a year earlier was $366 million, or 43 cents a
share. For the third quarter, Delta said it would have an
operating margin in a range of 10 percent to 12 percent.  “To achieve that level of profitability in the current
uncertain economic backdrop implies that Delta is doing a superb
job of maintaining equilibrium between its capacity and market
demand,”  Michael Linenberg , a Deutsche Bank analyst in New
York, said in a note. He recommends buying the shares.  US Airways  Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker has been lobbying
American’s creditors and bondholders to build support for a
merger, after the fifth-largest airline signed tentative labor
agreements with American’s unions in April.  US Airways’ profit excluding some special items exceeded
the average $1.55 estimate on that basis among 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Higher fares helped boost sales 7.2
percent to $3.75 billion and produce a record quarterly profit.
Revenue for each seat flown a mile rose 6.1 percent from a year
earlier.  A policy of not using hedging contracts allowed Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways to benefit from a 5.7 percent drop in
spot jet-fuel prices from a year earlier. Total spending for
fuel, its largest cost, fell 4.4 percent. Higher fares helped
boost sales 7.2 percent to $3.75 billion.  The quarter included $15 million in one-time charges
related to auction-rate securities arbitration, early debt
payments and new labor contracts at a wholly owned regional
carrier and a gain from a vendor settlement.  Net income was $306 million, or $1.54 a share, more than
tripling the year-earlier total of $92 million, or 49 cents.  JetBlue Airways  JetBlue’s profit doubled from $25 million, or 8 cents, a
year ago. Revenue climbed 11 percent to $1.28 billion, a second-
quarter record, as the airline focused growth in  Boston  and the
Caribbean, helping attract both leisure and higher-fare business
travelers, CEO Dave Barger said in a statement.  Passenger traffic jumped 11 percent as yields, or average
fare per mile, increased 1.3 percent from a year earlier,
JetBlue said. The New York-based airline posted a 6.1 percent
increase in revenue from each passenger.  JetBlue also reported hedging-related costs, with a $4
million mark-to-market accounting charge and a $1 million loss
on fuel hedges that settled during the quarter. The airline paid
$3.22 a gallon, 3 percent less than a year earlier. Total fuel
expense increased 2.4 percent to $450 million.  Excluding fuel, third quarter unit costs will rise in a
range of 4.5 percent to 6.5 percent over a year ago, primarily
on higher maintenance and profit-sharing expense, the airline
said.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s biggest
airline, is set to announce earnings tomorrow. American, the
third-largest U.S. airline, and No. 4  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
released results last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  