-- Deutsche Bank Dodging Share Sale Seen as Laggard on Capital
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-07-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/deutsche-bank-dodging-share-sale-seen-as-laggard-on-capital.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s plans to boost
capital by cutting risk and retaining earnings don’t go far
enough to bring reserves in line with competitors, analysts at
four brokerages said.  Germany ’s biggest bank said two days ago it would rely more
heavily on a reduction in risk-weighted assets to meet a capital
goal for the beginning of 2013 after second-quarter profit fell
about 42 percent, missing analysts’ estimates. Deutsche Bank
dropped 4.1 percent in Frankfurt trading yesterday.  “We would turn more positive on Deutsche Bank in a capital
raising scenario,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Kian
Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan wrote in a note. In a share sale,
“despite the dilution, the stock would likely perform well,”
they said.  JPMorgan (JPM)  has a neutral rating on Deutsche Bank.  Banks are under orders from regulators to raise capital to
avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bailouts of the 2008
financial crisis. Deutsche Bank, the third-least capitalized of
 Europe ’s 10 biggest banks at the end of 2011, came under more
pressure after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  bowed to demands from the
 Swiss National Bank  to increase reserves.  “Deutsche Bank now stands out even more as a very weakly
capitalized bank compared to European peers, following on from
Credit Suisse’s capital plan last week,” said Andrew Lim, an
analyst with Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  London  who
recommends investors sell the stock. “The market is looking to
management to disclose more aggressive measures to increase the
core  Tier 1 capital  significantly above the current forecast.”  Jain, Fitschen  Net income fell to about 700 million euros ($850 million)
from 1.2 billion euros a year earlier as expenses related to the
euro’s decline against the  U.S. dollar  and British pound sapped
profit, according to preliminary results Deutsche Bank published
on July 24. Earnings missed the 999 million-euro average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The results are the first under Deutsche Bank’s dual
leadership of Anshu Jain, 49, and Juergen Fitschen, 63, who took
over from Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 64, at the
end of May. The co-CEOs will publish full earnings July 31 and
are scheduled to explain their strategy in September.  “Management says it has a ‘capital toolbox’ but they have
yet to say exactly what’s in it,” said  Andrew Stimpson , a
banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in London who
has the equivalent of a hold rating on the stock. “Unless they
can say they’re pursuing something specific like Credit Suisse’s
plan, the issue isn’t going to go away.”  ‘Panicking’ Unnecessarily  The performance of the company’s bonds suggests creditors
don’t share the concern of stockholders over Deutsche Bank’s
capital position, said Stimpson. The cost to insure Deutsche
Bank’s debt for five years is the fourth-lowest among 10 global
investment banks, according to Bloomberg Industries. The stock
declined 41 percent in the past 12 months.  Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in
Frankfurt, said the company generally doesn’t comment on analyst
reports. The bank said yesterday it was sticking with its
capital goals as diminished profit projections for 2012 will be
countered by further “de-risking” measures.  Deutsche Bank didn’t take direct state aid in the crisis
that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008 and was six months early in meeting a capital target set by
the European Banking Authority for the end of June.  The company fulfills regulatory requirements and investors
who expect the bank to sell shares are “panicking for no
reason,” said  Dirk Becker , a Kepler Capital Markets analyst who
recommends investors buy the stock. “Deutsche Bank has its plan
and has shown it can and will work off its risk over the course
of the year to comfortably reach its targets.”  Becker says he expects Deutsche Bank is examining which
“short-term” assets it can opt to not renew when they mature
so as to mitigate risk and release capital.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse plans to increase capital by 15.3 billion
francs ($15.5 billion) this year, the Zurich-based bank said
July 18, after the central bank demanded a “marked increase.”
 Brady Dougan , the bank’s 52-year-old CEO, said almost 80 percent
of the measures are “non-dilutive.”  Capital requirements  from the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , known as Basel III, will begin taking effect at the
start of 2013 and be fully implemented by 2019. Banks worldwide
will be required to hold common equity of at least 7 percent of
risk-weighted assets by 2019, and firms deemed systemically
important, such as Deutsche Bank, will need more.  Higher Ratios  Credit Suisse said last week it will probably have a common
equity ratio of 8.6 percent under fully applied Basel III rules
by year-end.  UBS AG (UBSN)  of Zurich will probably have a capital ratio
of 9.1 percent and New York-based JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are likely to reach 9 percent, according
to Mediobanca SpA analysts, who have the equivalent of a sell
recommendation on Deutsche Bank shares.  Deutsche Bank is aiming for a ratio of 7.2 percent under
the 2019 rules by the start of next year. Mediobanca analyst
 Christopher Wheeler  said it may struggle to reach that level.  The German bank probably won’t be able to cut the more than
100 billion euros of risk-weighted assets that would be required
to reach its capital goals, he said in a note yesterday. That
would leave the bank further behind its biggest competitors.  “When the bank unveils an update of its long-term strategy
in the autumn, there is an expectation that they provide some
more color on how they plan to boost capital towards peer group
levels, rather than just pointing to 2019 at the Basel III
deadline,” Wheeler wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  