-- Dinar Weakens to All-Time Low on Liquidity, Policy Concern
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-25T15:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/dinar-weakens-to-all-time-low-on-liquidity-policy-uncertainty.html
Serbia ’s dinar depreciated to the
weakest ever against the euro on “massive” liquidity and
concern about a lack of policy direction from the new
government, due to be sworn in tomorrow.  The dinar slumped 0.9 percent to 118.9500 against the euro
at 5:17 p.m. in Belgrade, making it  Europe ’s worst-performing
currency with a 9.9 percent drop this year.  The new government of Prime Minister-Designate Ivica Dacic
is scheduled to take the oath of office at 3 p.m. on July 26.
The parties forming the incoming government want to replace
central bank governor Dejan Soskic for failing to prevent lender
Agrobanka AD’s collapse and said the new cabinet must take
urgent steps to avoid bankruptcy for the country. The outgoing
cabinet has said Serbia’s finances are stable.  “The central bank is not intervening, there’s massive
dinar liquidity and there’s concern about future government
fiscal policies and steps,” said Ljiljana Grubic, chief analyst
at the Belgrade-based Raiffeisen Banka AD.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije sold 10 million
euros ($12.12 million) for the second time this week to “smooth
the dinar’s intraday swings,” it said in a statement posted on
its  website . Earlier in the day, the central bank held its
weekly repo auction, selling 2 billion dinars ($20.38 million)
of liquidity to four banks at an average rate of 10.64 percent.  Serbia’s central bank has spent at least 1.3 billion euros
this year to slow dinar depreciation, triggered after the
 International Monetary Fund  suspended a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program for Serbia in February on evidence
the country was already missing agreed-upon fiscal targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  