-- Disaster Aid Extended to 76 U.S. Counties as Drought Persists
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-25T18:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/disaster-aid-extended-to-76-u-s-counties-as-drought-persists.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
added  76 counties  in six states including Wisconsin and Michigan
to its list of natural-disaster areas, as the worst drought in
more than 50 years grips much of the country.  Today’s designation means that 1,369 counties in 31 states
are now eligible to receive low-interest loans and other
assistance from the federal government. In related action,
lawmakers from both parties today moved to reauthorize a
government agency that tracks the drought and is used by the
USDA to identify affected areas.  “USDA is taking every possible step to help farmers
through this difficult time,” Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack
said in a statement.  In addition to Wisconsin and Michigan, counties in  Kansas ,
 Indiana ,  Nebraska ,  Illinois  were included in today’s
declaration.  In Indiana, the capital Indianapolis is struggling under
its worst drought in a century, imposing bans on washing cars,
filling swimming pools and cleaning driveways.  Mayor Gregory Ballard today told a congressional hearing
that the restrictions have cut daily water use by a third, or
about 58 million gallons. The drought, the water restrictions
and a ban on fireworks has hurt golf courses,  car dealerships ,
city pools and firework shops, he said.  Economic Impact  “There certainly have been significant anecdotal business
impacts,” Ballard told the House Science, Space and Technology
Committee in Washington. The panel is considering legislation to
renew the legal authority for the national drought information
system. Lawmakers from both parties said they support its
renewal.  The U.S. is experiencing its worst drought since 1956, with
56 percent of the contiguous states in moderate to severe
drought over the past month. The country has also been through
the warmest first-half of a year on record, Roger Pulwarty,
program director for the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration ’s drought system, told the panel.  The USDA last week said 88 percent of the nation’s corn and
87 percent of soybeans were in drought-stricken areas, and that
conditions were the worst for farmers since 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 