-- Dollar Seen Falling to 77.30 Yen on Ichimoku: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-25T00:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/dollar-seen-falling-to-77-30-yen-on-ichimoku-technical-analysis.html
The dollar is likely to extend
declines to a five-month low against the yen, according to IG
Markets Securities Ltd., citing trading patterns.  The daily Ichimoku chart shows that the conversion line has
fallen below the baseline and the dollar-yen spot rate is
underneath the so-called cloud, a bearish signal for the U.S.
currency, according to Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based analyst
at IG Markets. The lagging line is also beneath the spot rate,
another sign the greenback may weaken, Ishikawa said.  The dollar may decline to 77.30 yen, near the lower end of
the cloud on the weekly Ichimoku chart, Ishikawa said. That
would be the lowest since Feb. 9, according to Bloomberg data.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see dollar-yen falling toward
the lower end of the cloud,” he said. “The downward pressure
on dollar-yen is strong.”  The dollar traded at 78.11 yen as of 9:22 a.m. in  Tokyo 
from 78.18 in  New York  yesterday, when it declined 0.3 percent.
The greenback on July 23 reached 77.94 yen, the weakest since
June 1. The U.S. currency has fallen 4 percent against the yen
in the past three months.  Ichimoku analysis is used to predict a currency’s direction
through analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.
The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
leading span lines on the chart and is used to show an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  