-- Drax Plunges After U.K. Cuts Biomass Power Support
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-25T16:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/drax-plunges-after-u-k-cuts-biomass-power-support.html
Drax Group Plc (DRX) , owner of the U.K.’s
largest coal-fired power station, fell by a record in  London 
after the government offered less financial support than
expected for a switch to burning low-carbon fuel.  Drax, based in Selby, northern  England ,  dropped  76.5 pence,
or 15 percent, to 442 pence, the biggest decline since the
company started trading in 2005.  The U.K. government today published proposals for so-called
renewable obligation certificates, or ROCs, a system to reward
generators for switching to low-carbon power. Burning biomass,
or wood and other plant matter, together with coal in a process
known as co-firing will get fewer certificates a megawatt-hour
than initially proposed. Fully converting plants to use biomass
maintained the same support proposed last year.  “With today’s news, looking at support levels for co-
firing and the levels available for biomass conversions, it’s
quite clear to us the  shareholder value  is in doing the full
conversion,” Drax spokeswoman Melanie Wedgbury said by phone.  Drax shares pared intraday losses of as much as 25 percent
after the company confirmed plans to convert three of its six
units to fully use biomass.  “They’re intending to go to largely biomass in the future
as a result of our announcement today,” Energy Secretary  Ed
Davey  told reporters in London.  “It’s moving away from coal,
which is the most polluting energy source, to biomass, which is
less polluting than other fossil fuels like gas.”  Enhanced Biomass  Co-firing of enhanced biomass with coal will get 0.5 to 0.9
of a ROC a megawatt-hour, depending on the fuel mix, the
government said today. That’s less than the 1 ROC proposed in an
October draft last year. Support for full biomass conversions
was maintained at 1 ROC a megawatt-hour in a new category.  Drax has already tested using 100 percent biomass at a
single generating unit, as it seeks to become a “predominantly
biomass fueled generator” in five years, it said today in a
statement. The trials incurred about 20 million pounds ($31
million) in fuel-related research and development costs,
according to Drax.  Chief Executive Officer Dorothy Thompson said in the
statement that while the company is currently refining its
previously announced 650 million pound to 700 million pound
strategic capital investment plan, it remained confident of the
“overall scale” of the investment proposal.  Tony Quinlan, financial director at Drax, said on a call
with analysts the onsite infrastructure for the unit conversions
may cost as much as 330 million pounds, a little more than under
initial plans, with the balance of the investment comprised of
supply chain investment and kit to reduce emissions.  Siemens Venture  Thompson, calling today a “positive day” for Drax, said
on the call she was hopeful the company would reach a final
 investment decision  on conversion of the first three units
before the end of the year. The units would burn about 7 to 8
million tons of biomass a year, Thompson said.  A dedicated biomass project with Siemens Project Ventures
GmbH at the Port of Immingham was “very unlikely” to go ahead
with the new ROC levels for that category of plants, built
solely to use biomass, she said.  Lakis Athanasiou, an independent equity analyst in London,
said the key question would be whether Drax could access the 1
ROC awarded for conversions to 100 percent biomass.  “If this can be done at levels of spend already indicated
by Drax then the negative reaction of the share price is
massively overdone,” he said. “Only Drax will know the
feasibility, cost and timescale of going to 100 percent burn on
a single boiler.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  