-- East End Has Thousands in Illegal Squalor Near Olympics
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-25T23:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/east-end-has-thousands-in-illegal-squalor-near-olympics.html
Five thousand meters from  London ’s
 gleaming, white-spoked Olympic Stadium  -- a 3.1-mile distance
that games organizer and gold medalist Sebastian Coe once ran in
14 minutes and 6 seconds -- Christine Lyons has ferreted out a
modern-day scene evocative of Victorian  England .  In a side street with cracked, weedy paving covered in
litter and rubble, just past an old stable, she knocks at a
whitewashed shed built of bricks. A Hungarian couple in their
20s open the door to the single room they rent for 155 pounds
($240) a week. There’s barely space to walk around a bed, a
chair, a table, a bicycle, a rack covered with drying clothes
and a sink on the wall. A bathroom is closed off in a corner. A
bare light bulb hangs in the middle of the ceiling.  “This was built as a store to put things in, not somewhere
to live,” says Lyons, 45, the chief planning enforcer of the
London borough of Newham, host of the Olympics. The shed was
improperly built and lacks insulation, she says. The owners have
been sent a warning letter that they may be cited for violating
planning laws. The maximum fine is 20,000 pounds, Lyons says.  Armed with a thermal map produced by a flyover in March,
Lyons is searching for unlawful “sheds with beds,” as the
borough council calls them. There are as many as 10,000
outbuildings where people may live illegally in the 14-square-
mile East End district, she says. Raids have found as many as
four people sleeping in a single backyard shed and sharing a
filthy shower and toilet that aren’t always properly connected
to the sewage system.  (For a graphic on crowding in London, click  here .)  Housing Crisis  Over the past four years, Britain committed 9.3 billion
pounds to building structures for the 2012 Summer Olympics
opening tomorrow, most of them in Newham, north of the River
Thames. In addition to the 80,000-seat stadium and other
sporting venues, the projects include an athletes’ village of
elegant, cream-colored apartments with glass balconies and
polished woodwork, set in sculpted parkland. After the games,
the village will be converted into 2,818 homes, almost half of
them for people on low incomes.  During that same period, Newham also became  ground zero  for
a British housing crisis that has grown acute since the 2008
financial crash. The credit crunch reduced U.K. homebuilding
last year to the lowest peacetime level in nine decades. More
than a million people face debt arrears or homelessness,
according to the Chartered Institute of Housing, and almost 7
million borrowed last year to pay rent or mortgages, according
to an estimate by  Shelter , a London-based housing nonprofit. The
supply of publicly subsidized housing in Newham has declined
even as jobseekers poured in, raising demand.  Welfare Cuts  After the U.K. deficit ballooned in the recession, the
government of Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in 2010 that it
would cut welfare benefits for the poor by 18 billion pounds, or
almost twice the amount committed to the Olympics. Citing an
“overheating” rental market with the approaching games, the
Newham Council in March  sought to pay  for accommodations for 500
poor Newham families in Stoke-on-Trent, a 170-mile drive
northwest of London’s most crowded  borough .  That got Labour Party Mayor Robin Wales accused of “social
cleansing.” While he denies such a motivation and vows to tame
the sheds-with-beds explosion, the council he leads is moving to
tear down one of the remaining borough-owned housing units, the
Carpenters estate, next to the Olympic Park.  The council operates out of a 111 million-pound mostly
glass cube overlooking London City Airport. Its website depicts
a borough of shiny new high-rises, and  Wales  calls it “the last
great development opportunity in London.”  Housing Shortage  The housing shortage is only the latest crisis to hit the
financial capital of  Europe . Since 2008, London has been
battered by the global banking meltdown, the deepest recession
since the 1930s, Occupy London protests over economic
inequality, last summer’s riots, the political drive for
austerity and now the Libor-rigging scandal.  The lack of affordable housing is the biggest problem
facing the city, according to  London Citizens , a community
organizing group that has successfully campaigned for a higher
 minimum wage  in the British capital and has challenged excesses
of the finance industry. London has the world’s second-most
expensive residential real estate after  Hong Kong , according to
broker Savills Plc.  “London councils are reluctant to set aside land for cheap
housing because they can earn so much money by selling it to
developers,” says Neil Jameson, director of London Citizens.
“Without cheap housing, people have to move away from their
families.”  Housing Inequality  Britain is more polarized over inequality in housing wealth
than at any time during the mortgage financing era, which began
in the Victorian period of the 19th century, according to Danny
Dorling, a University of Sheffield professor. He published a
 report on housing inequality  for Shelter in 2004 and says the
rise in top prices since means that disparity has widened.  The global downturn made it tougher for people on low
incomes and no incomes to find housing, from London to  San
Francisco . While people crammed into Newham sheds, tent cities
sprang up across the U.S., from Olympia, Washington, to
Lakewood, New Jersey. Last year, hundreds of thousands protested
soaring rents by pitching tent cities in Tel Aviv.  In London, the historic docks of Newham for more than a
century made it the borough where the poorest immigrants entered
England. Today it has the second-cheapest property prices among
the city’s 33 boroughs behind neighboring Barking & Dagenham,
according to the consulting company CACI International Inc. Jobs
in London attract people from Britain, Europe and the world.  Garden Shed  Those are the reasons people land in places like the brick
shed that Christine Lyons visited one morning this month. The
672 pounds that the landlord charged for a month was 38 percent
below the London average for a legal one-bedroom apartment,
according to the Valuation Office Agency. Kensington & Chelsea,
the second-least crowded borough, has the most expensive one-
bedroom apartments at 1,874 pounds a month.  Minutes after her inspection, standing by the old stable on
a street lined with London plane trees, Lyons says dwellings
like this are sending  living standards  back to the 19th century.  “You can’t believe that we’ve gone back to that,” says
Lyons, the Newham Council’s leader of planning enforcement. Raw
sewage running down streets from poorly connected pipes is one
of her concerns, she says. Lyons recalls finding a shed in which
the residents had dug a hole that served as a shower drain and
toilet.  “We’re now bearing the brunt of the economic failings of
the world,” she says.  Urban Landscape  Newham’s 308,000 residents are the most crowded in England.
For each 100 housing units, there are 301 people, according to
data from the  2011 census  published this month. That is 50
percent more than in the wealthy borough of Kensington &
Chelsea, with 199 people for each 100 houses. In the past decade
Newham’s population rose by 64,000, or more than 25 percent, the
biggest gain in London, while Kensington & Chelsea’s fell by 221
people to 158,700.  Aside from the manicured 246-hectare (608-acre) Olympic
Park, the borough presents an urban landscape of terraced
housing, high-rise apartment blocks, betting shops, fast-food
outlets and storefronts with signs in English, Bengali, Polish
and other languages. Asian women in colorful head scarves
navigate sidewalks crammed with rubbish bins.  The projected 1 billion television viewers of the Olympics
opening ceremony are promised a different image.  Danny Boyle ,
the Oscar-winning director of the 2008 film “ Slumdog
Millionaire ,” announced plans to present Britain as a “green
and pleasant land,” inspired by the final words to a 200-year-
old William Blake poem.  ‘Ill Manors’  Newham has the second-worst  income deprivation  in England
behind the neighboring borough of  Tower Hamlets , according to
University of Oxford researchers, and it has London’s highest
unemployment, government statistics show. Many residents are
just passing through in search of work or benefits; two people
out of every 10 either left or entered Newham in 2008. More than
a third of the children live in poverty. Together, its residents
speak more than 100 languages.  The district is the setting for the 2012 film  “Ill
Manors,”  made by the Newham-raised musician Ben Drew, also
known as Plan B. He sings of going on an “urban safari” where
illegal immigrants may be seen. “Oi look there’s a chav,” the
song goes. “That means council-housed and violent.”  The borough has one of the highest crime rates in London,
according to the  Metropolitan Police Service . Newham was the
scene of the murder of a child accused of witchcraft in the
Congolese community and the stabbing of a member of Parliament.
In 2010, a council study found that the rate of violence against
persons -- at 9.9 attacks for each 1,000 people -- was the worst
in a sampling of 15 similar U.K. areas.  Olympic Legacy  The crowding brings with it ill health.  Life expectancy  in
Newham is below average for England. Levels of tuberculosis and
diabetes are among the highest in the nation. So are hospital
admissions for asthma and the rate of people living with HIV,
according to the  U.K. Health Protection Agency .  Back in 2005 when London won this year’s Olympics, the
games were pitched as a catalyst to help fight poverty in the
poorest corner of the capital. Sebastian Coe, the London 2012
chairman who won gold medals for Britain in the 1,500 meters in
1980 and 1984, took Newham children with him to Singapore, where
they helped sway the  International Olympic Committee .  Instead, gentrification is likely to be part of the legacy,
as destruction of low-income housing and construction of new,
high-priced apartments push out the poor, according to Marc
Lancaster, an adviser at Shelter. He assists Newham residents
with housing in an office 2,000 meters from the stadium. The
government neglected a chance to emphasize affordable housing as
an Olympic legacy, he says.  ‘Big Hearts’  “Things will get worse,” Lancaster says. “The pressures
of the housing benefit cuts are forcing people to smaller
accommodations.”  Newham’s young residents are eager to make more of the
games. Voltaire Taiwo de Campos, 16, received an award from the
 Dalai Lama  for compassion this year. After his cousin was
stabbed to death by a gang in 2010, the teenager became an
advocate of nonviolence. He is working on a project to build a
peace garden in the Olympic Park to unite young people who fight
in gangs marked by their postal codes.  “I want the world to know that Newham, no matter how it
looks, no matter the crime rate, Newham is full of people with
big hearts,” says Taiwo de Campos, who was born in Britain and
whose ancestors hail from Nigeria, Brazil, Angola and Portugal.  Hundreds of school children wearing brightly-colored
carnival costumes paraded through Newham’s Central Park on July
21 at a party to welcome the Olympic torch.  Newham Rents  Newham residents on low incomes can try to rent private
accommodation if they can’t get a council-owned property or a
place from a nonprofit housing association. A private one-
bedroom apartment in Newham costs about 818 pounds a month, more
than double the average monthly council rent of 345 pounds. The
average monthly housing association rent is 419 pounds. Newham’s
average rent for a private one-bedroom apartment is the 12th-
lowest in London.  Landlords who illegally overcrowd properties with multiple
renters can double what they make on a property, Lyons says.  Government housing benefit payments are set to cover the
bottom third of rents in each area, as long as they are within
national limits. In London, rising prices are pushing rents
above those caps. In March,  Newham wrote  to the Brighter Futures
Housing Association in Stoke, asking it to take families needing
housing. The council would pay the rent in Stoke.  ‘Social Cleansing’  “We described this as ‘social cleansing’ because they
wanted to move their poorest and most needy people out of their
borough,” says Gill Brown, the chief executive officer of
Brighter Futures. “It’s not good for people who are homeless
and extremely vulnerable to be moved away from their families
and friends to a place where their chances of getting a job are
much less.”  Wales, the Newham mayor, says he is stuck in a difficult
situation.  “People are exploiting vulnerable people by building sheds
and putting them in,” Wales says. “As benefit cuts bite, and
indeed as the recession bites, you get more and more people
living in one property.”  The number of Newham families on waiting lists for public
quarters rose 33 percent to 32,045 in 2011 from 2007, as the
economy declined, according to data compiled by Shelter. The
total receiving housing benefits climbed 9.9 percent to 37,720
in April from November 2008. Meanwhile, in the last decade the
supply of council-owned houses declined 24 percent as properties
were sold off to occupants or developers, Shelter reported.  Crowded Flat  That has left people crowding into the remaining council
housing as families grow with no bigger spaces available. Hifzur
Rahman, a British citizen of Bangladeshi origin, lives in a two-
bedroom flat provided by the Newham Council along with his wife
and nine children, whose ages range from a few months to 16
years. The toilet mechanism doesn’t work, so they pour in water
to flush it.  Rahman’s repeated requests for a larger apartment have gone
unheeded, he says. The two small bedrooms are crammed with beds.
Four children share two of them, sleeping head to toe. Clothes
hang on the stair balcony and toys cover the floor. His wife,
Hashena Bibi, 42, who speaks little English, feeds one of the
children from a green cup.  ‘Very Bad’  “How can we manage here?” asks Rahman, 46, an unemployed
restaurant worker. “I feel very bad, thinking about this. I am
also British, my children also.”  The supply of public housing will probably shrink further.
The Newham Council in November announced plans to redevelop the
Carpenters housing estate with University College of London for
an undisclosed amount.  The new owner would demolish the dwelling places and build
new laboratories and research facilities. Properties are
currently occupied by families on public assistance and
residents who have leases. The council, which also wants to
build residential and commercial property there, hasn’t
committed to giving residents the right to return.  Carpenters Estate  The Carpenters estate’s rows of 1960s terraced flats and
houses are adjacent to the Olympic Park in Newham’s Stratford
neighborhood. Small front-yard gardens sit in front of windows
decorated with England’s red-and-white cross-of-St. George flag.
Last weekend, as the Olympic torch passed nearby, residents
staged an “unofficial gentrification tour” to protest the
planned redevelopment.  “Twenty years ago no one was even thinking of redeveloping
the estate. Now Newham are determined to sell it to the highest
bidder,” says David Richards, vicar of the nearby St. John’s
Church. “What it says about the Olympic legacy is that
Stratford will not be a place for the people who live here at
the moment.”  Carpenters residents who face having to move feel besieged,
like the London teenagers who fight off an alien invasion in the
2011 film “Attack the Block,” says Osita Madu, a 39-year-old
recruiter who lives there. His apartment is opposite the
building where the movie was shot, and he can see the Olympic
Stadium from his window.  “The big bad alien is the council,” Madu says. “The
invasion is obviously taking us out, throwing us off the
estate.”  Landlords Profit  Mary Finch, 72, has lived in a three-bedroom house on the
estate since it was built more than 40 years ago. She raised
three children there and worked as a teaching assistant at
Carpenters Primary School.  “The Olympics is forcing me out,” she says. She voices
frustration with Mayor Wales. “Why is he forcing me out of my
home that’s got nothing wrong with it?”  With the decline of housing provided by the government,
private landlords find profits in illegally breaking up houses
into separately rented rooms and building sheds without permits.
Christine Lyons, the housing inspector, is leading a crackdown.
The national government announced extra funding of 280,000
pounds for Newham in May to stop the spread of inhabited sheds.  “We’ve got a real problem in our borough of landlords that
take advantage of people,” Lyons says. The blue-eyed, auburn-
haired mother of three has been a housing enforcement officer
for 19 years. “It becomes a creeping disaster.”  So far this year, her team has filed enforcement
investigations on more than 600 outbuildings suspected of being
illegally used as dwellings. That’s more than triple the 170
actions in 2011, and up from 38 in 2008. The thermal imaging map
may have identified 5,000 potential new sites to inspect, Lyons
says.  Housing Raid  During a raid in May, Lyons peered through a spiked fence
into a backyard strewn with empty liquor bottles, a broken
toilet bowl and soiled mattresses.  “It’s just rubbish,” Lyons said. “You know, a cheap
place for rats to run around.”  At one crowded property, Moroccan immigrant Ilham Gallai
shows how what looks like a garage actually contains four
bedrooms, a shower and a stinking, broken toilet. In a shared
kitchen, she perches on a table and tries to count how many
people live there. An Italian occupies a room on the first
floor. An Asian family with children are on the top floor, she
says.  Cupboard Door  Gallai thought the door next to the fridge “was a
cupboard,” she says. Then one day she opened it and found a man
living in a tiny room.  “I was so shocked,” Gallai says. “I opened the door, and
bless him the guy was sleeping just by the door.”  Enzo Vox, her fellow temporary resident from Bari in
southern  Italy , says he is glad to be in London because he can
find work, even though he hates the filthiness of the house.  “In this country, there are people from all over the world
because there’s a chance of getting a job,” says Vox, who has
had a series of restaurant jobs, in a mix of English and
Italian. “If you become a waiter in Italy, you remain a waiter.
Here, there is a chance of becoming a supervisor, then an
assistant manager.”  By this month, Gillai and Vox had both left the house.  Hanging on the wall in the kitchen in May was a notice from
the council citing the landlord, Jan Assakzai.  Landlord Fined  Assakzai pleaded guilty in April to housing 12 people when
he had a license allowing no more than five tenants, and more
than 20 counts of failing to properly manage the house,
according to Russell Moffatt, a manager for the Newham Council.
Assakzai was fined 5,500 pounds and ordered to pay 300 pounds
toward council legal costs and a 15-pound “victim surcharge,”
he says. An official at Thames Magistrates Court confirmed the
information.  The landlord didn’t respond to calls to his mobile phone
and didn’t answer at a house where letters addressed to him lay
on the floor, visible through a glass door.  Last month, the Newham Council passed legislation requiring
private landlords to pay 500 pounds for a five-year license.
Those caught without one face 20,000-pound fines.  Once the Olympic Games finish, the U.K. developer Delancey
Estates Plc and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. will
convert part of the athletes’ village into 1,439 homes for
private rental. They acquired the property in a 557 million-
pound agreement last year. Dido Laurimore, a spokeswoman for
Delancey, declined to comment on planned rents.  Housing Legacy  The housing company Triathlon Homes will convert the
remaining units into 1,379 apartments for rent at below-market
prices.  Of those, 354 will be rented for about 20 percent less than
market rates. A further 350 will be available through a shared
ownership program, in which occupants buy part of the property
with a mortgage and pay rent on the portion their mortgage
doesn’t cover.  The final 675 will be “social rent homes” owned by local
councils and housing nonprofits, with more than half of these
available to Newham residents.  The project will help offset about 450 housing units that
were destroyed to make way for the stadium, and the Carpenters
estate, where the number of housing units was originally about
700, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from documents
published by the London Development Agency and the  London School 
of Economics.  No Ghetto  As this week opened, Olympics Minister Hugh Robertson said
the legacy of the event won’t be gentrification.  “The idea is not to create a ghetto of very expensive,
private housing out there,” he said. After the games, about 40
percent of development in the Olympic Park will be for public
housing, he said.  A walkway crosses above a railroad, connecting the
Carpenters estate with the rest of Newham. It is decorated with
Olympic images of cyclists, runners and gymnasts and words such
as “spirit,” “fair play” and “festival.” At the end of the
walkway is a boarded square of empty land with a message on the
side.  “A spectacular 26 story tower with a collection of 1, 2 &
3 bedroom apartments & penthouses,” it reads. “Register your
interest now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 