-- Heathrow CEO Says Strike Threatens Olympic Travel on Busiest Day
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-25T07:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/heathrow-ceo-says-strike-threatens-olympic-travel-on-busiest-day.html
London Heathrow airport owner BAA
Ltd. said it’s impossible to guarantee disruption-free travel at
 Europe ’s largest hub tomorrow as immigration officials strike on
the busiest day for arrivals before the 2012 Olympics.  While BAA’s staffing will be at maximum levels, assisted by
volunteers drafted in to aid arriving athletes and officials,
the length of queues for people entering Britain will be
determined by how many Border Agency officials turn up for work,
Chief Executive Officer Colin Matthews said in an interview.  “I can offer no guarantees,” he said. “We can provide
water and apples or whatever to people who are waiting, but it
is ultimately down to the number of desks manned. People
arriving for the games have so far had a really excellent
experience. What a pity if we were to throw that away.”  The U.K. government will meanwhile seek a High Court
injunction today that would prevent the strike by members of the
Public and Commercial Services Union, the  Home Office  said in a
statement. The action will cite an error in the PCS ballot, it
said, while appealing for the walkout to be abandoned.  “We want the PCS leadership to call off this irresponsible
strike and we continue to ask members not to walk out at a time
when the eyes of the world are on the U.K.,” the Home Office
said in the release.  U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who is coordinating the
Olympics, said enough immigration officials will be deployed to
prevent disruption even if the strike goes ahead.  “We can be very confident in the contingency plans,” Hunt
told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. The Border Agency needs
550 workers at passport control and there are ‘‘584 shifts
confirmed for Thursday despite the strike,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net  