-- ECB’s Nowotny Sees Some Arguments for ESM Banking License
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-07-25T09:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ecb-s-nowotny-sees-some-arguments-for-esm-banking-license.html
European Central Bank council member
Ewald Nowotny said there are arguments in favor of giving
 Europe ’s rescue fund a banking license, reviving the debate on
bolstering its firepower as leaders face the prospect of a full-
scale Spanish bailout.  “I think there are pro arguments for this,” Nowotny, who
heads  Austria ’s central bank, said in an interview in his office
in Vienna yesterday. “There are also other arguments, but I
would see this as an ongoing discussion,” he said, adding he’s
“not aware of specific discussions within the ECB at this
point.”  Granting a banking license to Europe’s permanent bailout
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, would give it access to
ECB lending, easing concerns that its 500 billion-euro ($602.5
billion) cash pot won’t be enough if Spain or  Italy  require aid.
While ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on May 24 that such a move
amounts to the central bank financing governments, which is
prohibited by  European Union law , publicly-owned  credit
institutions  such as the  European Investment Bank  are exempt.  “It is not something that is only in the field of monetary
policy, so this is part of a broad discussion,” Nowotny said.
He declined to elaborate.  The euro rose for the first time in six days against the
dollar and the yen after the comments were published, jumping
more than half a cent to $1.2127 at 11:10 a.m. in Frankfurt.
Yields on Spanish and Italian bonds declined while German bund
yields rose.  EIB License  The EIB, which was founded in 1958 and is owned by the
member states of the EU, was granted  access  to ECB refinancing
in July 2009. Nowotny said the fact that the ESM has missed a
July deadline to become operational is a “weakness that has to
be overcome.”  “Nowotny’s comments indicate that there is a debate, but
they do not necessarily signal how that debate will be
resolved,” said David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase Bank in  London . If Spain and Italy lose  market
access , “the liquidity hospital would need to be redesigned, in
terms of size, seniority and funding,” he said.  Spanish 10-year bond yields this week surged to a euro-era
record above 7.6 percent, fueling speculation it may require a
full-scale bailout. The ECB this month cut its  benchmark rate  to
a record low of 0.75 percent and took its deposit rate to zero
as the worsening economic outlook damps inflation pressures.  Growth Dynamics  “Growth dynamics for the  euro zone  as such are tending to
be lower than we had been expecting at the start of the year,”
Nowotny said. “Inflation also tends to be lower, and what we
see is that divergences in the economic dynamics between member
countries of the euro zone unfortunately have a tendency to
increase.”  While Nowotny didn’t rule out further downward moves in
 interest rates , which could involve lowering the deposit rate
into negative territory, he said this “has to be decided at a
later stage.”  “We do not have experience of course with negative deposit
rates,” he said. “Some central banks are experimenting with
this, for instance the Danish central bank. There might be some
technical problems to applying negative rates for the deposit
rate. For the time being this is not a practical aspect that is
being discussed.”  Inflation will come down, Nowotny said, adding in a
separate interview with Bloomberg Television that the ECB sees
“no deflation perspective.”  Bank Supervisor  Nowotny urged European leaders not to rush plans to
construct a single European bank supervisor, which will likely
result in the ECB assuming greater powers as the euro area
attempts to break the link between failing banks and sovereigns.
The European Commission is due to present proposals in
September.  “I personally very strongly advocate that our first
priority should be to build a high-quality, stable system,” he
said. “Quality is more important than velocity.”  Nowotny said while he doesn’t consider that all of the EU’s
27 members would submit to the new single supervisor -- the U.K.
being the most likely outsider -- large, cross-border
institutions and smaller local banks should be overseen by the
same regulator with powers to intervene when needed.  “For the smaller banks the prime operational side for
technical reasons has to be with the national supervisors,” he
said. “Only they have the manpower, the local knowledge, the
direct access.”  At the same time, the ECB should have “the right to
intervene in specific cases,” Nowotny said. “It is possible to
have supervision out of  Frankfurt , but you have to work with the
local supervisors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  