-- ECB’s Nowotny Says Euro-Area Economic Divergences Are Widening
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s
-- 2012-07-25T07:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ecb-s-nowotny-says-euro-area-economic-divergences-are-widening.html
European Central Bank council member
Ewald Nowotny comments on the sovereign debt crisis, the
economic outlook and ECB policy.  Nowotny, who heads  Austria ’s central bank, made the remarks
in an interview in his office in Vienna yesterday.  On the debt crisis:  “Definitely, the crisis is not over. That, I think, is
pretty clear. On the other hand, I think one should not give too
much weight to short-term developments. But one has to admit
that also from the medium-term we have some elements that are
not too positive. For me one important element is the real
growth perspective, which for the euro zone as such is slightly
negative, which as such is not a good thing. But what of course
also is added to the problem is that we have increasing
divergences within the  euro zone , which of course doesn’t make
economic policy easier for the ECB.”  “On the other hand, what we see is that a number of
structural policy changes have been undertaken in the countries
that have troubles and all these changes need time to produce
results.”  “Markets are of course not giving much time. On the other
hand, I think policy makers should not be too much market driven
and should not engage in only very short-term view but should
have some kind of medium perspective, which means that I do not
see a need to react to every single market reaction.”  On Emergency Liquidity Assistance:  “Use of ELA has grown in the last months. This is not
really intentional, but this is out of the system of the ECB.
Because as we have a unified collateral framework, in certain
situations banks cannot fulfill the criteria of the ECB
collateral and for this we do have this emergency liquidity
assistance.  “But we have to underline this is not to be seen as a
permanent second line of monetary policy. As is expressed in the
name, it is emergency liquidity assistance. So this is not
something that should be seen as a permanent instrument for
various countries.  “There is an information process for this with the ECB
Governing Council and in the course of this information process
there always has to be given a clear perspective for these
banks. It has to be clear that these have to be viable banks. So
therefore also there has been an increase in the role of ELA.
This doesn’t mean that we are now establishing kind of a second
line of liquidity provision.”  “These ELA operations are always done on a very specific
individual basis and have to be explained for each individual
bank for every month again. So this isn’t something permanent,
but every month again a national central bank that has the
intention of granting an ELA to a specific bank has to bring up
this case again with the ECB Governing Council.”  “In all cases when you grant ELA you have to explain the
conditions of the exit, so this is never done as a permanent
measure, it is always done as a measure with a certain limited
period of time.  “We have a very clear knowledge about the volume of ELA.
We know to whom it is given and also it is in the responsibility
of the specific national central bank. We do have an overview of
this at the ECB level.”  On potential future LTROs:  “Every loan has to be refunded. It is also, I think,
obvious that these LTRO operations are part of our non-
conventional arsenal. So therefore there is no intention to move
it to the conventional part. But for this specific policy with
this regard, this is really something again -- we never pre-
commit. So it has to be seen according to the policy needs. But
one should be aware that also it is of course a three-year loan:
it is a loan. So therefore at the end of the day there has to be
a refinancing.”  On the economic outlook:  “It is true that for the world economy in general the
perspectives have worsened. This relates to all parts of the
world economy including  Europe .”  “Europe and the euro zone are important players of the
world economy, but we are not the only players and we see a
number of risks also in other regions. But in general one has to
be aware that the growth dynamics of this year and maybe also of
next year is going to be lower.  “I don’t think that they are increasing, but the downside
risks that we had mentioned at an earlier stage have been
materializing.  “What we see is -- and this is in line with the risks that
we had been aware of -- that growth dynamics for the euro zone
as such are tending to be lower than we had been expecting at
the start of the year, and on the other hand inflation also
tends to be lower and what we see is that divergences in the
economic dynamics between member countries of the euro zone
unfortunately have a tendency to increase.  “And this of course is a challenge, but this is typically
a challenge that cannot be met by the ECB, but that has to be
met by the countries involved.”  On room for further action:  “You know there is a long theoretical debate about the
room to maneuver for a central bank in a world of low interest
rates. The answer of this debate is: yes, there are elements to
move, but what elements one uses and what way we go is something
that has to be decided at a later stage. And also when comparing
the role of the ECB with that of other central banks one always
has to bear in mind the specific legal situation of the ECB and
the statutes of the ECB. And I think it is a very important
aspect of the credibility of a central bank to adhere to the
legal structure that has been given to it.  “This refers especially to aspects of buying  government
bonds  directly on the primary markets. The SMP program was about
correcting imbalances on the secondary markets. But we have
clear legal ban with regards to buying on the primary market.
And so this is not only an economic discussion, but also a legal
discussion, but one has to take this legal aspect seriously.”  On granting the ESM a banking license:  “I am not aware of specific discussions within the ECB at
this point but it is of course a discussion we have at the
European level. I think there are pro arguments for this, there
are also other arguments, but I would see this as an ongoing
discussion. It is not something that is only in the field of
monetary policy, so this is part of a broad discussion. We never
give specific comments on the discussions of the Governing
Council.”  On the deposit rate at zero:  “It had a very substantial effect, for me it was
surprisingly substantial. The money deposited with the ECB has
gone down considerably in the deposit facility, because it makes
no difference for the banks to keep it in the deposit facility
or in the current account. Whether it will have further effects,
for instance that banks or money-market funds are prepared to go
to the  interbank market  and are prepared to take a little higher
risk in search of some return, for me this would be a logical
step. We see some tentative signs in this way, it’s still too
early to give a clear picture.  “One has to see that the months of July and August may not
be the typical months in the money markets, we have a bit to
wait. As a tendency, I could imagine we get more action again in
the money markets, and of course that doesn’t say all markets
involved. It would be a first step.”  “We do not have experience of course with negative deposit
rates. Some central banks are experimenting with this, for
instance the Danish central bank. A central bank has a number of
other alternatives to influence money markets in addition to
interest rates, there might be some technical problems to
applying negative rates for the deposit rate. For the time being
this is not a practical aspect that is being discussed.”  On changing the rate on excess reserves in current accounts:  “Every good central bank should be able to develop a
number of ideas, a number of ideas are floating around. I do not
see a need for immediate decisions in that respect.  “One should not look at this in the narrow sense of
central bank policy. One has to see that the problems of money
markets are problems of not having enough trust in the banking
sector. For me the fundamental aspect is how to increase the
credibility of the banking sector. One ongoing point is to
strengthen the capital base. We have had the EBA capital
exercise, it is clear this will not be a one-shot affair. But
the ratios that have been achieved in the follow up to that are
here to stay, there should not be a downward movement again.  “I see also the discussion of the European banking
supervision scheme as a very important step to increase the
confidence of the banking sector. These are the fundamental
elements that will influence the money markets, these
institutional changes, not the field of monetary policy.”  On bank supervision:  “The single European supervisor is a very big step. At the
end of the day it is a transfer of sovereignty in a very
sensitive field of economic policy. Therefore it is a step that
needs really serious work to be done, I hope that this ambitious
timetable can be fulfilled. I personally very strongly advocate
that our first priority should be to build a high quality,
stable system. Quality is more important than velocity.  “The main driver for this is the EU commission. They are
now in the process of getting a clear view of the first
principles: Who should be the member countries -- is it the EU
27, the euro 17, something in between? I do not really see the
27 as a realistic perspective, but it depends from where you
start. You could have opt outs or opt ins, that sort of thing.  “You have the question of what kind of banks do you
supervise, do you concentrate on the biggest banks, or do you
think that it has to be an encompassing scheme for all banks.
This makes a huge difference with regard to the technical
approach that you take. Then there’s the question of what’s the
role of the ECB in this, both from the supervisory side and
there’s also the monetary policy side.  “From the point of view of the ECB, our prime objective is
monetary policy. There can be no compromise in that regard. One
can combine the two, but in a way that does not have negative
effects on our primary tasks. I expect that these basic
questions will be answered in September when the Commission
gives their first proposals, then there will be a need for a
political process to discuss this, and then you have to do the
technical side.  “Banking supervision is an activity with a high degree of
responsibility and also a high degree of public visibility. So
therefore one has to take this very seriously, and I would be
very careful not to engage in an activity that is not fully well
prepared. We all know it has to come, there’s a basic consensus.
But it has to come in a well prepared way.  “My personal view is that we should have a unified banking
supervision both for the big and the small banks, so not a two-
tier system with regard to the regulatory aspect. But with
regard to the operational aspect, there will be a need for a
two-tier system. In the sense that for the smaller banks the
prime operational side for technical reasons has to be with the
national supervisors. Only they have the manpower, the local
knowledge, the direct access.”  The ECB “always has to have the right to intervene in
specific cases” and some specific controls will be needed “to
ensure there are uniform standards applied in Europe. If we have
this encompassing view, then it is possible to have supervision
out of  Frankfurt , but you have to work with the local
supervisors.  “If I take for instance the experiences we’ve had just now
with  Spain , at a certain period of time, in addition to the
local regulator, some outside experts have been called in to do
additional expertise, I could imagine that this is a kind of
model that we would have. I could imagine that in ordinary
situations it is the local supervisor, but when some specific
questions come up, additional expertise might come in from
outside. A private sector company could be hired by the
supervisor, there’s no need to do this from the public side,
this is a model that could be discussed in detail.  “At the EU summit there was a clear distinction between
the role of the supervisor and only the supervisor was
discussed. There was no special mention of aspects of bank
resolution and no discussion of the aspects of European-wide
 deposit insurance . There’s a clear policy signal that the time
is not ripe for those two things.  “Looking at it from an economic point of view, there is of
course a certain interconnection between those two aspects. If
you have European banking supervision this could at the end of
the day include decisions of closing down banks, and the costs
of this would still have to be borne by the national taxpayer.  “This is a possible approach, but not, I would say, the
final equilibrium approach. I think now we have to start with
the first step, and we will see developments at a later stage.
This has to be seen in the broader view of European fiscal
union, which of course is something that is still a very long
time perspective.”  On  Greece :  “Our working assumption is that Greece will be able to
fulfill their requirements, but it is obvious that this will
need quite substantial efforts from the side of the Greek
government. This is part of the discussions that Greece will
have with the institutions. The results of the Troika
discussions will only be available end of August/mid-
September.”  On the ECB’s stance on bailing in senior bank bondholders in
restructurings:  “This is not a general discussion, this only refers to
banks that are in a process of reorganization. It’s not only for
banks that are shut down, the discussion also includes banks
that are in a process of reorganization. Still, this is a very
limited element.  “One has to be aware there is an increasing discussion
about the division of the burden borne by the taxpayer, and that
borne by certain kinds of investors, that invest in higher risk
assets that bear a higher  interest rate . They are aware that
this is not a fully guaranteed asset, otherwise it would make no
sense for this  risk premium  to be paid out. Markets aren’t
always driven by logic, and one has to be aware of practical
effects. I welcome this discussion because it is important not
automatically to put the entire burden on taxpayers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  