-- Egypt May Keep Interest Rate Unchanged as Currency Weakens
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-07-25T13:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/egypt-may-keep-interest-rate-unchanged-as-currency-weakens-1-.html
Egypt ’s central bank may keep its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fifth consecutive time,
as borrowing costs remain near-record highs and the currency
near the lowest in more than seven years.  The Monetary Policy Committee, headed by Governor Farouk al-Okdah, will hold the overnight deposit rate at 9.25 percent
when it meets tomorrow, according to all seven economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The bank usually meets at 3 p.m.,
with the announcement coming about two hours later. The last
meeting during the holiday of Ramadan yielded a decision earlier
than usual.  “Although inflationary pressures have eased and the
economy is weak, it is unlikely to cut its benchmark rate given
pressures on the currency,” said Said Hirsh, a Middle East
economist with  Capital Economics . “Instead, it will carry on
with monetary loosening in other ways, such as repo
facilities.”  Egypt has staved-off depreciation of its currency with the
pound, subject to a managed float, losing 4 percent since the
start of last year’s revolt. The country started a repurchase
facility for  government securities  in March to ease funding
pressure on local banks that became the biggest buyers of its
debt as foreign investors withdrew. Sales of seven-day
 repurchase agreements , or repos, more than tripled last quarter
from a year earlier, allowing holders of the debt to sell it
back to access funds temporarily at 9.75 percent.  Bond Yields  Economic growth is expected to slow this year to less than
2 percent this year, from 2.5 percent in 2011, according to
central bank Governor Farouk al-Okdah. Annual inflation in urban
areas, the gauge monitored by the central bank, slowed to 7.3
percent in June from 8.3 percent a month earlier.  “Growth conditions are still too weak for a rate hike,
while a cut would further exacerbate the differential between
government borrowing costs and the  base rate ,” Elizabeth Martins, senior economist with HSBC in Dubai, said in response
to e-mailed questions.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due
April 2020 has surged 95 basis points to 6.61 percent since the
start of last year’s revolt that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stalled growth comes amid a political power struggle
between President Mohamed Mursi and the country’s generals.  New Prime Minister  The military council, which took power after the ouster of
Hosni Mubarak last year, stripped Mursi’s office of some of its
powers while giving itself broad, albeit temporary legislative
authority.  Mursi, who is from the ranks of the Muslim Brotherhood,
yesterday appointed the country’s little-known irrigation
minister Hisham Qandil as prime minister, a move that did little
to reassure investors.  “The longer the period of power struggle with limited or
no FC inflows, the more likely the move toward a tighter
monetary policy and import controls and the higher the
probability of a disorderly EGP depreciation, if all tools are
exhausted,” Monsef Morsy, an analyst with Pharos Holding, said
in a July 24 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  