-- Heineken Lack of Asia Options Seen Forcing Bump: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y ,   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-07-26T12:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/heineken-lack-of-asia-options-seen-forcing-bump-real-m-a.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  may need to raise a $6
billion offer for the rest of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) , its
main distributor in the region, to win over the Dutch company’s
local venture partners.  “It’s in Heineken’s interest to pay,” Richard O’Donovan,
a Dublin-based  analyst  at Davy Research, said in a telephone
interview. “They could go a little bit higher. There are very
few assets that Heineken can go after, and this is one where
they’ve had a long relationship which has been quite successful.
They’ve left themselves with nothing of significance in  Asia 
unless they follow through with this deal.”  Heineken last week offered S$7.5 billion ($6 billion) to
buy out the other investors in APB, the brewer and distributor
of Heineken and Tiger brands in markets from  Indonesia  to  China 
and Heineken’s main foothold in the world’s biggest beer market
for more than 80 years.  APB shares  closed yesterday 4 percent
higher than the bid, indicating some traders anticipate a
sweetened proposal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two days before the bid, one of Heineken’s competitors
agreed to buy a stake in  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) , which is APB’s
other major owner. Concern that F&N’s new investor, Thai
Beverage Pcl, along with shareholder  Kirin (2503)  Holdings Co. will
assert more influence over APB spurred Heineken’s takeover
offer, Deutsche Bank AG said. While data compiled by Bloomberg
show the bid is already the most expensive relative to earnings
of any Asian brewery takeover greater than $1 billion, UBS AG
says Heineken may need to boost the price as much as 30 percent
to persuade ThaiBev and Kirin to part with APB.  Kirin Bid  Kirin, Japan’s largest brewer by market value, is
considering a bid for F&N’s soft drinks and dairy businesses,
said three people with knowledge of the matter. The people, who
asked not to be identified as the deliberations are private,
didn’t say how much Kirin would offer for the operations.  Kirin spokesman Kan Yamamoto declined to comment on the
company’s plans, or the prospect of a higher bid for APB.  The  board  of directors of Singapore-based F&N is expected
to meet today to discuss the bid from Heineken, said two people
with knowledge of the matter. The board may not make a decision
on the offer at today’s meeting, one of the people said.  Representatives for F&N and Bangkok-based  ThaiBev (THBEV)  declined
to comment on the prospect of a higher bid.  “We feel our current offer is a full price and represents
compelling value,” said Charlie Armitstead, a spokesman for
Amsterdam-based Heineken.  ‘Valuable Asset’  Founded in 1931, APB has over 40 beer brands including
Tiger which is offered in 60 markets worldwide, according to the
company’s  website . APB’s  profit  rose almost 19 percent to
S$217.6 million in the six months through March with sales
mostly from South and Southeast Asia, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  APB is majority owned by a joint venture between Heineken
and F&N. Heineken owns a 42 percent stake in APB, and F&N
controls about 40 percent.  “This is a very valuable asset,” said Jenai Chua, a
Singapore-based analyst at Bank Julius Baer, which manages $281
billion in assets. “Tiger beer has a strong presence in
Malaysia and  Singapore  and it’s expanding into other parts of
Southeast Asia.”  Beer sales in Asia, the world’s largest beer market, will
grow at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the five years to 2016,
the second-fastest pace of growth in the world after the Middle
East and  Africa , according to projections from researcher
Euromonitor International.  Most Expensive  APB’s  Bintang beer  is the number one seller in Indonesia,
with 42 percent of the market by volume, according to
Euromonitor. Tiger is Singapore’s top beer brand with almost 35
percent, and Heineken is fourth in  Vietnam , Asia’s fastest-
growing beer market by volume.  Heineken says its  namesake brand  is APB’s largest,
representing about 30 percent of its volume.  Heineken’s offer of S$50 a share for the 58 percent of APB
it doesn’t already own values the company at about 17 times
 earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the most paid in a
takeover of an Asian brewer worth more than $1 billion, and the
highest price globally since Heineken and Carlsberg A/S offered
23 times Ebitda in a 9.5 billion-pound ($15 billion) takeover of
Scottish & Newcastle Ltd. in 2008, the data show.  Thai Billionaire  The bid came two days after ThaiBev, controlled by Thai
billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , said it would pay S$2.78
billion for 22 percent of F&N, while his son-in-law’s company
would buy 8.6 percent of APB for S$45 a share. F&N said today
that ThaiBev increased its stake to 23.9 percent. With the
purchase, ThaiBev tops Kirin’s  15 percent  stake to become F&N’s
largest shareholder, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Concerns over the prospect of having two competing
brewers having significant influence in F&N is likely to have
prompted Heineken to attempt to address the situation once and
for all,” Gregory Lui, an analyst in Singapore with Deutsche
Bank, wrote in a July 23 note. “Heineken raising its offer
cannot be ruled out given Heineken’s balance sheet capacity.”  Heineken, the world’s third-largest brewer, needs F&N’s
board to recommend the deal to its shareholders and for those
investors to vote in favor of the transaction, the company said
in a July 20 statement. Failing that, Heineken said it “will
review all options available to protect its commercial
interests.”  Debt Covenant  “It’s probably not their best offer they put on the table
in the first place,” Olivier Nicolai, a London-based analyst at
UBS, said in a phone interview. “If Heineken wants control,
they will have to raise it for sure.”  By raising the offer as high as S$65 a share, or 25 percent
more than yesterday’s  closing price , Heineken would still keep
its net debt at less than four times Ebitda, a threshold
regarded as “the covenant in the beer industry,” according to
Nicolai. Heineken had 813 million euros ($988 million) in  cash 
as of December and net debt at  2.53 times Ebitda , the data show.  Yesterday, APB  shares , which had earlier traded within 50
cents of Heineken’s S$50 offer, surpassed that level in the
final eight minutes of trading. The surge, which left APB at
S$52, reflects speculation that a higher bid may be possible,
Andrew Holland, an analyst at  Societe Generale , said in a phone
interview from  London .  ‘Powerful Position’  “Fraser & Neave is in quite a powerful position,” he
said. “They don’t have to sell. They can go to Heineken and
say, ‘We’re interested in principle in your offer, but you need
to offer more money.”  APB dropped 3.9 percent to S$50 a share in Singapore today.
F&N rose 0.4 percent to S$8.38, a  new record .  Heineken, which also owns a stake in India’s  United
Breweries Ltd. (UBBL) , said Asia accounted for  6.5 percent  of operating
income last year. It describes APB as “ underpinning  our
position in the region.”  At F&N,  beer  generated income of S$172 million in the year
through last September, 41 percent more than the year before and
the third-largest source of profits after development and
investment property, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The beverage business is the primary appeal to F&N
investors, said Neo Chiu Yen, an analyst at ABN Amro Private
Banking, which manages $207 billion in assets. The beer unit
generates  cash flow  that helps F&N expand its smaller soft-drink
business, she said.  “What everyone is most interested in is the brewery
business,” Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research for JI Asia
in  Tokyo , said in a telephone interview. “Breweries are a
highly attractive business because the margin is high.”  Real Estate  Without the beer business, F&N would depend predominantly
on  shopping centers , serviced apartments, homes and industrial
property. In Singapore alone, Frasers Centrepoint, an F&N
subsidiary, oversees nine malls, while the company has
development projects in the U.K.,  Australia ,  New Zealand ,
 Thailand , Vietnam and China, according to the Frasers
Centrepoint website.  In the year ended September 2011, property accounted for
more than  two-thirds  of F&N’s profit, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Excluding breweries, food and beverage units made
up 8.2 percent of net income, the data show.  “If you sell APB, F&N will essentially be a property
business in Singapore, which means that if you’re a brewer, like
ThaiBev and Kirin, can you justify to your shareholders owning
this kind of business?” said Nicolai at UBS.  F&N Breakup  In the event of an APB sale, Kirin and ThaiBev may push F&N
to separate its property business from the remaining food and
drinks assets, Jit Soon Lim, a Singapore-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in a July 23 note. Such a move would allow
investors to value the units more accurately, according to
Maybank Kim Eng Securities.  “They should carve out the property business later because
these diversified units are not even related,” said Maria Lapiz, co-head of research at Maybank Kim Eng in Bangkok.
“They’re probably worth a lot more individually, and it’s one
way for ThaiBev to recoup its investment.”  Lapiz, who covered ThaiBev at JPMorgan Chase & Co. until
February, said the disposal of APB may lead Kirin to sell its
stake in F&N, while ThaiBev focuses on the soft-drink business,
which it is eager to grow.  Still, for that to happen, Heineken first needs to succeed
in its bid for APB.  “In Asia-Pac at this stage, this is Heineken’s business,”
said O’Donovan of Davy Research. “They’ve had it for a long
time, so they’re not going to be willing to give it up
lightly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 