-- Telefonica Falls After Cuts in Dividend, Pay Amid Crisis
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-26T11:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/telefonica-scraps-2012-dividend-and-buybacks-cuts-executive-pay.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  reached a nine-low low
in  Madrid  trading after suspending its dividends, cutting a
revenue forecast and slashing compensation for top executives
including Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta in his most
drastic response to Spain’s debt crisis.  Europe’s biggest phone company scrapped a 1.5 euro-a-share
dividend for 2012 and will resume half of the payout toward the
end of next year, the Madrid-based company said yesterday,
citing an “extremely challenging” economic environment. The
move will save Telefonica an estimated 10.2 billion euros ($12.4
billion). Top managers’ total compensation will be slashed by 30
percent, and  board members  agreed to take a 20 percent pay cut.  Telefonica’s shrinking business in Spain, where one out of
four is without a job, has put pressure on Alierta, 67, to
conserve cash and accelerate asset disposals. Two rating
companies have lowered Telefonica’s debt to the second-lowest
investment grade since May. Competition with  Carlos Slim ’s
 America Movil SAB (AMXL)  in Latin America has intensified in countries
such as  Mexico , threatening profitability in the region.  “This is the first time Telefonica cancels the whole
dividend in its history as far as I know,” said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell in Madrid. “The
market had been begging for this type of measures for a very
long time.”  Shares Drop  Telefonica’s stock slumped as much as 8.7 percent to 7.90
euros and was down 0.7 percent as of 1:20 p.m. in Madrid, the
lowest intraday level since April 1, 2003. It had slumped 35
percent this year through yesterday, the worst performance among
the 23 companies in the  Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index (BETELES) , which lost 7.7 percent.  The cost of insuring Telefonica bonds using credit-default
swaps fell as much as 18 basis points, or 3.2 percent, to 544
basis points, the biggest drop in two weeks, according to
Bloomberg data. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if
a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “Whilst we think that the company will be successful in
some aspects of its renewed efforts, it would take a perfect
storm of positive changes to convince investors that a full
transformation is underway,” Sanford C Bernstein analyst  Robin Bienenstock  wrote in a report.  Cash Flows  The company had forecast its 2013 per-share dividend to be
at least similar to this year’s 1.50 euro level. Instead it will
pay 75 cents in two tranches, in the fourth quarter of next year
and in the second quarter of 2014. The 10.2 billion-euro savings
over two years assume some scrip dividends would be paid in
cash.  Europe’s telecommunications companies had relied on their
cash flows to sustain high dividend yields for investors. As the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis deepens, operators from  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  to  France Telecom SA (FTE)  have announced dividend cuts.
 Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch operator partly owned by  America Movil ,
this week slashed its dividend forecast by 61 percent.  Calling the move a “one-time exceptional measure,”
Telefonica said the plan would help it “immunize from debt
markets liquidity conditions” by having debt maturities covered
till the end of 2013. Net debt climbed to 58.3 billion euros as
of June 30 from 56.3 billion euros at the end of 2011.  BBVA, CaixaBank  Telefonica investors who stand to miss the payouts include
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank
with an almost 7 percent stake, Barcelona-based CaixaBank SA
with a 5 percent holding and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  with about 3.8
percent, according to stock-market regulator CNMV.  “Even as this move makes perfect sense to improve the
balance sheet, many investors who are really keen on Telefonica
dividends are going to feel very disappointed,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $55 billion at Zurich-based
Swisscanto Asset Management and said he sold the last Telefonica
shares about a month ago.  BBVA fully backs Telefonica’s “prudent decision” amid the
current market environment to preserves value with a mid- to
long-term vision, spokesman  Paul Tobin  said by phone.  Besides CEO Alierta, other Telefonica executives taking a
pay cut include Finance Chief Angel Vila, head of Europe Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete and Latin America chief Santiago Fernandez Valbuena.  Executive Pay  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos this month called
on the nation’s biggest companies to rein in executive pay,
saying a recovery from the economic crisis will be quicker if
citizens feel sacrifices are shared evenly.  Second-quarter  operating income  before depreciation and
amortization, or Oibda, dropped 6.6 percent to 5.35 billion
euros from a year earlier, Telefonica said yesterday. That
compares with the 5.28 billion-euro average of 11 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 0.1 percent to
15.47 billion euros, also topping analysts’ projections.  Still, in Spain, revenue slumped 13 percent to 3.82 billion
euros, while Oibda contracted 14 percent to 1.72 billion euros
in the quarter. In May alone, Telefonica lost more than 204,000
mobile-phone lines in the country, bringing its market share to
38.04 percent from 38.24 percent in April, data from the CMT
regulator showed.  Telefonica is struggling to compete with cheaper local
competitors such as  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo unit and  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ) 
Spain will increase the most common rate of  sales tax  to 21
percent from 18 percent on Sept. 1, a move that may further curb
spending on phone and Internet subscriptions.  Acquisition Spree  For the full year, Telefonica now predicts revenue will be
at least unchanged, compared with a previous forecast for more
than 1 percent growth. The company confirmed its full-year Oibda
target for a “lower margin decline” compared with the 2.1
percentage point shrinkage in 2011.  Second-quarter revenue from  Latin America  climbed 5.8
percent to 7.45 billion euros, while Oibda rose 0.7 percent to
2.66 billion euros, Telefonica said.  About $42 billion in  acquisitions  over two decades in Latin
America, which culminated in the $10 billion takeover of
Brazilian mobile operator Vivo Participacoes SA in 2010, made
Telefonica the most acquisitive Spanish company in the region.
In 1998, when Telefonica decided to suspend a dividend to
finance its expansion in Latin America, the company continued to
 remunerate  investors with bonus shares.  Yet, as debt increases and demand for phone services in
Spain shrinks, CEO Alierta has to unravel that strategy. During
the quarter, Telefonica sold a $1.4 billion stake in  China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and announced plans to raise cash by
selling shares in its German and Latin American businesses.  “Telefonica is obsessed with strengthening its financial
structure,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist
at FGA/MG Valores. “It’s a clearly defensive move that shows
the fragile situation not only of Telefonica but of the whole
Spanish market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  