-- Telefonica Czech Net Falls 13% as Call Spending Declines
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-07-25T08:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/telefonica-czech-second-quarter-profit-falls-13-on-less-calls.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT) , the
country’s largest phone operator, posted a 13 percent decline in
second-quarter profit as clients spent less on calls.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 was 1.63
billion koruna ($76.9 million) from 1.87 billion koruna a year
ago, the Prague-based company said in a regulatory filing today.
Revenue declined 2.3 percent to 12.8 billion koruna.  The results are in line with estimates and should be
“neutral” to the stock, although results at the Slovakian unit
are a “sweet surprise,” J&T Banka analyst  Milan Vanicek  wrote
in a note to clients today. Vanicek recommends investors to
“hold” the stock.  Telefonica Czech, a unit of  Spain ’s largest
telecommunications company, has been battling a decline in
earnings, which peaked in 2005, by streamlining operations and
laying off employees. The operator plans to deploy new
generation mobile technology and a fiber optic network to boost
income from Internet data services and compensate for a decline
in traditional voice services.  Smartphone penetration among Telefonica’s clients reached
23 percent, the company said. The number of mobile contract
customers rose 5.3 percent from a year ago, it said.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization fell
5.7 percent to 4.9 billion koruna in the quarter from a year
ago, Telefonica said.  Shares Decline  Telefonica declined 2.7 koruna or less than 1 percent to
381.3 koruna as of 9:11 a.m. in Prague trading today.  The company expanded its 3G network, which, at the end of
June was available for about 76 percent of the population in the
 Czech Republic . Telefonica also continued to upgrade its fixed
broadband network, including deployment of fiber-optic,
Telefonica said.  The company’s Slovak unit delivered a “strong” set of
commercial and financial results in the second quarter, and
strengthened its position in the Slovak market, Telefonica said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  