-- Elizabeth Warren Says Capital One Case a Warning to Card Issuers
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-07-25T16:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/elizabeth-warren-says-capital-one-case-a-warning-to-card-issuers.html
Elizabeth Warren , the Democratic
candidate for Senate from Massachusetts, said the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau’s first enforcement action,
announced last week against  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , should
serve as a warning to other credit-card issuers.  “It’s not just the impact on Capital One, it’s the impact
on the whole industry,” Warren said in a telephone interview.
“The other credit card issuers have got to be looking around
saying ‘Here’s an agency that is serious’.”  Warren, often credited with helping conceive the consumer
bureau established as part of the Dodd-Frank law of 2010, helped
set up the agency as an adviser to President  Barack Obama . Obama
ultimately passed her over as its first director in favor of
 Richard Cordray , a former Ohio attorney general.  Warren said that the bureau’s first settlement, which
totaled $210 million in partnership with the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, went against the conventional
wisdom in Washington.  “If you’ve never done something before, the advice is
always ‘Do something at the margin. There won’t be
controversy’,” Warren said. “There is nothing namby-pamby
about what they did.”  Warren said the outcome vindicates her effort to ensure
that the bureau had broad powers, including supervision and
enforcement, so that it could identify a problem and pursue it
to settlement.  “The agency has all the tools and it is starting to use
them together to have more impact,” Warren said. “It’s
exciting to watch this happen.”  Warren criticized Republicans for continuing to push
legislation that would restructure the agency and impose
restrictions on its funding.  Scott Brown , the Republican senator
from Massachusetts who is her opponent, was one of three
Republican senators to vote in favor of Dodd-Frank.  “Republicans are trying to make this agency less
independent,” she said. “They want to keep it on a short
political leash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  