-- Emerging Stocks Fall to 7-Week Low on China, Earnings
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-25T22:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/emerging-stocks-fall-to-1-month-low-on-china-earnings-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
sending the benchmark index to the lowest level in a month, on
concern a global economic slowdown will erode developing
nations’ earnings.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped for a fourth day,
losing 0.4 percent to 905.65 at 5:52 p.m. in  New York .
Technology companies, which make up  13 percent  of the gauge,
 slid  1.4 percent, after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  reported lower-than-estimated
earnings. Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index fell for a fourth day
with port developer  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  and iron-ore producer  Vale
SA (VALE3) , the heaviest-weighted stocks on the gauge, declining.  Earnings for emerging-market companies have trailed
 forecasts  by 4.6 percent on average since July 1, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Demand for new U.S. homes dropped in
June from a two-year high, indicating the country’s housing
recovery will be uneven. European Central Bank council member
 Ewald Nowotny  suggested the bank may boost the region’s bailout
fund to curb the worsening  European debt crisis .  “A slowdown in emerging markets has meant that corporate
profitability is being hit and remains vulnerable with little
visibility ahead,” Kunal Vora, an analyst at FM Capital
Partners Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to clients. “All in
all, clouds of a global recession seem to be getting darker.”  MSCI’s index of developing nations, which has lost 1.2
percent this year, trades at a multiple of 10 times estimated
earnings, compared with 12.1 for the MSCI World Index of
developed nations, which has advanced 1.6 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EM ETF Rebounds  The IShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, rose for the
first time in four days, gaining 0.5 percent to $37.60. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, decreased 3.3 percent to 28.27.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index dropped 0.1 percent to the lowest in
seven weeks as Vale fell for the eighth day and LLX slid 6.1
percent. Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  rose 0.1 percent as  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) ,
Russia’s largest lender with the third-biggest weight on the
benchmark Russian gauge, gained 2.1 percent.  Home purchases  decreased to a 350,000 annual rate, down 8.4
percent from the prior month, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 74 economists was 372,000.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.5 percent to the lowest
level since March 2009. Achieving a so-called “soft landing”
for  China  is a key challenge, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in an annual review. It repeated an assessment that the
 yuan  is “moderately” undervalued, which China disputed.  Banking License  The ECB’s Nowotny said there are arguments in favor of
giving Europe’s rescue fund a banking license, reviving the
debate on bolstering its firepower as leaders face the prospect
of a full-scale Spanish bailout.  Apple sank 4.3 percent after reporting iPhone sales that
missed analysts’ projections. The company sold 26 million
iPhones in the fiscal third quarter, shy of the 28.4 million
predicted by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That caused Apple
to miss analysts’ quarterly sales and profit estimates for the
second time since 2003.  Technology Stocks  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , which assembles Apple
products, dropped 4.3 percent in Taipei, the biggest retreat
since April 30.  Gome reported an 88 percent profit decline in the first
quarter as China stopped subsidizing some home appliance
purchases.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s fourth-largest
mobile-phone maker, fell 2.1 percent in Seoul after it reported
profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  sank to the lowest level since Oct. 10.
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said the nation risks
failing to meet a growth estimate for 2012 that the central bank
already cut two weeks ago because of Europe’s debt crisis. The
won depreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar.  The BSE India  Sensitive (SENSEX)  Index lost 0.4 percent. Jindal
Steel & Power Ltd., India’s second-biggest maker of the alloy by
market value, fell 4.6 percent to its lowest close in three
years, after first-quarter profit unexpectedly declined because
of an impairment charge on an investment in Bolivia.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 369, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net  