-- EPA Will End Dimock Water Deliveries After Final Water Tests
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-25T20:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/epa-ends-water-deliveries-in-pennsylvania-after-tests-correct-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said it will end water deliveries to residents of Dimock,
 Pennsylvania , after tests of wells near a gas drilling operation
found no unsafe levels of contaminants.  Residents in an area of the northeast Pennsylvania town
complained that their wells had been tainted during drilling by
 Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  The EPA stepped in after state officials
last year let Cabot stop its water deliveries.  “The sampling and an evaluation of the particular
circumstances at each home did not indicate levels of
contaminants that would give EPA reason to take further
action,” Shawn Garvin, the EPA regional administrator, said in
a statement.  Dimock, featured in Josh Fox’s anti-fracking movie
“Gasland,” had become a symbol of possible threats to water
from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which millions of
gallons of water are shot underground with sand and chemicals to
blast apart rock and free trapped gas. Actor  Mark Ruffalo 
delivered water to Dimock residents last year.  Cabot had agreed with Pennsylvania state regulators to
provide families with fresh water, install water filters and pay
each affected family twice the value of their home. The Houston-
based company set aside $4.1 million to pay claims stemming from
residents’ complaints. Its sampling found the water there was
safe, and after some residents refused to settle, it cut off
water deliveries last year.  Consistent Results  The findings today by the EPA “are consistent with
thousands of pages of water-quality data previously accumulated
by state and local authorities and by Cabot,” George Stark, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Cabot will
continue to cooperate with federal, state and local officials in
using the best and most accurate science to address public
concerns.”  For proponents of the gas-drilling industry, which are
fending off complaints from environmental groups such as the
 Sierra Club , the EPA’s decision today is a victory.  “We are very pleased that EPA has arrived upon these fact-
based findings, and that we’re now able to close this chapter
once and for all,” Kathryn Klaber, president of the Marcellus
Shale Coalition, an industry group based in Pittsburgh, said in
a statement.  Obama Role  Dimock was a test for the administration of President
 Barack Obama , who has celebrated the economic benefits of
increased natural-gas production in the U.S. and the gain for
chemical, refining and manufacturing plants. At the same time
the EPA has moved to regulate air emissions from fracking and
interceded in local water disputes between residents and gas
drillers in  Wyoming  and  Texas .  In each of those instances, the EPA has retreated, settling
the case with  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  in Texas and agreeing to re-
test water in Pavillion, Wyoming.  The EPA said today that it had tested 64 private wells in
Dimock, and found five with arsenic, barium or manganese that
“could present a health concern.”  “In all cases the residents have now or will have their
own treatment systems that can reduce concentrations of those
hazardous substances to acceptable levels at the tap,” the
agency said in its statement.  This weekend anti-fracking activists plan a rally in
Washington, with a protest outside the White House and a march
to the headquarters of the American Natural Gas Alliance, an
industry advocacy group, where they will drop off jugs of
contaminated water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  