-- Merkel Ally Says Greece May Need Debt Cut to Stay in Euro
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-07-25T12:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/merkel-ally-says-greece-may-need-second-debt-cut-to-stay-in-euro.html
Greece  may need a second debt
restructuring to stay in the euro, a leading political ally of
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said.  The comments by  Norbert Barthle , the  Christian Democratic
Union ’s parliamentary budget spokesman, are the first indication
by a senior German official that additional help for Greece may
be forthcoming to avert the market turmoil that would be
triggered by its exit from the 17-nation currency region.  “We should try to keep Greece in the euro zone,” Barthle
said by phone today. If action is needed to do so, “not just
taxpayers but also private creditors would again be involved in
helping Greece, but under strict conditionality,” as under the
first restructuring, he said. “Greece must fulfil the terms of
its bailout and terms of privatisation.”  Greece’s so-called troika of international creditors, the
 European Central Bank , the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund , are in Athens this week amid doubts
the country will meet its bailout targets and reluctance among
 Germany  and other euro-area states to put up more funds should
Greece fail to do so.  “We really do have to wait for the troika report,”
Barthle said, adding that debt restructuring was a “possible
solution” and was not yet a topic of discussion among his
coalition colleagues. Even so, “of course we have to think what
action might be needed if the worst comes to the worst,” he
said. “But it will cost us a lot of money.”  ECB Holdings  Greece underwent the biggest debt restructuring in history
in March when private creditors forgave 100 billion euros ($121
billion). By April, of Greece’s residual 266 billion euros of
debt, about 194 billion euros -- or 73 percent -- was held by
the ECB, euro-area governments and the IMF, according to the
Greek Debt Management Office in Athens.  Evangelos Venizelos , leader of Greece’s Pasok party and a
former finance minister, advocates a writedown of Greek
 government bonds  held by the ECB to further cut the country’s
public debt.  Greek debt can be cut by 12 percentage points if the ECB
takes a “haircut” and by 25 percentage points with the
transfer of 50 billion euros of bank recapitalization funds to
the euro rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
Venizelos said July 7.  EU Scenarios  The European Union is studying scenarios to stop Greece
from bankruptcy, German newspaper Die Zeit reported today,
citing sources it didn’t name. With EU member states unwilling
to commit to anther bailout, officials are considering a new
debt restructuring under which state creditors, among them
Germany, would accept losses, it said.  The German Finance Ministry declined to comment on the
report. “Where there are delays, Greece will have to make up
for them,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Bild
newspaper in an interview published yesterday. “Once the troika
reports, the euro group will deliberate.”  Barthle’s comments contradict Germany’s vice chancellor and
economy minister, Philipp Roesler, who told broadcaster ARD on
July 22 that he is “very skeptical” Greece can be rescued and
the prospect of its exit from the monetary union “has long ago
lost its terror.”  ‘No Reason’  Those remarks earned him international and domestic
criticism, with German opposition parties calling for Merkel to
sack him and Klaus-Peter Flosbach, a senior CDU lawmaker,
telling Handelsblatt’s online edition that “there was
absolutely no reason to start this debate now.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras took a swipe at
Roesler without referring to him by name, telling lawmakers in
 Athens  yesterday that officials who question his country’s
ability to stay in the euro are “irresponsible.”  “There are some foreign officials, who every so often come
out and assume that Greece won’t make it,” Samaras said. “I
consider them -- I say openly and publicly -- to be those who
undermine the national effort. We are doing what we can to keep
the country upright and they do whatever they can to ensure our
failure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  