-- Terumo Plans Merger With Olympus to Scupper Sony Bid
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-07-26T07:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/terumo-plans-merger-with-olympus-to-scupper-sony-bid.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  rallied the most in
six months in  Tokyo  trading after  Terumo Corp. (4543)  sought to out
maneuver  Sony Corp. (6758)  by investing 50 billion yen ($640 million)
and merging with the camera maker.  Terumo,  Asia ’s biggest maker of medical devices, wants to
form a committee with Olympus to discuss a merger, Terumo
spokesman Tetsuya Kumei said by telephone today. Tokyo-based
Olympus is also in discussions with Sony and  Fujifilm Holdings
Corp. (4901)  about possible tie-ups, Olympus Chairman Yasuyuki Kimoto
said in a July 23 interview.  A combined Terumo-Olympus would rank among the top six
medical equipment suppliers worldwide, from 12th and 13th
positions now, Terumo said in a statement today. Terumo and Sony
are proposing similar investments, said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief
 fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which manages
about $6.3 billion. Olympus needs more capital after an
accounting fraud wiped about $4 billion off its market value.  “It’s good to have a rival to Sony because the competition
will drive up the value of Olympus,” Fujiwara said by telephone
today. “Terumo will help strengthen its medical devices
business, while Sony will help turn around its camera business
and improve its imaging technology for endoscopes.”  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus is the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, used to peer
inside the body. It controls about 75 percent of the global
market for the instruments, which are used to diagnose diseases
such as colorectal cancer.  Stock Rally  Terumo shares  declined  0.8 percent to close at 3,070 yen in
Tokyo trading. Olympus jumped 9.6 percent to 1,400 yen, the
biggest one-day gain since Jan. 10.  The stock, which plunged 59 percent in 2011, has recovered
by 38 percent this year. Olympus has a market value of 380
trillion yen, while Terumo is worth 583 trillion yen.  No agreement has been reached with Olympus on the merger
proposal, Terumo said in the statement, posted on its website.  Terumo is appealing to Olympus shareholders by disclosing
an outline of its offer, while Olympus is in final talks with
Sony on a capital tie-up, the Nikkei newspaper reported today.
 George Boyd , a Sony spokesman, declined to comment.  Olympus’s management team, led by Kimoto and President
Hiroyuki Sasa, has also been considering alliance offers from
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)   Needing Capital  “We need some sort of capital increase rather quickly,”
Kimoto said in this week’s interview in Tokyo. The discussions
probably will continue for two months or more, and the company
plans to make a decision by the end of the year, he said, adding
that Olympus needs to find “a partner or some partners.”  Forming an alliance with Panasonic is ‘less likely,’’ while
the door is “still left open” for Fujifilm, Kimoto said.
Fujifilm is “still waiting for a reply from Olympus” on its
offer, Takao Aoki, a spokesman said July 24.  Olympus restated  earnings  last year, taking a $1.3 billion
cut in total equity, after admitting it paid inflated fees on
takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese companies to conceal
past investment losses. Net assets fell to 46 billion yen as of
Sept. 30, from 151 billion yen reported in the previous quarter,
according to company filings.  Olympus also is considering funding through a public share
sale, President Hiroyuki Sasa said in an interview last month.  Foregoing an alliance would allow Olympus to pursue a
business strategy independently, while a tie-up may help
accelerate growth in its camera and medical businesses, Sasa
said. He said 50 billion yen is a “rough guideline” for how
much the company may raise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 