-- MetLife Names Arch’s Hele CFO as Kandarian Reshapes Firm
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-25T20:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/metlife-names-arch-s-hele-cfo-as-kandarian-reshapes-firm.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, named John Hele to oversee finances as Chief Executive
Officer Steven Kandarian reshapes management and seeks to reduce
 risk  tied to stock market declines and low  interest rates .  Hele is stepping down as chief financial officer of Arch
Capital Group Ltd. to take the same post at the life insurer. He
starts the new role on Sept. 4, New York-based MetLife said
today in a statement.  MetLife is seeking to expand sales of group benefits, such
as dental and disability coverage sold through employers, while
curtailing volume in variable annuities, the equity-linked
retirement products that add to liabilities when markets
decline. Kandarian has targeted a return on equity of 12 percent
to 14 percent by 2016, from 10.3 percent in 2011.  “The goal is to shift toward a more predictable earnings
stream and stronger free cash flows,” Kandarian said May 23 at
an investor presentation.  MetLife has plunged 31 percent in the past 12 months in  New
York  trading while Arch advanced 18 percent.  Hele, 53, was CFO at ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, before joining Arch in 2009. He’s
also worked in  investment banking  at Merrill Lynch, MetLife said
in the statement. Hele has a bachelor’s degree in mathematics at
the University of Waterloo in  Canada .  World Markets  “His deep technical expertise, knowledge of world markets,
strong risk management skills and proven leadership ability will
serve our customers and shareholders well,” Kandarian said in
today’s statement.  The search for a CFO was announced last year when MetLife
said that William Wheeler, who held the job since 2003, was
named president of the new Americas division. Kandarian, who was
promoted to CEO from chief investment officer in 2011,
reorganized leadership by giving top managers responsibility for
geographic regions.  Michel Khalaf, who joined MetLife with the purchase of
American Life Insurance Co. from American International Group
Inc. in 2010 for about $16 billion, was named last year to run
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . MetLife said May 8 it was
hiring Christopher Townsend from AIG to lead operations in Asia.  Mark Lyons, who was CEO of the Arch Worldwide Insurance
Group unit, was selected to replace Hele as CFO, the Bermuda-
based insurer said today in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  