-- Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Hires JPMorgan, Goldman for IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-25T22:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/metro-goldwyn-mayer-parent-files-for-possible-ipo.html
MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB) , the parent of
Hollywood studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to manage its initial public
offering, according to two people familiar with the situation.  JPMorgan will lead the share sale, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
MGM submitted a draft IPO registration statement confidentially
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Los Angeles-
based company said in a press release dated today, without
disclosing details of the offering.  An IPO may help raise more money to make films. MGM filed
for bankruptcy in 2010 after spurning a takeover bid from  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and activist investor  Carl Icahn , and
emerged less than two months later. The studio holds rights to
J.R.R. Tolkien’s “The Hobbit” and to the James Bond movies,
and is working through other studios to release its pictures.  Sony Corp. (SNE)  released the most recent Bond movie, “Quantum
of Solace,” in 2008. The next one, “Skyfall,” is due out in
November.  For “The Hobbit,” MGM has partnered with  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., which will release the first of two planned
films in December. Director Peter Jackson may make a third
installment, the Los Angeles Times reported yesterday, citing
people with knowledge of the situation.  MGM’s near-term production slate also includes “Hope
Springs,” with Meryl Streep and Steve Carell, and a remake of
“Robocop,” both being released by Sony, and “Hansel & Gretel:
Witch Hunters,” which will be distributed by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s
Paramount Pictures.  Studio Management  The studio is run by  Gary Barber , founder of Spyglass
Entertainment Group Inc., and his partner Roger Birnbaum, who
serve as co-chairmen and co-chief executive officers.  MGM obtained a $500 million revolving credit facility in
February, which it used to retire its previous debt and invest
in its film and television business, according to a statement at
the time. JPMorgan Chase and Deutsche Bank led the financing.  Icahn, who converted debt into equity in the bankruptcy, is
MGM’s largest shareholder, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation. Other investors include Highland Capital
Management LP, Solus Alternative Asset Management LP and
Anchorage Capital Group LLC, each of which has board
representation.  Icahn didn’t respond to a telephone request for comment.  JOBS Act  MGM Holdings filed under the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, known at the  JOBS Act , which lets companies with
annual sales of less than $1 billion file IPO registrations
confidentially with the SEC. The law, enacted in April, requires
that the companies make their filings public 21 days before
starting a road show to market to investors.  The law was designed to let companies explore a stock
offering without revealing their plans to competitors and the
general public, according to Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of New
York-based PrivCo LLC, which tracks data on closely held
companies. MGM may still be considering a sale of the whole
business to another buyer, he said.  “These independent studios tend to have a hit-driven
business,” Hamadeh said in a telephone interview. “They don’t
make good public companies.”  Susie Arons, a spokeswoman for MGM Holdings, declined to
comment on when the studio might start its road show.  The company is considering selling shares as the U.S. IPO
market is set for its busiest week since April, with companies
including Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group Inc. attempting to raise
as much as $824 million in total, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The sales follow  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s disappointing debut in
May that froze the IPO market for more than a month.  Mayer, Kerkorian  IPOs earlier this month by  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) ,  Kayak
Software Corp. (KYAK)  and teen retailer  Five Below Inc. (FIVE)  paved the way
for more share sales after the companies surged in their first
days of trading.  MGM traces its roots back to the 1924 merger of Metro
Pictures Corp., Goldwyn Pictures and Louis B. Mayer Productions,
according to its  website . The studio’s Academy Award-winning
films over the years include “Gone With the Wind,” “West Side
Story,” “Rocky” and “The Silence of the Lambs.”  The studio was bought and sold by billionaire  Kirk Kerkorian  three times from the late 1960s to 2005, when it was
purchased by a Sony-led group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  