-- EU Approves Spain Bank Support Plan as Step to Euro Area Aid
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-25T11:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/eu-approves-spanish-bank-support-plan-as-step-to-euro-area-aid.html
The European Commission approved a
Spanish program to bolster the capital of some of the country’s
banks and said lenders receiving aid won’t be able to pay
dividends.  The program is for banks requiring interim state support,
before raising private funds in the medium term. It can also be
used for lenders with shortfalls that jeopardize their license
or financial stability, the Commission said in Brussels today.
Conditions for receiving the funds include bans on dividend
payments and coupons for hybrid capital instruments, it said.  The recapitalization “is the first stepping stone” for
 Spain  to fulfill conditions it has agreed on in exchange for
getting euro-area aid,  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s
antitrust chief, said in an e-mailed statement. The measures
approved today will run until the end of 2012.  Spain has agreed to a European bailout of its banks of as
much as 100 billion euros ($121 billion) and the final size of
that aid package will be decided after stress test results due
in September. The four banks, including Bankia, that are already
under state control will receive European funds “very
quickly,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on July 23.  “The Spanish financial sector will be rebuilt on a
healthier basis,” Almunia said. “This is a key precondition
for sustainable growth in Spain.”  In a separate decision, the Commission approved aid to
support the sale of UNNIM Banc SA’s banking activities to  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest lender. The
aid will be used for restructuring at UNNIM Banc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  