-- EU Countries May Advance Farm Payments on Financial Crisis
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-25T16:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/eu-countries-may-advance-farm-payments-on-financial-crisis-1-.html
European Union countries may advance
farmer direct payments earlier than usual to address “liquidity
problems” stemming from the financial crisis and unfavorable
weather conditions, the European Commission said.  EU member countries may advance 50 percent of direct
payments under the Common Agricultural  Policy  and 80 percent of
beef and veal payments beginning Oct. 16, before the usual date
of Dec. 1, the commission, the EU’s executive arm, said today in
an e-mailed statement. The proposal was backed by the EU’s
Direct Payments Management Committee today, the commission said.  Farmers face “exceptional conditions caused by the ongoing
financial crisis and unfavorable climatic conditions,” the
commission said.  Livestock feed prices have surged globally as the benchmark
price of corn climbed 56 percent since mid-June on the Chicago
Board of Trade, with the most-active contract touching a record
$8 a bushel on July 23. The worst U.S. drought in decades has
damaged crops, with the government rating corn and soybean
conditions as the worst since 1988.  EU grain and oilseed farmers are contending with dry
weather in southern and eastern regions, while too much rain has
delayed crops in northern and western countries, the bloc’s
crop-forecasting unit said July 23. The EU is the world’s
biggest grower of wheat and rapeseed and ranks third for beef
production, after the U.S. and  Brazil .  Ten countries -- Portugal,  Spain ,  Italy ,  Greece ,  Lithuania ,
Hungary, France, Latvia, Romania and Ireland -- have requested
advance payments for farmers, the commission said.  Greece, Spain  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will meet with the
commission,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund representatives July 27 amid concern the country will fail
to abide by the commitments needed to obtain continued financial
aid. Yields on Spain’s two-year notes rose to as much as 7.15
percent earlier today, climbing above 7 percent for the first
time since the single currency came into being.  In a separate decision, the direct payments committee said
farmers and milk producers in northern Italy, who were affected
by an earthquake in May, can receive advances of 50 percent from
Aug. 1, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  