-- EU May Cut More Than Half of Carbon Permits Sold in 2013
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-07-25T16:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/eu-may-cut-more-than-half-of-carbon-permits-sold-in-2013.html
European Union carbon permits
declined as much as 6.3 percent because of doubts that the
bloc’s regulator will approve a cut in supply before auctions
start in 2013.  Carbon for December dropped as low as 6.75 euros ($8.19) a
metric ton on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange after the
European Commission published a draft  proposal  to delay sales
for 2013 through 2015, and EU Commissioner for Climate Action
Connie Hedegaard said she was confident the measure would gain
approval this year.  “The EU always struggles to move fast,” said Mark Owen-
Lloyd, head of  emissions trading  at CF Partners (U.K.) LLP in
London, which manages carbon allowances on behalf of clients.  The commission today published a proposal to amend its
auctioning regulation, together with a document that studied
scenarios in which as many as 1.2 billion permits would be
withheld from the market. It also published a draft amendment to
its emissions-trading directive that would add a single line
reasserting the regulator’s legal right to amend the auctioning
schedule.  The speed with which the commission can act is a matter
“not so much of the political will but the political ability,”
Owen-Lloyd said.  United Nations offsets fell to records as EU permit prices
declined. Certified Emission Reductions for December slid 10
percent to 2.84 euros a ton at 4:59 p.m. in  London , while
Emission Reduction Units weakened 9.8 percent to 2.59 euros. EU
permits for December were at 6.87 euros.  Comitology Process  Under the bloc’s  comitology  process, the proposal to amend
the auctioning schedule has been sent to the Climate Change
Committee, which is composed of representatives of member
states. The committee, which meets once a month, will begin to
consider the proposal at its next meeting, scheduled for Sept.
19, Hedegaard said today in a phone interview from Brussels. It
will also consider the results of a  stakeholder consultation 
that began today and is set to end Oct. 3.  After deciding on the volume to be withheld, the climate
change committee will take a final vote on the draft, which
could take place at its November meeting. The decision will then
be sent to the European Parliament and  member states  for a fixed
three-month period of scrutiny. At the end of the scrutiny
period, the proposal may be formally adopted by the commission
and come into force without further delay.  The regulator today also sent its one-line change to the
emissions-trading directive to the European Parliament and the
member states.  Fast-Track  Under the so-called “fast-track”  co-decision  process, the
bloc’s assembly and the 27 nations may approve amendments to
existing directives in as little as one month. Previous examples
of this process include the adoption of changes to the
conclusions of the Arhus Convention on Access to Information in
Environmental Matters in 2006.  “I’m quite confident that member states realize the market
needs clarity before the end of this year,” Hedegaard  said.
“If the political will is there, the market can know by the end
of this year.”  The earliest possible date by which the market regulator
can enact the changes would be March 2013, Matthew Cowie, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London, said today in
an e-mailed note. The most realistic date is the third quarter
of 2013, he said.  More Uncertain  “The biggest remaining question is how the directive and
auctioning decisions can overlap,” he said. “We are still in a
more uncertain position than we were two weeks ago,” when the
market did not foresee an amendment to the emissions-trading
directive, he said.  The EU may withhold as many as 650 million tons of
allowances out of a total of 1.15 billion tons of permits
planned for auction in 2013, according to one scenario in the
report published on the website of the EU commission in
Brussels. The bloc may cut auction volumes by 300 million tons
in 2014 and 50 million in 2015. Under a less-ambitious scenario,
2013 volumes would be cut by 200 million tons, 2014 by 150
million and 2015 by 50 million.  The volume taken out over the three years through 2015
would potentially be returned in the three years through 2020,
according to the draft law.  The EU market began in 2005 to help cut emissions linked to
 climate change . Carbon emitted from cars, power stations and
factories will need to be reduced by an average of 6 percent a
year to stabilize the Earth’s climate by 2100, the U.S. National
Aeronautics and Space Administration said in April. Pricing
emissions is the world’s best hope, it said.  Exceed Goal  Europe’s program has helped. The amount of emissions
dropped 2 percent in 2011 in the market. The EU may exceed its
goal of a 20 percent cut in the 10 years to 2020, the European
Energy Agency said in October.  The recession has roiled the region’s carbon market,
leaving demand lower. In the first phase an oversupply of
permits caused prices to collapse to 1 euro cent a ton in 2007.
After allocations were cut 9.4 percent, they rebounded,
surpassing 29 euros a ton in 2008.  The EU market will probably still be oversupplied by the
equivalent of a year’s total allowances by 2020, Barclays Plc
forecast on June 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  