-- European Funds Face Tougher Rules for Securities Lending
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-25T16:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/european-fund-managers-face-tougher-rules-for-security-lending.html
Europe ’s top markets regulator
proposed tougher rules for managers of funds for retail
investors, tightening guidelines on  securities lending  and
moving profits from such loans directly to investors.  Fund managers lending securities to other funds, typically
for the purpose of short selling, should ensure they can recall
the securities and cancel the arrangement at any time, the
European Securities and Markets Authority said today. The
profits of the transaction should go directly to investors
because they bear the risk, the ESMA said.  European regulators are trying to make investors aware of
the lending process and remove the incentive for funds to lend
more assets by requiring them to pass on the profits from the
practice to customers. Investors risk losing their assets if the
counterparty borrowing them is declared bankrupt, as happened
with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “These comprehensive guidelines are aimed at strengthening
investor protection and harmonizing regulatory practices across
this important European Union fund sector,” Steven Maijoor,
chairman of Paris-based ESMA, said in a e-mailed statement
today.  European funds lend about 30 percent more of their
securities than do counterparts in  North America , according to
CACEIS Investor Services, a custodian and trading unit of  Credit
Agricole SA. (ACA)   More Lending  In the second quarter of 2010, about 31 percent of European
sovereign bonds and 12 percent of equities in the region were on
loan, CACEIS has  reported . That compares with 19 percent of
North American sovereign debt and 8 percent of the region’s
equities.  Peter de Proft, director general of the  European Fund and
Asset Management Association , declined to comment on ESMA’s
proposals before consulting with his members. The European
Federation of Investors didn’t return a call seeking comment.  ESMA, set up in 2011 to harmonize market rules across the
27-nation EU, is overhauling regulations governing fund
managers. The agency last month proposed that bonuses for senior
hedge-fund managers should be deferred to align their personal
interests with the amount of risk their firm takes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  