-- Europe High-Grade Companies in Financing Challenge, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-07-25T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/europe-high-grade-companies-in-financing-challenge-moody-s-says.html
Investment-grade borrowers seeking
to refinance $1.2 trillion of debt in  Europe  by 2016 face higher
borrowing costs and restricted access to credit markets,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Bank loans account for around $380 billion of debt coming
due and so most pressure will be on bond markets, Moody’s
analysts wrote in a report. Issuers will struggle to refinance
if stressed market conditions weaken investor appetite for
company debt, they said.  “Given challenging macroeconomic conditions, we expect
that the average credit quality of European non-financial
corporates will continue to deteriorate,” Moody’s analysts led
by Jean-Michel Carayon in Paris wrote in the report. “Issuers
will face escalating funding costs and constrained access to
loan and bond markets as their credit quality declines.”  The corporate credit market is so far riding out Europe’s
debt crisis with company bonds offering a haven for investors
faced with negative yields on the sovereign notes of  Germany ,
 Finland  and the Netherlands. Investment-grade corporate debt
yields fell to a record 2.31 percent on July 20, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates, Non-Financial
index.  Companies with large refinancing needs and limited  market
access  may suffer rapid deterioration in liquidity and possible
rating downgrades, the analysts said. For some, a shift from
investment grade to junk will mean a change in market access,
according to the report.  ‘Weakening Conditions’  “While weakening conditions could erode the cash positions
corporates have built up, they still have the capacity to
weather a moderate and temporary market closure,” according to
the report. “Bond-market access has recently narrowed for low-
rated non-investment grade credits and market aversion now also
extends to some investment-grade companies in Italy and  Spain .”  There are 308 companies rated investment-grade by New York-
based Moody’s in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  and they
have $747 billion in bonds maturing between 2013 and 2016.
Issuers with ratings of A3 and Baa1, the seventh- and eighth-
highest investment-grade levels according to Moody’s, have the
most debt falling due.  Bonds sold by utilities represent 20 percent of securities
needing refinancing, with energy, telecommunications and car
companies also having significants amounts of notes maturing.  Italian and Spanish high-grade borrowers, which have a
total of 132 billion euros ($160 billion) of debt maturing
between 2013 and 2016, will be challenged to fully refinance if
the current sentiment persists, Moody’s said.  Issuers may need to provide “significant amounts of
additional security” to woo investors and banks to supply
funding, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  