-- Everything Everywhere May Face Face Delay in 4G Rollout
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-25T13:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/everything-everywhere-may-face-face-delay-in-4g-rollout.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s U.K. mobile-phone venture may have to delay the
rollout of faster data services as the first operator this year
because regulator Ofcom is still working on the permission.  The watchdog’s chief executive officer Ed Richards said
yesterday that Ofcom would continue to work on the application
through August. Olaf Swantee, the CEO of the Everything
Everywhere venture, said today in an interview that the
company’s own timetable might be jeopardized as “we need to
have the liberalization during the summer months.”  Everything Everwhere, which had planned to deploy the new
network by the end of 2012, needs permission to run the faster
services on its existing airwaves and move ahead of  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which are waiting for more
frequencies to become available at an 2.6 billion-pound ($4
billion) frequency auction before starting their own services.  Ofcom, which first told Everything Everywhere in January
that its application to use the existing spectrum would be
considered in the first quarter, is “keen to progress as
quickly as possible,” Richards said yesterday as he unveiled
plans to auction airwaves next year. “It’s being worked on
intensively.”  Faster Networks  Mobile broadband based on so-called fourth-generation
networks will be rolled out to at least 98 percent of villages
and cities across the U.K., regulator Ofcom said. Bidding for
frequencies will start early next year and is planned to be
completed by March, the watchdog said. That would allow Vodafone
and Telefonica to roll out faster networks from the middle of
2013.  The auction, which had been delayed several times following
threatened legal challenges from the operators, will sell
airwaves equivalent to three-quarters of the spectrum currently
being used.  The British carriers are seeking to offer high-speed
services to persuade subscribers to use more applications on
smartphones including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  Based on the amounts spent in Sweden and Germany, the U.K.
auction may raise as much as 2.6 billion pounds, according to
research firm Analysys Mason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  