-- Ex-Diamondback Manager Aided FBI Insider Probe, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-25T23:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ex-diamondback-manager-aided-fbi-insider-probe-u-s-says.html
Anthony Scolaro, a former portfolio
manager for Diamondback Capital Management LLC, provided
“substantial assistance” to a federal probe of insider trading
at  hedge funds , according to U.S. prosecutors.  Scolaro, who pleaded guilty in November 2010 to conspiracy
and  securities fraud , made at least 43 recorded calls with
various individuals that were monitored by the FBI, assistant
U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and Antonia Apps said in a letter to
the court filed today in  Manhattan .  He also helped develop “leads and other valuable
information” in connection with a search executed at
Diamondback, as well as the government’s crackdown on so-called
expert-networking consultants, according to the letter.  “Scolaro’s timely cooperation with the government was
substantial,” Brodsky and Apps said. “Scolaro’s cooperation
provided the government with valuable information about the
hedge fund industry and the use of matchmaking firms. Scolaro’s
cooperation led directly to several investigations.”  Scolaro is scheduled to be sentenced on July 30 by U.S.
District Judge William Pauley in New York. He admitted to
participating in an  insider-trading  scheme with Franz Tudor, a
former Galleon Group LLC fund manager in a conspiracy that began
in October 2007 and ended in 2008.  20 Years  The U.S. didn’t disclose that Scolaro pleaded guilty until
May 2011. The most serious charge of securities fraud carries a
term of as long as 20 years in prison.  In pleading guilty, Scolaro said that while he was a
portfolio manager at Diamondback’s  Stamford , Connecticut,
offices, he learned from Tudor that Axcan Pharma Inc. was going
to be acquired by TBG Capital. Scolaro admitted to purchasing
“tens of thousands of shares” of Axcan based on Tudor’s
information and eventually made about $1.1 million in profit
from the illegal tip.  As soon as FBI agents approached Scolaro, prosecutors said,
he admitted responsibility and started cooperating. He met with
the FBI about 75 times during an 18-month period prior to the
unsealing of his case in May 2011, Brodsky and Apps said.  ‘Never Complained’  “Since being approached by the FBI, Scolaro never
complained or hesitated in providing assistance to the
government,” they wrote.  In late November 2010,  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agents from New York and  Boston  executed search warrants at the
offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback, firms
founded by alumni of SAC Capital Advisors LP. Agents that day
also searched the offices of Loch Capital Management in Boston.  Prosecutors said that Scolaro provided information that was
used in connection with obtaining a warrant for the search of
Diamondback’s offices.  “Scolaro provided information regarding the location of a
particular individual’s desk and seating chart of the trading
floor during the time Scolaro worked there,” Brodsky and Apps
wrote.  Last September, Scolaro agreed to pay about $203,000 to
settle an insider-trading lawsuit filed against him by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Diamondback agreed to
disgorge $1.07 million in principal and interest, the SEC said.  Diamondback, which manages about $2.5 billion, disclosed
the settlement to its investors in a letter, said Steven Bruce,
a spokesman for the fund.  “The complaint contains no allegations of misconduct by
Diamondback,” the firm said, adding that it and not its
investors will pay for the settlement.  In January, George Canellos, then head of the SEC’s
regional office, credited Diamondback for its “substantial
assistance” in a U.S. investigation of insider trading by
former employees.  The case is U.S. v. Scolaro, 11-cr-429, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  