-- Ex-Haider Ally Confesses Kickbacks Linked to Hypo Sale
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-07-25T13:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ex-haider-ally-confesses-kickbacks-linked-to-hypo-sale.html
Josef Martinz, a former ally of the
late Austrian politician Joerg Haider, told an Austrian court
today that he and Haider agreed to divvy up kickbacks linked to
the sale of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG in 2007.  Martinz confessed he and Haider had conspired to award a 6
million-euro ($7.3 million) contract to a friendly tax
consultant, ostensibly for advice on the sale of Hypo Alpe to
 Germany ’s Bayerische Landesbank, court spokesman Christian
Liebhauser-Karl said by phone from Klagenfurt, Austria.
According to Martinz’s testimony, they planned to split the fee
between the consultant and their political parties, and Martinz
received 100,000 euros, the court spokesman said, confirming a
report by the Austria Press Agency.  “After the execution of the Hypo sale, Haider and I
developed the idea that some of that should go to the parties,”
Martinz was quoted as saying in court by APA. Martinz said he
was under pressure to repair his party’s finances at the time,
and resigned from all political functions, according to an OTS
statement.  Hypo Alpe, once owned by Haider’s Carinthia province,
caused 3.7 billion euros of losses at BayernLB when  Austria 
nationalized it in 2009. The lender, which expanded in the 2000s
to become one of the biggest banks in the former  Yugoslavia , has
cost Austrian taxpayers at least 700 million euros since the
nationalization. Austrian and German prosecutors have been
investigating since 2009 how former managers and investors
contributed to the losses.  Excessive Fee  BayernLB bought its initial 50 percent stake in Hypo Alpe
for 1.63 billion euros from Carinthia, insurer Grazer
Wechselseitige and a group of investors led by Tilo Berlin.  The Klagenfurt court has been investigating whether the fee
paid by Carinthia’s state asset holding company to the tax
consultant, Dietrich Birnbacher, was appropriate. Birnbacher
already confessed earlier this month that the fee, which had
initially been 12 million euros and was halved after it became
public in 2008, had been excessive.  Birnbacher extended his confession today, adding that he
had agreed to pass on part of the fee to Martinz and Haider, a
populist and xenophobic politician who died in a 2008 car crash.
Birnbacher had earlier denied allegations he had given part of
the fee to political parties.  Following Birnbacher’s admission today, Martinz, who
previously also had denied all charges of wrongdoing, confessed
that he received 65,000 euros in cash and 35,000 euros via a
fake invoice. Martinz said he had transfered the money to his
party, the local branch of the pro-business People’s Party,
which is also part of the national government.  Cash Handouts  Carinthia put 800 million euros of its proceeds into a
 special fund , which it used for projects including subsidizing
16-year-olds in taking their driver’s license, offering free
day-care and financially supporting the acquisition of lakeside
properties. Gasoline and the purchase of dirndls and lederhosen
was also subsidized by the province.  The fund also allowed Governor Haider and his successor
Gerhard Doerfler to personally hand out 100 euro bills to
Carinthians to offset the impact of inflation on family budgets.  Birnbacher in his confession today also said two members of
Haider’s party approached him with requests to draw on the
money. That transfer wasn’t executed, he said. The politicians,
deputy governor Uwe Scheuch and regional finance minister Harald
Dobernig, denied receiving or claiming any funds, they said in
an OTS statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  