-- Tex-Mex to Tech Top Busiest U.S. IPO Week Since April
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-25T20:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/tex-mex-to-tech-top-busiest-u-s-ipo-week-since-april.html
U.S. initial public offerings are
set for their busiest week since April as purveyors of steak,
burritos and software strive to go to market before investor
optimism wears off.  Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group Inc. (DFRG) ,  Chuy’s Holdings Inc. (CHUY) 
and five other companies are attempting to raise as much as $824
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That would be the most
IPOs in the U.S. since the week of April 16. Avast Software NV
withdrew its IPO today, citing market conditions, according to a
regulatory filing.  The IPOs come on the heels of sales last week by  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW) ,  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK)  and teen retailer  Five Below
Inc. (FIVE) , which surged on their first trading days. Tex-Mex
restaurant chain Chuy’s raised $75.8 million on July 23 and
jumped 16 percent in its debut, giving further impetus to this
week’s sellers even as concerns persist over  Europe ’s debt
crisis and the economic recovery in the U.S., said James
Investment Research Inc.’s Tom Mangan.  “There’s nothing like someone else’s success to encourage
you to take that leap as well,” said Mangan, who helps oversee
$3.4 billion at the Xenia, Ohio-based firm. “There’s some
urgency on the part of people who want to proceed with an IPO
because they’re afraid of what might happen later in the year.”  Europe’s debt woes overshadowed the positive streak for
some companies. Avast, the Czech maker of antivirus software,
had planned to raise as much as $99 million in its U.S. IPO this
week before suspending the sale. English soccer club Manchester
United Ltd. is delaying marketing for its planned sale because
of stock volatility, Reuters reported earlier.  Stock Performance  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 2.8 percent through
yesterday after reaching a two-month high last week, and the
measure of stock-market volatility known as the  VIX (VIX)  had surged
32 percent to more than 20 after hitting the lowest in almost
four months on July 19. Companies may be eager to complete IPOs
before August, when many investors typically go on vacation.  “It’s more of an opportunistic environment for deals
rather than a blanket,” said  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee
about $60 billion as chief investment officer of BMO Harris
Private Bank in  Chicago . “Having the VIX push 20 can’t help
their cause right now.”  Chuy’s sold 5.83 million shares at $13 apiece in its IPO,
valuing the Austin, Texas-based company at $195.6 million, or
about 1.4 times sales of $138.9 million in the 12 months through
March 25. That’s double the median price-to-sales ratio of about
0.7 for publicly traded peers.  Private-Equity Eateries  Steakhouse chain Del Frisco’s aims to raise as much as $112
million tomorrow, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At the
midpoint of its proposed price range, the Southlake, Texas-based
restaurant operator would be valued at about $335 million, or
1.6 times last year’s sales, compared with about 0.7 times for
peers.  Both Chuy’s and Del Frisco’s are majority owned by buyout
firms, and their success may pave the way for other private-
equity-backed eateries to dive into public markets. Last year
they filed to raise $2.71 billion through IPOs, more than the
previous six years combined. CKE Inc., the operator of the
Carl’s Jr. burger chain that’s owned by  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , filed for an IPO in May and plans to raise as much as $230
million.  Bloomin’ IPO  Today, Bloomin’ Brands Inc., the owner of the Outback
Steakhouse restaurant chain, set terms for its IPO. The company
and shareholders, including funds advised by Bain Capital
Partners LLC, are seeking as much as $321.4 million in an IPO
set for Aug. 7, a regulatory filing and Bloomberg data show.  Del Frisco’s, led by Chief Executive Officer Mark Mednansky, is offering 7 million shares at $14 to $16. Texas
buyout firm  Lone Star Funds , which owns the whole company, is
paring its stake to 69 percent in the IPO. Del Frisco’s will
list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol DFRG.  “It makes sense that private equity wants to unload them
while they still can,” said James Investment’s Mangan. “Food
prices are rising, and that’s squeezing the margins on
restaurants, so you can expect to see disappointing earnings
from many  restaurant chains .”  There have been more than $33 billion in U.S. IPOs this
year. Technology and Internet companies accounted for almost
one-fourth of those offerings, with sales for Facebook Inc.,
Kayak,  Palo Alto  and ServiceNow Inc., the maker of cloud-based
software.  Tech Offerings  Those have set the stage for other technology providers to
brave public markets.  E2open Inc. (EOPN) , a maker of cloud-based
software for businesses, is aiming to raise $80 million in an
IPO scheduled for today.  “The market for a long time has been focused on growth,
and that demand for growth has only gotten more acute,” Colin Stewart, vice chairman of global  capital markets  at Morgan
Stanley, said in a July 19 phone interview. “People will look
and pay for great growth assets in the stock market even with
economies looking weaker around the world.”  Other companies scheduled to hold offerings this week
include gasoline refiner Northern Tier Energy LP, seeking as
much as $341 million, and  AmREIT Inc. (AMRE) , a Texas mall operator
planning to raise $54 million. Drugmaker Hyperion Therapeutics
Inc. is seeking a similar amount.  Natural Grocers by Vitamin Cottage Inc. (NGVC) , the organic grocer
and dietary supplements chain, raised $107 million last night,
pricing its stock at $15, the top of the proposed range. The
shares gained 19 percent to $17.86 as of 4:05 p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  