-- Mexico Peso Rises on Speculation Europe Rescue May Be Fortified
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-07-25T16:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/mexico-peso-rises-on-speculation-europe-rescue-may-be-fortified.html
Mexico’s peso rose for the first
time in a week on speculation  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund
will be strengthened, boosting demand for higher-yielding
assets.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 13.6655 per dollar at 11
a.m. in Mexico City, bringing its rally this year to 2 percent,
the second-biggest among the most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said
there are arguments in favor of giving Europe’s rescue fund a
banking license, reviving the debate on boosting its capacity.  “The market has taken a turn and is using the peso as a
risk proxy for  emerging markets ,”  Ramon Cordova , a currency
trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, said
in a phone interview. “If a headline comes out with a good
comment, you’ll see quick drops in the dollar and rises in the
peso.”  Granting a banking license to the European Stability
Mechanism would give it access to ECB lending, easing concern
its 500 billion-euro ($606 billion) cash reserves won’t be
enough if Spain or  Italy  require aid.  Speculation that the European crisis would hurt the market
for Mexican exports helped make the peso  Latin America ’s worst-
performing major currency in 2011.  The peso pared its rally after data from the U.S. Commerce
Department showed demand for new U.S. homes dropped in June from
a two-year high.  Mexico  depends on exports for about 30 percent of its gross
domestic product, sending 80 percent of them to its northern
neighbor.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 was
little changed at 5.22 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price rose 0.07 centavo to 143.56 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  