-- Facebook Is Said to Work With HTC on Mobile Phone for Mid-2013
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-07-25T22:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/facebook-is-said-to-work-with-htc-on-mobile-phone-for-mid-2013.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the largest
social network, is working with HTC Corp. to build its own
smartphone for release as soon as mid-2013, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The companies had intended to release the device as early
as the end of this year, and pushed back the timetable to give
HTC more time to work on other products, said some of the
people, who requested anonymity because the plans aren’t public.
Facebook is also developing a modified operating system for the
device and has assembled a team of former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  programmers
to improve its iPhone application, people said.  More than half of Facebook’s 900 million users access the
social network  via mobile devices , while none of the $3.15
billion in advertising sales last year came from ads on phones.
Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg could use a Facebook
phone, with social-networking features built-in, to woo
marketers and assuage concerns dragging on the company’s shares.  “Usage is shifting to mobile, and they have not been able
to monetize mobile,” said Victor Anthony, an analyst at Topeka
Capital Markets Inc. “To the extent that it’s a device you own
and carry around with you at all times, and it ties into the
Facebook experience, it will be beneficial. They could then put
a lot of ads onto the platform.”  Sally Julien, a spokeswoman for Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC (2498) ,
declined to comment.  Mobile Growth  Facebook stock has tumbled 23 percent since its initial
public offering on May 17. The decline came in part due to
concerns that the company isn’t making enough money from mobile
advertisers. The stock climbed 3.1 percent to $29.34 as of the
close yesterday in New York.  “Our mobile strategy is simple: We think every mobile
device is better if it is deeply social,”  Menlo Park ,
California-based Facebook said in a statement. “We’re working
across the entire mobile industry; with operators, hardware
manufacturers, OS providers, and application developers to bring
powerful social experiences to more people around the world.”  Former Apple staff hired by Facebook to work on mobile are:
Greg Novick, who helped develop the touch-screen user interface;
Tim Omernick and Chris Tremblay, who also worked on the device’s
software; and Scott Goodson, who helped create the stock-market
application, according to people with knowledge of the hires.  Last year, Facebook  also bought  Push Pop Press, a digital
publishing software maker co-founded by Apple alumni Mike Matas
and Kimon Tsinteris, two designers who helped build the look and
feel of the iPhone and iPad software. Matas is credited with
creating the battery logo that shows on the iPhone screen when
it’s charging. A longtime BlackBerry user,  Mark Zuckerberg 
converted to an iPhone in the past couple of years.  IPhone App  This team from Apple has been primarily focused on
rebuilding Facebook’s iPhone application, which has been
criticized by users for being slow. An initial release could be
announced within a couple of months, with another broader
overhaul of the iPhone app coming next near, one person said.  The company also hired several key staffers who worked on
the Palm operating system for mobile phones.  Zuckerberg said earlier this month that bringing Facebook’s
features to handheld gadgets was difficult because the user
experience is so different than on desktop computers.  Asked in an interview at the Allen & Co. media conference
in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho , about his greatest challenge right now,
Zuckerberg said it was “the shift to mobile.”  The  New York  Times  reported  in May that Facebook had hired
a team of former Apple engineers with the goal of releasing a
phone by next year. AllThingsD  reported  in November that a
Facebook phone would debut between late 2012 and mid-2013.  Mobile Results  Facebook started offering mobile ads in March and hasn’t
provided statistics on their impact. Facebook has said ad growth
won’t keep pace with user gains. The company is scheduled to
report second-quarter results after the close of trading today.  While Facebook already has applications that run on Apple’s
iOS devices as well as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile operating
system, it is looking to embed its features deeper into mobile
devices to grow advertising revenue.  While that would put Facebook into direct competition with
Apple and Google, it could also help protect Facebook from their
influence, said  Brian Wieser , senior research analyst at Pivotal
Research Group.  “The fear is, Apple might extract a toll from your
users,” Wieser said. “Apple could tell Facebook, We are making
Google+ the default. What is it worth to you to make it
otherwise?”  Software Development  Facebook could use a modified version of Android for its
smartphone. Android, unlike Apple’s iOS, can be modified by
mobile phone manufacturers or wireless carriers.  Facebook had been working with mobile device makers such as
Britain’s INQ Mobile Ltd. to create phones that made it easier
to use social websites such as Facebook and Twitter. The new
work with HTC will allow for deeper integration of Facebook
features, the people said.  HTC and Facebook have collaborated closely before. Last
year, HTC began selling “ChaCha,” an Android-based phone with
a dedicated Facebook button to share music, photos and messages.  Struggling against larger competitors in the U.S., HTC had
seen its  global smartphone market share  shrink to 4.8 percent in
the first quarter, down from 8.9 percent the year before,
according to IDC.  Shares in HTC have dropped 43 percent this year after it
reported three consecutive quarters of profit decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  