-- Facebook Shares Decline as Zynga’s Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-25T22:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/facebook-shares-drop-as-zynga-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares dropped in
extended trading after  Zynga (ZNGA)  Inc., the biggest provider of games
on the social network, reported second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates and sliced forecasts for the year.  Facebook, which will issue its first earnings report as a
publicly traded company tomorrow, fell as much as 9.7 percent to
$26.50. It had gained 3.1 percent to $29.34 at the close in  New
York . Zynga, which slid as much as 42 percent in late trading,
posted profit before some items of 1 cent a share, missing the
6-cent average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  In the first quarter, Facebook  estimated  it derived as much
as 15 percent of its revenue from Zynga, which makes games such
as “FarmVille” and “CityVille.” That included Facebook’s cut
of payments that members use to buy virtual goods on Zynga’s
games, as well as advertising.  “Zynga reduced its growth outlook significantly,” said
 Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., who has a buy
rating on Zynga and a hold on Facebook. “Most likely,
Facebook’s games revenue may disappoint investors.”  Zynga lowered its full-year 2012 forecast for bookings, or
the total value of virtual goods sold, to $1.15 billion to $1.23
billion, compared with an April projection of $1.43 billion to
$1.5 billion. Zynga also said it expects 2012 earnings,
excluding some items, of 4 cents to 9 cents a share, compared
with a prior projection for 23 cents to 29 cents.  The social-gaming company cited a “more challenging
environment” on the Facebook site in its statement announcing
earnings. Zynga rose 3.3 percent in regular trading today to
$5.08 before the earnings report.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, will report
second-quarter profit, before certain items, of 11 cents a share
on sales of $1.16 billion, according to the average of analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  