-- Fed Audit Bill Opposed by Bernanke Approved by U.S. House
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-07-25T20:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/fed-audit-bill-opposed-by-bernanke-approved-by-u-s-house.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
approved legislation that would subject the  Federal Reserve  to
an audit of monetary policy, including deliberations over
changes to the benchmark interest rate.  The legislation, directing the Government Accountability
Office to conduct the audit, is sponsored by Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , a candidate for the Republican presidential
nomination in 2008 and 2012 and author of “End the Fed.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has repeatedly said the
legislation would open up Fed policy making to political
pressure and put the central bank’s independence at risk. The
bill, which passed 327-98, needs to gain Senate approval and the
signature of President  Barack Obama  before becoming law.  House passage of the measure “strikes me as really a last
hurrah and send off from the Republican leadership to Ron
Paul,”  Sarah Binder , a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , who researches the relationship between the Fed and
Congress, said before the vote. “I doubt the Democratic Senate
will act on the bill.”  The Republicans voted for the bill 238-1, with
Representative Robert L. Turner of New York the only one
opposed. Eighty-nine Democrats supported the legislation and 97
voted against it.  House passage will create “the perception that Congress is
going to politicize the way interest rates are set and that will
in itself have a destabilizing effect,” Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts said yesterday during floor debate. He is
the senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee.  ‘Tireless Efforts’  “ Ron Paul ’s ‘audit the Fed’ bill is a reminder of his
tireless efforts to promote sound money and a more transparent
Federal Reserve,” Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
said in a post on his campaign’s Twitter account.  Similar legislation,  S. 202 , was introduced in the Senate
by  Rand Paul , a Republican from  Kentucky  and Ron Paul’s son. The
Senate bill, which has 21 Republican cosponsors, hasn’t been
considered by the Senate Banking Committee.  “I call upon Democrat leadership to allow a vote in the
Senate on this much-needed transparency bill,”  Rand Paul  said
in a statement after the bill’s passage.  “The Senate will give us trouble,” Ron Paul said
yesterday in an interview on C-SPAN, referring to the odds his
bill will gain support in the Senate. Paul in his book says
eliminating the Fed “is the one sure way to restore sanity to
economic and political life in this country.”  Inner Workings  Paul’s bill passed with 274 cosponsors, including 45
Democrats and 229 Republicans. Supporters ranging from  Jason Chaffetz , a Republican from  Utah , and Peter DeFazio, a Democrat
from  Oregon , said during the House debate yesterday that the Fed
needs to be transparent about the inner workings of its decision
making over stimulus and financial stability.  Due to the central bank’s role in bailing out Wall Street
banks during the financial crisis, “it’s past time to audit the
Federal Reserve,” DeFazio said.  “The Federal Reserve balance sheet has exploded in recent
years,” Chaffetz said. “The American people and this Congress
deserve more openness and transparency and at the very least an
audit.”  Bernanke reiterated his objections to the legislation in
testimony last week to the House Financial Services Committee,
describing to committee members his “nightmare scenario”
following a Fed decision to raise  interest rates .  “Somebody in this room would say, ‘I don’t like that
decision, I want the GAO to go in and get all of the records,’”
Bernanke said. Such a move would have a “chilling effect” on
central bank decision making, he said at the July 18 hearing.  Little Changed  Stock markets were little changed today, with the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rising 0.5 percent to 12,676.05 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.4
percent from 1.39 percent yesterday.  Paul’s audit bill passed the House in 2010 as part of an
overhaul of U.S. financial regulation before being rejected by
the Senate and a committee of lawmakers negotiating details of
the Dodd-Frank Act. Bernanke opposed the legislation.  While rejecting Paul’s bill, Congress directed the GAO to
audit the Fed’s emergency-aid programs during the financial
crisis and review the system of directors of regional Fed banks
for possible conflicts of interest. The Fed was also required to
identify borrowers involved in its crisis-lending programs.  Paul announced on May 14 that he would no longer spend
money to compete in the Republican presidential primaries. He
plans to retire from the House at year’s end.  Referring to Paul’s bill on the House floor yesterday,
Frank said, “nobody here thinks this will ever become law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  