-- Fertilizer Maker Rashtriya Seeks Canadian Potash Mines
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-07-25T08:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/fertilizer-maker-rashtriya-seeks-canadian-potash-mines.html
Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers
Ltd. (RCF) ,  India ’s second-biggest state-run maker of soil nutrients,
plans to buy into potash mines in countries including  Canada  to
secure supplies, Chairman R.G. Rajan said.  The price of the commodity has increased at least 13
percent from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Green
Markets, as countries including  China , the world’s largest
consumer, paid more for imports after a drought in the U.S.
pushed up the cost of grains.  Owning stakes in mines overseas may help the Mumbai-based
company shield many of India’s 235 million farmers from rising
costs when the annual monsoon is deficient. Lack of rain this
year is threatening to crimp agricultural output. Potash, a form
of potassium, is used by growers of crops including wheat, rice
and sugar cane to strengthen roots and resist drought.  “India is a large importer of potash with no domestic
supplies,” Jason Miner, a chemicals analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s logical to secure supply of potash
particularly if the acquirer thinks that potash prices will rise
more than generally expected.”  Rashtriya Chemicals joins companies including  Sinofert
Holdings Ltd. (297) , a unit of China’s largest chemicals trader, that
are looking for acquisitions overseas. Sinofert, 22 percent
owned by Saskatoon, Canada-based  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. , has been in talks about purchases, Chief Executive Officer
Feng Zhibin said in March.  Potash Demand  India and China, the two most populous countries in the
world, need to boost supplies of potash to ensure  food security .
World potash demand will rise 3 percent this year, leaving a
shortage, because of delays in commissioning new capacity,
according to the International Fertilizer Industry Association.  Potash prices have risen to $505 a metric ton from $445 a
year ago, Green Markets data show. Should a rally in corn and
soybean futures continue, the fertilizer may gain further, Gilad Alper, senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House in
 Ramat Gan ,  Israel , said by telephone yesterday.  Corn has climbed 43 percent starting June 1 on the Chicago
Board of Trade and soybeans rose 23 percent during the period as
U.S. farmers face the worst drought since 1956 causing concern
about global food supplies.  Acquiring stakes in Potash mines “makes sense from a
national perspective,” Alper said. “But, if India is so
worried about securing supplies, it should get into long-term
supply agreement with producers.”  Monsoon Rains  Rashtriya Chemicals shares have declined 30 percent in the
past year, compared with a 9.6 percent drop in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The stock fell 0.8 percent 54 rupees as of 1:57
p.m. in Mumbai today.  India imported 3.9 million tons of potash in the year ended
March, down from 6.3 million tons a year earlier, according to
 Coromandel International Ltd. (CRIN) , a fertilizer and pesticide maker.
China’s potash imports climbed to 6.4 million tons in 2011, up
22 percent from 5.24 million tons in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  The Fertiliser Association of India, representing domestic
producers and importers, in April last year threatened an import
“holiday,” citing high prices.  The worst start in three years to the June-September
monsoon season is hurting crops in the South Asian country, data
provided by India’s farm ministry showed.  Rainfall may be “approximately” 92 percent of the 50-year
average from June to September, D.S. Pai, head of long-range
forecasting division at the weather bureau, said by phone
yesterday. That’s less than the 96 percent predicted in June.
The bureau defines normal rainfall as 96 percent to 104 percent
of the average received between 1951 and 2000.  Ghana Factory  Rice planting dropped 10 percent to 14.5 million hectares
(35.8 million acres) this year from 16.1 million hectares a year
earlier, the farm ministry said July 20. Cotton sowing declined
to 8.37 million hectares from 9.24 million hectares, and
oilseeds shrank to 10.9 million hectares from 12.1 million
hectares, it said. Corn was planted over 4.78 million hectares,
less than the 5.29 million hectares a year earlier, it said.  Rashtriya Chemicals will lead a group of Indian fertilizer
makers to set up a 1.3 million ton urea plant in  Ghana  as an
equal partner with the African country at a cost of 60 billion
rupees ($1.1 billion), Rajan said.  “The Ghana government may come back to us with its
comments on the joint venture proposal within two weeks,” Rajan
said. “If everything goes well,” the construction of the plant
may begin in January 2014, he said.  A shortage of natural gas, the main feedstock for making
urea, is forcing companies including Indian Farmers Fertilizer
Cooperative Ltd., the nation’s largest producer, to build plants
overseas and cut reliance on global sellers International Potash
Co., Agrium Inc. and Potash Corp.  Net income at Rashtriya Chemicals climbed 18 percent to
1.14 billion rupees in the quarter ended March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  