-- Fidelity Joins BlackRock Weighing Libor Action Against Banks
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-07-26T14:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/fidelity-joins-blackrock-in-weighing-libor-action-against-banks.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Fidelity Investments
and Vanguard Group Inc., firms that collectively manage more
than $7 trillion, are gauging how their clients have been hurt
by Libor manipulation and whether to take legal action as at
least a dozen banks are being investigated for rate-rigging.  The money managers can take cues from  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) 
and the city of Baltimore, which in lawsuits predating the
record fine levied on London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month, sued
lenders for artificially suppressing, Libor, or the London
interbank offered rate. Schwab alleged last year that returns on
money funds and short-term debt strategies were depressed by the
banks’ actions, while Baltimore’s lawsuit against Barclays and
other banks stems from lower returns on  interest-rate swaps .  Libor-related litigation “has the potential to be the
biggest single set of cases coming out of the financial crisis
because Libor is built into so many transactions and Libor is so
central to so many contracts,” said  John Coates , a professor of
law and economics at Harvard Law School in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. “It’s like saying reports about the inflation
rate were wrong.”  Global regulators are reviewing the rate-setting mechanism
and contemplating criminal charges against bank traders who
manipulated Libor, a benchmark  interest rate  for about $500
trillion in financial products. While Libor affects a broad
range of investments from money funds to leveraged buyout
financing, firms seeking to sue may struggle to quantify losses
and pinpoint which banks are responsible for them, according to
interviews with more than half-a-dozen industry executives,
lawyers and former regulators.  Barclays Fine  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($449 million) by
U.S. and U.K. regulators on June 27 after admitting it submitted
false rates. The scandal led to the resignation of  Robert
Diamond  as the bank’s chief executive officer.  Barclays, like other lenders that help set Libor rates,
could potentially face lawsuits from any investor that was on
the wrong side of the transactions, who could claim that they
were kept in the dark about a key benchmark. Barclays is a
defendant in at least 24 interrelated lawsuits that have been
aggregated in Manhattan federal court.  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks banks to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. Quotes in the top and
bottom quartile are excluded and an average of the remaining
entries is calculated.  ‘Important’ Number  Libor is used as the basis for pricing securities including
the rate of return on short-term variable and fixed-rate bonds
as well as for the pricing and settlement of Eurodollar futures
and options. The British Bankers’ Association has called it
“the world’s most important number” on its website.  For investment firms, money-market funds would probably be
most affected by Libor-rigging, said Robert Pozen, a senior
lecturer at  Harvard Business School . Returns earned by investors
in money funds, which hold only short-term debt, would decline
if Libor were kept lower, he said.  BlackRock, which oversees $3.56 trillion; Fidelity, which
manages $1.6 trillion; and Vanguard, with $2.1 trillion, said
they’re examining the impact on clients.  Evaluating Actions  “On behalf of our clients and shareholders, we have been
following developments in the Libor market and the related
litigation activity for some time,”  Vincent Loporchio , a
spokesman for Boston-based Fidelity, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have noted recent news with interest and
continue to evaluate our options.”  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said
litigation surrounding Libor is complex and that “it will be
some time before greater clarity emerges,” according to Bobbie
Collins, a spokeswoman for the New York-based company.  Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of BlackRock,
said in a July 3 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” that Diamond “led with a lot of emotion which
obviously” angered regulators and others in the U.K. “For me,
it’s sad. I know Bob very well,” Fink said.  Barclays owned a 19.6 percent stake in BlackRock until May,
when the bank sold the holding and Diamond stepped down from the
money manager’s board. Barclays took the stake in December 2009,
when it sold its investment unit to BlackRock.  Vanguard, the world’s largest mutual-fund company, “will
take some time to determine the impact and conduct a cost-
benefit analysis before pursuing other actions on behalf of the
funds,”   John Woerth , spokesman for the Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based firm, said in an e-mail.  ‘Considering Litigation’  “We are evaluating the facts and considering litigation,”
Meghan McAndrew, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based  Federated
Investors Inc. (FII) , said in a statement. Federated manages about
$364 billion and is the third-biggest provider of U.S. money-
market funds behind Fidelity and JPMorgan Chase.  It wouldn’t be the first time that investment firms would
be pitted against banks over losses stemming from the financial
crisis. BlackRock and Pacific Investment Management Co. were
part of an investor group that brought claims against  Bank of
America Corp.  over mortgage bonds they had purchased, which last
year resulted in an $8.5 billion settlement agreement. That
settlement is now being challenged by other investors and state
regulators.  Rival Banks  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are among
financial firms that may bring lawsuits against their rivals,
Bradley Hintz, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
last week. Even if Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley forgo claims
on their own behalf, they oversee money-market funds that may be
required to pursue restitution for injured clients, he said.  It’s not just lower rates that hurt investment firms. Libor
rates that were artificially inflated could also potentially
damage investors such as private-equity firms, which obtain deal
financing based on the benchmark rate.  Regulators are looking at whether banks made submissions
that understated funding costs during the credit crisis or if
traders at the firms influenced Libor to boost profits. In
addition to Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among at least a dozen banks
to disclose inquiries.  Attorneys general in at least five states in the U.S. are
conducting investigations tied to manipulation of Libor, adding
to probes by regulators including the U.S. Justice Department.  ‘Complicated Case’  If the banks involved in the scandal neither admit nor deny
wrongdoing to the Justice Department, it’s a much harder case
for fund companies, said Harvard’s Pozen. To make a legal case,
investment firms would have to show which banks’ Libor
submissions were included in the daily rate, how much they
affected the average and quantify how much money their funds
have lost, he said.  “While you can say in general money-market funds got less
than they should have, for them to win a court case, they would
have to show who’s culpable for that,” Pozen said. “It’s a
complicated case and in order to win, someone has to go day-by-
day to show who did what and how it influenced Libor and how it
influenced the fund managers’ investment decisions.”  Instead of trying to prove one or two banks influenced the
rate fraudulently, plaintiffs might accuse the banks
collectively of conspiring to rig the rate, Barry Barbash, head
of the asset-management group at law firm Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP, said in a telephone interview.  “Both theories are hard to show,” said Barbash, a former
director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
division of investment management.  Illinois Brick  Among existing lawsuits, the city of Baltimore may stand a
better chance than Schwab of winning back investment losses
linked to the Libor-rigging scandal if U.S. courts stick to a
precedent set by a 1977 landmark price-fixing case.  The Supreme Court’s ruling in Illinois Brick Co. versus
Illinois barred indirect purchasers from recovering federal
antitrust damages, Andrew Verstein, a lecturer at Yale Law
School, said in a telephone interview. Applied to the alleged
manipulation of Libor, he said only investors such as Baltimore,
that lost out in transactions directly with rate-rigging banks,
might successfully sue.  “Different plaintiffs will fight about this precedent”
depending on whether it helps or hurts their case, said
Verstein, who is also executive director of the school’s Center
for the Study of Corporate Law.  Baltimore Lawsuit  Baltimore’s case, filed last year, stems from its purchase
of interest-rate swaps aimed at protecting the city from an
increase in rates after it sold variable-rate bonds. When Libor
was artificially pushed down, Baltimore’s suit alleges, the city
got a lower rate of return.  “I am going to fight for this city and do what I can to
protect the city taxpayers who ultimately suffered financial
damage as result of Libor manipulation,” Baltimore’s Mayor
Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said in an e-mailed statement.  Schwab, based in San Francisco, is attempting to recover
money it said its mutual funds and other investment products
lost when they bought short-term debt instruments with interest
rates linked to Libor. While some of the debt Schwab funds
bought was issued directly by banks accused of rigging Libor,
some of it was also purchased from third parties, according to
the suit. The suit names more than a dozen financial
institutions as defendants, including units of Barclays, Bank of
America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Credit Suisse.  Sarah Bulgatz, a spokeswoman for Schwab, said the firm
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan said during a July 18
conference call with analysts that “we don’t believe that we
have any material issues” related to Libor.  Valid Claim  Steven Vames, a spokesman in New York for Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, declined to comment, as did  Karina Byrne , a
spokeswoman for UBS, Danielle-Romero Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
Citigroup,  Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for Barclays, and
Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase, did not
immediately return calls.  Dan Brockett, a partner in the New York office of Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, said plaintiffs that didn’t buy
securities directly from lenders who set Libor rates when the
benchmark was being manipulated still have a valid claim because
the banks allegedly did have a direct impact on the pricing of
securities and it was foreseeable that their actions would have
an impact on holdings.  “We still think there’s a respectable claim by a third
party investor that didn’t buy securities directly from one of
the Libor banks under federal securities law and common law
fraud,” Brockett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  