-- FIFA Investigators to Have All Resources They Need, Blatter Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-25T10:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/fifa-investigators-to-have-all-resources-they-need-blatter-says.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  pledged
to make available all the resources its new investigators need
to probe wrongdoing at soccer’s governing body.  Blatter, in the U.K. for the Olympic soccer tournament
beginning today, has fronted a reform program at FIFA after its
image received a battering. Corruption allegations surrounded
the bidding to stage the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, and there was
controversy over Blatter’s re-election last year. His sole
challenger, Mohamed  Bin Hammam , withdrew a day before a vote-
buying inquiry.  On July 17, FIFA named former U.S. attorney Michael J. Garcia as head investigator for its ethics committee and German
judge Hans-Joachim Eckert to lead the adjudicatory branch in an
overhaul of the way it investigates and prosecutes wrongdoing.
Bin Hammam’s life ban from soccer was overturned by sport’s top
court on July 19. It ruled that a FIFA-ordered inquiry by former
FBI head  Louis Freeh  failed to find enough evidence that the ex-
head of Asian soccer was the source of envelopes stuffed with
$40,000 and handed to Caribbean officials.  “We have to put all resources at their disposal so they
can do their job,” Blatter said in an interview. “Naturally
there’s a budget there, otherwise you cannot do the job. It’s
not just to phone somebody, you have to work on that, you know
how investigations are made.”  Blatter declined to comment on the Court of Arbitration for
Sport’s decision to overturn Bin Hammam’s ban. He also refused
to speak about whether Garcia would open a case into Blatter’s
2011 election win, which secured a fourth four-year term.  “Let them work now, give them the benefit now,” Blatter
said. “I don’t know them. I have just met them once.”  Bin Hammam is serving a separate 30-day ban handed to him
by  Asia ’s soccer body and extended worldwide by FIFA after a
forensic audit by accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
found financial irregularities in the Asian Football
Confederation’s accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  