-- Food Inflation May Rise to 3% to 4% in 2013 After Drought
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-25T14:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/food-inflation-may-rise-to-3-to-4-in-2013-after-drought-1-.html
U.S. consumers may pay 3 percent to
4 percent more for food next year, as the effects of the
country’s worst drought since the 1950s work their way onto
supermarket shelves, the Department of Agriculture said in its
first forecast for 2013.  Beef may rise as much as 5 percent in response to tight
supplies of corn, which is used to feed cattle, the USDA said
today in a  report  on its website. The price of the grain, the
country’s biggest crop, has surged more than 50 percent since
June 15. Food prices will rise 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this
year, the agency said, leaving its 2012 estimate unchanged.  Corn and soybean futures both reached record highs this
week on the Chicago Board of Trade, and wheat touched its
highest since 2008 as the dry conditions worsened in the Midwest
and Great Plains. The drought that prompted the USDA to declare
natural disasters in almost 1,300 counties in 29 states -- about
a third of the country’s total -- may lead to the smallest corn
harvest since 2006, Doan Advisory Services Co. said July 23.  “The transmission of commodity price changes into retail
prices typically takes several months to occur, and most of the
impact of the drought is expected to be realized in 2013,” said
Richard Volpe, the USDA’s food economist, wrote in  a note 
accompanying the forecast.  Purchasing Power  Food costs  have risen 1 percent so far this year, the
government said earlier this month.  Higher commodity prices may affect everything from meat
purchased by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to the grain bought by  General
Mills Inc. (GIS)  to the sweeteners used by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  More-
expensive food has already eroded purchasing power at Save-A-Lot
stores operated by  SuperValu Inc. (SVU) , the third-biggest U.S.
grocery chain, Craig Herkert, the chief executive officer of the
 Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company, said in a conference call
with analysts July 11.  Still, higher crop prices may not immediately be reflected
on store shelves. McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant
chain, has lowered its estimated 2012 increase in grocery costs
to 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent from 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent,
Peter J. Bensen, the chief financial officer of  Oak Brook ,
Illinois-based McDonald’s, said on a conference call with
analysts July 23. The company bought grain and other commodities
before the drought-induced rally, locking in lower prices.  ‘Fairly Tame’  “Food-price inflation is actually going to be fairly tame
for the rest of the year,” said Bob Young, chief economist for
the  American Farm Bureau Federation . Higher fruit and vegetable
costs caused by frosts early in the year have already been built
into pricing, and increased costs for corn and soybeans, used in
livestock rations, may not affect the price of many meat
products quickly because of the life cycles of the animals being
fed, he said.  The earliest price increases may be seen in poultry meat
and eggs, which come from birds with shorter lives that are
raised almost entirely on corn, said Bill Lapp, a former chief
economist for  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and the president of Advanced
Economic Solutions in Omaha,  Nebraska . The USDA today said egg
prices will rise as much as 4 percent in 2012, up from its
projection for this year of 1 percent to 2 percent.  Meat Forecast  Dairy, pork and beef, all produced by animals that are on
feed longer, will follow, Lapp said before today’s report,
raising food inflation next year to 4.5 percent, about 2
percentage points more than it would otherwise have been. The
effect will carry over into 2014, adding half a percentage point
to the previously expected jump in prices, he said.  Beef may even see a short-term decline, Lapp said, as
meatpackers slaughter animals earlier to avoid the higher corn
costs, temporarily increasing supply. The USDA today lowered its
forecast for increases in beef prices for 2012 half a percentage
point to 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent.  Still, the reduced beef supply may increase pressure on
prices in the longer term, since the U.S. cattle herd, which on
July 1 was at its lowest for the date since 1973, may shrink
further, he said.  The drought in the U.S., the biggest corn exporter, may
push up food prices worldwide, possibly discouraging central
banks from easing monetary policy, Merrill Lynch Health
Management said yesterday in a report. In the U.S., because
nutrition accounts for only about a seventh of the  Consumer
Price Index , the impact of rising costs on overall inflation may
be small, according to Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist for
London-based Capital Economics Ltd.  Lag Time  “It can take up to nine months for rises in agricultural
commodity prices to filter through into higher food prices in
the stores,” Dales wrote yesterday in a note to investors.
Dales also said food inflation may rise to about 4.5 percent.  “The upshot is that the recent drought will not be a
disaster for the American economy as a whole,” he wrote.
“Coming at a time when the economic recovery is faltering, even
a small loss of output in a small sector is a further
hindrance.”  Retail-food costs rose 3.7 percent in 2011, according to
the USDA. Consumer prices have increased 1 percent so far this
year, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  