-- Ford’s U.S. Comeback Not a Road Map for European Success
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-07-25T21:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ford-lowers-2012-outlook-as-european-losses-cut-profit.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which had a 57
percent plunge in second-quarter net income, will not overhaul
its money-losing European operations in the same way it
transformed its now-profitable North American operations.  A widening crisis in Europe is denting the turnaround Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has engineered at Ford. European
pretax operating losses expanded to $404 million, from a loss of
$149 million in the first quarter and profit of $176 million a
year earlier. Ford said it now expects full-year European losses
to exceed $1 billion and that it no longer forecasts total
pretax operating profit to equal last year’s $8.8 billion.  A growing chorus of analysts is calling for Ford to close
plants in Europe, where the automaker uses just 63 percent of
its factory capacity. In North America over the last decade,
Ford shut facilities and surrendered market share while boosting
profits. As the automaker reworks its European business plan,
not as much needs to be done to reduce capacity, said Chief
Financial Officer Bob Shanks.  “In  North America , we had to shrink in order to grow, but
if we think about Europe, I don’t think that’s where our
business is,” Shanks said in an interview. “Our intent is not
to shrink. Our intent is to grow our business in Europe.”  Ford yesterday reported second quarter net income of $1.04
billion, or 26 cents a share, down from $2.4 billion, or 59
cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items, the profit was
30 cents a share, beating the 29-cent average estimate of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Just Brutal’  Shares fell 1 percent to $8.97 at the close in  New York ,
the lowest since Dec. 9, 2009, and only 58 cents more than the
$8.39 closing price of Sept. 5, 2006, the day the automaker
disclosed it hired Mulally, now 66, from  Boeing Co. (BA)   “It’s brutal, man, just brutal,” said  Gary Bradshaw , a
 fund manager  at Dallas-based Hodges Capital Management, which
owns about 250,000 Ford shares. “They’ve done a remarkable job
here in the U.S., paying down debt and getting an investment-
grade rating, but the European stuff is just killing them.”  The economy in Europe, which accounts for a quarter of
Ford’s revenue, is worse than the company anticipated at the
start of the year and will stay challenging for at least five
more years, Shanks said.  “We think this is a situation we’ll have to deal with for
the foreseeable future,” Shanks told reporters yesterday at
Ford’s Dearborn, Michigan, headquarters. “We’re not counting on
a strong recovery of the business as one of the things that will
save us.”  ‘Real Demand’  Ford is cutting ad spending and sponsorships in Europe
“because people aren’t buying,” Shanks said. The automaker
also is reducing production by shortening workdays in factories,
reducing assembly-line speeds and shedding temporary employees,
Shanks said.  “The most important thing about our plan -- has been and
it will continue to be -- is for us to match production to the
real demand,” Mulally said yesterday on a conference call with
analysts. “We are going to continue to decrease our production
to match the real demand.”  It remains unclear how deep those cuts will go and whether
they will include closing a factory. Shanks said he and Mulally
avoided saying the company would eliminate factory capacity.  “We haven’t explicitly said those words,” Shanks said in
the interview. “What we have said is that we have to have a
leaner, more competitive cost structure and that we will be
looking at all aspects of that cost structure in order to put
that type of business structure in place.”  ‘Full Schedule’  Over the past decade, Ford had a “pretty full schedule”
of capacity reductions that included closing the Fiesta factory
in Dagenham, England, and selling European factories as it
divested the Jaguar,  Land Rover  and Volvo luxury lines, Shanks
said.  “We did make $2 billion in the eight years leading up to
2011” in Europe, Shanks said. “It does suggest we’ve had some
success in the restructuring we had done. We just didn’t, in
retrospect, go far enough.”  Ford isn’t ready to say how much farther it will go in its
next restructuring in Europe.  “We’re reviewing the situation with a lot or urgency,”
Shanks said. “But there’s nothing to share with you about when
we’ll be more public about what our plans will be.”  The automaker said its market share will fall in the U.S.
and Europe this year. It previously expected market share in
those regions to be about equal with last year.  ‘Fool’s Gold’  In Europe, Ford said its market share fell to 7.7 percent
in the second quarter, from 8.3 percent a year earlier. Most of
those losses came in southern European markets of Italy and
Spain, where discounting by competitors is beyond what Ford is
willing to do, Shanks said.  “It just doesn’t make any sense in going after some of
that business,” Shanks said. “It’s market share, but it’s
fool’s gold.”  Ford, which regained an investment-grade  credit rating  this
year, also said it’s cutting 2012  capital spending  to $5
billion, from a previous plan to spend $5.5 billion to $6
billion. Shanks said those cuts are from finding efficiencies
and are not in response to the losses in Europe.  Cutting  capital expenditures  is often a sign of belt-
tightening when an automaker is losing money, said Larry Dominique, former head of product planning for  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
and now executive vice president of data solutions with
TrueCar.com.  International Deficit  “Usually, the easiest thing for an automaker to cut is the
launch of a new product,” Dominique said in an interview.
“They can slow it down, so you’re not paying all the tooling,
you’re not paying all the investment.”  Shanks said the reductions in capital expenditures have
“nothing to do with cutting back on product whatsoever.”  The European loss was the largest contributor to an
international deficit of $465 million that was better than the
$570 million in overseas losses Ford forecast June 28.  Ford sales are faring worse than average in Europe, where
the automaker said its deliveries fell 16 percent in June, more
than the total market decline of 1.7 percent. In the year’s
first half, Ford’s European sales fell 10 percent, while
industrywide deliveries were off 6.3 percent.  ‘Economic Crisis’  Ford said in a June 28 federal filing that the “serious
economic crisis” in Europe is “compounded by an intensifying
competitive environment as manufacturers react to lower consumer
demand and excess production capacity.”  Mulally will unveil new European models, including a
restyled Mondeo sedan, in Amsterdam in September, according to
 Mark Truby , a company spokesman. Ford is bringing 20 new models
to Europe by 2014.  The automaker also is building “the case for decisive
capacity exit,” Adam Jonas, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a July 24 note. Ford factories in Southampton, England, and
Genk, Belgium, may be vulnerable, analysts said.  “Ford management appears to be losing patience with
Europe,” wrote Jonas, who rates Ford overweight. “And they
should. After all, it’s on track to lose more money than GM this
quarter.” Competitor  General Motors Co. (GM)  is trying to end losses
in Europe that have totaled $16.4 billion since 1999.  The crisis in Europe is leading to a selloff in Ford
shares, which are down  32 percent  from a year ago.  ‘Too Cheap’  “The stock is almost too cheap to sell,” said Bradshaw,
who accumulated Ford shares at $10 and above. “They’ve got so
many headwinds in front of them that no one is really willing to
bet on it at the moment.”  In North America, where Ford generates most of its sales
and profits, the automaker reported pretax operating income of
$2.01 billion, up from $1.9 billion last year. Ford said North
American operating margin was 10.2 percent.  Ford’s  dependence  on its home market is “highlighting an
imbalance in geographic profit not befitting a truly global”
automaker, Jonas wrote.  Ford’s U.S. car and light-truck sales rose 6.6 percent to
1.14 million vehicles in the year’s first half, trailing the
industry’s gain of 15 percent, according to Autodata Corp.,
based in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. Ford’s U.S. market share
fell to 15.7 percent from 16.9 percent.  Second-quarter sales fell 6.2 percent to $33.3 billion. The
company planned to increase North American production by 3
percent during the period to 730,000 cars and trucks. The
average estimate for total second-quarter revenue was $32.4
billion, according to the average of 8 estimates.  Consumers paid an average of $32,234 for the company’s
models in the second quarter, up 3.4 percent from a year ago,
according to online auto researcher Edmunds.com. Ford’s average
prices are up 28 percent from 2002 and 14 percent from 2007.  Asia Pacific  In Asia-Pacific and Africa, Ford reported a pretax
operating loss of $66 million compared with a $1 million profit
a year earlier. Ford said sales of its commercial and passenger
vehicles rose 18 percent in  China  last month. Ford is spending
$4.9 billion on nine new factories in  Asia  and introducing 15
new models by 2015 in China, where it had 2.8 percent of the
market last year, trailing GM and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   In  South America , Ford reported a pretax operating profit
of $5 million down from $267 million last year. In its June
filing, Ford said in South America it faces “growing
competitive and pricing pressures, as well as weakening
currencies and unexpected and adverse changes in government
policies affecting areas such as trade and access to foreign
currency.”  Automotive Debt  Automotive debt, which excludes Ford Motor Credit, was
$14.2 billion on June 30, an increase from $13.7 billion on
March 31, the company said. The company said the debt rose
because it drew on U.S. government loans to develop advanced
technology vehicles.  Ford has more debt than rivals because it borrowed $23.4
billion in late 2006 and avoided the bailouts and bankruptcies
that befell the predecessors of GM and Chrysler Group LLC in
2009. The automaker put up all major  assets  as collateral,
including its blue oval logo.  Ford recovered those assets May 22 when Moody’s Investors
Service became the second major rating company, after  Fitch
Ratings , to raise the automaker to investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  still rates Ford  one step  below that level.  With no solution in sight in Europe, Bradshaw said he
doesn’t see “a whole lot of good news in the near term” for
his Ford investment.  “I’m not getting any fruit baskets from my customers for
owning” Ford, Bradshaw said. “I’m sure Mulally is grinding it
out and, kind of like me, beating his head up against a wall and
saying, ‘Man, we’re doing everything right, but we’ve got this
hole in the bucket in Europe.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  