-- Foursquare Adding Paid Promotions to Service in Hunt for Revenue
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/foursquare-adding-paid-promotions-to-service-in-hunt-for-revenue.html
Foursquare Labs Inc., the creator of
an application for sharing users’ whereabouts with friends
online, is adding a deal-promotion feature to the  service ,
marking the startup’s biggest attempt yet to generate revenue.  Businesses will pay to feature deals in the company’s
Explore recommendation engine, built from more than 2 billion
user check-ins to various locations over three years, New York-
based Foursquare said.  Customers who use the service to find local businesses will
see paid recommendations more prominently. For example,
searching for “shopping” in New York’s SoHo neighborhood would
pull up a result for  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Old Navy offering a $15 coupon.
The item will be marked “promoted” to make it clear to users.  “We’ve created a suite of tools that we think will truly
drive business and build loyalty for merchants,” Steven
Rosenblatt, chief revenue officer at the closely held company,
said in an interview. “It’s something that business owners have
been asking of us for a long time.”  With the product, Foursquare aims to capture a slice of the
mobile-advertising market, which Bank of America Corp. predicts
will surge to $18.3 billion in 2015 from $3.6 billion last year.
Rosenblatt, who joined Foursquare from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  earlier this
year, will expand his team to sell the promoted products
nationwide. A million businesses already use Foursquare’s free
tools, he said.  While the company has made money by having corporate logos
on badges -- the rewards that users get for checking in to
locations -- this is the first time Foursquare will charge
businesses to use its tools to promote themselves.  The promoted deals, which Foursquare compares to the  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  ads that appear alongside search results, will run in a
pilot program for several months with about 20 businesses,
including J.C. Penney Co., Best Buy Co. and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Foursquare faces competition from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter
Inc. in trying to get more social-media advertising onto mobile
devices. The mobile-ad market is currently dominated by search-
engine and display ads, sold by companies such as Google and
Apple Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  