-- Geithner Says U.K. Regulators Had Libor Responsibility
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-25T15:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/geithner-says-u-k-regulators-had-libor-responsibility.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said it was the responsibility of U.K. regulators to
address possible manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate after he told them of his concerns when he was president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in 2008.  “We brought those concerns to their attention and we felt,
and I still believe this, that it was really going to be on them
to take responsibility for fixing this,” Geithner told the
House Financial Services Committee today.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
worldwide, has been shaken by Barclays Plc’s acknowledgment that
it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as
London-based Barclays’s chief executive officer after the bank
was fined 290 million pounds ($451 million), has told British
lawmakers that other banks also made false Libor submissions.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the Fed’s response to
Congress last week, saying the U.S. central bank cooperated with
other regulators and suggested a fix. Documents released by the
New York Fed showed that Geithner sent a memo in June 2008 to
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  recommending changes to how
Libor is calculated.  “We were aware of the risk that the way this was designed
created not just the incentives for banks to underreport but
gave them the opportunity to underreport and that was a
problem,” Geithner said.  Avoid Stigma  The New York Fed said in a statement on its website that it
was aware “some banks” were potentially underreporting
submissions for Libor as early as 2007. A Barclays employee told
a  New York  Fed staff member in April 2008 that the London-based
bank was understating its rate to avoid a “stigma,” the Fed
bank said.  Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG are among firms
that are being probed by regulators worldwide into how Libor is
set.  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is determined by
a daily poll carried out on behalf of the British Bankers’
Association that asks banks to estimate how much it would cost
to borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies.  Geithner said July 23 that he was aggressive in expressing
concerns about manipulation of the rate in 2008 when he was New
York Fed president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  