-- Geithner Says Europe, Fiscal Cliff Threaten U.S. Economy
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-07-25T01:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/geithner-says-europe-fiscal-cliff-threaten-u-s-economy.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the  European debt crisis  poses the greatest threat
to the U.S. economy, while the so-called “fiscal cliff” also
threatens growth.  Geithner, in testimony prepared for delivery to a U.S.
House panel tomorrow, said European leaders should complement
long-term economic reforms with short-term changes, such as
strengthening the banking systems and bringing sovereign
borrowing rates down, to restore fiscal stability.  “In addition to pressures from  Europe  and the global
economic slowdown, U.S. growth has been hurt by rise in  oil
prices  earlier this year, the ongoing reduction in spending at
all levels of government, and slow rates of growth in income,”
Geithner said in remarks for the  House Financial Services
Committee . A copy of his testimony was obtained by Bloomberg
News.  U.S. lawmakers remain deadlocked over long-delayed budget
decisions including the future of the George W. Bush-era income
tax cuts that expire Dec. 31, automatic spending cuts set to
take effect in January and raising the federal debt limit. The
end-of-year tax and budget impasse has led to warnings the U.S.
could careen off a “fiscal cliff” if Congress doesn’t act.  “The slowdown in U.S. growth could be exacerbated by
concerns about approaching tax increases and spending cuts, and
by uncertainty about the shape of the reforms to  tax policy  and
spending that are necessary to restore fiscal responsibility,”
he said.  Geithner will be testifying on the annual report of the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, which seeks to prevent
another financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Baltimore at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  