-- General Dynamics Cuts Forecast Citing Weakening Orders
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-07-25T21:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/general-dynamics-cuts-forecast-citing-weakening-orders.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  said their information technology units suffered
weak sales during the second quarter as government contract
awards slowed.  General Dynamics cited the slowdown today in reducing its
full-year profit forecast to $7 to $7.10 a share, down from
$7.10 to $7.20 a share projected in April. Contract delays
affected the information systems and technology unit, which
provides cybersecurity services to the Pentagon and intelligence
agencies, communication equipment to the military and computer
services to federal defense and civilian agencies.  The Falls Church, Virginia-based company also said that
Phebe Novakovic, its president, will assume Jay Johnson’s role
as chairman and chief executive officer in January.  General Dynamics has previously warned that the prospect of
almost $1 trillion in reductions from planned defense spending
over a decade already is slowing contract awards at some of the
company’s units. Johnson has said contracts at the company’s
information-technology unit slowed because of reticence by
government agencies to use up funds.  The Pentagon plans to cut about $490 billion from planned
spending over a decade, and an additional $500 billion in
automatic defense cuts known as sequestration will go into
effect starting in January unless lawmakers and the White House
agree on an alternative deficit-reduction plan.  Budget Uncertainty  CEOs of defense contractors that have announced quarterly
results this week have said uncertainty about how Congress and
the White House will resolve the budget standoff may affect
their performance and lead some to warn employees they may be
fired.  “While we’ve not received planning guidance from the
government on how sequestration would be implemented, we are
developing contingency plans,” Northrop’s Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Wes Bush said today on a conference call with
analysts. “Sequestration would result in lower revenues,
profits and cash flows for our company.”  Sequestration “continues to be of great concern,” Bob Stevens, Chairman and CEO of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said
yesterday on his company’s call. “Without sufficient planning
information, we’ve been unable to more precisely estimate the
adverse impacts.” Stevens has said that Lockheed may have to
fire as many as 10,000 employees if the automatic budget cuts go
into effect.  The fourth quarter of the year “should be a tough revenue
quarter for defense contractors,” with the Defense Department
“reluctant to release funds, and new starts will probably be
scarce” in the third quarter as well, Robert Spingarn, an
analyst at Credit Suisse in  New York , said today in a note to
clients.  General Dynamics  General Dynamics fell 2.2 percent to $62 in New York
trading and has declined 6.6 percent this year. Northrop fell
less than 1 percent to $63.91 and has gained 9.3 percent this
year.  General Dynamics’ revised full-year profit forecast of $7
to $7.10 a share compares with an estimate of $7.17 a share
estimated by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company said its second-quarter profit fell 4.8 percent
on the lower information-systems and technology sales.  Net income from continuing operations was $634 million, or
$1.77 a share, compared with $666 million, or $1.79 a share, a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement. Analysts
forecast $1.74 a share, the average of 22 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose less than 1 percent to $7.92 billion.  Sales at General Dynamics’ Information Systems and
Technology unit fell 9.9 percent and profit declined 24 percent
compared with a year earlier.  Government ‘In-Sourcing’  “The government is ‘in-sourcing’ a fair amount” of
computer-services work “as it looks to control the budget,”
 Joel Levington , a bond analyst at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York said in an e-mail. As a result
contractors such as General Dynamics’ information technology
unit “are experiencing weakness,” he said.  Performance at General Dynamics’ aerospace unit, maker of
Gulfstream  business jets , has been compensating for weaker
defense sales. Revenue at the unit rose 16 percent during the
quarter, and profit climbed 23 percent.  Northrop Grumman  Northrop Grumman’s information systems unit had the
company’s weakest sales performance during the second quarter
with revenue declining 8.6 percent. Unit profit rose 6.9 percent
because of improved performance on non-defense computer work,
the Falls Church, Virginia-based company said in a statement
today.  The question is whether “Northrop can continue to deliver
such strong operational performance” in the face of the
“budget headwinds” ahead, Levington said.  Northrop today raised its full year forecast to $7.05 to
$7.25 a share, up from the $6.70 to $6.95 a share it projected
in April. It didn’t increase its forecast for sales, which
remained at $24.7 billion to $25.4 billion. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast a profit of $6.90 a share on sales of $25.1
billion.  Net income from continuing operations was $480 million, or
$1.88 a share, compared with $520 million, or $1.81 a share, a
year earlier, the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company said in a
statement. Analysts forecast $1.61 a share, the average of 21
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 4.4 percent to $6.27
billion.  Northrop has reduced its workforce by about 11 percent in
the past four years as the company has focused on reducing
overhead costs to improve profit margins, Bush said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  