-- Spanish, Italian Notes Rise on Bets for ESM Enhancement
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-07-25T15:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/german-bunds-slip-before-ifo-as-spain-two-year-yield-rises-to-7-.html
Spanish and Italian bonds rose on
speculation the  European Central Bank  will augment the firepower
of the region’s bailout fund as policy makers step up efforts to
contain contagion from the debt crisis.  Spain’s  two-year note yield  fell from a euro-era record
after ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said there are arguments
in favor of giving the European Stability Mechanism a banking
license, enabling it to borrow from the central bank. German
 bunds  dropped for a third day as the nation sold 2.32 billion
euros ($2.81 billion) of 30-year debt at a record-low yield.
Business confidence in  Europe ’s biggest economy slid to a two-
year low in July, an industry report showed.  “The idea of making the ESM a bank is a game changer,”
said  Vincent Chaigneau , global head of interest-rate strategy at
Societe Generale SA in Paris. “The ECB has been against ideas
like this. It is probably possible, the question is whether it
can get enough political support. It remains a very political
question.”  Spain’s two-year yield fell 47 basis points, or 0.47
percentage point, to 6.42 percent at 4:41 p.m.  London  time,
after climbing to 7.147 percent, the highest since September
1996. The 4.75 percent note due in July 2014 climbed 0.855, or
8.55 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 96.955. The 10-year
yield declined 25 basis points to 7.38 percent.  The yield on two-year Italian debt dropped 11 basis points
to 4.94 percent. The nation’s 30-year bond rate climbed above 7
percent for the first time since January, before falling 11
basis points to 6.84 percent.  ‘Ongoing Discussion’  Granting a banking license to the ESM would give it access
to ECB lending, easing concern the bailout fund’s 500 billion-
euro of cash reserves won’t be enough should  Spain  or Italy
require aid.  “There are pro arguments for this,” Nowotny, who heads
 Austria ’s central bank, said in an interview in his office in
Vienna yesterday. “There are also other arguments, but I would
see this as an ongoing discussion,” he said, adding he’s “not
aware of specific discussions within the ECB at this point.”  Spain’s five-year yield climbed as much as 19 basis points
to 7.79 percent earlier today, putting it briefly above the 10-
year rate at 7.75 percent. The so-called inversion of the yield
curve signaled concern that Spain may struggle to raise funds to
pay its bills.  “Spain is in danger of being locked out of the markets,”
said Owen Callan, a Dublin-based analyst at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE) 
“These yields are at completely unsustainable levels. The
market is worried that the Spanish state is going to have to
support its regions and therefore the amount of funding that
Spain needs in the market is going to increase.”  Deeper Integration  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Spain’s borrowing costs
don’t reflect the strength of its economy as they pledged to
work toward deeper integration to fight the debt crisis after a
meeting yesterday.  The Spanish government today denied an El Economista report
that  Germany  is urging Spain to request a 300 billion-euro
bailout package that would erase the need to sell debt to
investors for as many as two years.  Ten-year  Spanish yields  may rise high as 9 percent after
breaching a level of resistance at 7.70 percent, analysts
including  David Sneddon , head of technical-analysis research at
Credit Suisse Group AG in London, wrote in a note to clients.  Spain is likely to lose  market access  in the near term and
will probably ask for precautionary sovereign bailout memorandum
of understanding “within days,”  Harvinder Sian , a senior rates
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, wrote
in a research note today.  German Bunds  Germany’s 10-year yield climbed two basis points to 1.26
percent. It declined to 1.127 percent two days ago, matching the
record low set on June 1.  Bunds stayed lower even after the Ifo institute in Munich
said its  business climate index  dropped to 103.3 from 105.2 in
June. That’s the lowest reading since March 2010. Economists
predicted a decline to 104.5, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The Ifo data “suggest further weakness ahead,” Gustavo Bagattini, a European economist a Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in
a note to clients. “The slowdown at the core of the euro-area
economic engine will provide scope for the ECB Governing Council
to ease monetary policy further.”  Bunds fell yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service cut
the outlook on the nation’s top Aaa rating, citing concern it
will have to support weaker euro-region members.  Debt Sale  Germany’s  30-year yield  advanced two basis points to 2.17
percent. Today’s sale drew an average yield of 2.17 percent, the
Bundesbank said. The nation received bids for 3.37 billion euros
of the securities. The government also auctioned 752 million
euros of inflation-linked debt maturing in April 2023.  The two-year note yield was at minus 0.061 percent, below
zero for a 14th day.  German debt returned 4.1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 9.6 percent, while  Italy ’s rose 3.9 percent.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Ireland and  Portugal , according to
measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the spread between
two-year and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  