-- German Business Confidence Fell More Than Forecast in July
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-25T09:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/german-business-confidence-fell-more-than-forecast-in-july-1-.html
German business confidence fell more
than economists forecast in July to the lowest in more than two
years as the worsening sovereign debt crisis damped the outlook
for economic growth and company earnings.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 103.3
from 105.2 in June. That’s the third straight decline and the
lowest reading since March 2010. Economists predicted a retreat
to 104.5, according to the median of 35 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News  survey .  Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 lowered the outlook on
 Germany ’s Aaa credit rating to negative, citing the risk that
 Greece  could leave the euro and an “increasing likelihood”
that countries such as Spain and Italy will require support.
While the Bundesbank said this week that the German economy
probably grew moderately in the second quarter, aided by
domestic demand, latest data show the manufacturing and service
industries are contracting.  “The crisis costs Germany money,” said  Christian Schulz ,
senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “Not because of
the bail-outs it guarantees, not because of a potential ratings
downgrade and its impact on borrowing costs, but because the
economy is growing much more slowly than it otherwise would. It
could stagnate or even fall into recession.”  Expectations Drop  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation declined to 111.6 from
113.9 and a measure of executives’ expectations fell to 95.6,
the lowest since June 2009, from 97.2. The euro dipped on the
report before resuming its climb to trade at $1.2121 at 11 a.m.
in  Frankfurt .  Investor confidence fell for a third month in July and the
benchmark  DAX share index  has lost 10 percent in the last four
months.  Germany’s  Puma SE (PUM) ,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods
maker, on July 18 cut its 2012 sales and profit forecasts and
said it will close some stores and may also eliminate jobs after
business slowed in the first half of the year. The slowdown was
particularly noticeable in Europe, the company said.  Still,  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of business-management
software, is beating rivals to contracts as companies limit
their spending amid slowing economic growth, co-Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Labor Market  “While the worries are there about the euro, companies are
still investing, and software is one of the areas they invest in
to manage this new area of uncertainty,” he said.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are also
bolstering domestic spending in Germany, helping to counteract
waning export demand.  The Bundesbank in June predicted German growth of 1 percent
this year. By contrast, the European Commission forecasts a 0.3
percent contraction for the 17-nation euro economy as a whole.  “If the euro area crashes then even the strong labor
market won’t save the German economy,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “So far, the economy is
not too wobbly, but it does depend on how the crisis evolves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  