-- Ghana’s Ruling Party Seeks Unity After President’s Death
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-07-25T13:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/ghana-s-mahama-sworn-in-as-president-after-mills-death.html
Ghanaian President John Atta Mills’
death may spur his divided ruling National Democratic Congress
party to unite and bolster the chances of his successor, John Dramani Mahama, of winning a presidential election in December.  “Mahama has been very active and is quite experienced,”
Kojo Asante, senior research fellow with the Accra-based Centre
for Democratic Development, said in an interview today. “He is
a good person for the transition, people know him and his
demeanor. Ghanaians will vote on bread-and-butter issues, but
one cannot discount the reality of sympathy votes.”  Praised by President  Barack Obama  as a “model for  Africa ”
in March,  Ghana ’s democratic machinery reacted smoothly to
Mills’ death. Within six hours of the announcement, Vice
President Mahama was sworn in and the opposition presidential
candidate, Nana Akufo-Addo, 68, suspended his campaign.  Ghana, the world’s second-largest cocoa producer, has been
one of Africa’s best-performing economies since it won $3.5
billion in debt relief from the  International Monetary Fund ,
 World Bank  and other lenders in 2005. The West African nation
sold its first dollar bond of $750 million in 2007. Oil
production helped to boost economic growth to 14.4 percent last
year, the fastest pace of any nation in Africa.  Party Splits  “Mahama is known to be fairly pro-Western, pro-investment,
a champion of private industry,”  John Bates , head of fixed
income at London-based Silk Invest Ltd., which manages $130
million and owns Ghanaian bonds, said today by phone. “Although
he may decide to reshuffle his team somewhat, we think that the
investment and monetary policy direction of the country will
probably move sideways.”  Mills, who celebrated his 68th birthday on July 21, had
been in poor health and presided over a party suffering deep
splits, especially with its founder, former military ruler Jerry Rawlings.  Mahama must still face a battle for the presidential
nomination. In the last contest in 2011, Rawlings’ wife, Nana
Konadu Agyeman Rawlings, lost to Mills. The NDC will hold a
meeting of its national executive committee tomorrow to decide
what to do, Joshua Hamidu Akamba, the party’s deputy national
organizer, said in an interview.  “You have sentiment, you have the renewal factor, and
Mills was clearly extremely ill,”  Patrick Smith , editor of the
London-based newsletter Africa Confidential, said today by phone
from Paris. “Mahama is young, has a lot of energy and is very
good with the media.”  Rally Challenge  The country’s electoral commission hasn’t opened
nominations for president yet and the vote is expected to
continue in December as planned, said Amadu Sulley, deputy
chairman of the body.  Mahama’s “challenge is to rally the party behind him,”
Emmanuel Akwetey, executive director Accra-based Institute for
Democratic Governance research group, said today by phone from
the Ghanaian capital.  Mahama, 53, was born in the northern town of Damango and
has wide experience in government, serving as minister of
communications and a member of parliament. He studied
communications at the University of Ghana and worked at the
Japanese Embassy in  Accra  and Plan International, a non-
governmental organization, before entering politics. He is
married to Lordina Mahama and has seven children.  “Mahama does have an established political career,” Simon Freemantle, Africa analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s
largest lender, said by phone interview from Johannesburg today.
“He’s certainly got the experience to steady the ship. I don’t
see any disruption.”  Natural Gas  In April, he signed the biggest loan in Ghana’s history
with China Development Bank Corp., valued at $1 billion, in part
to develop a  natural gas  project.  “President Atta Mills dedicated his entire life to our
dear nation,” Mahama said after being sworn in before lawmakers
who were wearing strips of red cloth to signify the leader’s
sudden death. “Our finest tribute to him at this moment is to
maintain the unity and stability of our nation.”  After winning the 2008 election by less than 1 percentage
point, Mills presided over the country’s first oil production
for export in a ceremony at the offshore Jubilee field.  Mills “helped promote economic growth in Ghana in the
midst of challenging global circumstances and strengthened
Ghana’s strong tradition of democracy,” Obama yesterday.  Ghana’s debt is rated by  Standard & Poor’s  at B, five
levels below investment grade, and one step higher at B+ by
 Fitch Ratings . The yield on the Eurobond fell for the first time
in three days, declining 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage
point, to 5.622 percent by 1:09 p.m. in Accra.  “The next election is critical because whoever wins will
be able to ramp up social spending with the oil money and ensure
that their party holds on to power for a considerable time,”
Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  