-- Guggenheim Partners Raises $1 Billion for New Loan Fund
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-07-25T22:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/guggenheim-partners-raises-1-billion-for-new-loan-fund.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC raised about
$1 billion for a new fund that will make loans to public and
private companies with revenues of as much as $500 million,
according to a regulatory filing.  The Guggenheim Private Debt Fund filed a Form D today with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission disclosing it
received $952 million in commitments from 11 investors. The
actual amount gathered was slightly more than $1 billion, Zach Warren, a senior managing director at Guggenheim, said in an
interview. The investors were primarily insurance companies.  The fund will make both senior and subordinated loans to
middle-market companies, defined by Guggenheim as those with
revenue of $50 million to $500 million and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $10 million to
$50 million. The fund has already made a number of loans,
according to Warren.  Guggenheim, with headquarters in  Chicago  and  New York , has
issued almost $4 billion in loans to middle-market companies
through various private funds, according to Warren. Asset
managers have stepped in to fill a funding gap that arose after
banks scaled back their lending to middle-market companies amid
the 2008 financial crisis.  Guggenheim, a closely held company whose initial investors
included members of the Guggenheim family, has six primary
businesses including money management and insurance. The loan
vehicle’s structure is similar to that of a private-equity fund,
including an initial four-year period in which to make loans and
a five-year life thereafter, Warren said.  Money managers such as New Mountain Capital LLC and Fidus
Capital LLC sold stock last year in seven publicly traded
vehicles designed to provide financing to middle-market
companies, with one additional fund going public this year,
according to Troy Ward, a specialty finance analyst at Stifel,
Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis . The public funds are often
structured as business development companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  