-- Li Ka-shing Doubles U.K. Gas Networks in $1 Billion Deal
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-07-25T07:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/li-ka-shing-leads-1-billion-offer-for-wales-west-utilities.html
Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing 
agreed to pay 645 million pounds ($1 billion) cash for Wales &
West Utilities Ltd. to almost double the size of the gas
transmission businesses his companies control in the U.K.  Li-controlled  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) ,  Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) ,  Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6)  and
LKSFL, a charity established by the 83-year old, agreed to buy
the company that is owned by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  funds and
other investors, they said today in a joint  filing .  “The price tag looks reasonable given the target company’s
large-scale operations,” said Evan Li, a Hong Kong-based
utility analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. “Adding utility
assets globally is  Cheung Kong  Infrastructure’s development
strategy and they may buy more down the road.”  Buying  Wales  & West will give Li control of pipelines
covering a quarter of the U.K.’s population as he steps up
acquisitions in  Europe  following declines in valuations on
concern the global economy will slow further. He led groups that
acquired Northumbrian Water Group Plc for $7.5 billion including
debt last year and Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power
networks for 5.8 billion pounds in 2010.  Cheung Kong Holdings, chaired and 39 percent-owned by Li,
 declined  1.9 percent to HK$97.15 at 2:54 p.m. in Hong Kong
compared with a 0.8 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index . Power Assets, 38-percent owned by Cheung Kong
Infrastructure, dropped 2.2 percent.  Deal Valuation  Li’s group is paying 5.33 times Wales & West’s earnings
before interest and tax compared with the median of 15.97 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on 10 comparable
deals.  Wales & West shareholders include Macquarie European
Infrastructure Fund LP, Macquarie Global Infrastructure Fund II,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, IFM Global Infrastructure
Fund and AMP Capital.  The utility, which was sold to a group of funds led by
Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund for 1.2 billion pounds in
2004, manages gas transportation assets, gas distribution and
meter work services through Wales and the southwest of  England ,
according to the statement. The target company had a loss of
63.1 million pounds in the year ended March 31, 2012.  The loss was derived using U.K. accounting standards and
wouldn’t have occurred under international accounting standards,
Cheung Kong Infrastructure Managing Director Kam Hing Lam said
today at a press conference in  Hong Kong .  Deal Appetite  “This project should be able to bring us the similar
return from the northern gas project we bought earlier, which
has had double digit return over the years,” Kam said. The
company is looking for more acquisition opportunities, he said.  Each unit in the bidding group could pay as much as 108.6
million pounds for the acquisition and may pay as much as 95.4
million pounds to cover the target company’s loans, according to
the filing.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure and Power Assets already
controls 37,000 kilometers (23,000 miles) of gas transmission
pipelines in the U.K. through Leeds-based Northern Gas Network.
Buying Wales & West will add 35,000 kilometers of gas pipelines
and access to a population of 7.4 million people, according to
Wales & West’s  website . Cheung Kong and its partners paid 1.4
billion pounds for Northern Gas in 2004.  ‘Superman’  Li’s wealth is valued at $23.3 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires index  that is calculated daily. Nicknamed
“superman” by the local media for his investing prowess, Li
opened a plastic flower factory after World War II and built his
fortune investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from  China ’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices.  He forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market bubble would
burst and in 2009 predicted a rally in Hong Kong home prices.
The Shanghai Composite Index lost 65 percent in 2008, the most
among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  