-- Midwest Rains Won’t Dent Drought or Help Crops
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-25T13:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/midwest-rains-won-t-dent-drought-or-help-crops.html
The Midwest, where record amounts of
rain fell in some places yesterday, may remain abnormally dry
through the first week of August and the moisture probably won’t
be enough to help drought conditions there, forecasters said.  Flood advisories were still in force in North Dakota and
 Minnesota  following the thunderstorms, according to the  National
Weather Service . The storms were local and didn’t extend across
the rest of the region.  It’s possible rain will fall across a much larger area,
including  Iowa  and Illinois, through the next week, said Joel Widenor, of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “This will ease moisture stress a bit, temporarily, in
these areas, but will be insufficient for a major turnaround in
soil moisture,” said Widenor, co-founder of the company.  Corn and soybean crops are in their worst state since 1988
as drought covers at least 56 percent of the contiguous 48 U.S.
states. The lack of a soaking rain in the forecast and the
persistence of temperatures 5 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 to
4.4 Celsius) above normal until at least Aug. 8 have contributed
to a rise in prices.  The U.S. Drought Monitor, which measures the extent of
drought nationwide, is scheduled to release an update tomorrow.  As of July 22, 26 percent of U.S. corn and 31 percent of
soybeans were in good to excellent condition, the lowest for the
date since 1988, according to the Agriculture Department.  In Fargo,  North Dakota , 2.35 inches (6 centimeters) of rain
fell yesterday an all-time high for the day that broke the old
mark set in 1993, according to the Weather Service. A daily
record 1.69 inches fell in  Minneapolis , according to the agency.
The rain caused minor flooding.  Iowa Heat  Farther south, in  Des Moines , Iowa, today’s high
temperature is expected to reach 104 degrees and there is a
slight chance of thunderstorms later today, according to the
Weather Service.  Chicago  may reach 99.  While the heat remains fixed over the Midwest, there is a
possibility that temperatures will rise about 3 degrees above
normal in the U.S. Northeast from Aug. 4 to Aug. 8, according to
Commodity Weather Group President  Matt Rogers .  Computer modeling shows another heat wave may strike the
East Coast during the week of Aug. 6, he said.  Heat in the large cities along the East Coast raises demand
for electricity as people turn to air conditioners to cool off.
The increase raises prices on the spot markets and for the
fuels, such as natural gas, used to generate power.  The normal average temperature in New York for Aug. 1 is
78, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
It’s 74 in Boston; 80 in Washington; 85 in Houston; 76 in
Chicago; 80 in Atlanta; 67 in  Seattle  and 76 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  