-- Military Faces Suicide ‘Epidemic,’ Panetta Tells Congress
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-25T20:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/military-faces-suicide-epidemic-panetta-tells-u-s-lawmakers.html
The U.S. military is experiencing a
suicide “epidemic,” with as many as 206 service members having
taken their own lives this year, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
told lawmakers today.  There were 104 confirmed military suicides this year, along
with 102 investigations into potential suicides, Panetta
testified before a joint hearing of the House of Representatives
Armed Services Committee and the Committee on Veterans Affairs.  “That is an epidemic,” he said. “Something is wrong.”  Panetta said improvements are needed in mental  health
services  for  active duty  and returning troops. One barrier is
that the military doesn’t have enough caregivers to address the
shortfalls in this area, he said.  The Pentagon also needs more leadership in the field to
spot potential problems, Panetta said.  In 2011 there were 301 military suicides, according to data
from Cynthia Smith, a Pentagon spokeswoman. This year’s total
may be as high as one suicide a day, Panetta said during the
hearing.  Leaders of both House committees said they were concerned
about shortcomings in health care provided by the Pentagon and
the Department of  Veterans Affairs .  Those deficiencies are especially worrisome considering
that as many as 1 million troops will leave the military by
2017, said Representative Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican and
the veterans committee’s chairman, and Representative Buck McKeon, a California Republican and chairman of the Armed
Services panel.  Claims Backlog  The Department of Veterans Affairs has struggled to ease a
backlog in disability claims and to work with the Pentagon to
create a shared electronic health records system, Miller and
McKeon said at the hearing.  “The transition that service members experience from
active service into civilian life must be improved,” McKeon
said at a joint hearing of the committees.  Panetta agreed that the reality is that not all troops are
getting the care they deserve.  “This system is going to be overwhelmed,” he said.
“Let’s not kid anybody. It’s already overwhelmed.”  Meeting veterans’ needs is part of the costs of war,
Panetta said. “It’s not just dealing with the fighting, it’s
dealing with the veterans that return,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Kathleen Miller in
Washington at   Kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  