-- Lilly Profit Beats Analyst Estimates as Cymbalta Sales Rise
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-07-25T20:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/lilly-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-zyprexa-generic-competition.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , maker of the
schizophrenia medicine Zyprexa, reported second-quarter profit
that fell less than analysts estimated after higher sales for
the antidepressant Cymbalta helped trim losses from generic
competition to its former top-seller.  Net income  declined 23 percent to $924 million, or 83 cents
a share, from $1.2 billion, or $1.07, a year earlier,
Indianapolis-based Lilly said today in a statement. The per-
share earnings beat the 77-cent average of 15 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue from Cymbalta rose 22 percent to $1.22 billion,
while Zyprexa, Lilly’s former biggest-selling medicine that lost
patent protection last year, saw sales fall 73 percent to $380
million. With Cymbalta also facing generic competition in 2013,
investors have turned their focus to the company’s pipeline of
experimental medicines.  “Overall, a good bottom line beat for the quarter,”  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a
research note today. “Yet for many investors it is the longer-
term financial outlook that matters more and here, Lilly still
looks challenged.”  Revenue dropped 10 percent to $5.6 billion, Lilly said.
Profit, excluding one-time items, for the full year will be
$3.30 to $3.40 a share, compared with a previous  forecast  of
$3.15 to $3.30.  Lilly rose 2.7 percent to $43.12 at 4 p.m. New York time,
its biggest increase since December. The shares have risen 3.8
percent this year.  Exchange Rate  The dollar’s strength against other currencies reduced
sales by about 2 percentage points for the company, which gets
at least half of its revenue from outside the U.S. The U.S.
dollar index, which reflects the value of the dollar against
major world currencies, was on average 8.1 percent higher in the
second quarter than a year earlier.  “If you take Zyprexa out of the equation, our underlying
sales grew 8 percent,” Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter 
said in a telephone interview today.  Lechleiter pointed to Forteo, Effient and cancer therapy
Alimta as other sources of growth. He also cited the animal
health business and sales opportunities in  Japan and China .  “These were areas we invested in in advance of our YZ
period,” he said, referring to the years of patent expirations.
“Knowing they could be sources of growth that could cushion the
blow we took when we faced generic competition for Zyprexa.”  Revenue for Lilly’s animal health business rose 32 percent
to $512 million.  Pipeline Focus  Investors are focusing on Lilly’s experimental Alzheimer’s
treatment, about which the company is expected to report initial
data by the end of September, said  Jami Rubin , an analyst with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York.  “We expect the key focus to remain on Lilly’s high risk,
high reward Alzheimer’s drug solanezumab and potential
mitigating factors if unsuccessful, such as a program to cut
costs,” Rubin said in a report before the earnings release.  Lilly shares fell 4.2 percent yesterday, after  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  reported data July 23 showing a
similar experimental Alzheimer’s treatment failed in the first
of four late-stage clinical trials.  Lechleiter said conclusions on Lilly’s Alzheimer’s medicine
shouldn’t be drawn from those results.  “They’re different from one another,” he said. “We just
need to wait and see our own data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  