-- China May Refrain From More Easing, IMF Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-25T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/imf-says-china-downside-risks-significant.html
China  may refrain from stepping up
its monetary stimulus or increasing  spending  because measures
now in place are sufficient to support growth, the International
Monetary Fund’s top official in the nation said.  Authorities will probably maintain the “status quo” after
already shifting their monetary stance to a “more neutral or
accommodating one” and may forgo expanding this year’s budget,
Il Houng Lee, 54, the IMF’s senior resident representative in
China, said in an interview yesterday in the fund’s Beijing
office.  Lee’s comments reflect confidence at the IMF, which last
week cut its China  growth  forecasts three months after releasing
updated projections, that the pace of expansion will accelerate
in the second half of 2012. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government
enacted two interest-rate cuts in a month and accelerated
approval of investment plans to stem six quarters of
deceleration in the world’s second-largest economy.  “Broadly what they have been doing has already been
adequate to ensure that the economy is bottoming out,” said
Lee, head of the IMF’s China office since 2010. “They most
likely maintain the current status quo,” he predicted.
Authorities “will most likely allow credit growth to continue
to increase,” while avoiding the record scale of lending in the
aftermath of the global financial crisis, Lee said.  Rate Cut  The IMF official didn’t rule out another rate cut, saying a
drop in the inflation rate could prompt such a move. Meantime,
the government sees “adequate space in the existing budget to
continue to adjust policies to support growth,” assuming
 Europe ’s debt crisis doesn’t worsen, he said. Revenue may come
in above projections, allowing higher spending, he said.  The IMF issued an annual review late on July 24, saying
that while  China’s economy  “seems to be undergoing a soft
landing,” achieving that is a key challenge. “China is well
placed to respond forcefully, if needed, to a deterioration of
the external environment, in particular through fiscal policy,”
the Washington-based lender said.  The fund repeated its forecast from last week that China’s
economy will expand 8 percent in 2012, compared with the 8.2
percent seen in April. It sees an acceleration to 8.5 percent
growth in 2013, compared with 8.8 percent predicted three months
ago. Inflation will range from 3 percent to 3.5 percent for the
year and slow to 2.5 percent to 3 percent in 2013, “barring
further shocks to agricultural supply,” the IMF said.  Leaders have implemented stimulus as the Communist Party
prepares for a once-a-decade leadership succession, starting
later this year.  Political Dynamics  “Our baseline scenario assumes no disruption” from the
leadership shift, Lee said. Asked if domestic or foreign
investment decisions are being postponed, Lee said that he
“would have thought that uncertainties in the global economy
were much larger than the uncertainty, if any, over the
political risks here.”  The IMF on July 24 reiterated its assessment that the  yuan 
is “moderately” undervalued, which China disputed. The fund
omitted an estimated range for the currency’s undervaluation
that was included in an earlier draft, according to two
officials at the fund who had seen the previous language and
spoke on condition of anonymity.  With a slowdown in export growth, China has overseen a
weakening in the yuan this year. The currency has dropped about
1.4 percent against the dollar in 2012 after a 4.7 percent gain
in 2011. The yuan fell less than 0.1 percent against the dollar
to 6.3885 yesterday.  Yuan Policy  The yuan “is assessed to be moderately undervalued against
a broad basket of currencies,” the IMF staff wrote, reiterating
an assessment last month by  David Lipton , the IMF’s first deputy
managing director. That was a change from the previous stance
that the currency was “substantially” undervalued.  China said the yuan was “now close to equilibrium or, at
most, slightly undervalued,” according to the report.  Markus Rodlauer, head of the IMF’s China team, asked why
estimates of the yuan’s undervaluations were left out this year,
said on a conference call with reporters that “numbers tend to
get a life of their own.” Some estimates will appear in a
separate exchange-rate report to be issued “shortly,” he said.
Last year’s report gave a range of 3 percent to 23 percent for
the undervaluation.  Bill Murray , an IMF spokesman, declined to comment on the
omission of the yuan’s estimated undervaluation that was in an
earlier draft.  ‘Significant’ Risks  IMF directors “noted that the pace of activity has slowed
and downside risks are significant,” the fund said on July 24.
Options to support the economy while avoiding the side effects
of a credit-fueled stimulus include subsidies for consumption,
incentives to reduce pollution and greater spending on a social
safety net, the IMF staff wrote.  China is accelerating  capital spending  in response to the
slowdown, and the IMF said its directors expressed concern about
the sustainability of “such a high level of investment in the
context of weak external demand and excess capacity.” The IMF
sees gross domestic investment little changed this year at 48.5
percent of GDP.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s second-
biggest electronics retailer, warned on July 24 it may post a
first-half loss as revenue declined and its e-commerce unit was
unprofitable. Gome and larger Suning Appliance Co. last year
benefited from government subsidies on home-appliance purchases.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  