-- IMF Accord With Jordan Gives Nation Access to $2 Billion
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-25T14:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/imf-accord-with-jordan-gives-nation-access-to-2-billion.html
Jordan will get a loan of about $2
billion from the  International Monetary Fund  as the country’s
borrowing costs surge on political unrest in the region.  The IMF agreed to a request for a 3-year stand-by accord
“in support of the government’s economic reform program,” the
Washington-based lender said on its website. The agreement is
subject to approval by the IMF’s executive board.  Yields on Jordan’s one-year debt in local currency have
doubled since February last year when Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  was
overthrown. Since then, repeated attacks on the  gas pipeline 
from Egypt have raised energy costs, and the civil war in
neighboring Syria has deterred tourism and foreign investment.  “Jordan’s economy has been hit by exogenous shocks that
were outside the government’s control,” Kristina Kostial, the
IMF’s mission chief for the country, said on the fund’s website.
The government’s effort to cushion their effects has widened the
budget gap, and the IMF-backed program aims to “correct fiscal
and external imbalances” without hurting “the vulnerable part
of the population,” she said.  Foreign direct investment tumbled 32 percent in 2011,
according to the  World Bank . The  tourism industry  lost about 700
million dinars ($988 million), Amman-based Al-Rai newspaper
reported May 31, citing Tourism Minister Nayef Fayez.  Economic growth may decline to 2.1 percent this year, the
slowest since the height of the global crisis in 2009, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc. Still, Jordan’s central bank has raised
 interest rates  twice this year to shore up savings in dinar.  The flow of Syrian refugees into Jordan, estimated by the
government at more than 130,000, is adding to the strain by
placing increased demands on the country’s housing stock and
limited water resources, Jordan Perry of U.K.-based risk
analysis company Maplecroft said in an email today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  