-- Indian Troops Bid to Quell Assam Ethnic Violence as 37 Killed
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-07-25T12:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/indian-troops-bid-to-quell-assam-ethnic-violence-as-37-killed.html
Indian troops marched in areas of
 India ’s northeastern  Assam  state as the death toll from ethnic
clashes rose to 37, with 170,000 people forced from their homes.  Fighting broke out last week in the state’s Kokrajhar
district between indigenous Bodo tribespeople and Muslims who
have settled in the region from what is now  Bangladesh  over
several decades. Violence erupts every few years between the
communities, driven by competition for agricultural land.  “The army has been deployed in four districts,” G.D.
Tripathi, Assam’s home secretary, the state’s top internal
security official, said by phone. More bodies of victims have
been found and police have confronted mobs attempting to burn
down houses in neighboring Chirang district, he said.  A curfew remains in place in parts of the affected region,
said Tripathi, adding that rail services have resumed after
being halted due to attacks on trains. Relief camps have been
set up, he said.  The riots came days after monsoon floods killed more than
77 people and destroyed homes and rail lines in Assam. The state
shares a border with Bhutan and Bangladesh and is home to
several rebel groups, including the National Democratic Front of
Bodoland, which is fighting for an independent homeland for the
ethnic group.  Soldiers took out a flag march today in Chirang, said
Upendra Nath Bora, deputy commissioner for the district.  “The situation in Kokrajhar is still tense but is
improving,” said Donald Gilfellon, who holds the same rank in
the region at the center of the violence. “The army is
continuing its operation and a curfew has been imposed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  