-- Indonesia Suspends Soybean-Import Tax as Tofu-Makers Strike
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-07-25T12:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/indonesia-suspends-soybean-import-tax-as-tofu-makers-strike-1-.html
Indonesia  will suspend a 5 percent
duty on soybean imports until the year-end after makers of tofu
and tempeh halted production to protest against surging costs
spurred by the oilseed’s rally to a record.  The  Finance Ministry  will issue a ruling this month that
will be effective without delay, Coordinating Minister for the
Economy Hatta Rajasa said. The Trade Ministry has also held
talks with importers to limit margins, he told reporters.  Indonesia’s decision, and the strike by local food-makers
who’d demanded the levy be dropped, reflect the impact in  Asia 
of the worst U.S. drought in more than 50 years, which has
pushed soybeans and corn to all-time highs.  South Korea ’s
government said today it’s considering stockpiling soybeans,
corn and wheat to cope with rising prices. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. has said soybeans and corn will extend gains in Chicago.  The government will “provide facility and flexibility for
tofu and tempeh cooperatives to directly import soybeans” to
ensure supplies, Rajasa told reporters in Jakarta. The 5 percent
levy on soybean shipments had been in place since January.  Soybeans rallied 32 percent on the  Chicago  Board of Trade
this year as the worst drought since 1956 in the U.S., the
world’s biggest grower, hurt supplies. Futures, which reached a
record $16.915 a bushel on July 23, traded at $15.92 at 8:37 p.m.
in  Singapore . Goldman Sachs has a three-month target of $20.  Soybean Rally  Some Indonesian producers of tofu and tempeh, soybean-based
staples, stopped production today after local bean prices surged
33 percent in the past three weeks to about 8,000 rupiah per
kilogram ($841 a metric ton), according to The Confederation of
Indonesian Tofu and Tempeh Makers Cooperatives. The stoppage
came during Ramadan, the Muslim holy month, when followers break
daylong fasts with communal meals.  “About 23,000 members in Banten, Jakarta and West Java
provinces that halted output this morning will soon resume
production,” said Sutaryo, the group’s head of business, who
uses a single name. “Supplies of tofu and tempeh will return to
normal on Saturday,” he said, adding that the confederation
expects the government to maintain soybean prices at about 6,000
rupiah to 7,000 rupiah per kilogram.  The drought in the U.S. may spark a rebound in  global food
costs  through October, the United Nations Food & Agriculture
Organization said on July 5. South Korea’s  Agriculture Ministry 
will also seek to temporarily lift import tariffs on soybeans
and wheat, according to an e-mailed statement today.  Import Needs  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, imports about
70 percent of its soybean needs, according to Deputy Agriculture
Minister  Rusman Heriawan . Tofu and tempeh, derived from soybeans
and eaten mainly with rice, the main staple, are key sources of
affordable protein. The foods represent about 88 percent of
total soybean use in the country, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  Indonesian inflation unexpectedly accelerated in June as
food costs climbed, the  Central Statistics Office  said on July 2.
 Consumer prices  rose 4.53 percent last month from a year earlier
after climbing 4.45 percent in May.  The country is expected to import 1.97 million tons of
soybeans in the marketing year from October 2012, up from 1.9
million tons a year earlier as consumption will exceed output,
the USDA’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  said in a report in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  