-- Informa Posts Loss as Europe’s Debt Crisis Dented Events Unit
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-07-25T08:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/informa-posts-loss-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-dented-events-unit.html
Informa Plc (INF) , the publisher of
Lloyd’s List, posted a first-half loss versus profit a year ago
as Europe’s debt crisis forced it to sell events businesses in
Hungary,  Austria , the  Czech Republic  and parts of Germany.  Informa posted a net loss of 41.9 million pounds ($65.1
million), compared with net income of 55.5 million pounds a year
earlier, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said today. Revenue
declined 2.4 percent to 619.6 million pounds.  The company took an 80 million-pound non-cash impairment
charge after cutting about 550 events from its European
businesses, as well as a 24.4 million loss on disposal. No
further cuts to events, which makes up 47 percent of revenue,
are expected this year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Rigby said
in a phone interview today, adding Informa is looking to
 emerging markets  for further growth.  “We’re keeping our heads down and making sure we’re
efficient as we can be,” Rigby said. “Although it’s nice to
hope that economies improve in the next six to 12 months, we
don’t expect it.”  The shares dropped as much as 6.6 percent, the most in
almost a year. The shares traded 5.5 percent lower at 9 a.m. in
London.  Informa, which earlier this month bought one of Canada’s
largest conference businesses for 34 million pounds, has about
100 million pounds in a full year for acquisitions and is
seeking bolt-on assets of the same size or smaller, Rigby said.  While the company has no plans to sell parts of its
business, “that doesn’t mean if someone came over the hill with
a knockout bid for part of the business we wouldn’t consider
it,” Rigby said.  Informa, which moved its tax base to Switzerland in 2009,
is also monitoring corporate tax changes in the U.K. and could
move back, Rigby said.  “We have residency on our agenda,” he said. “When we
think it’s appropriate to return we will.”  Media companies including  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  UBM Plc (UBM)  have also
said they were considering a move back to the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 