-- Iranian Smugglers Feel the Pressure as Sanctions Bite
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-07-26T10:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/iranian-smugglers-feel-the-pressure-as-western-sanctions.html
Western sanctions on Iran are biting
so deep that even fishermen who make the two-hour journey across
the  Strait of Hormuz  at night to Oman to smuggle flat-screen
televisions, cell phones and food say they’re feeling the pain.  Using small fishing boats in a waterway through which a
fifth of the world’s traded oil passes has always been a risky
business. Rising fuel costs have increased the price of boat
trips, while a slide in Iran’s currency has made it harder to
pay suppliers. The risks are even greater with the state
promising a crackdown on imports of manufactured items.  “Nobody would believe that we put our life in danger on
the sea for a profit of about $80” a month, Aghil Bandari, 40,
said in an interview at the fisherman’s pier in  Bandar Abbas  as
three co-workers unloaded a catch of crabs in heat of 40 degrees
Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit). With more sanctions, “our
situation will only get tougher.”  Each year about $5 billion worth of goods are smuggled into
Iran, the state-run Mehr News Agency reported in June 2011,
citing the Customs and Excise Department. About 80 percent of
the mobile phones sold in the country are brought in illegally,
said Mohammad Reza Farzanegan, an economics professor at the
 Center for Near and Middle East Studies  at the Philipps-
University of Marburg,  Germany , who authored a 2009 study on
smuggling in Iran.  A European Union ban on Iranian oil purchases this month
has added to international trade, banking and energy sanctions
designed to force the Islamic Republic to curb its nuclear
program. Iranian officials concede restrictions are hurting.  ‘Heads High’  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said July 3 the measures are
“the harshest ever imposed on a country” and urged Iranians to
keep their “heads high.”  Prices of basic goods, including meat, rice and bread, have
spiralled as the national currency has lost about a third of its
value against the dollar on the open market since November, when
the U.S. and the EU began to tighten sanctions. The Iranian rial
fell to 19,590 against the dollar on July 26 from 13,200 on Nov.
2. The  central bank ’s official exchange rate of 12,260 rials to
the dollar isn’t available to the general public.  “With the rial losing its value, our purchasing power in
markets abroad decreased,” said Bandari, who studied law in the
capital, Tehran, and after failing to find a job returned to
Bandar Abbas.  Smugglers who travel at night to the Omani port of Khasab
say they have less cash to buy everything from cell phones, Nike
shoes and fruit juices to perfumes, clothes, textiles,
cigarettes and wrist watches.  Domestic Production  Food has become a safer cargo than manufactured goods since
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  named the Iranian year
starting March 20 the “Year of Domestic Production and Support
for Iranian Labor and Investment.” Every $1 billion in smuggled
goods costs Iran 50,000 to 60,000 jobs, the Customs and Excise
Department said, according to Mehr.  Hossein Shirazi, 43, said when he was sent to court this
year after a police patrol picked him up, the judge wasn’t as
angry about the smuggling as about the textiles that he was
carrying.  “The judge said, ’are you looking to annihilate Iranian
companies?’” Shirazi recalled, as he sat on his motorbike. The
judge specifically referred to Khamenei’s directive on favoring
local products over imported ones and fined him 15 million
rials, he said.  Six weeks later he was smuggling again.  Penalties Vary  In the short term, there’s little the government can do to
stop smuggling, said Farzanegan from Philipps-University. Local
producers aren’t competitive because they have limited capacity
and ageing technology, he said.  “The only way the government will protect local production
is by increasing tariffs, which will be another signal to
smugglers,” he said. “As long as there is a difference between
the prices of imported goods and that of smuggled goods,
smugglers will have an incentive.”  Penalties vary depending on what products are smuggled.
Those who are caught carrying alcohol can have their boat
confiscated or receive a jail sentence, Ali Shabani, 32, said as
he cleaned his engine at the pier.  “Smuggling edible goods into Iran is easier than shoes and
clothing products, because if arrested by the Iranian coastguard
there is a lesser fine for these things,” he said.  Hamid, a 34-year-old street seller of sunglasses in
downtown Tehran, the capital, says his wares mostly come from
 China  via Bandar Abbas, where he buys from a friend. He says the
police generally don’t crack down on him.  Energy Subsidies  “It’s not like I’m selling opium or something, you know,”
he said in an interview in between bargaining with clients over
sunglasses with brand names such as Ray-Ban,  Giorgio Armani ,
Gucci, Chanel. “When the police come and ask me to pack up, I
leave and stash my stuff somewhere else. Sometimes they are
tough and take the goods away.”  With energy and food subsidies gradually being removed as
part of a five-year government plan that started in 2010,
Shirazi said trips to Khasab have become more expensive.  Each fishing boat needs 250 liters (66 gallons) of gasoline
for a return trip at a price of about $60, Shirazi said.  To cope with rising prices and the weakening currency,
smugglers need to make more trips, crossing every other day
rather than three or four times a month, Bandari says. Inflation
accelerated to 22.4 percent in the 12 months ended June 20,
 Iran ’s  Central Bank  said July 9.  Shabani says he and other fishermen by day, smugglers by
night have little choice.  “The only reason that I’m a fisherman is to get health
insurance from the government for my family,” Shabani, wearing
a tank top and flip flops, said at his boat. “Otherwise it is
not a worthy job to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Bandar Abbas, Iran, at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  