-- Hitachi’s U.K. Train Venture Said to Plan 2.1 Billion Pound Loan
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-07-25T07:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/hitachi-s-u-k-train-venture-said-to-plan-2-1-billion-pound-loan.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s U.K. unit hired banks
to arrange about 2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) of loans to
help fund the purchase and maintenance of trains on the Great 
Western Main Line route, according to three people familiar 
with the matter.  Agility Trains , a consortium comprising Hitachi and
 Henderson Group Plc (HGG) ’s infrastructure developer John Laing Plc,
expects to complete the borrowing this week, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.
The facility will have a maturity of 20 to 30 years, they said.  Tokyo-based Hitachi, which provided high-speed trains for
the British side of the Channel Tunnel, won the 4.5 billion-
pound train order as part of the Agility Trains group, the
U.K.’s Department for Transport said in a  statement  today. The
so-called Intercity Express Programme is a project to replace
Britain’s Intercity 125 trains with new, higher-capacity modern
trains, according to the statement.  Hitachi will assemble an intercity fleet of 92 trains at a
new purpose-built factory in Newton Aycliffe, County Durham,
 England . It will also construct maintenance depots in Bristol,
Swansea, west London and Doncaster, and upgrade its existing
maintenance depots throughout Britain.  “Hitachi is the latest major international company to
invest on this scale in Britain,” U.K. Transport Secretary
Justine Greening said in the statement. “It means 730 new
skilled jobs created at the factory, 200 jobs in constructing
the plant and thousands of jobs secured in the supply chain.”  Atsushi Konno, a Tokyo-based manager in the public
relations section of Hitachi, declined to comment on the
financing when reached by telephone today.  Arranger Group  A total of 10 banks, including HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds
TSB Bank Plc, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. and  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , will help provide the financing, the people
familiar with the matter said. HSBC is the deal’s financial
adviser, they said.  Hitachi has $11 billion-equivalent of bonds and loans
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The maker
of nuclear reactors and air-conditioners is rated A3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its fourth-lowest investment grade.  Shares of Hitachi fell 2 percent to 434 yen at close of
trading in  Tokyo . The stock has gained 7.4 percent this year,
compared with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average's 1.1 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  