-- Italy Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Rebounded This Month
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-07-25T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/italy-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-rebounded-this-month.html
Italian  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly rose from a record low even amid signs that the
country’s fourth recession since 2001 will deepen amid the euro
region’s debt crisis.  The confidence index rose to 86.5 from a revised 85.4 in
June, the national statistics office,  Istat , said in  Rome  today.
Last month’s reading was the lowest since the data series began
in 1996. Economists forecast the index to fall in July to 85,
according to the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Italy ’s economy shrank for a third straight quarter in the
first three months of 2012 as the debt crisis worsened and Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity measures pushed the country
deeper into the recession, its fourth since 2001. The nation’s
debt financing costs are cutting potential growth in the euro
region’s third-biggest economy by as much as 0.9 percent,
employers’ lobby Confindustria said in a July 19 report. The
country’s 10-year bond yield climbed this week to the highest
since January.  Homeowners in Italy made their first payments of a new
property levy, known as IMU, last month, marking the return of
taxation on primary residences after four years. The levy was
part of the 20 billion-euro ($24 billion) austerity package the
government passed in December to narrow the deficit and contain
the debt burden,  Europe ’s second-biggest.  The economy contracted more than 0.5 percent in the three
months through June amid the  European debt crisis  and declining
domestic demand, the  Bank of Italy  said on July 17. The drop in
gross domestic product was “slightly more than half a
percentage point” in the period, the central bank said in its
quarterly economic bulletin.  The economic outlook “remains marked by the weakness of
domestic demand, which is due to both the worsening of funding
conditions and the effect of the measures to correct public
finances passed last year on households’ available income,” the
Rome-based bank also said, adding that the recession probably
will end at the beginning of 2013.  The economy will  shrink  2.4 percent this year and another
0.3 percent next as rising taxes and joblessness cause a slump
in  consumer spending , Confindustria said in a June 28 report.
Italy’s unemployment rate, close to a 12-year high of more than
10 percent, will keep rising through 2013, it said.  Istat originally reported a confidence index reading of
85.3 in June. The release of today’s report was delayed by 30
minutes due to a protest by the institute’s researchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 