-- Itau Profit Hit by Defaults, Wage War: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-07-25T13:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/itau-profit-hit-by-defaults-wage-war-corporate-brazil.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Latin America ’s largest banks by market value, face
shrinking margins this quarter as higher delinquencies converge
with surging labor costs.  Bank workers are asking for a 10.25 percent raise,
outpacing the 4.9 percent annual rate of  inflation  through June.
The demands come as banks grapple with consumer default rates at
a 30-month high. Government measures to cut  interest rates  and
ease reserve requirements fueled an 18 percent expansion in May
of outstanding credit to 2.14 trillion reais ($1.04 trillion).  Such companies as state-run  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras
SA (ELET6)  to public universities and regulatory agencies face strikes
as workers seek above-inflation raises in annual wage disputes,
which shut banks by about three weeks in the third quarter of
2011. Record low  unemployment  and a lack of skilled workers may
bolster union demands even as growth slows in the world’s
second-largest emerging economy, said Rafael Bacciotti, an
economist at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada.  “Every year it’s an issue,”  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist
at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview. As salaries improve, “labor costs start to become a
bigger burden on the industry.”  Itau has tumbled 11 percent and Bradesco, based in Osasco,
is down 4.6 percent in Sao Paulo this year through yesterday
after the banks boosted provisions for delinquencies on debt
that is 90 days or more overdue. The benchmark  Bovespa index  has
declined 7.3 percent in the period.  Itau, based in Sao Paulo, rose 1 percent to 30.50 reais at
10:48 a.m. Bradesco gained 1.3 percent to 29.71 reais.  Default Rates  Brazil’s central bank reported June 26 that consumer
 default rates  rose to 8 percent in May, the highest since
November 2009, as borrowers struggle to pay down debt amid
slowing growth in  Brazil . The bank will release its June report
tomorrow.  Economists predict growth in the second-biggest emerging
market after  China  will slow for a second straight year even as
the government has cut interest rates to a record low, granted
tax breaks on industrial and consumer goods and provided more
subsidized credit. The economy expanded 2.7 percent last year
after growing 7.5 percent in 2010.  Itau booked provisions for bad loans of 5.99 billion reais
at the end of the second quarter, up from 5.11 billion reais a
year earlier, the company said in its quarterly results released
yesterday. The default rate for payments at least 90 days
overdue climbed to 5.2 percent from 4.5 percent.  Rising Delinquencies  “Delinquency rates may still grow a little bit in the
second half,” Rogerio Calderon, Itau’s head of  investor
relations , said in a conference call.  Bradesco shares plunged as much as 6.5 percent after it
released its second-quarter results on July 23. The bank
reported provisions of 3.41 billion reais, up 40 percent from a
year earlier, as default rates rose to 4.2 percent.  “This provision shows conservatism,” Chief Executive
Officer Luiz Carlos Trabuco Cappi, 60, told reporters in a
conference call July 23. “Delinquencies are under control.”  He said yesterday on a conference call that he expects
delinquency rates to fall to 3.8 percent to 3.9 percent at the
end of this.  Brazilian companies are set to meet with unions in coming
months as part of annual talks to negotiate wage increases and
benefits, known as the dissidio adjustment.  Above-Inflation Raises  Most workers have won pay increases that outpaced inflation
every year since 2004, according to a  survey  by Dieese, a trade
union research institute. Last year, 87 percent of workers won
above-inflation adjustments, while 7.5 percent had pay adjusted
in line with consumer price increases, the survey found.  “We would anticipate some noise,” Fabio Zagatti, a Sao
Paulo-based analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a report July 16.
“Partial strikes and extensive press coverage are almost
generally part of the negotiations.”  Bank employees have held a nationwide strike every year
since 2004, the union representing Sao Paulo-area workers said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Bradesco is confident in the negotiating process,” the
bank’s press office said in an e-mailed statement, without
commenting on the effect of possible strikes or above-inflation
wage increases.  Workers may win bigger raises than in 2011 after the
government increased minimum wages earlier this year,
Tendencias’s Bacciotti said.  ‘Bargaining Point’  “The favorable labor market environment with low
unemployment rates becomes a bargaining point,” Bacciotti said
in a telephone interview on July 20. Bacciotti forecasts the
 unemployment rate  to average 5.8 percent this year, down from
about 6 percent in 2011.  The national bank federation, known as Fenaban, which
represents banks, is set to start negotiations in early August,
said Magnus Apostolico, the group’s director of labor relations.  “If you use last year’s agreement as a reference, when the
real wage increase was a little above 1 percent, then it doesn’t
make sense to have a 5 percent increase in a tough year like
this one,” he said in a telephone interview. “We hope the
negotiations won’t be as contentious as last year. Strikes
undermine clients and even bank workers.”  Last year, workers accepted a 9 percent wage increase to
end a 20-day strike, Fenaban said on its website. Barclays’
Zagatti said in his report he forecasts personnel expenses to
rise an average 9 percent for Brazilian banks in 2012.  “It cannot be deemed a conservative assumption, judging
from past experience,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  