-- Liverpool to Trigger Joe Allen’s Release Clause: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-25T05:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/liverpool-to-trigger-joe-allen-s-release-clause-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Contract Clause  Liverpool is ready to make  Joe Allen  its second off-season
signing by triggering a 15 million-pound ($23.2 million) release
clause in the Swansea midfielder’s contract, the  Sun reported .  Allen, 22, has an agreement that allows him to leave if
Liverpool, Chelsea, Arsenal,  Manchester United  or  Manchester
City  meet that valuation, the newspaper added.  Allen Anomaly  Reuniting with Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers , his
former coach at Swansea, is Allen’s intention even though clubs
outside the five stipulated in his contract could bid less to
secure his signature, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The anomaly has made Liverpool officials push for a cheaper
arrangement, the newspaper added.  Cazorla Close  Arsenal agreed on a fee of 16 million pounds with Malaga
for Spanish winger Santi Cazorla, who has accepted the Gunners’
personal terms, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 27-year-old Cazorla, who can operate on either flank,
may be a potential replacement for Theo Walcott, who has less
than a year to run on his contract, the Mail added.  PSG Complication  Luka Modric’s attempt to try to force a move to Real  Madrid 
has been complicated by Paris Saint-Germain’s willingness to
meet Tottenham Hotspur’s 40 million-pound asking price, the
 Guardian reported .  Although Modric doesn’t want to join PSG, the French club’s
readiness to pay the sum has hardened Spurs’ conviction to hold
out for its full valuation of the Croatian playmaker, the
newspaper added.  Midfield Inquiries  Spurs made fresh inquiries about signing either  Shakhtar
Donetsk ’s Willian or Moussa Dembele of Fulham as they prepare to
sell Modric to Madrid, the  Telegraph reported .  Fulham wants 15 million pounds for Belgian international
Dembele, while Shakhtar has set a price of 25 million euros
($30.1 million) for Brazilian attacking midfielder Willian, the
newspaper said.  One More Offer  Manchester United is considering whether to make a final
offer for Brazilian midfielder Lucas Moura or risk the deal
collapsing, the  Mail reported .  United is wary of being manipulated by the player’s club
 Sao Paulo  and his agent, Wagner Ribeiro, who said yesterday that
the transfer is off because United won’t increase its bid of 29
million pounds, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  