-- Mizuho to Expand Overseas Lending 30% a Year as Europe Retreats
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-07-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/mizuho-to-expand-overseas-lending-30-a-year-as-europe-retreats.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  plans to
boost overseas lending by as much as 30 percent a year as it
targets Asian companies unable to borrow from European banks
that are retrenching amid the euro area’s debt crisis.  Japan’s third-largest lender by market value is now
marketing to about 120 potential borrowers globally including
 Tata Group , Volvo AB and Prada SpA, Nobuhide Hayashi, a managing
executive officer at Mizuho’s corporate banking unit, said in an
interview on July 20. The banking group expects 30 percent of
operating profit to come from abroad within three years and may
consider acquiring a financial institution, he said.  Mizuho and bigger rivals  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  are targeting
higher-yielding markets as European banks sell assets, making up
for declining  profitability  on loans in  Japan . Mizuho’s planned
acquisition of Dusseldorf-based WestLB AG’s Brazilian unit will
enhance the bank’s ability to lend abroad, Hayashi, 55, said.  The Japanese lender increased loans overseas by 25 percent
from a year earlier to $127.8 billion as of March 31, according
to company presentation materials. About 20 percent of its
operating profit came from abroad last fiscal year and it
expects to boost that figure to 23 percent this year.  Mizuho has hired about 400 people locally for operations
abroad over the past three years and will continue recruiting
overseas, Hayashi said.  Higher Rankings  Mitsubishi UFJ, Sumitomo Mitsui and Mizuho trail only
Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc in rankings of
syndicated loan arrangers in  Asia  this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In 2009, Mitsubishi UFJ was the only
Japanese bank in the top five.  Lending in Japan rose 0.8 percent in June from a year
earlier and has failed to increase more than 1 percent since
October 2009, central bank figures show. The average  interest
rate  Japanese banks charge for new loans fell to 0.95 percent in
May, close to a record low of 0.92 percent in February.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , the country’s fourth-
biggest bank by market value, plans to expand overseas loans by
32 percent this year as it buys assets from European lenders and
provides infrastructure finance in Asia, Shigeki Tanaka, general
manager of wholesale business planning, said last month.  Mizuho said in June it agreed to buy the Brazilian unit of
WestLB, now known as Portigon AG, to tap demand for
infrastructure-related financing. The Japanese bank bought 15
percent of Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of
 Vietnam  for about $570 million last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  