-- Japan Unexpectedly Posts a Trade Surplus as Oil Prices Drop
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-07-25T00:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/japan-unexpectedly-posts-a-trade-surplus-as-oil-prices-drop.html
Japan posted an unexpected  trade
surplus  in June as lower  oil prices  contributed to the first
drop in imports since December 2009.  Imports fell 2.2 percent from a year earlier, resulting in
a trade surplus of 61.7 billion yen ($789 million), the  Finance
Ministry  said in Tokyo today. Exports dropped 2.3 percent. The
 median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of 29 analysts was
for a shortfall of 140 billion yen.  Japan’s petroleum imports more than doubled in the fiscal
year ended March as the nation closed down nuclear reactors in
the aftermath of last year’s Fukushima disaster. While falling
oil prices are a boon, weaker global demand and a stronger yen
may squeeze exports and cap growth in the world’s third-largest
economy.  “It’s still not clear whether Japan can sustain a trade
surplus,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at the Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo.  “There’s no clear sign of a
recovery in exports as the European economy remains weak and
China’s growth is slowing.”  Crude oil prices on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell
to $77.69 dollars per barrel on June 28, down 29 percent from
their year-to-date high of $109.77 on Feb. 24. The nuclear
accident and subsequent shutdowns of other plants around the
country caused energy imports to surge last year.  The yen advanced against the dollar after the report,
trading at 78.10 as of 9:52 a.m. in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid 1.5 percent. International investor concern has
fueled the yen’s appeal as a haven asset, causing it to advance
to an 11-year high against the euro. The yen has risen more than
6 percent against the dollar since mid-March.  Record Deficit  The nation posted a record trade deficit of 2.9 trillion
yen in the six months ended June, according to today’s report.  Japan’s government said this week that signs of a global
slowdown have increased as it became more pessimistic about the
prospects for China, Japan’s largest trading partner. The
 International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2013 global growth
forecasts this month on Europe’s debt crisis and slower
expansions in  emerging markets  from China to India.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said yesterday the yen movements
had been “one-sided” and reiterated that authorities were
prepared to act “decisively” to counter excessive movements in
the currency.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the world’s biggest maker of  flash memory 
after Samsung Electronics Co., said it will cut production of
NAND flash memory by 30 percent as weakened demand for data
storage devices led to a glut. Its shares tumbled to their
lowest in more than three years in Tokyo trading yesterday.  Lending Program  The government is considering extending a 10-trillion yen
lending program beyond its expiration on Sept. 30 to help
companies take advantage of a stronger currency by pursuing
mergers and acquisitions abroad, according to two government
officials. The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the discussions haven’t been made public, didn’t
elaborate on how long the program may be extended.  The facility has helped finance 15 projects worth $8.9
billion, according to the state-run Japan Bank for International
Cooperation. JBIC Governor Hiroshi Okuda, who’s also a former
chairman of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , this month said Japanese
businesses are calling for an extension of the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  