-- Japanese, Australia Stock Futures Gain on Fed Expectation
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-25T23:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/japanese-australia-stock-futures-gain-on-fed-expectation.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  rose as a drop in U.S. new home sales fueled speculation
the  Federal Reserve  make take new steps to spur growth. Gains in
shares may be limited as Citigroup Inc. raised its bet for
Greece’s exit from the euro to about 90 percent.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , a trading
company, added 0.7 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo
as commodity prices rose. Those of  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
biggest brokerage by market value, fell 0.2 percent on a report
its chief executive officer will step down amid an insider-
trading scandal. ADRs of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s No. 1
carmaker by market value, rose 0.6 percent after sales gained 34
percent in the first six months of this year.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,410 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,350 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,410 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
 Index (CRY)  rose 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained
0.4 percent in Wellington as the nation’s central bank extended
a pause in its benchmark interest rate.  “Company-specific news is driving us, but the market is
generally a bit more positive based on the QE3 expectation,”
Matt Riordan, a portfolio manager who helps manage about $6.5
billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty., said,
referring to a third-round of quantitative easing in the U.S.
“Europe is lurching and no closer to a solution.”  Fed Expectations  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The index fell less than 0.1 percent in New York
yesterday, erasing gains in the final hour of trading, after a
report showed demand for new U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped in
June from a two-year high.  Weaker-than-expected economic data intensified bets that
the Fed is moving closer to taking new steps to spur economic
growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said policy
makers are studying options for further easing that could be
deployed in case economic growth remains too feeble to produce a
lasting decline in unemployment. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  meets next week.  Traders and commodity producers may rise after the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials advanced 0.3
percent yesterday. Crude oil for September delivery rose 47
cents to $88.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Nomura’s Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe will step
down as the firm seeks to resolve an insider-trading scandal,
the Nikkei newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Toyota Sales  Toyota is on pace to outsell General Motors Co. and
Volkswagen AG, reclaiming its title as the world’s top-selling
automaker. Toyota sales rose 34 percent in the first six months
of the year to 4.97 million globally, leading GM and VW,
according to the companies.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell about 12 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern China’s
economy is slowing and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen. The regional benchmark index traded at 11.5 times
 estimated earnings  as of yesterday, compared with 13 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup increased its estimate for Greece leaving the 17-
nation euro currency union in the next 12 to 18 months to about
90 percent, with prolonged economic weakness and spillover for
the euro area.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.3 percent to 84.34 yesterday
in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 