-- Kiwi Gains as RBNZ Holds Rate, Amid ESM Bank-License Bets
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-26T04:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/kiwi-gains-as-rbnz-holds-rate-amid-esm-bank-license-bets.html
The  New Zealand  dollar rose against
all except one of its 16 major counterparts after Reserve Bank
Governor Alan Bollard left benchmark  interest rates  on hold and
said the economy should grow “modestly.”  The Australian and New Zealand dollars held gains against
the greenback ahead of U.S. data forecast to show growth slowed
in the world’s largest economy. Demand for the South Pacific
nations’ currencies was supported after  Ewald Nowotny , a
European Central Bank council member, said there were arguments
in favor of giving the region’s rescue fund a banking license.  “The RBNZ did say they were quite confident about the
outlook for New Zealand’s economy,” said Peter Dragicevich, a
Sydney-based foreign-exchange economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. (CBA)  “We still expect the next move by the RBNZ to be a
hike. We’ve seen the New Zealand dollar supported by that.”  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, rose 0.3 percent
to 79.10 U.S. cents as of 1:51 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday,
when it gained 0.6 percent. It added 0.2 percent to 61.79 yen
from yesterday, when it gained 0.6 percent.  Australia ’s dollar fetched $1.0313 from $1.0307 yesterday,
when it appreciated as much as 1.1 percent to $1.0337, the
largest intraday gain since June 29. The so-called Aussie was
unchanged at 80.57 yen from yesterday, when it advanced 0.8
percent.  New Zealand’s central bank left the official cash rate
unchanged at 2.5 percent for an 11th-straight time at a meeting
today. The decision was predicted by all 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  ‘Grow Modestly’  The nation’s economy should “grow modestly over the next
few years,” Bollard said, with the rebuilding of earthquake-hit
Christchurch expected to boost the  construction industry . Fiscal
consolidation and a strong  exchange rate  were offsetting that by
constraining demand, he said.  The country’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, added four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.6 percent.  Investor demand for riskier assets was buoyed after ECB
council member Nowotny said there were arguments in favor of
giving the European Stability Mechanism a banking license,
easing concern its 500 billion-euro ($607 billion) cash reserves
won’t be enough if Italy or  Spain  require assistance as the
region’s debt crisis deepens.  ‘Unlimited Firepower’  A banking license would “theoretically give the ESM
unlimited firepower to fight the crisis, so we saw risk markets
benefit from that,” said CBA’s Dragicevich. “We have seen the
Aussie drift higher and it should stay above $1.03 today.”  Australian  government bonds   declined  as Asian stocks rose.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 0.4 percent,
capping four days of decline. The yield on Australia’s 10-year
security rose two basis points to 2.82 percent.  In the U.S., orders for durable goods probably rose 0.3
percent in June after a 1.3 percent gain in May, according to
economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey taken before the
Commerce Department releases the figures today.  Data tomorrow is forecast to show gross U.S. domestic
product expanded at an annualized 1.4 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in a year, leading to speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will act to boost growth.  “Expectations for further unorthodoxy from the Fed have
increased,” Citigroup Inc.’s Group of 10 currency strategy team
led by Steven Englander, wrote in a note to clients today. “GDP
on Friday may further stoke expectation.”  The Fed released its Beige Book business survey last week,
saying the  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate”
pace. It gives central bankers anecdotal evidence on the economy
before a two-day policy meeting starts on July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  