-- Krishnan’s Astro Says Lippo Challenge Missed Time Limit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-07-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/krishnan-s-astro-says-lippo-challenge-missed-time-limit.html
Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan’s Astro group said Lippo Group, its former Indonesian
partner in a failed television venture, is avoiding paying $300
million in arbitration awards and is too late to challenge it.  Lippo didn’t challenge the awards within a stipulated time
frame of three months and can’t attack their validity of the
awards, David Joseph, a lawyer for eight Astro units, said
yesterday in the  Singapore  High Court. Justice Belinda Ang
reserved her judgment after the three-day hearing.  Lawyers for three units within James Riady’s Lippo Group,
which has media, financial services and property businesses in
 Asia , have said they didn’t consent to the confidential
arbitration. The time limit to oppose the awards doesn’t apply
to this case, Lippo’s lawyer Toby Landau said.  Astro started the Singapore arbitration a month after Lippo
sued companies and individuals linked to Krishnan in  Indonesia 
in September 2008, seeking to end the lawsuit and the return of
its investment in the pay-TV venture.  A three-member arbitration tribunal in 2010 ruled that
Astro should get $300 million from Lippo. To enforce the awards,
Astro sought orders from courts including in the U.K.,  Hong
Kong ,  Malaysia  and Singapore.  Krishnan’s Astro All Asia Networks Plc has said it ended
the venture after its Lippo partners failed to pay 805 million
ringgit ($254 million) in bills. Krishnan, Malaysia’s second-
richest man, has a fortune worth about $7.6 billion, according
to data compiled and calculated by Bloomberg.  The Singapore cases are Astro Nusantara International BV v
PT Ayunda Prima Mitra OS807/2010 and OS913/2010. Singapore High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  