-- N.Z. Holds Rate at Record Low on EU Risks, Tame Inflation
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-07-25T22:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/n-z-holds-rate-at-record-low-on-eu-risks-tame-inflation.html
New Zealand ’s central bank extended
a pause in the nation’s benchmark interest rate, citing risks
from  Europe ’s fiscal crisis and an outlook for tame inflation in
holding borrowing costs at a record low.  The decision to keep the official  cash rate  at 2.5 percent
for an 11th straight meeting, spanning almost 17 months, was
 forecast  by all 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s last change in borrowing costs was
a cut in March 2011.  “New Zealand’s trading partner outlook remains poor, with
several euro-area economies in recession,” Governor Alan Bollard said in a statement in Wellington. “There remains a
limited risk that conditions in the euro area deteriorate very
significantly.”  The domestic economy should “grow modestly over the next
few years,” Bollard said, with the rebuilding of earthquake-hit
Christchurch expected to boost the  construction industry . Fiscal
consolidation and a strong  exchange rate  were offsetting that by
constraining demand, he said.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened after Bollard’s comments.
It bought 79.10 U.S. cents at 10:16 a.m. in Wellington from
78.90 cents immediately before the statement. The so-called kiwi
has gained 1.8 percent this year, the best performer among the
Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation Target  While annual inflation is at the bottom of the 1 percent to
3 percent range the governor is required to target, it should
settle near the middle of that range over the medium term,
Bollard said today. The nation’s consumer prices recorded the
slowest annual inflation since 1999 last quarter, while a July
survey showed business confidence fell in that period.  After today’s announcement, investors reduced bets New
Zealand will cut rates this year. Traders are pricing in a 32
percent chance the RBNZ will lower the benchmark by a quarter
percentage point to 2.25 percent in September, down from 44
percent yesterday, according to swaps data from  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)   In a research note,  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB
Bank Ltd. in Auckland, said “the RBNZ remains relaxed on the
inflation front” and “March is still the earliest we see” an
increase in the cash rate.  Rate Predictions  In a Bloomberg survey of economists published July 23, all
16 respondents predicted New Zealand’s benchmark rate will stay
unchanged for the rest of this year, and nine of those polled
forecast an increase in the first quarter of 2013.  “Our view for some time has been that the RBNZ would
remain sidelined until 2014 and today’s statement leaves us
comfortable with that profile,”  Michael Turner , an economist at
RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Bollard has left the benchmark rate unchanged since March
last year to allow the economy to recover after the nation’s
deadliest quake in 80 years struck Christchurch, its second-
largest city. The temblor, in February 2011, killed 185 people
and closed the central city.  The government last month appointed former World Bank
official Graeme Wheeler to succeed Bollard, who has served in
the position for a decade and whose term ends Sept. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  