-- Nasdaq Soars Most Since November on Profit Beat
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-07-25T20:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/nasdaq-soars-most-since-november-on-profit-beat.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. equity exchange operator, rallied the most since
November after quarterly earnings beat analyst estimates and the
company lowered its 2012 expense forecast.  The  shares  rose 4.8 percent to $22.87 today in the biggest
advance since Nov. 30. The rally curbed the 2012 loss for Nasdaq
OMX to 6.7 percent, compared with a 15 percent decline in the
 Bloomberg World Exchanges Index (BNWEXCH)  of 25 companies worldwide.  Second-quarter earnings rose to 64 cents a share excluding
some items, exceeding to the 60-cent  average estimate  of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income rose 1.1 percent to
$92 million, and the New York-based company lowered its 2012
core operating expense forecast to a range of $870 million to
$890 million, excluding new initiative spending, acquisition
costs and a compensation plan for brokers that lost money on the
 Facebook (FB)  Inc. initial offering.  Almost $900 million was erased from Nasdaq OMX’s market
value last quarter after Facebook’s debut in May burned
investors, spurred losses on  Wall Street  and prompted lawsuits
against the exchange. The bourse boosted its compensation plan
this month for brokers that lost money on the IPO, the biggest
share sale since General Motors Co. in November 2010, to $62
million cash.  IPO Malfunctions  “Nasdaq is showing the IPO-related malfunctions are not
impacting their ability to return cash at outsized rates, a key
part of Nasdaq’s strategy to turn relatively modest top-line
growth into healthy EPS growth,”  Ed Ditmire , a New York-based
analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote after the release.  The plan Nasdaq unveiled last week to pay member firms that
lost money in the IPO of Facebook represents the company’s
“definitive statement” on restitution and no more reserves are
planned, Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said
on a conference call with analysts today. As an exchange owner,
Nasdaq has substantial legal defenses, he said.  The company bought back 5.3 million shares for $125 million
in the second quarter, bringing the total amount repurchased
since January 2009 to $1.1 billion, according to today’s
release. Nasdaq OMX paid its first  cash dividend  of 13 cents a
share during the second quarter.  Revenue Breakdown  Revenue excluding rebates, clearing and other fees rose 2.2
percent to $424 million, exceeding the average analyst
projection, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Access and broker
services  revenue  increased the most, rising 12 percent to $66
million from a year ago. Market data, which accounts for 22
percent of net revenue, increased 8.4 percent to $90 million,
Nasdaq said.  Higher sales for services offset lower trading revenue, as
fees for handling stock transactions fell 12 percent to $52
million and derivatives trading and clearing slipped 6.7 percent
to $70 million.  Average daily volume  of U.S. exchange-listed securities
during the second quarter fell 4.5 percent to 6.82 billion
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nasdaq gets
about a third of its  revenue  from transaction fees for equities
and derivatives, data from the company show. The exchange’s U.S.
equity market share rose to 22.5 percent from 21.2 percent in
the first quarter, Barclays data show.  Facebook Listing  Nasdaq OMX, which won the Facebook listing over its main
competitor  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , has faced criticism for its handling
of the debut, when the first public transaction took a half hour
longer than planned. An error also prevented execution reports
for the shares that entered the auction, and those that were
ignored, from being sent immediately to brokerages.  Shares of the exchange dropped 12 percent during the second
quarter. The stock is up 4 percent since the May 18  Facebook
IPO , compared with a  23 percent slump  for the social-networking
service.  “We deeply regret the problems encountered during the
initial public offering of Facebook,” Greifeld said in a press
release on July 20. “We failed to meet our own high standards
based on our long history of providing outstanding technology to
our members and exchange customers. We have learned from this
experience and we will continue to improve our trading
platforms.”  Nasdaq  OMX agreed to increase the compensation pool from
$40 million and did away with a proposal to credit most of the
money through reduced trading costs, according to a submission
last week with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Member
brokers who accommodated customers for losses will get paid
first, it said.  Compensation Pool  “We suspect the fund is still unlikely to satisfy member
firms that experienced trading losses,” Patrick O’Shaughnessy,
a Chicago-based analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.,
wrote in a July 23 note. “Even at its increased size, the
accommodation fund is still well below the $100 plus million in
reported claims from member firms.”  NYSE Euronext, the largest U.S. stock-exchange operator, is
scheduled to issue its quarterly report on Aug. 3. The average
analyst projection is for 50 cents a share in profit, down from
the 61 cents in the year-earlier period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the Frankfurt-based
exchange, will post  earnings  results on July 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  