-- New Yorkers See Debt Eat Fares as Health Costs Rise: Muni Credit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/new-yorkers-see-debt-eat-fares-as-health-costs-rise-muni-credit.html
When  New York ’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  asks riders to pay more in fares and
tolls next year for the second time since 2011, the extra
revenue won’t go toward maintaining its aging fleet.  Instead, the $450 million in additional cash that the
agency expects to net annually from the 7.5 percent boost will
be swallowed by growing health-care, debt-service and pension
costs. The planned increases are built into the biggest U.S.
mass-transit system’s 2013 budget and four-year financial plan,
which officials are set to unveil today.  Such expenses are “the root cause of why I say our
financial plan is fragile,” MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota told
reporters last week at the agency’s headquarters in  Manhattan .
“We’re looking to raise about $450 million to deal with the
nondiscretionary costs.”  The system, whose oldest subway cars date to the 1960s,
faces a quandary familiar to local governments nationwide: how
to pay for worker and debt-service costs that are consuming
ever-greater shares of budgets even as state aid shrinks.
Municipalities including Stockton, California, and  Central
Falls ,  Rhode Island , filed for bankruptcy in the past year after
failing to keep up.  The MTA’s advantage is that its network of subway, bus and
commuter rail roads is often the only option for 8.5 million
daily users. That makes the system an “essential service” and
enhances the appeal of its debt, said James DiChiaro, a
portfolio manager in Armonk, New York, at Cutwater Asset
Management Corp., which oversees about $3 billion in munis.  Management Praised  The authority’s steps to raise revenue also help explain
why investors are demanding less extra yield to own its debt,
said Eric Friedland, head of municipal-credit research in New
York at Schroder Investment Management North America. The
company oversees $2 billion in munis, including MTA bonds.  “Gradual rate increases are a far stronger management
practice” than waiting for costs of pensions and capital
projects to climb, said Friedland, who takes the MTA’s Metro-
North commuter line to work from  Connecticut .  The agency’s finances are improving from 2010, when it
faced a $900 million deficit and enacted $93 million in service
cuts. Last week, Lhota said the budget would include $29.5
million in service restorations. Officials will update their
financial plan, which in February projected cash balances of $1
million this year and $80 million in 2013, and deficits of as
much as $137 million in 2014 and $204 million in 2015.  Market Outpaced  Yields on MTA securities, which Standard & Poor’s rates A,
its sixth-highest grade, have declined more than  interest rates 
in the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  MTA bonds maturing in 2046 traded July 23 at an average
yield of 3.41 percent, the lowest ever, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Debt due in 2038 traded yesterday at an average
yield of 3.83 percent, down 0.19 percentage point from its issue
this month, the data show. In comparison, yields on top-rated
municipal bonds maturing in 26 years declined 0.07 percentage
point in the same period, to 2.95 percent, a Bloomberg Valuation
 index  shows.  Transportation debt has returned about 6 percent this year,
beating the tax-exempt market’s 5.7 percent gain, according to
S&P index data.  The proposed fare and toll increases would take effect in
March, pending public hearings and board approval. The planned
boosts would follow last year’s 7.5 percent system-wide
increase, with a third installment scheduled for 2015. The
agency projects that fares and tolls will generate $6.5 billion
this year, about half of operating revenue.  Aid Flow  Insufficient state and city aid is to blame for the higher
fares, Gene Russianoff, a spokesman for the Straphangers
Campaign, a Manhattan-based public-transportation advocacy
group, said in an e-mail. Area riders pay the nation’s highest
share of operating costs, at about 44 percent, more than in
cities including Atlanta, Boston and  Chicago , he said.  Debt service, along with the costs of pension, health and
other benefits for retirees and almost 66,000 employees are
scheduled to rise a combined $989 million by 2015 from this
year, according to the February financial plan.  The largest percentage increase comes from post-employment
benefits, for which the MTA forecasts a jump of 34 percent by
2015, from $435 million this year. The $2.1 billion in  payments 
this year on  debt  of $31.5 billion is set to rise 20 percent,
while pension costs of $1.3 billion will climb about 9 percent,
the agency projects.  ‘Cowardly’ Explanation  The share of the budget going toward debt service has risen
faster than that for labor expenses, according to agency data
compiled by the Transport Workers Union Local 100, the MTA’s
largest union. Labor expenses fell to 60 percent of the budget
last year from 61 percent in 2006, the data show. Debt service
jumped to 17 percent from 14 percent.  “MTA chose to focus on rising pension costs as the ‘cause’
for the fare increase, which is typical of them and somewhat
cowardly when the cost of rising debt service way exceeds rising
pension/health care costs,” said Jim Gannon, a union spokesman.
“It’s a bit of a budget shell game.”  Following is a pending sale:  REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF  CALIFORNIA  plan to sell about
$920 million of revenue bonds, including $100 million of taxable
debt, as soon as tomorrow, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will help finance student housing and
parking and refinance debt, according to bond documents. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the bonds Aa2, its third-highest grade.
(Updated July 25)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  