-- Newsweek Owner Says Magazine Will Eventually Shift Online
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-25T19:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/newsweek-owner-says-magazine-will-eventually-be-online-only.html
Newsweek will eventually transition
to an online publication, owner  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  said today,
marking the beginning of the end for the money-losing magazine’s
79-year run as a print weekly.  IAC Chairman  Barry Diller  made the announcement during a
quarterly conference call, saying the New York-based company
aims to curb investments in the business. Newsweek is projected
to lose as much as $22 million this year, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter. Still, Diller stopped short
of saying the magazine would undergo a “total” shift online.  “The transition to online from hard print will take
place,” Diller said. “We’re examining all of our options.”  A plan for Newsweek will be announced as early as
September, Diller said. Newsweek became part of his media
holdings in 2011 when it merged with IAC’s  Daily Beast Co. , an
Internet news startup that Diller founded with former Vanity
Fair editor Tina Brown. The merger was part of an agreement with
the late  Sidney Harman , who acquired Newsweek from  Washington
Post Co. (WPO)  for $1 and the assumption of liabilities.  Justine Sacco, spokeswoman for IAC, declined to comment on
Newsweek’s losses.  IAC acquired a controlling stake in Newsweek/Daily Beast
Co. in late May after Harman’s family trust stopped making
capital contributions to the joint venture. IAC reported an
$18.6 million pretax expense last quarter related to the move.  IAC, which makes most of its revenue from the Match.com and
Ask.com websites, reported a 2.1 percent gain in second-quarter
 net income  to $43.3 million. Sales increased 40 percent to
$680.6 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  