-- Nexans Jumps as It Sees Margin Increase This Half: Paris Mover
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-07-25T09:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/nexans-jumps-as-it-sees-margin-increase-this-half-paris-mover.html
Nexans SA (NEX) , the world’s second-
biggest cable maker, gained the most in 10 months after
predicting a “significant” increase in second-half
profitability as it progressively fixes production issues at a
submarine-cable plant in  Norway .  Nexans rose as much as 11 percent to 34.25 euros, the
 steepest  intraday gain since Sept. 27. The stock traded up
8.2 percent at 33.51 euros as of 11:43 a.m. in Paris, paring the
decline to 16 percent this year.  “The operating margin should increase significantly in the
second half compared with the first, considering the
improvements in transmission recorded in the second quarter,”
Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Vincent  said at a Paris press
conference today. The production overhaul “should enable the
group to re-establish a regular level of production in this
business by the end of 2012 and to regain the expected operating
performance for this type of activity by the end of 2013.”  There will be “slight organic growth” in sales this year
against an uncertain economic situation in  Europe , Paris-based
Nexans said in a statement today. The  operating margin  fell to
3.6 percent of revenue in the first half from 5.1 percent a year
earlier at constant non-ferrous metal prices, after invoicing
delays, the company said.  Sales excluding acquisitions or disposals rose 0.2 percent
in the first half, and were up 3.4 percent excluding high-
voltage activities.  “Land power transmission should perform better in the
second half” as the production load factor will be better,
helped by a contract in  Libya , the CEO said. The Distributors
and Installers division, which serves the  construction industry ,
“shouldn’t face specific issues in Europe in the third quarter,
though the big question mark is for the fourth quarter.”  The company’s liquidity “remains very solid” as 900
million euros ($1.09 billion) of bonds and convertible bonds are
mostly due between 2016 and 2019, Chief Financial Officer
Nicolas Badre said today. The company has 540 million euros of a
committed undrawn revolving facility, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  