-- Nintendo Posts First Loss in Three Quarters on Yen Gains
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-07-25T20:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/nintendo-1st-quarter-loss-wider-than-estimates-keeps-forecast.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s largest
maker of video-game machines, posted its first loss in three
quarters as the stronger yen eroded overseas earnings and its
3DS handheld player remained unprofitable.  The net loss was 17.23 billion yen ($220 million), the
Kyoto, Japan-based company said in a statement today. That
compared with the 16.4 billion-yen loss average of three analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg and a loss of 25.5 billion yen a
year earlier. Nintendo kept its full-year forecast for a 20
billion-yen profit.  A  stronger yen , which cuts the repatriated value of
Nintendo’s overseas sales, hampered efforts by the creator of
“ Super Mario ” to recover from its first annual loss since
being listed in 1962. The company cut the price of its 3DS
handheld player less than six months after the device was
introduced last year as sales lagged behind estimates.  “There’s a risk Nintendo may cut its full-year forecast,”
said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at Myojo Asset
Management  Japan  Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund advisory firm.
“Nintendo faces additional fundamental problems as the video-
game console market may shrink due to the rising popularity of
smartphones and tablet PCs.”  First-quarter sales fell 9.7 percent to 84.8 billion yen,
while Nintendo’s operating loss narrowed to 10.3 billion yen
from 37.7 billion yen, according to today’s statement.  3DS Losses  The strong yen and losses from selling the 3DS contributed
to Nintendo’s first-quarter operating loss, the company said in
today’s statement. Nintendo cut the price of the 3DS, which
allows users to see 3-D images without wearing special glasses,
by as much as 40 percent last year.  Sales of the 3DS have surpassed 5 million units in the U.S.
since the machine was introduced in March last year, Nintendo
said earlier this month. In Japan, sales have totaled more than
6 million since its debut in February last year, according to
Enterbrain Inc., a Tokyo-based market researcher.  The company “only” sold 1.86 million 3DS machines
worldwide in the first quarter, during which it also released
the game “Mario Tennis Open,” it said. The 3DS will be
profitable starting this month, said  Yasuhiro Minagawa , a
spokesman.  Yen’s Rise  Nintendo’s U.S.-traded depositary receipts added 0.9
percent to $13.20 yesterday in  New York . They have declined 22
percent this year.  The yen appreciated 9.4 percent against the euro last
quarter, the most of any major currency, cutting the repatriated
value of Nintendo’s revenue from  Europe , where it got 34 percent
of sales last fiscal year.  The yen averaged about 102.90 per euro and about 80.10 per
dollar last quarter. The company based its full-year earnings
forecast on exchange rates of 105 yen per euro and 80 yen
against the dollar, it said today, reiterating currency
assumptions made in April.  Holiday Season  Nintendo is counting on a 37 percent targeted increase in
3DS sales, as well as the Wii U, its first new home console
since 2006, to help the company return to profit. The Wii U, set
to go on sale in time for the  Christmas shopping season ,
features a 6.2-inch touch-screen controller, roughly the size of
a tablet computer, that lets users wirelessly connect to the
console and shift content between a TV and the device.  The machine will also be equipped with a wireless credit-
card reader for online shopping and downloads of new game
levels.  Nintendo,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s three
biggest video-game console makers, face increasing competition
from makers of handheld devices including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and iPad, which are capable of downloading and playing games,
some for free. By contrast, software for Nintendo’s 3DS starts
at about 4,000 yen.  Video-Game Sales  The video-game industry in the U.S. is experiencing a
prolonged retail-sales slump as buying shifts to digital
downloads and games played on websites including Facebook Inc.’s
social-networking service, while sales of packaged video games
have fallen for nearly two years.  Sales of games in digital format rose 10 percent to $1.38
billion in the first quarter from the same period in 2011,
according to NPD, a research firm based in  Port Washington , New
York, estimated July 10. That compared with a 5 percent drop in
spending on used and rental video-games, NPD said.  Nintendo’s latest releases include “Pokemon Black Version
2” and “Pokemon White Version 2” for the DS, and “Mario
Party 9” for the Wii.  Third Place  Nintendo sold 9.84 million Wii machines in the year ended
March 31, compared with 13.9 million PlayStation 3 consoles sold
by Sony in the same period. Microsoft sold 14.9 million Xbox
machines in 2011.  Nintendo plans to sell 18.5 million units of the 3DS, up 37
percent from last fiscal year, the company said today,
reiterating its previous target. It wants to sell 10.5 million
Wii home consoles, including the Wii U, this fiscal year.  “The company’s future is all up to the Wii U,” said
 Mitsuo Shimizu , an analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities Co. “More
and more kids are getting used to playing with smartphones.
Nintendo may need to consider changing its business model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  