-- Nomura CEO Watanabe to Resign Amid Scandal, Nikkei Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-07-26T05:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/nomura-ceo-watanabe-to-resign-amid-scandal-nikkei-says.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  Chief Executive
Officer Kenichi Watanabe and his top lieutenant are preparing to
step down to atone for the bank’s role in an  insider-trading 
scandal, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Watanabe and Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata, both
59, will take responsibility for incidents in which employees
leaked information about clients’ share sales to traders, the
people said, asking to remain anonymous before an announcement.
Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, said Watanabe will hold
a briefing at 6 p.m. on management of  Japan ’s largest brokerage.  The  shares  rose as investors bet the biggest management
shakeup in 15 years may placate clients and regulators after a
CEO pay cut and penalizing junior executives for the leaks
failed to stem the backlash, costing Nomura its top spot
managing bond sales. Watanabe and Shibata, architects of the
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian
assets, also presided over an 83 percent slump in the stock.  Watanabe’s resignation “would be a plus for Nomura shares
as the company explores ways to reshape itself,” said Kouichi Niwa, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“Still, what Nomura needs the most now is to retrieve market
trust and boost earnings power.”  Once the world’s biggest securities firm with a market
value of $76 billion in 1987, Tokyo-based Nomura has now slumped
to a capitalization of $12.3 billion, about one-fourth that of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Nomura climbed 5.3 percent to 258 yen at 2:28 p.m. in  Tokyo 
ahead of first-quarter earnings scheduled for release at 3 p.m.
The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  rose 0.9 percent.  Earnings Forecasts  Net income fell to 1.6 billion yen ($20 million) in the
three months ended June 30 from 17.8 billion yen a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News via phone and e-mail.  Under Watanabe, the company posted a record 708 billion yen
loss in the year ended March 2009, oversaw the exodus of former
Lehman Brothers bankers, sold new shares twice to boost capital,
and cut dividends. The  stock ’s more than 80 percent drop since
he took the post in April 2008 compares with a 41 percent
decline in the Topix.  Japanese regulators this year found that Nomura employees
gave tips on share sales the company managed for Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., Inpex Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co.
to traders who short-sold the stocks before the offerings were
announced in 2010.  Nomura said June 29 that it would cut top officials’ pay,
force two managers to step down and suspend some operations
after an internal probe. Staff appeared to have been “willing
to do anything to meet sales targets,” lawyers hired by Nomura
to examine the lapses said in a report last month.  Dropped Nomura  Government agencies including  Development Bank  of Japan Inc.
dropped Nomura from debt sales in the wake of the insider-
trading probe. The state-owned venture said it instead assigned
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. to lead an offering
because it wanted to avoid “any disruption.”  Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission is
continuing to inspect Nomura. As part of efforts to crack down
on insider trading, the regulator this month asked Nomura,
Goldman Sachs and 10 other brokerages to review how they handle
confidential information. Watanabe had told reporters in June
that he wasn’t sure whether there were additional leaks.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Nomura’s biggest domestic
rival, may cut the salary of CEO Takashi Hibino and other
executives following an internal probe into possible employee
leaks about a Nippon Sheet Glass Co. share offering in 2010, the
Mainichi newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  Diamond, Dimon  Scandals at banks worldwide are forcing some top executives
to step down and tainting the image of others.  Robert Diamond 
resigned as CEO of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on July 3 after regulators fined
the lender a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) for
rigging global  interest rates . JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon was grilled by U.S. lawmakers after the Wall Street firm
disclosed trading losses that have spiraled to $5.8 billion.  Watanabe faced flak from shareholders at their annual
meeting last month. His approval rate among shareholders fell to
63.6 percent, the lowest among 13 executives and down from 92
percent a year earlier, according to a regulatory filing.  He joined Nomura in 1975 and held  managing  positions until
becoming CEO in April 2008, according to the firm’s website. He
took the role after predecessor Nobuyuki Koga failed to boost
profit and his attempt to expand in the U.S. backfired when the
subprime mortgage market collapsed.  Scandal History  Scandals have forced the resignation of Nomura leaders in
the past. President Hideo Sakamaki stepped down in 1997 after
the company admitted paying bribes to corporate extortionists,
known as sokaiya. In 1991, President Yoshihisa Tabuchi resigned
after the bank was found to have compensated clients for losses.  One of Watanabe’s first tasks as CEO was to apologize for
information leaks by an employee in the mergers and acquisitions
department and pledge to prevent further breaches.  Nomura purchased Lehman’s European operations for just $2
and the Asian unit for $225 million in 2008 in a drive to
compete with Wall Street banks weakened by the financial crisis.  The acquisition was a “once-in-a-generation opportunity,”
Watanabe said at the time. The deal has yet to pay off, with the
company continuing to lose money in  Asia  and  Europe  and former
Lehman executives leaving the firm, including  Jesse Bhattal , who
quit as Nomura’s wholesale banking chief in January.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s credit rating to the
lowest investment grade in March, citing questions over the
profitability of the company’s global capital markets operations.
Watanabe eliminated 1,300 jobs worldwide in the six months ended
March as part of a $1.2 billion cost-cutting program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  