-- North Korean Mystery Woman Is Leader Kim Jong Un’s Wife
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-26T08:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-has-wife-state-media-say.html
North Korea ’s decision to reveal
that Kim Jong Un has a wife is aimed at burnishing the image of
the totalitarian state’s young leader and contrasts with the
style of his father, who offered few details about his life.  Kim attended the opening ceremony of an amusement park in
the capital Pyongyang yesterday with his wife, Ri Sol Ju, the
official Korean Central News Agency reported, following a state
TV broadcast on the couple’s visit. The KCNA report, which was
the first official mention of Kim’s marital status since he took
power after the death of his father Kim Jong Il in December,
didn’t detail when Kim and Ri were married or provide
information on the bride’s background.  Little is known about Kim, who studied in  Switzerland  and
is believed to be younger than 30, and whether his time in
 Europe  will translate to an opening up of the isolated and
impoverished nation. The announcement of his marriage is the
latest in a series of moves aimed at tightening Kim’s grip on
power and eliminating potential opponents, said David Maxwell,
associate director of  Georgetown University ’s Center for
Security Studies in  Washington .  “This is all part of the process of legitimizing Kim Jong
Un,” said Maxwell, a retired U.S. Army colonel who served in
 South Korea . “The apparent marriage along with his
‘affectations’ of his grandfather  Kim Il Sung  –- manner,
speeches and appearance -- is all about making him appear as a
charismatic leader like his grandfather was. In effect, North
 Korea  has not had a charismatic leader for 17 years because  Kim Jong Il  was a near-recluse.”  Winnie the Pooh  Ri was the unidentified woman seen in a number of recent
public appearances on state television, closely flanking Kim,
including the July 6 performance featuring band members dressed
as Winnie the Pooh, Tigger, Minnie Mouse and other Walt Disney
Co. characters. She was seated next to Kim, sporting a pixie-cut
hair style and dressed in a black blazer and a fitted knee-
length skirt.  She is also the same woman who was seen in footage on a
North Korean website accompanying Kim on a visit to a
kindergarten in Pyongyang, South Korean Unification Ministry
deputy spokeswoman Park Soo Jin said by telephone. Dressed in a
yellow polka-dot dress and white jacket, the footage showed her
laughing with Kim and patting children’s heads together with the
country’s leader.  U.S. Well Wishes  Ri may also be the singer seen in a video on North Korean
websites, singing a solo at an event last year, Park said.
“It’s difficult to conclude, but just by looking at the footage
we believe she might be the same person,” said Park.  The U.S. wished the newlyweds “well as they embark,” said
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland . “But obviously,
our concerns first and foremost are for the North Korean people,
and our hope that conditions for them will improve and that the
new DPRK leadership will make the right choice about opening the
country.”  About 16 million of the country’s 24 million people suffer
from chronic food insecurity and high malnutrition rates, Jerome
Sauvage, the United Nations resident coordinator in Pyongyang,
said in a June 12 statement. The country has relied on outside
donors since the mid-1990s, when famine killed an estimated 2
million people. DPRK refers to North Korea’s official name, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  Kim has already delivered two speeches, one of which was
aired live on state television, unlike his father whose voice
had never been heard during his 17 years of rule, save for a
short cheer in 1994, wishing glory for the country’s military.  Leadership Style  He has also deviated from his father’s leadership style by
officially recognizing the country’s failures, including the
botched launch in April of a long-range rocket. He openly
criticized officials for mismanagement and inefficiency, in one
instance picking out weeds at a run-down amusement park.  “There’s more transparency and openness in the way that
Kim Jong Un communicates how he’s running the country to his
people and the outside world,” said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of
North Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul . “He’s
different from his late father, who was reclusive and
unapproachable.”  While Kim has been appearing with smiling children and
Disney characters, he has also been consolidating his hold on
the regime. On July 16, state media reported that the country’s
top military officer, Chief of the General Staff General Ri Yong
Ho, had been relieved of his official duties due to ill health.
Two days later, KCNA reported that Kim had assumed the top
military rank of marshal, with control over the country’s 1.2
million-strong army.  Better Communication  “Under the late Kim, any firings or purges went
unannounced or with very little detail, but with this young
leader things are different,” said Koh. “The younger Kim seems
to want to instill a sense of stability for the North Korean
people by better communicating his decisions.”  One area where Kim hasn’t deviated from his father is his
attitude to South Korea. The regime’s rhetoric toward Seoul has
remained harsh, with KCNA regularly describing South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  as a traitor and threatening to engulf
the capital in a “sea of fire.”  South Korean troops discovered 16,000 North Korean
propaganda leaflets in the border cities of Paju and Yangju
between July 21 and 25, South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman
Kim Min Seok told reporters today in Seoul.  The leaflets, which denounced South Korea for luring North
Koreans to defect, were the first to be sent in 12 years, after
the countries agreed in April 2000 to stop psychological
warfare, such as sending propaganda material by balloon across
the demilitarized zone that divides the peninsula, said Kim.  North Korea refused to start its match yesterday against
 Colombia , as part of the London Olympic Women’s soccer
tournament, after its lineup was displayed on the scoreboard
along with a picture of the South Korean flag.  Play was delayed by 65 minutes and started after organizers
apologized for the mistake and said steps would be taken to
avoid a repeat. North Korea won 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  