-- Obama Leads Romney by 44 Points Among Hispanic Voters, Poll Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-25T19:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/obama-leads-romney-by-44-points-among-hispanic-voters-poll-says.html
President  Barack Obama  holds a 44-
percentage-point lead over Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
among Hispanics, though interest in the campaign among this
voting bloc lags behind other respondents in a poll released
today.  The  survey  by NBC News, the Spanish-language television
network Telemundo and the Wall Street Journal shows Hispanics
favoring Obama over Romney, 67 percent to 23 percent.  Hispanic voters could prove decisive in the presidential
race in such swing states as  Florida ,  Colorado , Nevada and
 Virginia . The challenge for the Obama campaign will be to get
them to the polls. Sixty-eight percent of the Hispanics surveyed
said they were interested in the presidential election compared
with 79 percent of all voters.  Hispanics helped propel Obama to the White House, as he won
67 percent of their vote in 2008 compared with 31 percent for
Republican nominee  John McCain , exit polls showed.  The new poll shows that twice as many Hispanics view Romney
negatively as positively, 44 percent to 22 percent. Obama is
viewed positively by 64 percent, negatively by 21 percent.  Romney used tough rhetoric on immigration during the
Republican nomination race, expressing opposition to any
proposal that would give legal status to undocumented workers
without first requiring that they leave the U.S. He also has
endorsed Arizona’s law requiring that companies verify workers’
immigration status, and said it should be extended nationally.  ’Self-Deportation’  At a debate with Republican rivals in January, Romney
called for “self-deportation,” meaning Hispanics “decide that
they can do better by going home because they can’t find work
here because they don’t have legal documentation to allow them
to work here.”  Obama last month announced the government would cease
deportation of immigrants brought to the U.S. as children and
who have been here for at least five years, have no criminal
record and are in school, graduated from high school or have
been honorably discharged from the military.  The July 18-22 survey of 300 Hispanic registered voters has
a margin of error of plus or minus 5.7 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 