-- Obama Addresses Urban League Refocusing on Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-26T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/obama-addresses-urban-league-refocusing-on-economy.html
President Barack Obama focused on
the economy and education as he concluded a campaign swing with
an appearance in  New Orleans  before the National Urban League, a
group representing some of his strongest backers.  Obama spoke to the civil-rights group a few hours after the
Democratic-controlled Senate passed a measure to extend most of
the George W. Bush-era tax cuts while letting those for top
earners expire at the end of the year, a central element of the
president’s election-year economic plan.  Republicans, who have a majority in the House, plan to pass
a bill next week to extend expiring tax cuts for all income
levels for a year, leaving the stalemate on U.S. fiscal policy
intact.  “I ran for president promising to cut taxes for the middle
class and, regardless what you hear during the silly political
season, I have kept that promise,” Obama said yesterday. “We
don’t need another trillion-dollar  tax cut  for folks like me.”  He also announced an initiative to improve academic
achievement among black students, saying education is essential
for raising  living standards .  Obama wrapped up a three-day trip that raised at least $6.9
million for his re-election, including two fundraisers in New
Orleans before his appearance at the National Urban League.  Election Campaign  In his speech to the group, Obama avoided mentioning or
criticizing his opponent in the presidential campaign, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney . Over the past three days, he
and his campaign aides have been on the offensive against the
Republican challenger, who left the U.S. yesterday for a trip
with stops in  England , Israel and  Poland .  Speaking to reporters a day earlier at the home of Jim Sinegal, retired chief executive officer of  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST) , Obama sought to rebut Romney’s accusation that he is
hostile to business.  “The one thing I do have no patience for is this argument
that somehow what I’m criticizing is success,” Obama said.
“That’s an argument you hear from the other side: Oh, he wants
to punish success. I want to promote success.”  Before flying to England, Romney attacked Obama on foreign
policy in a speech to the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in
Reno,  Nevada . He said the Democratic president has weakened the
U.S. position in the world and blamed him for leaking national
security secrets, deep cuts in the  defense budget  and
mistreating U.S. allies, especially  Israel .  ’Very Simple’  “This is very simple: If you do not want America to be the
strongest nation on earth, I am not your president,” Romney
told the VFW. “You have that president today.”  Jen Psaki, spokeswoman for the Obama campaign, dismissed
Romney’s remarks as “heavy on attacks, light on substance.”  In an interview in  London  with NBC, Romney said he would
refrain from criticizing the president “while I’m on foreign
soil.”  The Romney campaign issued a statement last night that said
Obama’s promise to spur black business growth and black
employment hasn’t been matched by the president’s performance.  “As black Americans, we all take pride in  Barack Obama ’s
historic election,” Tara Wall, a Romney campaign adviser and
spokeswoman, said in the statement. “Black Americans are
emotionally invested in President Obama but disappointed in the
job he’s done. He tried, but he failed.”  On Wrong Track  While 60 percent of registered voters in a Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll said the country is on the wrong track,
Obama holds a lead over Romney. If the election were held now,
49 percent of those polled said they would vote for Obama and 43
percent would vote for Romney. That compares with a June survey
of 47 percent for Obama and 44 percent for Romney.  The poll of 1,000 registered voters has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Obama also addressed the mass shooting in Aurora,  Colorado ,
that left 12 dead and 58 injured, saying the nation must look
beyond a single tragedy and find a solution to the everyday
violence that “plagues so many cities across the country.”  Each day in the U.S., the number of young people who die
violently “is about that same” as that felled in Aurora, he
said.  He repeated his support for reinstating the federal assault
weapons ban, saying they belong in the hands of soldiers, not
criminals. While such tragedies spur talk of “new reforms, of
new legislation,” he said, “too often the efforts are defeated
by politics and by lobbying.”  Assault Weapons  Romney, who signed an assault weapon ban as Massachusetts
governor, said the U.S. doesn’t need new gun restrictions.  “I don’t happen to believe that America needs new gun
laws,” Romney said in his interview with NBC in London. “A lot
of what this young man did was clearly against the law. But the
fact that it was against the law did not prevent it from
happening.”  In announcing his education measure, Obama said the U.S.
provides opportunity, “but you’ve got to earn your success.”  “You’re competing against young people in Beijing and
Bangalore -- they’re not hanging out,” he said. “They’re not
playing video games.”  During his previous appearance before the National Urban
League, in July 2010, Obama’s defended his signature Race to the
Top education plan against critics who assert some of his
policies may shortchange low-income and minority students.  “Education is an economic issue, if not the economic issue
of our time,” Obama said at the time. “It’s an economic issue
when the  unemployment rate  for folks who’ve never gone to
college is almost double what it is for those who have gone to
college.”  Obama’s initiative directs the Education Department to work
with other Cabinet agencies to identify and develop “evidence-
based practices” that will improve achievement among black
students.  Sixty-three percent of black students graduate from U.S.
public high schools within four years, compared with 82 percent
of white students, according to the National Center for
Education Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  