-- Obama Leads Romney by Six Points in Poll Citing Economy
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/obama-leads-romney-by-six-points-in-poll-citing-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  leads
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  among registered voters even
as a majority disapprove of his handling of the  U.S. economy , a
Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows.  The poll, released yesterday, gave Obama a 49 percent to 43
percent edge over Romney. The president led Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, by 47 percent to 44 percent in the same
survey conducted last month.  Fifty-three percent in the latest poll disapprove of the
president’s stewardship of the economy compared with 44 percent
who approve. Just 32 percent of respondents said that things are
generally headed in the right direction compared with 60 percent
who say things are on the wrong track. About 27 percent say the
economy will get better in the next year, the smallest share
since November 2011, the poll found.  Obama’s edge is attributable in part to voters who view him
more favorably than Romney. About 49 percent say they have a
very positive or a somewhat positive feeling toward Obama
compared with 43 percent who have a very negative or somewhat
negative impression. Romney’s positive rating is 35 percent and
his negative rating is 40 percent.  Voters identify more with Obama than Romney, the poll
shows. About 50 percent say that the president has a background
and set of values they can identify with compared with 42
percent who say that about Romney.  Attacks Ads  Obama’s campaign and its allies have been airing television
ads thousands of times attacking Romney’s tenure at the private-
equity firm Bain Capital LLC. About 43 percent of poll
respondents say they have a less favorable opinion of Romney
after seeing, reading or hearing something about him or his
campaign in the past two weeks compared with 28 percent who have
a more favorable feeling.  Voters prefer Obama to Romney as someone who looks out for
the middle class and as a good commander in chief, the poll
found. Romney gets better marks for having good ideas for
improving the economy.  The president has a 15-point edge over Romney on the
question of who would be better at handling foreign policy, the
survey said. Romney planned to leave tonight for a trip to the
U.K., Israel and  Poland .  The survey was conducted July 18-22 and questioned 1,000
registered voters. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  