-- Loblaw Takes Retail Fight to U.S. With Joe Fresh Bet
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-07-25T20:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/loblaw-takes-retail-fight-to-u-s-with-joe-fresh-bet.html
  Loblaw Companies Ltd. (L)  is stepping
up its battle with  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. and  Target (TGT)  Corp., this
time on the retail giants’ home turf with plans to sell its Joe
Fresh clothing label at 700 locations across the U.S.  Canada ’s largest grocer will open Joe Fresh outlets inside
 JC Penney Co. Inc. (JCP)  department stores, expanding the clothing
label’s U.S. presence from six stand alone stores in  New York 
and  New Jersey  by spring 2013.  “It’s basically like Target coming up there and in 2013
opening a hundred-and-something stores in old Zellers
locations,” said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst with Edward Jones
& Co in  St. Louis . “If you were to open stand-alone stores it
would probably take them 15 years to get that much square
footage.”  Joe Fresh’s foray into the U.S., announced as the company
reported a drop in second-quarter earnings today, could help
offset increased competition in Canada from Target, Yarbrough
said by phone. Both stores offer cheap-chic fashion lines
appealing to similar consumers.  Wal-Mart is also continuing to put pressure on the Loblaw’s
grocery business which generated  C$30.7 billion  of revenue in
2011. About half of Wal-Mart’s 330 stores have been turned into
grocery-carrying Supercenters and more are in the works,
according to Bloomberg Industries. In June, Wal-Mart said it
would reduce prices on 10,000 products, including about 3,300
grocery products.  “The strategic move into the U.S. in partnering with JC
Penney should help offset the medium term pressures in the
grocery-store landscape,” said Kenric Tyghe, an analyst with
 Raymond James  in Toronto. Tyghe rates the stock outperform and
has a $42 target.  Master Brander  The “store-within-a-store” concept will see Loblaw
act as a wholesaler while retaining final say on how Joe Fresh
products are displayed and marketed, Vicente Trius, Loblaw
president, said on a conference call with analysts.  The concept is part of new JC Penney Chief Executive
Officer Ron Johnson’s turnaround strategy. Johnson, who helped
develop Target’s brand in the 1990s before joining Apple to help
create stores with the highest sales per square foot in the
U.S., has lured brands like  Levi Strauss  and Buffalo to set up
shop in his department stores.  JC Penney had a $163 million  loss  in the first quarter as
revenue slid 20 percent, the biggest quarterly decline in more
than seven years. Everything from same store sales, to store
traffic to purchases fell.  “We believe in the vision from  Ron Johnson  of creating a
specialty department store and we feel very good that in this
store-within-a-store concept Joe Fresh fits very well,” Trius
said. He added the deal would not result in any capital
expenses.  Profit Falls  Loblaw fell 1.5 percent to close at $31.45 in Toronto today
after reporting second quarter profit fell 19 percent to C$159
million ($156 million) and forecasting it would end the year
with profit below last year. The stock is down 18 percent this
year. The company has struggled in recent years to improve
logistics and its supply chain. Earnings were damped this
quarter by a $20 million charge to upgrade computer systems that
keeps track of inventory.  Yarbrough of  Edward Jones  says the logistics investments
will pay off and help Loblaw compete with the likes of Wal-Mart.
When those costs disappear from the balance sheet he said
earnings will rebound, but until then they will continue to
weigh on the stock.  “The problem is no one’s giving them respect right now
because every year it’s just delayed,” he said. “I don’t think
any one believes them at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  