-- MModal Low Buyout Premium Signals JPMorgan Bump: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-25T20:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/mmodal-low-buyout-premium-signals-jpmorgan-bump-real-m-a.html
MModal Inc. (MODL) ’s agreement to be taken
private by JPMorgan Chase & Co. at the medical information
industry’s lowest premium in seven years won’t be enough to
cement the deal, according to traders who wager on acquisitions.  For eight straight days, MModal closed above the $14-a-
share proposal from JPMorgan’s One Equity Partners that valued
the company at about $1.1 billion including net debt. The 9.2
percent premium to MModal’s 20-day average was about a quarter
of the average among similar-sized deals for medical  information
systems  providers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
MModal  shares  were 1.9 percent higher than the bid yesterday,
more than any other pending U.S. deal greater than $200 million,
a sign traders expect a sweetened offer, the data show.  After accepting the buyout unit’s proposal on July 2,
Franklin, Tennessee-based MModal disclosed in a regulatory
filing that it had rejected a $17-a-share bid from a competitor
because of antitrust concerns. MModal is still worth at least
that much in a takeover based on the company’s projections that
profit will rise more than 45 percent next year, according to
Caris & Co. While MModal said its biggest shareholder would
tender its 31 percent stake,  Tullett Prebon  Plc and GFI Group
Inc. said One Equity still may need to increase its offer to win
over investors and fend off a potential rival bid.  MModal “is trading higher based on the premise that
there’s this $17 offer out there and there is a wait-and-see
approach,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon,
said in a telephone interview. “They should not have rushed to
the deal. If you’re going to go private, it should not be at
$14, it should be higher. This is a growth subsector of tech.”  Patient Data  Dave Levy, an outside spokesman for MModal, said the
company couldn’t comment on the deal process beyond the
information that has been made public. Tasha Pelio, a
spokeswoman for  JPMorgan (JPM)  in New York, said the company declined
to comment on One Equity’s bid for MModal or whether it would
consider increasing the price.  MModal develops speech-recognition and data-processing
tools for capturing and organizing patient data used in
electronic health records, medical coding and billing. Its
clients include about 3,000 hospitals and clinics and 850
physician practices, as well as electronic health record
application providers and medical transcription organizations,
according to a March company filing.  MModal’s  shares  climbed 34 percent this year through July
2, the day it announced the agreement with One Equity. The next
day, MModal rose past the offer price, and the shares closed at
or above the bid level on all but three trading days since.  Higher Price  The stock ended yesterday at $14.26, 1.9 percent higher
than One Equity’s bid and a sign some merger arbitragers are
wagering that a higher offer will emerge.  “Clearly, investors think that there’s another offer
coming,”  Steven Halper , a New York-based analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets LLC, said in a phone interview.  Today, the shares rose 0.8 percent to $14.37.  MModal hired financial advisers in March to help consider
possible transactions after holding talks or receiving
expressions of interest in previous months from suitors
including an unnamed competitor and One Equity, according to a
July 17 filing.  As MModal gauged interest from financial firms, 20
potential bidders including One Equity signed confidentiality
agreements.  Sell Now  By June, most bidders had dropped out, and MModal was
contacted by the unnamed competitor over a potential sale, the
filing said. The competitor -- most likely  Nuance Communications
Inc. (NUAN) , according to Halper and Tullett Prebon’s Shah -- offered
as much as $17 a share in cash and stock. The bid was rejected
in favor of One Equity’s $14 cash proposal, in part because of
concerns antitrust approval may take too long, the filing said.  MModal “is basically saying, ‘Now is the time to sell,’”
Shah said. “From my perspective, shareholders should not
approve the $14 deal and the board should go back to Nuance
because I think they may be still interested.”  Richard Mack , a spokesman for Burlington, Massachusetts-
based Nuance, said he couldn’t comment on speculation as to
whether the company approached MModal or is considering a bid.  The disclosure of the other bid “gives people hope that
perhaps someone else may come in” with a higher offer, said Leo Carpio, an analyst at Caris in New York.  One Equity’s bid was about 9.2 percent higher than MModal’s
average share price in the 20 days before the announcement, the
smallest premium among takeovers valued at more than $300
million in the medical information systems and health-care cost
containment industries since August 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Multiple  Including net debt, the buyout values MModal at 12.4 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
20 percent less than the median multiple for deals in the group,
the data show. Based on analysts’  estimates  for 2012 Ebitda, the
deal values MModal at 8.7 times. Nuance, a $6 billion maker of
voice-recognition software, offered to buy smaller rival
Transcend Services Inc. in March for $302 million, valuing the
company at 12.63 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you compared the deal metrics to the Transcend deal,
that would translate to $14.75 to $14.80” a share for MModal,
Alfredo Scialabba, a special situations analyst for GFI Group in
 New York , said in a telephone interview.  Caris’s Carpio estimates MModal is worth $17 to $18 a share
in a takeover, citing in part earnings projections included in
the company’s July 17 filing. That would be as much as 29
percent more than One Equity’s offer. MModal estimated Ebitda
will climb 47 percent in 2013.  ‘Darn Cheap’  “People are trading on the expectation that anybody who
wasn’t participating in the first round of this deal might come
back and look at those revised earnings projections and decide
this company’s just too darn cheap and too attractive,” Carpio
said.  Halper at Lazard said it’s unlikely that a new suitor would
emerge, given the number of firms that participated in the deal
process and already had a chance to make an offer.  “A lot of companies walked away or offered less,” Halper
said. “At this point, I can’t imagine another company coming
out of the blue.”  With MModal’s largest shareholder, SAC Capital Advisors LP,
agreeing to go along with One Equity’s bid and tender its 31
percent stake, the buyout firm may have an easier time gaining
enough investor support at the current price, Halper said.  Worth Wait  Still, knowing that another bidder was willing to pay more
for MModal may keep some shareholders from agreeing to One
Equity’s terms, Tullett Prebon’s Shah said.  While a richer bid from Nuance or another competitor could
take more time to clear regulatory hurdles than MModal’s
management might prefer, the higher potential returns would be
worth the wait for  shareholders , he said.  For management, “it’s a bird in the hand situation” to
accept JPMorgan’s price, Shah said. For investors, “you’re
definitely willing to wait for an extra $3” a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 