-- Offshore Oil Expansion Passes U.S. House as Obama Considers Veto
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-25T18:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/offshore-oil-expansion-passes-u-s-house-as-obama-considers-veto.html
The Republican-led U.S. House of
Representatives passed legislation opening the California and
Virginia coasts for offshore oil drilling, defying a
presidential veto threat.  The measure, if approved by the Senate, would replace
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012-2017 leasing plan, almost doubling
total sales to 29 from 15 and speeding auctions off the north
coast of Alaska.  “We can do better than the president’s proposed plan, and
our nation deserves better,” said Representative Doc Hastings,
a Washington Republican and bill sponsor. “By passing this
bill, we are standing up for American energy and American jobs
and moving our country forward.”  Republicans and the  American Petroleum Institute , the
largest trade group representing the  energy industry , criticized
Obama for limiting access to offshore resources after the record
2010 spill at a  BP Plc (BP/)  well in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The administration “strongly opposes” the measure and
senior Obama advisers would recommend a veto, according to a
July 23  statement of administration policy . The Senate, where
Democrats have a majority, doesn’t plan to take up similar
legislation.  The Interior Department has held two auctions for drilling
leases since BP’s Macondo well blow out, killing 11 workers and
spewing about 4.9 million barrels of oil into the Gulf of
Mexico.  In an auction last month,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  offered
$406.6 million, or 24 percent of all winning bids, to drill in
the central Gulf of Mexico, followed by  Statoil ASA (STL)  with $333.3
million, the Interior Department said June 20.  Chevron Corp. ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Apache Corp. , LLOG
Exploration Offshore LLC,  Stone Energy Corp. ,  Noble Energy Inc. 
and  ConocoPhillips  were among companies submitting winning bids,
according to a list posted June 20 on the Interior Department
website.  The bill is H.R. 6082.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  