-- Tofu Makers in Indonesia May Halt Output as Soybean Prices Surge
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-07-25T02:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/tofu-makers-in-indonesia-may-halt-output-as-soybean-prices-surge.html
Indonesian producers of tofu and
tempeh, the soybean-based staples consumed by millions of
Muslims during the Ramadan holy month, may stop production today
after the U.S. drought sent bean prices to a record.  The Confederation of Indonesian Tofu and Tempeh Makers
Cooperatives demanded the government lift a 5 percent duty on
soybean imports, imposed in January, to help ease local prices
that have risen 33 percent in the past three weeks to about
8,000 rupiah per kilogram ($841 a metric ton), according to
Sutaryo, the group’s head of business.  Surging soybean prices may boost inflation in  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest economy that imports about 70 percent of its
needs. Consumption of staples climbs during Ramadan as communal
meals lift overall demand, even as followers fast during the
day. The U.S. drought may spark a rebound in global food costs
through October, halting a slide that sent prices in June to the
lowest in 21 months, the  United Nations  said July 5.  “We will call all our members in Bandung and the greater
Jakarta areas to stop production from Wednesday to Friday to
show the customers that the surge in soybean prices was out of
our control,” Sutaryo, who uses a single name, said in a phone
interview from Jakarta. “Other cities will follow the stoppage
if the government fails to come up with a solution.”  Soybeans climbed 29 percent in  Chicago  this year on concern
that the worst drought since 1956 in the U.S., the world’s
biggest grower, will cut supplies. Futures, which reached a
record $16.915 a bushel on July 23, may surge to $20 in three
months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Middle Ground  The country scrapped a 10 percent import tax on soybeans in
January 2008 after thousands of tempeh and tofu producers
rallied in Jakarta demanding the government intervene.  Muslims began observing Ramadan last week. At least 85
percent of  Indonesia ’s 240 million people are Muslims.  The government has urged the confederation to seek a middle
ground and call off the stoppage plan, Deputy Agriculture
Minister  Rusman Heriawan  said.  The price increase “is temporary, hopefully after the
conditions in the U.S. return to normal, production will
resume,” Heriawan told reporters in Jakarta yesterday. “Tofu
makers can either reduce the size or increase prices to a
reasonable level to adjust to the cost,” he said.  The government is studying a policy to regulate the
imports, to better manage supplies and prices, according to
Deddy Saleh, director general of foreign trade at the Trade
Ministry on July 3.  Cheapest Protein  Tofu and tempeh, derived from soybeans and eaten mainly
with rice, the main staple, are the key and cheapest sources of
protein for Indonesians. The foods represent about 88 percent of
total soybean use in the country, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  Indonesian inflation unexpectedly accelerated in June as
food costs climbed, the  Central Statistics Office  said July 2.
 Consumer prices  rose 4.53 percent last month from a year earlier
after climbing 4.45 percent in May.  Some Indonesian tofu and tempeh makers have already ceased
production or reduced the size of the food, Sutaryo said.  “We want to raise the selling prices, but I think the
customers won’t understand the situation if they’re increased
suddenly,” Sutaryo said. “So, now it’s up to the government.”  The country is expected to import 1.97 million tons of
soybeans in the marketing year from October 2012, up from 1.9
million tons a year earlier as consumption will exceed output,
the USDA’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  said in a report in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  