-- Oil Group Files Second Lawsuit Over EPA Biofuel Standards
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-25T21:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/oil-group-files-second-lawsuit-over-epa-biofuel-standards.html
An oil and gas industry trade
association filed a second lawsuit challenging U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency regulations governing fuel
additives that include biological materials.  The  American Petroleum Institute , in lawsuits filed
yesterday and in March, is seeking to overturn an EPA standard
mandating the purchase of fuels formulated in part from
biological materials including switchgrass, wood chips and
agricultural waste. The group claims the regulations include
cellulosic fuels that don’t exist.  “EPA’s unattainable and absurd mandate forces refiners to
pay a penalty for failing to use biofuels that don’t even
exist,” Bob Greco, API’s director of downstream and industry
operations, said in an e-mailed statement.  First passed in 2007, the regulation required refiners to
buy 250 million gallons of biofuel annually. Production failed
to reach that level and the agency reduced the target to 6.6
million for 2011, and 8.65 million for this year.  The Washington-based API, which represents more than 500
oil and gas companies, sued in March challenging the 2012
standard. Oral argument in that case has yet to be scheduled.  Today’s lawsuit challenges the 2011 standard.  Carlton Carroll, a spokesman for the group, said the cases
are “essentially arguing the same thing.”  Alisha Johnson, a spokeswoman for the EPA, said in an e-
mail that the agency will review the lawsuit and “respond
accordingly.”  Johnson said the agency was required by law to set the
cellulosic standard and offer ways for companies to comply,
including the purchase of waiver credits.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 12-01330; the earlier case is
American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, 12-1139,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of
Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 