-- Olympic Mania, Art Car, Chariots of Fire: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-27T09:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/olympic-mania-art-car-chariots-of-fire-london-weekend.html
Londoners crowded out of today’s
Olympics opening ceremony -- which was 10 times oversubscribed
-- can head to  Victoria Park  and  Trafalgar Square  instead.  They’ll watch the action for free on giant video screens.
Another screening in Hyde Park features live performances from
Snow Patrol, Duran Duran, Stereophonics and Paolo Nutini.  Director  Danny Boyle ’s celebration of British culture at
the East London stadium opens onto a bucolic tableau of rivers
and fields, cottages and grazing animals. Some 10,000 volunteers
are set to ring in the games, with an estimated billion people
watching around the world. Organizers promise an array of
British musical talent, with  Paul McCartney  topping the bill.  Information:  http://www.btlondonlive.com .  Saturday  Those lacking gold-dust tickets to the Olympic Park can
discover what it’s like by eyeing a miniature version.  The Royal Institute of British Architects has maquettes of
the new buildings on show, starting with Zaha Hadid’s funky
Aquatics Centre (set on a pink plinth). It’s the first thing you
see walking in, and prettier than the real thing, which
currently has two chunky temporary legs tacked on to fit the
extra 15,000 seats needed for the games.  Nearby are models of the Olympic Stadium, with its spiked
top ring made of surplus gas pipes, and the pringle-shaped
Velodrome, with its taut timber skin.  Upstairs is a model of what the site becomes after the
games, and an intriguing overview of architectural landmarks
born of one-time events: the Eiffel Tower in Paris, the Atomium
in Brussels, and the Vittorio Emanuele II monument in  Rome .  “Design Stories: The Architecture Behind 2012” ends Sept.
25:  http://www.architecture.com  or +44-20-7580-5533.  Roux at the Landau is an elegant restaurant near the RIBA.
In the high-ceilinged room designed by David Collins, the food
is what you’d expect from father-and-son duo Albert and Michel
Roux Jr. If you’re on a budget, breakfast is served until midday
on Saturdays. Information:  http://www.thelandau.com/  or
+44-20-7965-0165.  For a break from Olympic-themed entertainment, you can hear
the Chinese-born guitar virtuoso Xuefei Yang perform with tenor
Ian Bostridge at Wigmore Hall. The concert features works by
Britten, Schubert, Cage and Roth. Information:
 http://www.wigmore-hall.org.uk  or +44-20-7935-2141.  Saturday Night  For those eager to relive past athletic glories, “Chariots
of Fire,” the Oscar-winning tale of two British runners in the
1924 Olympics, has transferred to the stage.  The Gielgud Theatre has been equipped with a running track
for the fit actors to race on. Harold Abrahams (James McArdle)
plays a Jewish student who competes with Eric Liddell, a devout
Scottish Christian (Jack Lowden).  There is romantic diversion as Abrahams falls in love with
a soprano. Fans of the Vangelis theme music will get their
money’s worth.  At the Gielgud Theatre on Shaftesbury Avenue. Information:
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co  or +44-844-482-5136.  The Zedel is a new brasserie near the Gielgud, owned by the
same restaurateurs as the Wolseley. The set menu costs 11.25
pounds ($17.44) for three courses and wine starts at 3 pounds a
glass. Food and service are both good. Information:
 http://www.brasseriezedel.com/  or +44-20-7734-4888.  Sunday  In 1979,  Andy Warhol  dipped large brushes into cans of
paint and redecorated a BMW M1. As  Frank Stella  put it, he
basically “messed up a racing car.”  To Stella, though, it was “one of the best things he ever
did.” You can see for yourself by touring a parking garage.  Alongside Warhol’s work are BMWs revisited by 15 other
artists -- including Stella,  Jeff Koons ,  Roy Lichtenstein ,
 Robert Rauschenberg , and  David Hockney , whose 1995 car-body
painting revealed the vehicle’s interior. He pictured the BMW’s
engine and a dog in the back seat.  The show is free and open daily through Aug. 4 at the NCP
Car Park on Great Eastern Street,  London  EC2A 3ER. Information:
 http://artdrive.ica.org.uk  or +44-20-7930-3647.  Claymation duo Wallace & Gromit come to the Proms.  The Oscar-winning characters offer a break from the
highbrow menu at the  Royal Albert Hall  by giving younger fans a
taste for classical music.  The show combines popular favorites by Debussy and
Shostakovich with a film of Wallace preparing for the first
performance of his Proms commission: “My Concerto in Ee, Lad.”  Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk  or +44-845-401-5040.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 