-- Homex Tumbles as Home-Sale Volumes Decline: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-25T20:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/homex-tumbles-as-home-sale-volumes-decline-mexico-city-mover.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , Mexico’s
largest homebuilder, fell the most in five months after sales
missed analysts’ forecasts and the company cut its 2012 revenue
projections. The builder’s bonds also tumbled.  Homex shares sank 9.9 percent to 27.73 pesos at the close
of trading, the biggest retreat since Feb. 28. Yields on Homex’s
dollar bonds due in 2019 rose 39 basis points, or 0.39
percentage point, to 8.88 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue of 7.2 billion pesos ($527.3 million) fell short of
the 8.4 billion peso median estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg as volume declined in its core homebuilding
business. Second-quarter home sales fell 11 percent to 11,154
units, Homex said yesterday in a filing.  “The contraction in Homex’s sales speed at the housing
segment is related to a greater extent to the company’s product
offering,” Rogelio Urrutia, a Mexico City-based analyst with
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , wrote in an e-mailed note.  Homex cut its projections for full-year sales and profit
margins. The company said revenue at its housing division will
rise 3 percent to 4 percent this year, down from a previous
forecast of 10 percent to 12 percent growth. The outlook for
margin on Ebitda, a measure of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, was reduced 1 percentage point to
a range of 20 percent to 21 percent.  Penitentiary projects awarded to Homex from the federal
government have bolstered the company’s results amid the slide
in the core homebuilding business.  Homex agreed to buy the minority stake held by its only
partner in one of its two prison projects, Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Moctezuma said today in a conference call with
analysts. It will pay the former partner 1.1 billion pesos for
the stake, a payment that will amortize over the 30 months after
the delivery of the project, Moctezuma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  