-- London Battersea Revamp to Create 33,000 Jobs, Cameron Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-26T10:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/london-s-battersea-revamp-to-create-33-000-jobs-cameron-says.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
highlighting investment possibilities in Britain on the eve of
the Olympics, said a $12.4 billion redevelopment of London’s
Battersea Power Station will create 33,000 jobs.  Speaking at a government-organized investment conference in
the capital, Cameron said today he expects more than 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion) worth of deals to be announced this summer
as businesses capitalize on the London games. More than 200
business leaders, central bankers and government officials from
around the world are attending.  “I’m delighted at the news today about one of the big
deals we were pursuing when I was in Malaysia,” Cameron said.
“Battersea Power Station is one of the iconic landmarks in
London. Any Pink Floyd fans will know it from the cover of their
album, ‘Animals.”’  Malaysia’s  SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB)  and  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  bought the
power-station site on the south bank of the  River Thames  from
liquidators for 400 million pounds earlier this month and plan
to develop homes, offices and shops. The investors will retain
the Art Deco power plant. The building, with its four iconic
350-foot (105-meter) smokestacks, has been vacant since it
closed in 1982.  The development will create 20,000 jobs during construction
with 13,000 permanent jobs at the end, Cameron said, calling it
“quite simply one of the most exciting opportunities for
investment anywhere in the Western world.”  Economy Shrinks  Cameron is seeking to boost inward investment in Britain
after figures published yesterday showed the economy shrank the
most since 2009 in the second quarter. That’s added to pressure
on the prime minister and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to scale back Britain’s biggest budget squeeze since
World War II.  “They’re very disappointing figures and there’s no doubt
about that,” Cameron told the  BBC ’s “Breakfast” program
today. “I think one of the things they show is the extent of
damage that was done to the economy in the ‘boom and bust’
years. We were the ones with the most over-indebted banks, the
most over-indebted households and we had the biggest budget
deficit of virtually any country, anywhere in the world.”  Gross domestic product fell 0.7 percent from the first
quarter, when it dropped 0.3 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said. It was the third consecutive  quarterly decline .  ‘Long-Term Stability’  Defending the government’s package of austerity measures,
Cameron said in his speech to business leaders and central
bankers today that “the first thing you need as investors is
confidence in the long-term stability of the economy you are
investing in. You need to know that the public finances are
under control, and that your businesses aren’t suddenly going to
be crippled by soaring interest rates.”  Previous plans for the Battersea site, 2.2 miles (3.5
kilometers) from the Houses of Parliament, included a theme park
and a mall that would have been suspended between the chimneys.
At least 10 bids were submitted for the building, including one
from Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s Chelsea Football
Club Ltd., a person familiar with the matter said in May.  SP Setia, the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest publicly
traded property developer by sales, and Sime Darby will each
take a 40 percent stake in the project. The Employees Provident
Fund, Malaysia’s biggest pension fund, will hold the remainder,
they said.  Those attending today’s conference include International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 