-- Londoners Face Olympic No-Go Zones as Heathrow Strike Halted
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-25T14:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/londoners-face-olympic-no-go-zones-as-vip-only-games-lanes-open.html
More than 30 miles of  London ’s
highways became no-go zones for the public today when they were
reclassified as  “Games Lanes”  for the Olympics, while a
planned strike by airport immigration staff was called off.  The road restrictions came into effect at 6 a.m. and will
apply through midnight daily until after the closing ceremony on
Aug. 12,  Transport for London  said. Lanes may be opened up to
the public should demand from the so-called Olympic family be
low, with drivers informed using a network of 150 digital signs.  Introduction of the dedicated roads, dubbed Zil lanes after
Soviet routes limited to Communist Party officials, has raised
concerns that London’s streets will become jammed throughout the
games. Testing of the lanes, part of the 109-mile Olympic Route
Network on which junctions have been closed and turns banned to
speed journeys, led to snarl-ups on highways earlier this week.  “It’s so confusing,” said Abdul Malik, a driver at
London-based chauffeuring company  Brunel Carriage Plc , who was
heading through the city just after 6 a.m. this morning. “There
are so many restrictions, it’s hard to know where to go.”  The threat of disruption at London’s Heathrow airport
tomorrow, expected to be busiest day for travel to the Olympics,
was lifted after a union representing immigration staff agreed
to talks with the government over pay, pensions and jobs.  “Real progress has been made,” Public and Commercial
Services Union General Secretary  Mark Serwotka  told reporters.  Olympic Fines  Britain’s drivers face a 130-pound ($201) fine for entering
Games Lanes or stopping in restricted areas, plus a 200-pound
release fee should their vehicle be impounded, according to TfL.
Even so, unaccredited cars crossed Westminster Bridge, reserved
for games traffic all day, soon after the restriction came into
effect before swerving around barriers to join the main highway.  On London’s Embankment, a major route alongside the  River
Thames , traffic made steady progress in the one available
carriageway. In the five minutes after 9:05 a.m., just 13
motorized vehicles were observed in the neighboring Games Lane,
six of them cars with official stickers, plus three motorcycles,
two buses and two trucks lacking visible accreditation.  A black-cab driver shouted that the restrictions were “a
nightmare,” while cyclist Tom Powell, 35, a researcher at the
House of Commons, stopped to say that there were few problems,
adding: “We can put up with this for two weeks.”  Minimal Impact  Routes including the A40, A12 and A13, one of those that
suffered rush-hour jams earlier this week, are especially busy,
and people should avoid driving in central London, on the ORN or
near games venues, according to TfL. Still, there are “no
reports of major issues today,” spokeswoman Vicky Morley said.  “The ORN is a requirement of all host cities, ensuring
athletes and officials get to their events on time,” London
Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in TfL’s statement. “We’ve already
slashed its length by one-third compared to what was originally
planned, and we’re introducing these changes to the road network
as late as possible to minimize the impact on Londoners.”  Cab drivers who have staged a series of protests after
being banned from using Games Lanes scrapped a demonstration
planned for today to avoid accentuating disruption during the
system’s first day of operation, spokesman Dave Davies said in
an e-mail. It’s not clear whether an action planned for July 27,
the day of the opening ceremony, will still take place.  Extra Jobs  The planned immigration strike was called off after the
 Home Office  agreed to provide a total of 800 more jobs at
London’s Heathrow, Gatwick and Luton airports, plus a further
300 Passport Office positions, PCS leader Serwotka said.  “We believe that significant progress means there is now no
case for the union to proceed with industrial action tomorrow,”
he said. The PCS abandoned the strike just hours before a court
was due to hear an injunction application aimed at blocking it.  Home Secretary Theresa May had described the timing of the
strike as “shameful,” and Colin Matthews, chief executive
officer of Heathrow owner BAA Ltd., said in an interview this
morning that he couldn’t guarantee smooth operations tomorrow.  Still, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who is coordinating
the Olympics, said before the strike was called off that enough
immigration officials could be deployed to prevent disruption.  Other unions are still seeking to squeeze Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s coalition government in the run-up to the games
as they seek to stymie public-sector cost cuts being implemented
as part of a 155 billion-pound austerity drive.  Lost Property, Cleaners  The Aslef union says drivers at  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s East
Midlands Trains, which connects London with destinations
including Loughborough, site of the main camp for U.K. athletes,
will walk out in a dispute over pensions on Aug. 6, when the
men’s 400 meters final will be held, and the following two days.  Staff at TfL’s advice booths, lost-property office and at
the London Transport Museum will strike for 24 hours from 7 a.m.
on July 27, with staff at bus and train call centers staging
intermittent protests as the RMT union seeks Olympic bonuses.  Serco Group Plc (SRP) ’s “Boris Bike” cycle-borrowing service,
named after the mayor, will also be targeted by strikes and RMT
members will refuse overtime at Stagecoach’s Southwest Trains
unit, Britain’s busiest commuter franchise. Cleaners on the
subway and Docklands Light Railway will also strike and all
subway workers will work to rule, the union says.  Tube Failures  London’s public transport infrastructure, which will carry
an extra 855,000 people a day during the Olympics, according to
TfL, has also suffered disruption from breakdowns, with four
lines on the subway or Tube closed today as a result of signal
failures and a  power outage , the RMT said.  The malfunctions resulted from spending cuts that make the
mayor’s Olympic transport plan “no more than a wing and a
prayer,” RMT General Secretary  Bob Crow  said in the release,
adding that London’s reputation “will take a battering.”  Rail links to Stratford, where the main stadium is located,
were affected yesterday as rising temperatures caused rails to
expand, prompting Network Rail Ltd. to impose speed limits.
Abellio Transport Holding BV’s Greater Anglia franchise, which
cut seven services yesterday and scrapped stops on others,
suffered no impact today, spokeswoman Ellen Rossiter said.  People should check the  Get Ahead of the Games  website to
avoid disruption during the Olympics, according to TfL.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  