-- London Cinemas Face Empty Seats as Olympics Shutters Stage Plays
-- B y   J e s s i c a   A b r a h a m s
-- 2012-07-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/london-cinemas-face-empty-seats-as-olympics-shutters-stage-plays.html
London  cinemas are bracing for a
fortnight of empty seats after the  Olympic Games  opens on July
27, losing sales during one of their busiest months, while half
of the city’s theaters will take the night off.  “If we get a lot of gold medals as Team GB, a lot of
people will be stuck to their TV screens,” said Philip Bowcock,
the chief financial officer of  Cineworld Group Plc (CINE)  in London,
the U.K.’s biggest cinema chain by share of box office revenue.
“It will be challenging.”  More than six million visitors are set to attend the games,
which run until Aug. 12, according to the London Media Centre,
the capital’s official press hub for the games. Transport for
London has advised commuters to reduce journeys or consider
taking annual leave to ameliorate the increased burden on the
city’s trains, buses and roads.  U.K. movie houses take in more than 1 billion pounds ($1.55
billion) per year in ticket sales, with 12 percent of last
year’s seats sold in August, more than any other month.
Cineworld shares have risen about 14 percent in the past year.  Vue Entertainment Ltd, which operates more than 650 cinema
screens in the U.K. and Ireland, will be showing the Olympics
for free to encourage people away from their televisions and
tempt them to combine film and sports watching on the same
night. The company isn’t publicly traded.  Phased Openings  “We recognized that there was a potential for some impact,
but what we’ve done is mitigate that by including the Olympics
in our line-up,” said Mark de Quervain, Vue’s London-based
sales and marketing director. “The message is you don’t have to
miss the Olympics.”  Cinemas are also shifting screening times to weave around
the competition. There’s been “a little bit of phasing going
on,” de Quervain said, with films opening before or after
events. “We’re doing everything we can to promote cinema-going
at this time.”  Batman, The Dark Knight Rises, “would have been timed to
avoid the Olympics,” said Geraldine Moloney, a policy
consultant to the U.K. Film Distributors’ Association. The movie
made its debut about two weeks early, based on previous releases
in the trilogy, she said.  Empty Stages  About half of West End theaters will shut on the opening
night of the Olympics, according to Alison Duguid, a press
officer at the Society of London Theatre. Shows including the
 Lion King  at the Lyceum and Wicked at the Apollo have no
performances on July 27. Sweeney Todd at the Adelphi will close
for the duration of the Olympics in a pre-arranged break of its
six-month run, said Kasey Glazebrook, a spokeswoman for the
show.  Andrew Lloyd Webber , whose Really Useful Group owns six
London theaters, including the Adelphi, said in December that
the Olympics would cause “a bloodbath of a summer” for stage
productions. “Nobody’s going to go to the theater at all,” he
said in an interview with Radio 4’s Today program. The company
declined to comment on advance ticket sales for its shows.  Some Britons are fleeing the capital. Lastminute.com Ltd.,
which sells about 750,000 airline tickets a year, has seen a 207
percent increase in holiday bookings during the Olympic period
compared with a year earlier, while bookings for the rest of the
summer are up 66 percent, said Cheryl Jooron, a spokeswoman for
the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Abrahams in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 